 filed 6/7/17 p. v. haro ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. renan roman haro, defendant and appellant. b261992 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa084331) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathryn a. solorzano, judge. affirmed. richard c. neuhoff, under appointment of the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted renan roman haro of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)1), and found that he personally discharged a firearm that caused death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). haro admitted to a prior serious felony conviction that qualified as a strike ( 667, subds. (a)(1), (b)-(j), 1170.12, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced him to prison for a term of 80 years to life. on appeal, haro claims that three statements the prosecutor made in closing argument constituted prejudicial misconduct and that his trial counsel rendered ineffective makes an additional claim of ineffective assistance of counsel based on his atevidence of uncharged misbehavior by haro that was introduced efore, we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background a. the evidence at trial on the night of june 7, 2013, haro shot terrance nelson in the back of the head. nelson died from his wounds. christoph meyer and juan ramos were present with haro and nelson at the time of the shooting. police investigators interviewed meyer and ramos on june 8; they interviewed ramos a second time on june 10. the interviews were recorded. at trial, meyer and 1 unless otherwise specified, all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ramos testified that they did not remember the details of the shooting, including who shot nelson, and denied that they were afraid of haro. during their interviews, however, meyer and ramos described the shooting in detail, identified haro as the shooter, and stated that they were afraid of haro.2 because their trial testimony diverged from the statements they made in their police interviews, the trial court determined that the jury should hear the recordings of the interviews and be provided a transcript of the recordings as well.3 1. the recorded statements of meyer and ramos meyer, ramos, and nelson were long-time neighbors and friends. on the night of june 7, 2013, they were in the garage of morning and also had smoked marijuana.4 2 for example, both meyer and ramos said they did not identify haro by name at first during their police interviews feared that haro was going to kill him and his family. 3 haro did not testify at trial or offer any witnesses or evidence in his defense. 4 day and was drunk when he first spoke with the police detectives on june 8, so they interviewed him again on june 10. one of the detectives who interviewed meyer testified there was no indication meyer was under the influence of drugs or alcohol; end getting shot in 4 shortly before 11:00 p.m., haro walked into the garage. haro lived nearby. he was the older brother of a friend of meyer however, haro did not know nelson. meyer told the police detectives that, in the past, haro e[ haro would . . . just do whatever the fuck (although he had never seen haro with a gun). nelson and meyer were playing checkers at a table. haro leaned on a jukebox, very close behind where nelson was sitting. then, group had been talking about fireworks. but then meyer saw a heyer that haro had shot nelson. meyer had not seen haro holding a gun. but before meyer heard the shot, he saw in his peripheral vision a black bag in h both of his hands up. meyer believed that haro had a gun in the bag. to ] meyer 5 said that that haro ramos likewise told the police that haro shot nelson. ramos also stated that the shooting was not an accident and that haro had not been arguing with nelson before the shooting. immediately after the shooting, meyer suggested that everyone leave the garage through the back door. but when haro exited the garage first, meyer and ramos turned and ran through slamming and locking the door, meyer called 911. the time of the call was 11:04 p.m. house for the police to arrive. 2. the police apprehend haro near the scene of the shooting shortly after the shooting, haro was on a street near , anyanwu on the window of the car and said, anyanwu told haro to get away from the car. haro tried to open the locked door. he reached his arm inside the driver side window and held on. anyanwu started to drive away from where he had pulled over and sped up to about 30 or 40 miles per hour. haro was still hanging on to the car. anyanwu swerved in an attempt to throw haro off of the car. haro fell from the car. anyanwu called 911 at 11:12 p.m. to report the incident. 6 arrived in the area. following a brief search, they found haro hiding under a truck. he had blood on his clothing. 3. the investigation of the shooting -millimeter cartridge casing. in the alleyway outside the garage, officers located a black plastic bag with a hole in it; the size of the hole and lead testing results were consistent with the discharge of a firearm through the bag. samples of blood on the bag and a red stain on ha the medical examiner testified that the entrance wound on . . . the medical examiner the bullet . . . would go right through i b. the verdict and sentence nt and closing argument, the prosecutor asked the jury to find that haro killed nelson intentionally and with premeditation and deliberation and thus convict him of first degree murder. in her opening statement and d that the evidence did not establish beyond a reasonable doubt that haro committed first degree murder; instead, the evidence showed that there was a reasonable possibility that the killing was unintentional, or, if 7 it was intentional, that it was done rashly and impulsively, without premeditation and deliberation. the jury found haro guilty of first degree murder and found true a firearm allegation under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). after waiving his right to a jury trial on allegations that he had suffered a prior serious felony conviction that qualified as a strike, haro admitted that he was convicted in 2007 for carjacking ( 215, subd. (a)); the trial court found true the strike and prior serious felony allegations. the court sentenced haro to state prison for a term of 80 years to life, which was broken down as follows: 25 years to life for the murder count, doubled to 50 years to life because of his prior strike ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subd. (b)), plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) and an additional five years for his prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). haro timely appealed. contentions haro contends that his first degree murder conviction should be overturned on the grounds of prosecutorial misconduct and ineffective assistance of counsel. his claim of prosecutorial misconduct is based on three statements that the prosecutor made in closing argument. first, the prosecutor equated premeditation and deliberation to every day decisions, such as whether or not to enter an intersection at a stop sign. according to haro, this statement misstated the law on premeditation and deliberation. 8 second, even though the people did not allege that haro had any gang connection, the prosecutor mistakenly referred to gang enhancement allegations against haro and asked the jury to find those allegations to be true. according to haro, this nelsonnamely, that haro was a gang member who committed a random act of violence, as is the wont of gang members. third, the prosecutor told the jury to consider first degree murder before considering the possibility of lesser forms of homicide. according to haro, this misstated the law, which allows the jury to consider lesser offenses at any point in their deliberations. statements of the prosecutor, as wbullying of meyer that was presented at trial. discussion a. the challenged statements of the prosecutor during closing argument did not constitute prejudicial misconduct 1. governing law amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible 9 methods to attempt to persuade either the trial court or the [citation.]people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1331-1332.) prerequisite to finding prosecutorial misconduct under state law. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 821; accord, people v. lloyd (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 49, 61.) as our supreme court has a misnomer to the extent that it suggests a prosecutor must act with a culpable state of mind. a more apt description of the [citation.]people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 666-667; accord, lloyd, at p. 61.) improper for the prosecutor to misstate the law generally [citation], and particularly to attempt to absolve the prosecution from its . . . obligation to overcome reasonable doubt on all elements [citation] [citations.]people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 666.) a defendant challenging a prosereasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. [citatithat the jury drew the most damaging rather than the least [citaiton.] [citation.]id. at p. 667; accord, people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 371.) prosecutorial misconduct of federal constitutional a reviewing court finds the misconduct harmless beyond a 10 reasonable doubt. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 608.) prosecutorial misconduct under state law requires reversal when a reviewing court finds that it is reasonably probable the result of misconduct. (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1070-1071; accord, people v. lloyd, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at pp. 60-61.) to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument. [citation.]people v. charles (2015) 61 cal.4th 308, 327; accord, people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th court should be given an opportunity to correct the abuse and thus, if possible, prevent by suitable instructions the harmful people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1341; accord, people v. peoples admobjection and/or a request for admonition . . people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820; accord, seumanu, at pp. 1328-1329.) statements in the closing argument that haro contends constitute prosecutorial misconduct. haro argues we nevertheless have authority to consider these challenges because constitutional law based on the undisputed facts set forth in the and because we have discretion in all cases to consider 11 any kind of claim, even when not raised below. having none of the challenged statements constitutes misconduct.5 2. premeditation and deliberation murder is the unlawful killing of a human being . . . with (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 443.) forming a course of action . . . killing is premeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection rather than unconsidered or .] (ibid.rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 812.) reflection, of any duration, is readily distinguishable from a (id. at p. 813.) in closing argument, the prosecutor asserted that haro was guilty of first degree murder because he intentionally killed nelson, and premeditated and deliberated over killing nelson 5 because we find no misconduct by the prosecutor, we do not 12 before doing so. in explaining the meaning of premeditation and deliberation, the prosecutor said the following: you an example [of] what you do every day which qualifies as deliberation and premeditation. you pull up to a stop sign in ision at that your mind in that few seconds? you deliberated, you premeditated. is it safe to enter that intersection? you thought takes. the jury instructions will tell you that the length of time spent considering whether to kill does not alone determine a killing is deliberate and premeditated. this defendant could have sat at home for five days before and planned what he was going to do that day. or could have happened [sic] while he was in the garage. it could have happened in the seconds before he pulled that gun up ad. a decision to kill me [sic, made] rationally [sic, rashly], impulsively, or without careful consideration is not deliberate, premeditated. but, on the other hand, again, a jury instruction, a cold, calculated decision to kill can be reached quickly. set in stone that has to be set deliberate [sic] by the defendant. it can be reached very quickly. did he know what he was doing? did he example misstated the . . to the to support this proposition, haro relies on people v. nguyen (1995) 40 13 cal.app.4th 28, 36. in that case, the court of appeal strongly standard people customarily use in deciding whether to change (ibid.) ibid.) drawing parallels between the example of deciding to proceed at a stop sign in this case and the example of deciding to change lanes in nguyen, haro asserts doubt standard in general is satisfied by such a state of mind, then it necessarily follows that it violates the constitution to argue that any individual element that has [to] be proven beyond a reasonable doubt can be we disagree. there is a significant difference between providing examples of decisionmaking from everyday life to explain the meaning of premeditation and deliberation and using such examples to explain proof beyond a reasonable doubt. proof beyond a reasonable doubt is a relatively fixed concept. it people v. nguyen, supra, 40 cal.app.4th at p. 36.) the concepts of premeditation and deliberation are much looser and more variable, particularly with respect to the period of time required for premeditation and deliberation. indeed, as the trial court e length of time the person spends considering whether to kill does not alone determine whether the killing is deliberate and premeditated. the amount of time required for deliberation and premeditation may vary from person to person and according to the circumstances. a decision to kill made rashly, impulsively, or without careful consideration is not deliberate and premeditated. on the other 14 hand, a cold, calculated decision to kill can be reached quickly. the test is the extent of reflection, not the to be sure(people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 6misleading the jury by oversimplifying and trivializing the treads somewhat close to prohibited territory because the jury arguably might have perceived it as suggesting that deliberation does not require the careful weighing of the choice whether to kill a person. we do not believe, however, that the example crossed over that line. immediately after providing the example, the on premeditation and deliberation, which was firmly grounded in the length of time spent considering whether to kill does not alone premeditated and deliberate. the prosecutor then went on to argue the evidence established haro acted with premeditation and deliberation because he entered the garage with a loaded gun he had concealed in a black bagwith a bullet in the chamber and the safety off meant haro viewed in the context of the 15 argument, the use of the stop sign example was consistent with the law on premeditation and deliberation. even if the stop sign example trivialized concepts of premeditation and deliberation, the trial court cushioned that effect through its proper instructions on both. the court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 200, stating, must follow the law as i explain it to you . . . . if you believe that are required to presume the jury followed all of the instruction that the jury must be guided by what the court said, not what counsel said. (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. jury will abide by a trial c nguyenprejudice from the stop sign example. although (as noted above) the court in nguyen found that the prosecutor erred in using the lane changing example to explain the concept of reasonable doubt, the court concluded that the defendant was not prejudiced because the prosecutor also directed the jury to read the reasonable doubt instruction and the court correctly instructed the jury on that standard. (people v. nguyen, supra, 40 cal.app.4th at pp. 36-premeditation and deliberation and its further instruction that explanations, alleviated any prejudice from the prossign example. 16 3. at the conclusion of her rebuttal, the prosecutor told jurors the prosecutor plainly misspoke. no gang enhancements were alleged and no gang-related evidence was introduced. haro reference to gang enhancements constituted prejudicial misconduct that violated his due process reference to gang enhancements, while certainly mistaken, was not misconduct. and even if it were misconduct, the reference did not prejudice the outcome at trial. haro relies on people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214 (albarran), to support his claim of prejudice arising from the albarran, we potentially prejudicial effect ogang(id. at p. 223.) court has condemned the introduction of [gang] evidence if it is only tangentially relevant to the charged offenses. [citation.] in fact, in cases not involving gang enhancements, the supreme court has held evidence of gang membership should not be admitted if its probative value is minimal. [citation.] . . . [citation.] [] thus, as [a] general rule, evidence of gang membership and activity is admissible if it is logically relevant to some material issue in the case, other than character evidence, is (ibid.) 17 applying these principles, we found prejudicial error in albarran arising from the admission of irrelevant gang-related albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 232.) but we determined that to be the case in albarran the nature and amount of th[e] gang evidence [that was introduced], the number of witnesses who testified to [the . . . ibid.) albarran bears no resemblance to this case. in albarran, gang-related evidence was front and center at trial. by contrast here, as indicated above, the people did not allege any gang enhancements and introduced no evidence at trial that haro had any association with a gang. in fact, the prosecutor scrupulously throughout the trial, even though meyer raised that issue in a portion of his police interview that was not provided to the jury.6 6 before jury selection, the trial court discussed the issue of the prosecutor stated that she did not intend to raise this issue because n a gang anymore. the witnesses not to mention anything about gangs, and before the references he made to gangs. the court confirmed on the record 18 all indications are that the prosecutor probably meant to say ,at the end of her rebuttal, because the case involved firearm allegations to which the court referred in its instruction and the prosecutor referred in her closing argument. in other words, the reference to inadvertent. it is true that bad faith or a culpable state of mind is not required for prosecutorial misconduct. an innocent error can qualify. (people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 666-667; people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 821; people v. lloyd, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 61.) nevertheless, we do not believe that enhancemethroughout the trial, constitutes prosecutorial misconduct. and even if the reference were misconduct, we do not perceive any prejudice arising from it. on this record, the strong likelihood is that the jury understood that the prosecutor given the absence of any gang evidence or any mention of gangs instruction on the firearm enhancement. tatements; the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 667.) haro has failed to make that showing. d on a 19 4. deliberation process people v. kurtzman (1988) 46 cal.3d 322 (kurtzman) that the jury may deliberate on the greater and lesser included offenses in whatever order it chooses, but that it must acquit the defendant of the greater offense before people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 608; people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 536 [under kurtzmancourt should not tell the jury it must first unanimously acquit the defendant of the greater offense before deliberating on or even considering a lesser haro contends the prosecutor violated the kurtzman principle by stating in her rebuttal that the jury had to consider first degree murder at the outset, before turning to the lesser offenses. in making this contention, haro refers to the following approach your task, then, for murderi know we got kind of confused. it gets confusing, all the jury verdict forms. what or what you should do first is, according you as jurors are going to go back, talk about first degree murder, talk about willful, deliberate, premeditation [sic] instructions. if you all go back there and say one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelveyou 20 [sic, gun (as discussed in the preceding section)] enhancements, ll 12 of us first degree murder, and now you move to second. and that willch your ta kurtzman in the passage or what you should do first to get first directive to the jury that it had to deliberate on first degree murder before deliberating on the lesser offenses, in contravention of kurtzman. the prosecutor said that what the jury and, according to the instructions, the court told the jury, per kurtzman, it could consider the offenses in any order it wished, but that it could not reach a verdict of not guilty or guilty of second degree until it decided the defendant was not guilty of first degree murder.7 in light of the cross-reference to the 7 specifically, the court instructed as follows: given verdict forms for guilty and not guilty of first degree murder, second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter. you may consider these different kinds of homicide in whatever order you wish, but i can accept a verdict of guilty or not guilty of second degree murder only if all of you have found the defendant not guilty of first degree murder. and i can accept a verdict of guilty or not guilty of involuntary manslaughter only if all of you 21 instructions, we construe as reminder regarding what the jury had to decide first, not what it had to consider first. in any event, we do not believe it likely that the an anti-kurtzman fashion, for elsewhere in the passage in question, the prosecutor ackurtzman-based instruction, that reference likely would be understood as meaning that the jury could move to deciding second degree only after deciding that haro was not guilty of first degree murder. in sum, even if the prosecut discern no prejudice from it. our conclusion that haro was not prejudiced is reinforced admonition, dating back to kurtzman itself, that even when kurtzman error is based on improper instruction by the trial court, tdemonstrating prejudice from such error. (people v. fields (1996) 13 cal.4th 289, 309, fn. 7; kurtzman, supra, 46 cal.3d at pp. 324-mously agree on whether [the] defendant was guilty of second degree remarks did not prejudicially affect the verdict].) prejudice arising from kurtzman acapable of either helping or harming either the people or the defendant. in any given case, however, it will likely be a matter have found the defendant not guilty of both first and second 22 of pure conjecture whether the instruction had any effect, whom people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048, 1078, fn. 7, overruled on another ground in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1.) b. l did not render ineffective assistance in failing to request a limiting instruction regarding the evidence that haro bullied meyer 1. governing law to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, performance was deficient because it fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, and (2) his strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 688, 694 [104 s. ct. 2052, 80 l. ed. 2d 674]; people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 746; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 216, 218.) performance fell within the wide range of professional competence and the record on direct appeal sheds no light on why counsel failed to act in the manner challenged, defendant must show that there wain the midst of trial over whether to object to comments made by the prosecutor in closing argument is a highly tactical one . . .[][cpeople v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 674-675.) 23 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), states that, as a generaher character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a this rule. evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), sets forth exceptions to this rule. it states, prohibits the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident . . .) other evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), evidence of uncharged misconduct when such evidence is relevant disposition. (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393, fn. omitted.) additionally, evidence code section 1101, subdivision (c), specifies, admissibility of evidence offered to support or attack the 2. to seek a limiting instruction on the bullying evidence neither fell below professional norms nor prejudiced haro tpolice interview that haro had bullied him in the past and ption to the police of the nature of that bullying 24 crazy person who carries a weapon,[8] who bullies people and forces them to stash drugs counsel further argued the evidence was improper under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), and irrelevant because the jury had already heard meyer was that past behavior as to why that inf the trial court ordered the prosecutor to redact any statement that haro had bullied meyer was relevant that is, whether meyer found haro threatening and feared him. this ruling came just after meyer had taken the stand and testified he did not fear haro. (evid. code,  780, subd. (f), 1101, subd. (c).) the court . . . (evid. code,  352.) admitting the bullying evidence. he claims, however, that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing to request a limiting instruction, based on calcrim no. 375, advising the jury on how it should consider this evidence. specifically, haro argues that his counsel should have asked the court to instruct the jury that, [t]he people presented evidence of other behavior 8 as discussed more fully in footnote 9, post, over defense he had heard haro had a gun, instructing the jury it could only be namely, s not challenge these rulings. 25 not conclude from this evidence that the defendant has a bad character or is disposed to commit [a] crime. according to bullying evidence is inexplicable in light of his nonobjection to a comparable limiting instruction under calcrim no. 30testimony that he heard haro had a gun.9 first, haro has not demonstrated that failure to request a limiting instruction on the bullying evidence fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. the record suggests that reflected an understandable tactical decision not to highlight the bullying evidence even further and possibly lend credibility to to the first degree murder charge. nonobjection to the 9 that he heard haro had a gun, the court told the jury this namely, as but not as informing you not to use this evidence for the truth of the matter . . later, in instructing the jury before closing arguments, the court told n evidence was admitted for a limited purpose and i stated the limited purpose of the evidence. you may consider that evidence only for that purpose and for no 303 [limited purpose evidence in general].) 26 limiting instruction a gun also can be explained. calling attention to the gun evidence through a limiting instruction would be less damaging of the shooting. in any event, haro has failed to show prejudice arising bullying evidence. the evidence the prosecution presented at unintentional or, at most, rash, impulsive and without careful consideration. meyer and ramos unequivocally told police detectives that the shoostated haro did not look like he was actually surprised; he said haro was imitating meyer and ramos furthermore, the gun haro used to kill nelson was concealed in a black bag hidden from view until the moment he the trigger. all told, it is not reasonably probable that, but for his on the bullying evidence, haro would have been convicted of a lesser offense than first degree murder.10 10 haro contends the asserted errors he has raised on appeal, when considered cumulatively, compel reversal. because we of error, there are no errors to aggregate. (see people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1382 27 disposition the judgment is affirmed. small, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. [no cumulative error where cour[the] * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 