 1 filed 12/5/16 p. v. silva ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david gage silva, defendant and appellant. b261856 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa075013) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. david w. stuart, judge. affirmed. tanya dellaca, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and carl n. henry, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 appellant, david gage silva, appeals from a judgment entered against him after a jury convicted him of second degree murder in violation of penal code1 section 187, subdivision (a). the jury also found appellant personally used a knife within the meaning of section 12022. the trial court sentenced appellant to 15 years to life for the murder and one year for the knife-use enhancement for a total of 16 years. appellant contends his constitutional rights under the fifth, sixth and fourteenth amendments of the united states constitution were violated because the trial court refused to instruct the jury on: (1) perfect self-defense and defense of others; (2) imperfect self-defense and defense of othersas a means of finding voluntary manslaughter; and (3) involuntary manslaughter. appellant also asserts that the trial court potentially erred in ruling that the wappellant contends the notes might have provided exculpatory (brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, 87 (brady)) and/or discoverable material ( 1054.1). appellant argues that the cumulative effect of the errors deprived him of a fair trial in violation of the united states constitution. we conclude that the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct on perfect/imperfect self-defense of others or on involuntary manslaughter. the trial court did not violate brady because there was nothing exculpatory in the work product, there was no prejudice to appellant because the information in the notes duplicat 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 3 testimony. the cumulative effect of purported instructional errors and the discovery issue was not prejudicial. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. the evidence wo separate versions of the events leading up to the death of anthony hernandez by a stab wound to his chest.2 the witnesses all agreed that there was a group of men fighting but none of the witnesses could identify the person who stabbed anthony. one version was presented by orlando osorio, rodrigo chavez and robert lopez, who were friends or acquaintances of anthony. the other version was joseph garcia, francisco garcia and axely echeverria. ion on october 27, 2012, orlando was asked to act as a disc jockey (dj) at a birthday/halloween party for adrian morales at a single-family residence in sylmar. orlando invited several people to the party, including the homicide victim, anthony. orlando also invited rodrigo and robert. house. around midnight on october 28, 2012, adrian instructed orlando to shut down the music in five minutes. as orlando was playing his last song, appellant came towards him and told him to turn off the music. orlando told appellant that adrian had told him that he could play the music five more minutes so orlando was going to finish playing the last song. appellant - 2 hereinafter, we use first names of anthony and witnesses for ease of reference and not out of disrespect. 4 joseph3 rowdy with [appellant],, -ass niggas trying to get down with youorlando that appellant was trying to calm down joseph. rodrigo responded, -ass nigga? joseph approached rodrigo and said, break front of the dj equipment. anthony then came over and tried to defend rodrigo by pulling joseph. anthony and appellant then began to fight with each other by exchanging punches. robert intervened to get joseph off rodrigo. robert got pushed back and rodrigo ended up on the floor. after the fight started, a tall, dark-skinned man named francisco, also , , who knew francisco but not the other men, tried to push away francisco and tell him that they were all friends and did not need to fight. orlando was not throwing punches but got hit in the head a few times. orlando could not hold francisco back because . 3 orlando and rodrigo did not know joseph or appellant prior to that evening. orlando and others referred to joseph as the the guy wearing a green or turquoise shirt or t-shirt. 5 robert testified that, after he was pushed and rodrigo was on the floor, headlock or chokehold. robert and rodrigo testified that francisco came in and starting punching anthony. before francisco came in, anthony was not moving much. anthony looked tired and weaker. rodrigo went in and tried to get joseph and appellant off of anthony. rodrigo noticed that anthony was not moving anymore. the fight, which included five men, eventually moved to the left side of the garage. orlando saw anthony fall down in the garage. rodrigo pulled anthony out of the garage. anthony told rodrigo that he had been stabbed. orlando heard rodrigo say that anthony had been stabbed. on direct examination, orlando testified that, at the time anthony collapsed, anthony was fighting with appellant and francisco. on cross-examination, orlando testified that joseph was hitting anthony and not francisco. orlando did not know whhands during the fight. when the police asked him who was left, orlando , robert did not know who stabbed anthony or when he was stabbed. he did not see a knife during the fight and did not know what was used to stab anthony. rodrigo did not know who stabbed anthony. rodrigo did not see a knife during the fight. rodrigo did not know what was used to stab anthony. rodrigo told the police that the guy in the gray sweatshirt (meaning joseph) could have stabbed anthony. joseph was kind of hiding something behind his back in his left hand. but, rodrigo could not see whether he was actually view. 6 appellant and joseph tried to follow rodrigo as he was pulling anthony out of the garage. according to orlando and rodrigo, as rodrigo pulled anthony out of the garage, joseph was still trying to fight anthony. rodrigo and robert carried anthony to the front of the house. orlando and robert saw a knife near the front gate. the knife had been on a table near a birthday cake. anthony was bleeding from the stomach area and was e he was the medical examiner concluded that anthony died from a three- to four-,-chest cavity and the left ventricle of the heart. the medical examiner did not know what object was used to stab anthony; however, both ends were probably sharp. the wound was not consistent with one inflicted by a beer or glass bottle. beer bottle wounds are typically not as clean as the wound to wound. orlando did not see appellant or joseph in the front of the house. robert testified that, as soon as he said anthony had been stabbed, joseph and appellant disappeared. francisco remained outside until the police arrived. joseph testified under a grant of immunity. joseph and appellant, who ,brothers. francisco and joseph are also first cousins. joseph went to the 7 party with his girlfriend axely and one of her friends. axely was married to joseph by the time of the trial. on the date of the incident, francisco lived with appellant at their party. francisco sent appellant into the garage to tell the dj to turn down the music. francisco testified that someone told francisco that appellant was in a fight. francisco then sent joseph to go talk to appellant. according to axely, adrian told appellant to tell the dj to turn off the music. when appellant went over to the dj, there was a confrontation between appellant, the dj and anthony. she told joseph that appellant was arguing with them. she then left to go find her friend. the party. joseph had gone to the restroom. when he returned, axely told what was happening. appellant was there with orlando and about three other guys. arted flying after some pushing and shoving. joseph fell and got hit by a couple of guys. when he him, francisco and side. joseph did not know whether appellant was involved in the rumble. someone got in the middle and pulled them apart. joseph still wanted to fight because he felt like he did not get a fair chance. the front of joseph then left in his car with axely and her friend to go to his 8 during the fight, neither joseph nor francisco had knives. joseph did on cross-examination, joseph testified that the fight started after he intervened. appellant told him everything was okay. joseph made a -ass.uy pushed joseph and joseph pushed the guy. joseph did not know who the guy was that hit him. the guy hit him and joseph grabbed him and that is when the other guys joined in the fight. ill them. he denied grabbing anyone by the neck or head. joseph did not see appellant do anything. joseph does not remember whether he was fighting with anthony. joseph never saw appellant with a knife at the party. according to axely, after she looked for her friend, she returned to the garage. at that point, she saw anthony take a swing at joseph. three and everybody, including appellant, was just fighting. axely grabbed a bottle to protect herself because she got pushed and was scared. she saw other people in the garage with bottles and heard glass breaking. she told police there were about 10 to 15 people involved in the fight. she subsequently heard a woman say somebody got stabbed. axely testified that she, joseph and francisco went through the front. she did not see appellant leave through the front. she did not know where he went. joseph testified that appellant left through the alleyway in the back. joseph thought others were leaving through the front. 9 francisco testified that he entered the garage after appellant and joseph went into the garage. francisco saw someone acting like he was going to swing at appellant. francisco told the dj to calm down his people. francisco said that he was talking to orlando and turned to his left. he saw joseph on the floor fighting with anthony. francisco testified at the preliminary hearing that anthony was on top of joseph. at some point, joseph was on top as he was fighting anthony. francisco tried to pick up joseph. anthony and joseph kept swinging at each other so francisco decided to punch anthony. francisco punched him about four times. adrian then grabbed francisco telling him to calm down. they got pushed out of the garage. after he was pushed from the garage, francisco had joseph from the back, holding him and telling him to calm down. joseph was screaming, francisco did not see appellant during the altercation. francisco did not see appellant with a knife during the fight. francisco saw anthony walking up the steps to the front of the house. he heard someone ask anthony if he was okay. when francisco and then his girlfriend, elizabeth orozco, went to the front of the house, they saw anthony lying on the ground. they tried to help until adrian asked everyone to leave. evidence after the party already there. appellant lived with their grandmother. appellant yelled, joseph, appellant was angry and mad while he was yelling. joseph had never seen appellant with an attitude or display aggressiveness like that. 10 oseph took off the shirt, appellant threw the sh .questioned joseph and appellant about what had happened. appellant was not wearing the turquoise shirt he had on at the party when francisco around,him. francisco and joseph were pressing appellant, wondering why he was acting that way. appellant was angry and e in stressful situations. appellant also gets angry when he drinks. francisco had seen appellant fight before when he would drink. appellant was trained in jujitsu. francisco and joseph were asking appellant about what happened. francisco asked if appellant had stabbed anthony. appellant said that he had not. appellant then said, -girlfriend, elizabeth, testified that she went back to his 4 appellant was there, acting very upset and a bit aggravated. appellant, joseph, francisco and axely began 4 elizabeth testified that she remembered appellant trying to give anthony cpr in the front yard right after the stabbing. 11 discussing the fight and stabbing. when they asked about the stabbing, and francisco confronting appellant and saying, joseph knew that appellant owned a pocket knife. he had seen it in room in the past. appellant had fold-out, pocket knives in his bedroom before the incident. francisco asked appellant about a knife because he had seen appellant with a three-inch knife earlier in the night. francisco saw appellant with the knife at the party before the fight, using it to open beer bottles. the knife could be folded and had a little latch on the back side so the blade could be flipped out in one motion. when francisco asked appellant about the knife, appellant responded that he got rid of it. appellant said he got rid of the knife because he did not want to get into trouble. when francisco kept pressing appellant about the location of the knife, appellant got an appellant then threw a flashlight at the front of the house. ,francisco and joseph tried to calm him down, telling him he was being too axely saw appellant with a small blade before he went towards the 12 and was not attached to a bottom piece or handle. appellant said that he wanted to throw away the blade. at one point, appellant began to look for his blade. appellant walked e and shirt in the trash can. joseph asked appellant why he threw the shirt in the trash can. appellant told joseph that he detached the blade from the rest of the knife and wrapped the blade in the green shirt and threw the shirt in the t it in the trunk of his car. however, there was no blade in the shirt. appellant trash. when appellant realized the blade was not in the shirt, he was getting mad and threw the flashlight. no one else was that agitated or upset. joseph, francisco, axely, elizabeth and appellant all started to look for the blade but were not able to find it. after appellant threw the flashlight, joseph and francisco decided to take appellant to jowake up their grandmother. joseph, axely and appellant began driving to as also in the car. during the drive to palmdale, appellant was emotional and crying so much that the baby was startled. appellant said he wanted to talk to his sister. appellant continued to cry and said that his deceased grandfather had asked him to make sure he took care of the family. car. appellant wanted to get rid of the shirt because he mentioned that the shirt might have blood on appellant to calm down because there was no blood on the shirt. appellant 13 shirt which axely thought was from a cut on his chin that he got during the fight. joseph did not throw away his shirt. the baby started to cry. in order to stop the baby from crying and to calm appellant down, axely told joseph to stop the car and get rid of the shirt. joseph got rid of the shirt by throwing it into a porta potty at a construction site around the corner from his home. when he arrived home, joseph went to bed. the next day, francisco texted joseph that anthony had died. when joseph told appellant that police interviews in an initial interview with police the next day, joseph did not tell the appellant had done it or not. joseph was trying to protect appellant. about an hour later, in a second interview, joseph told the police what happened. joseph told the truth in the second interview because he did not want to get into trouble for something he did not do. the second interview with the police took place after joseph was placed in a cell. joseph said he did not see who stabbed anthony but told the police that he thought appellant had done it. joseph did not know when anthony was stabbed or what was used to stab the him. joseph told police he thought appellant had done it because appellant was acting paranoid after the party. joseph had never seen him act like that before that evening. axely testified that she did not recall telling detectives that joseph and francisco asked appellant why he did it. but, after joseph was locked up, he 14 told her that she should tell the police everything. she knew that meant she should tell the truth.5 francisco found out later in the morning that anthony had died. francisco and joseph had a discussion about not telling the whole truth when they spoke to the police to help appellant. when he was initially however, after the police placed him in a cell, he told the truth because he did not want to get into trouble for something he did not do. the police recovered a t-shirt from a porta potty in a construction zone in palmdale in the afternoon on october 28, 2012. the t-shirt was covered in urine and feces. officers searched the oscar street location but did not find a knife. defense case appellant presented character testimony from his friend, josue garcia. josue knew appellant for about 10 or 11 years. appellant had mixed martial arts and kickboxing training. josue and appellant went to parties with each other every other week. josue was not at the party on the night of the incident. josue had seen appellant get drunk at parties but had never seen him get into a fight. he described appellant as a quiet drunk. appellant was pretty shy and quiet. he kept to himself and was pretty laid back. josue thought it was out of character for appellant to be involved in a fight. 5 apparently, joseph and axely were involved in an altercation when they arrived at the party because someone who had been drinking spilled a drink on them. joseph and axely were upset. adrian had to stop joseph from confronting the man who adrian said was just drunk. 15 jury instructions the trial court instructed the jury on second degree murder (calcrim no. 520) and that manslaughter was a lesser included offense of murder (calcrim no. 500). the trial court instructed the jury on voluntary manslaughter by provocation (calcrim no. 570) and heat of passion (calcrim no. 570). the trial court refused defense requests for instructions on self-defense and defense of others (calcrim no. 505) and imperfect self-defense and defense of others (calcrim no. 571). the trial court also refused the defense request for an involuntary manslaughter instruction based on criminal negligence (calcrim no. 580). discussion appellant argues that he was deprived of a fair trial in violation of the fifth, sixth and fourteenth amendments because the trial court refused to instruct the jury on perfect/imperfect self-defense and defense of another and on involuntary manslaughter. in criminal cases, the trial court is required to instruct on the general principles of law which are relevant to the issues raised by the evidence and people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 953; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) is evidence that, if accepted by the trier of fact, would absolve the defendant people v. rogers any included offense [citation.] such instructions are required only where rom which a rational jury could conclude that the defendant committed the lesser offense, and that he [or she] is not guilty 16 people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 50.) the trial court is not required to instruct a jury based only on conjecture and speculation; however, the court does not assess the credibility of the evidence in determining whether to give an instruction. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1200.) an appellate court reviews de novo the trial people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 113; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) in in the light most favorable to the defendant. (people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 11122, 1137.) as a preliminary matter, the attorney general asserts that appellant has forfeited arguments on imperfect self-defense/defense of others and involuntary manslaughter. the record shows that defense counsel requested that the trial court give the imperfect self-defense or defense of others instruction in calcrim no. 571 in accordance with people v. flannel (1979) 25 cal.3d 668, 674, 679, superseded by statute on another point as stated in in re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 776). the trial court noted that it issues related to the imperfect self-defense/defense of others instruction were not forfeited. similarly, the trial court refused to instruct the jury with calcrim no. ountered that there was no substantial evidence of criminal negligence because appellant stabbed anthony in the heart. defense counsel responded that, because no murder weapon was found and no one saw appellant stab the victim, a jury could 17 infer that app we agree with appellant that this is sufficient to preserve the argumentor in refusing to instruct on involuntary manslaughter. we disagree with the attorney general that the precise theory concerning an involuntary manslaughter instruction raised by appellant has been forfeited. the theory relies on case law emanating from language in people v. burroughs (1984) 35 cal.3d 824, 836 (burroughs), and culminating in a decision by division seven of this district, people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24 (brothers). brothers instruction on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense must be given when a rational jury could entertain a reasonable doubt that an unlawful killing was accomplished with implied malice during the course of an inherently dangerous assaultiv 34.) as shown below, although brothers some clarification of the issue raised by appellant had been given in a concurring opinion by justice kennard in people v. bryant (2013) 56 cal.4th 959 (bryantpeople v. bryant (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 1196 (bryant ii) and followed in brothers. under the circumstances, we conclude that the issue was not forfeited. i. perfect/imperfect self-defense and defense of others appellant argues that the trial court improperly refused to instruct the jury on perfect/imperfect self-defense and defense of others as requested by defense counsel. a defendant who commits an unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought is guilty of murder. ( 187, subd. (a).) a murder may be 18 reduced to the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter if the defendant commits an unlawful killing without malice aforethought. ( 192, subd. (a); people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549.) only in limited, explicitly defined circumstances: either when the defendant 192, subd. (a)), or when the -the unreasonable but good faith belief in having to act in self-defense [citations]. (people v. barton unreasonable self-defensedefense; rather, it is a shorthand description of one form of voluntary manslaughter,id. at pp. 200-201.) a person who kills another with the unreasonable but good faith belief in having to act in self-defense is guilty of voluntary manslaughter because the belief negates the malice. (people v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111, 1116.) the same rule applies when a person kills with an actual but unreasonable belief in the need to defend another person. (people v. randle (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 997 (randle), overruled on a different point in people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1201.) that the killing may have been provoked or in honest response to perceived danger, it is the defendant obligation to proffer some showing on these issues sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt of his guilt of murder. [citations.] [] if the issue of provocation or imperfect self-defense is thus properly presented in a murder case [citation], the people must prove beyond reasonable doubt that these circumstances were lacking in order to establish the murder element of malice. [citations.instructions have long so provided. [citation.] in such cases, if the fact 19 finder determines the killing was intentional and unlawful, but is not persuaded beyond reasonable doubt that provocation (or imperfect self-defense) was absent, it should acquit the defendant of murder and convict people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 461-462, original italics.) absolves the people of proving that malice was present. it does not require the prosecution to establish, beyond a reasonable doubt, that malice was absentpeople v. rios, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 463, original italics.) in this case, the trial court instructed the jury that the offense of murder could be reduced to manslaughter by provocation and heat of passion. however, the trial court declined to instruct the jury on self-defense or defense of others (calcrim no. 505) because the court found there was no evidence that appellant had an actual or reasonable belief that he needed to defend anyone. the trial court also refused to instruct the jury on imperfect self-defense of defense of others (calcrim no. 571). a. there was no evidence of perfect self-defense or defense of others. , defense counsel asserted that the trial court should instruct the jury with calcrim no. 505 on perfect self-defense or defense of another. when the trial court responded that the instruction was not applicable, defense counsel argued: i t . . . there was a clear fight between several individuals, . . . and a relative of my client. my client was in close proximity to the incident when it took place. i think there was testimony as it relates to blows being thrown, other things being used to try to inflict harm, people with bottles, and . . . in fact, even kicking was being used. and i think . . . that my clientif the prosecution is to be believed, 20 that he participated in this event, that it was certainly reasonable for him to protect his relatives from this onslaught or this attack where his relative was outnumbered. and i think the testimony is . . . thati was any testimony that my client started the affair. i think it wasand if, in fact, he was involved, it was after the incithe jury could reasonably infer from that that he was trying to protect his the court replied that tprosecutor added that there was no evidence that any other deadly weapon was used other than that anthony was stabbed. defense counsel argued that there was evidence that several people , which caused intent was to rescue or aid his cousin from an assault that was taking place. the prosecutor responded: was being attacked was from joseph, francisco and axely. none of them actually testified that they knew where [appellant] was at that moment. so unless there is some evidence to show [appellant] was in a position to reasonably believe or see that joseph was being attacked, there is no evidence that he reasonably believed that the use of force or self-defense was ecause there was no evidence of any deadly weapon being used besides the one the prosecution is claiming [appellant] used, there is no reasonable use of force. the only person that testified they armed themselves with the bottle was axely, and she was very 21 defense counsel then argued: argument that could be made by the people. but i think that isit also is an issue that would be best resolved by the jury. and i think to suggest that my client was nowhere around is not borne out by the testimony. i thinkit was my recollection francisco said that joseph was standing right there and that he pulled [appellant] back, and then he turned around and joseph was on the floor fighting after he was attacked by [anthony]there is certainly evidencecould reasonably infer that this was a self-defensedefense of others type the prosecutor argued that the issue was what appellant reasonably reasonably saw at that moment that [joseph] was being attacked and [appellant] reasonably felt that force was necessarthat the defense requires that the jury determine whether or not a the trial court ruled: evidence of an actual reasonable belief for self-defense or defense of another. for killing to be in self-defense, the defendant must actually and reasonably believe in the need to defend. [citation.] if the belief subjectively exists but is objectively unreas--on completely, the belief must also be objectively reasonable. [citations.] as the legislature 22 reasonable person [citations.] moreover, for either perfect or imperfect self-defense, the fear must be of immino matter how great the fear and no matter how great the likelihood of the harmimminent danger to people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082 (humphrey).) necessary to a reasonable person in a similar situation and with similar knowledge of a reasonable person in the position of defendant [citation.] to do this, it must consider all the acts and circumstances . . . in determining whether the defendant acted in a manner in which a reasonable man would act in protecting his own life or bodily safety. [citation.] (humphrey, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 1082-1083.) the defendant is entitled to have the jury consider all the elements in the case which might be expected to operate id. at p. 1083.) under the circumstances of this case, the trial court properly determined that the instruction was not warranted because there was no substantial evidence that appellant stabbed anthony in the heart in self-defense or in defense of another. there was conflicting testimony about the events leading up to the fatal stabbing. however, there was absolutely no evidence that appellant, who is trained in martial arts, actually or reasonably believed he needed to stab anthony in the heart to defend himself or his cousin joseph. - joseph then 23 entered the garage and escalated the situation. joseph was acting very aggressive prior to the fight. joseph came in and asked appellant if some -, you calling a bitch-aschokehold. anthony and robert then intervened to free rodrigo from the chokehold. appellant and anthony began to fight with each other. joseph ultimately put anthony in a headlock. joseph and appellant punched anthony in the face and ribs. francisco, who by all accounts was a big guy, soon got into the group fight. francisco testified that he punched anthony four times. prior to intervening in the fight, francisco yelled, were seen punching anthony before he became weak and motionless. ight, joseph ended up on the ground, there was no evidence that appellant had an actual or objectively reasonable belief that he needed to stab anthony in the heart. (humphrey, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 1082-1083.) weak evidence that joseph was on the ground being punched is not substantial evidence that a rational person would have believed appellant needed to use deadly force in self-defense or to defend his cousins. (people v. depriest, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. uently questioned him about his motives in stabbing anthony. elizabeth said joseph and francisco told appellant was seen leaving through the back of the home. all the other participants in the rumble were seen in the front of the home. 24 , where he was in an agitated state walking up and down the street and removing the shirt he had worn to the party. appellant dismantled the knife his cousin francisco had seen appellant use in opening beer bottles at the party prior to the fight. appellant wrapped the blade in his shirt and tossed the shirt into in his can, the blade was missing. appellant was so agitated he threw a flashlight. appellant, his cousins, axely and elizabeth then began searching for a blade. on the way to palmdale, appellant began obsessing over the shirt which had been retrieved from the trash can. appellant insisted that there was blood on the shirt, which joseph eventually tossed into a porta potty. when joseph told appellant that anthony had died, appellant had a blank stare on his face. in sum, there was no evidence whatsoever that appellant had stabbed anthony with an actual or objectively reasonable belief that he needed to defend himself or his two cousins by stabbing anthony in his chest. because there was no evidence as to why appellant stabbed anthony in the heart during the fight, the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct the jury on perfect self-defense or defense of others. thus, even if we concluded that the instruction should have been given, it is not reasonably probable that appellant would have obtained a more favorable verdict. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson); see also randle, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1003.) there simply was no factual basis for finding that appellant had an actual or objectively reasonable belief that he needed to stab anthony in the chest. given the absence of evidence, any failure to instruct was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under the federal constitutional test in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). 25 b. there was no evidence of imperfect self-defense/defense of others. appellant also asserts that the trial court should have instructed the jury on imperfect self-defense in calcrim no. 571. imperfect self-defense is an actual but unreasonable belief that it is necessary to defend oneself from imminent danger of death or great bodily injury which negates malice aforethought, a required element of murder, and reduces the chargeable offense to manslaughter. (humphrey, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 1082; in re christian s., supra, 7 cal.4th 768, 771.) there was no substantial evidence in the record to show that appellant actually believed that he needed to stab anthony to defend himself or his two cousins. the fact that the three of them were fighting another group of men was not so threatening that it supported an inference that appellant believed he needed to defend himself or his two cousins from imminent death or great bodily injury. as we previously discussed, appellant was the initial aggressor in the -the music. joseph entered the garage and escalated the situation with his comments -ass niggas., placing him in a chokehold. appellant and anthony then began to fight each other. joseph at some point had anthony in a chokehold as he and appellant punched anthony in the face and ribs. francisco, was supposed to be the security for the party, also began punching anthony. no evidence was offered as to why appellant would have been in fear of that anthony was going to kill or inflict great bodily injury on appellant or done as an honest response to a perceived danger. absent evidence that appellant actually believed he needed to defend himself or his cousins from 26 imminent death or great bodily injury, the trial court was not required to instruct on unreasonable self-defense or defense of others. (people v. rios, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 463.) in any event, it is not reasonably probable that appellant would have obtained a more favorable result if the jury was given the instruction on imperfect self-defense or defense of others. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818, 836; see also randle, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1003.) there is no factual basis for finding that appellant believed when he stabbed anthony that appellant needed to defend himself or his cousins from imminent death or great bodily injury. appellant, who was trained in martial arts, brought a pocket knife to the party. there was no evidence that anyone else had a knife or any other -orlando. his cousin joseph came into the garage in an aggressive manner, , which caused anthony to intervene. appellant then began punching anthony. joseph eventually placed anthony in a chokehold and he and then began punching anthony. it is not reasonably probable under watson the jury would have returned a more favorable verdict had instructions been given on perfect or imperfect self-defense or defense of others given the lack of evidence as to what appellant believed. any error in failing to instruct on imperfect self-defense/defense of others was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under chapman. c. an instruction on involuntary manslaughter was not warranted. appellant asserts that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of involuntary manslaughter based on his 27 parties dispute whether this case is controlled by case authorities such as bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th at page 974 (conc. opn. of kennard, j.), bryant ii, supra, 222 cal.app.4th 1196, and brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th 24. involuntary manslaughter is manslaughter during the commission of an unlawful act, not amounting to a felony, or during the commission of a lawful act which might produce death, in an unlawful manner, or without due caution and circumspection. ( 192, subd. (b)people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 934, 1026.) negligenceunintentional conduct which is gross or reckless, amounting to a disregard of human life or an indifference to the consequences. (people v. penny (1955) 44 cal.2d 861, 879.) if a defendant commits an act endangering human life, without realizing the risk involved, the defendant has acted with criminal negligence. by contrast where the defendant realizes and then acts in total disregard of the danger, the defendant is guilty of murder based on implied malice. people v. guillen, supra, at p. 1027.) ( implied when an unlawful killing results from a willful act, the natural and probable consequences of which are dangerous to human life, performed with people v. elmore (2014) 59 cal.4th 121, 133.) our supreme court has onent is . . . 28 acts with a ( bryant, 56 cal.4th at p. 965; see also people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1220.) decision in burroughs, supra, 35 cal.3d 824, the commission of a noninherently dangerous felony would constitute bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 966.) in burroughs, our supreme court explained that: permissible construction of section 192 is that an intentional homicide committed in the course of a noninherently dangerous felony may properly support a conviction of involuntary manslaughter, if that felony is committed 835, overruled on a different point in people v. blakely (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 88-91.) the language in burroughs was discussed recently in bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th 959, wherein the defendant killed her boyfriend by stabbing him once in the chest with a knife. (id. at p. 963.) bryant considered what offense was committed by the defendant, who had killed without malice, in the commission of an assault with a deadly weapon. (id. at pp. 966-967.) bryant commission of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony must have killed without either an intent to kill or a conscious disregard for life. such a killing cannot be voluntary manslaughter because voluntary manslaughter id. at p. 970.) bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th 959, concluded that the trial court in that case could not have erred in failing to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter and reversed the appellate c 29 otherwise. (id. at pp. 970-971.) however, bryant declined to consider burroughs, the trial court erred in failing to instruct on involuntary manslaughter because assault with a deadly weapon was not an inherently dangerous felony. (ibid.) the high court refused to consider the issue because it was not a ground upon which review was granted or one which the appellate court had considered. (id. at p. 971.) in a concurring opinion in bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th 959, justice kennard concluded that an assault with a deadly weapon can constitute an unlawful act that makes a killing committed during the assault an involuntary manslaughter. (id. at pp. 971, 974.) justice kennard concluded that, because the defendant in bryant had presented evidence that the killing occurred while the defendant was committing an assault with a deadly weapon, the jury could have been instructed on involuntary manslaughter. (id. at p. 975.) however, the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty because the rule of law articulated by concurring opinion could not be considered a general principle of law. (ibid.) on remand to the appellate court, the defendant in bryant argued that the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury that an unlawful killing committed without malice in the course of an assaultive felony constituted the crime of involuntary manslaughter. (bryant ii, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at pp. 1200, 1203.) the defendant argued the instruction was required under the theory articulated in burroughs and as a manslaughter -bryant ii, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at pp. 1203-1204.) bryant ii assumed but did not decide that the instruction was warranted by the evidence. (id. at p. 1205.) 30 however, bryant ii concluded that the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury that an unlawful killing committed without malice in the course of an assaultive felony is manslaughter. (id. at pp. 1205-1206.) s no authority holding that an unlawful killing committed without malice in the course of an assaultive felony constituted (id. at p. 1204.) in brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th 24, division seven of this district concurring opinion in bryant that a homicide committed without malice during the course of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony was involuntary manslaughter was not controlling. (brothers, p. 33.) brothers also noted that bryant did not reach the issue. (brothers, at p. 33.) however, brothers concluded: dangerous assaultive felony without malice must be manslaughter [citation] and the offense is not voluntary manslaughter [citation], the necessary bryant is that the offense is involuntary manslaughter. accordingly, an instruction on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense must be given when a rational jury could entertain a reasonable doubt that an unlawful killing was accomplished with implied malice during the course of an inherently dangerous assaultive brothers, at pp. 33-34.) thus, appellant is correct that, under brothers, an involuntary manslaughter instruction must be given when a rational jury could have a reasonable doubt that an unlawful killing was committed with implied malice while the defendant is committing an inherently dangerous assaultive felony. however, even under the brothers standard, there is no duty to instruct when 31 there was no substantial evidence which justifies the instruction. (brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 34.) the existence of weak evidence is not sufficient because instructions on a lesser included offense are only required where there is substantial evidence. (people v. depriest, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 50; brothers, at p. 34.) as the brothers court explained: ]hen . . . the defendant indisputably has deliberately engaged in a type of aggravated assault the natural [and probable] consequences of which are dangerous to human life, thus satisfying the objective component of implied malice as a matter of law, and no material issue is presented as to whether the defendant subjectively appreciated the danger to human life his or her conduct posed, there is no sua sponte duty to instruct on involuntary manslaughter. [citations.] otherwise, an involuntary manslaughter instruction would be required in every implied malice case regardless of the evidence. we do not believe that is what the supreme court intended in bryant (brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 35.) in this case, the trial court denied the request on the basis that there support his claim that substantial evidence warranted an involuntary manslaughter instruction. no one could account for when the stabbing took place. there were a number of people fighting with flying fists, blows and kicking. axely armed herself with a bottle for protection. there was breaking glass near the fight. witnesses described the fist.swinging at each other. appellant was stressed out and hyperventilating after the fight. 32 we conclude that the trial court properly refused to instruct on involuntary manslaughter because the evidence did not support such an instruction. the record is devoid of evidence explaining how and when appellant stabbed anthony in the chest. there was evidence of a heated altercation between several combatants. however, as in brothers, there is no evidence that appellant accidentally killed anthony or was grossly negligent stabbing him in the chest. rather, the only reasonable inference from the evidence presented was that appellant fatally stabbed anthony in the chest during a fistfight, the natural consequence of which would be dangerous to a human life. considering the evidence in a light most favorable to appellant, we are not able to conclude that there is substantial evidence from which a rational juror could have concluded appellant was guilty of involuntary manslaughter. under the circumstances, it is not reasonably probable that appellant would have obtained a more favorable result even if the jury was instructed on involuntary manslaughter. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818, 836; see also randle, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1003.) ii. s notes appellant has asked us to independently review the sealed notes of los angeles police department detective gretchen schultz and determine whether the trial court erred in allowing the notes to be withheld as her work product after the in camera pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 review. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1229-1232.) the notes were written by detective schultz from a police interview of axely. 33 . the prosecutor asked whether axely remembered telling detective schultz that the victim punched joseph first. axely initially testified that she did and then testified that she did not remember saying that to detective schultz. the prosecutor then sho defense counsel did not have the notes, which had been generated by the detective. the prosecutor asserted t e. the court then held an off-the-record discussion about the notes. when the matter went back on the record, the interview, which had been turned over to the defense. the trial court subsequently held a discovery hearing to determine , which were not in the police report of the interview. the audio of the interview, as well as a transcript of the interview, had been turned over to the defense. the trial was discoverable under evidence code section 771.6 6 evidence code section 771 governs the production of writings used to subdivision (c), if a witness, either while testifying or prior thereto, uses a writing to refresh his memory with respect to any matter about which he testifies, such writing must be produced at the hearing at the request of an adverse party and, unless the writing is so produced, the testimony of the witness concerning such matter shall be stricken. [] (b) if the writing is produced at the hearing, the adverse party may, if he chooses, inspect the writing, cross-examine the witness concerning it, and introduce in evidence such portion of it as may be pertinent to the testimony of the witness. [] (c) production of the writing is excused, and the testimony of the witness shall not be stricken, if the writing: [] (1) is not in the possession or control 34 the prosecutor then argued that the notes were not raw notes of the interview, which would be discoverable. detective schultz apparently went through all the witness recordings and typed out every one of the 20 interviews of the witnesses. the prosecutor stated and defense counsel did not dispute that all the interviews and transcripts had been turned over to the defense. , were not discoverable under thompson v. superior court (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 480 (thompson). defense counsel contended the police officer impressions were discoverable and material. defense counsel asserted that there was no section 911, which provides: no person has a privilege to refuse to disclose any matter or to refuse to produce any writing, object, or other the trial court subsequently reviewed the document and ordered it the document, the trial court asked the prosecutor to confirm that the document , along with a transcript, had been turned over to the defense. the trial court apparently did not review the actual police interview. the record on appeal does not contain detective schultz testified at trial. of the witness or the party who produced his testimony concerning the matter; and [] (2) was not reasonably procurable by such party through the 35 the trial court ordered the prosecutor to turn over the first page of the prosecution has already turned over the entire audio recording of that the trial court stated: witness, which was page 1, was turned over. the balance of the notes, which ordered the prosecution to turn over any brady material or exculpatory evidence. at a subsequent discovery motion, defense counsel asserted that there 7 the trial court stated ere discoverable. ,down while re-listening to an audio recording of a witness, was not discoverable once there is a recording that has been turned over to the defense. the trial court explainwould not be admissible. 7 at the second hearing, defense counsel argued that the trial court should examine and seal notes from an additional 20 witness interviews. defense counsel conceded, however, that the defense had been given a number of reports and statements written by detective schultz, which were labeled work product. the trial court refused to review and seal all the additional notes. 36 defense counsel argued that the notes were not attorney work product and were discoverable under section the trial court concluded that the best evidence was the audio ning to the recordings were to the defense. a. there was no brady error. appellant contends that the failure to disclose the notes in accordance with brady potentially deprived him of a fair trial in violation of the federal constitution. accused upon request violates due process where the evidence is material either to guilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or bad faith of brady, supra, 373 u.s. at p. 87.) the obligation to disclose the evidence exists even in the absence of a request. (kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 438 (kyles); people v. salazar (2005) 35 cal.4th 1031, 1043 (salazar); in re brown (1998) 17 cal.4th 873, 879.) the duty encompasses impeachment evidence, exculpatory evidence and evidence known only to police investigators and not the prosecution. (salazar, at p. 1043.) evidence is material under brady that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the kyles, supra, 514 u.s. at pp. 433-434; salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. consideration of the effect of the nondisclosure on defense investigations and trial strategies. [citations.] because a constitutional violation occurs only if the suppressed evidence was material by these standards, a finding that 37 brady was not satisfied is reversible without need for further harmless-error review. [citation.] (people v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, 1132-1133.) we have reviewed the sealed document, which contains detective axely and her trial testimony. the notes do not contain any impeachment evidence, exculpatory testimony, as well as her trial testimony, was duplicative of the matters contained i that was not stated by axely in the preliminary hearing. we are unable to conclude that the refusal to disclose the notes was material under brady there is a reasonable probability that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, kyles, supra, 514 u.s. at pp. 433-434; salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1043.) b. there was no prejudicial error under section 1054.1. appellant also asserts that the notes were discoverable under section 1054.1, the reciprocal discovery statute. section 1054.1 tion to disclose to the defense, in advance of trial or as soon as discovered, certain categories of evpossession of the prosecuting attorney or [known by] the prosecuting attorney . . . 1054.1.) obtaineid., subd. (c)) id., subd. (e)). absent good cause, such evidence must be disclosed at least 30 days before trial, or immediately if discovered or obtained within people v. zambrano, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 1133.) a violation of section 1054.1 is 38 subject to the watson harmless error standard. (people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 280.) appellant contends that the refusal to disclose the notes on the basis 1054.1. appellant is correct that there is no authority supporting the conclusion that police notes of interviews of witnesses taken based on a recorded interview are subject to protection as police work product. appellant is also correct that evidence code section 911 supports the conclusion that the notes were not privileged. however, we agree with the attorney general that thompson, supra, 53 cal.app.4th 480, supports the theory that the notes were properly thompsonm interviews by a defense investigator and one of his attorneys of witnesses who might testify at trial. (id. at p. 482.) the trial court exempted any attorney work product from the order. (ibid.) on appeal, thompson f witness interviews, other than attorney work product, are as defined in sections 1054.3, subdivision (a), and 1054.1, subdivision, (f), and thus must be 485.) the reciprocal nature of the disid. at p. 488.) however, although the discovery statutes compel disclosure of raw written witness interview notes reflecting the whether the notes are used to produce a formal written witness statement ibid.) 39 in this case, the sealed notes were taken from the audio recording of of the audio recording are not raw notes of the witness interview. we should also point out that the notes do not appear to have any real impressions or opinions of the witness. thus, there was no error in refusing to disclose the notes. in any event, everything that is in the notes was brought out in axely preliminary hearing testimony. among the primary purposes of the the ascertainment of truth in trials by requiring timely pretrial discovery these objectives reflect, and are consistent with, the judicially recognized principle that timely pretrial disclosure of all relevant and reasonably accessible information, to the extent in re littlefield (1993) 5 cal.4th 122, 130-131.) we have examined the balance of the notes and the preliminary there is nothing in the notes that ny. furthermore, the issue arose when the prosecutor used the first page of the whether anthony struck joseph. after an off-the-record discussion at the preliminary hearing, the prosecuinterview to refresh her memory. at a suppression hearing, pursuant to evidence code section 771, the trial court ordered the first page of the notes turned over to defense counsel because it was used to refresh memory. 40 assuming there was error in refusing to disclose the notes, we cannot conclude that it is reversible under watson. even if the notes had been turned over in their entirety, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have returned a more favorable verdict in the case. as we have previously discussed, the only evidence in this case is that appellant killed anthony by stabbing him in the chest during a fistfight. no other participants in the fight had weapons. appellant was seen with a pocket knife at the party before the fight. appellant left the party through a rear exit immediately after anthony was stabbed. appellant dismantled a pocket wearing at the party and wrapped the blade in the shirt, which he tossed into search for the blade was unsuccessful, appellant threw a flashlight. appellant insisted that his cousin dispose of the shirt as they were driving to palmdale because appellant thought there was blood on the shirt. under the circumstances, even if the notes had been turned over, no reasonable jury would have returned a different verdict. iii. the cumulative error claim appellant argues the cumulative effect of claimed errors deprived him of a fair trial. the purported instructional errors in this case do not exist so also no brady error. to the extent that there is no police work product privilege, any purported error was harmless under watson or harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under chapmantrial but not a perfect one. people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1009.) 41 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. hoffstadt, j. 