filed 4/19/16 p. v. garcia ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. manuel haroldo garcia, defendant and appellant. b261601 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba416187) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed. randy s. kravis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel and tannaz kouhpainezhad, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 manuel haroldo garcia appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of one count of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (a))1 and two counts of oral copulation or sexual penetration with a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced appellant to state prison for 55 years to life. appellant contends trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing to object to prosecutorial misconduct and the court prejudicially erred in failing to instruct sua sponte pursuant to calcrim no. 302 concerning weighing conflicting testimony. we find no prejudicial error and therefore affirm. background prosecution case in 2013, appellant and his family were neighbors of seven-year-old s. and her family. s. frequently visiwatch movies or play when s. was there on or about september 4, 2013, and on one or two other occasions, appellant put his hand under her clothes and his finger inside her vagina. it was painful. appellant told s. not to tell anyone, and she complied because she was afraid. on september 11, 2013, during another visit, appellant told s. to go into his in the bathroom taking a shower. s. told appellant her mother was calling her, but appellant pulled her inside the bedroom, and told her to lie down on the bed. appellant pulled down pants and underwear as well as his own vagina. this hurt. he moved his body up and down. s. felt wetness and pain. 1 except where otherwise noted, statutory references are to the penal code. 3 and child finished showering, appellant told s. to get dressed. s. ran back to her apartment. in shock and tears, she told her parents appellant had done something nasty to her. she took a shower, because it felt wet in her vagina and she felt dirty. her brother called the police. a forensic examination on september 13, 2013, revealed the following: an abrasion/laceration in the vaginal opening; and redness in the hymenal tissue area and labia minora. s. reported tenderness in the hymenal area and diffuse tenderness throughout. the findings were consistent with a blunt force penetration to the vaginal area. swabs taken from s. appellant told the police he touched s. between the legs and her vagina, put his finger in her vagina, and stroked her vagina but did not put his penis inside her. when asked if his finger went all the way in or just part wayi only defense case the defense rested without presenting evidence. counsel focused his argument on the two digital penetration counts, arguing there was a paucity of evidence. [j]one offense [i.e., sexual intercourse] counsel told the jury to consider whether each individual count was proved beyond a reasonable doubt. 4 discussion i. ineffective assistance of counsel for failure to preserve objection to prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct when she told the jury it should send appellant a message, and teach him the lesson, that the things he did to s. were a big deal and he must not do them.2 we conclude the contention was forfeited and, in any event, we disagree with the contention. accordingly, we ast the forfeited issue as one of ineffective assistance of counsel. a. forfeiture a prosecutor who uses deceptive or reprehensible methods to persuade the jury commits misconduct, and such actions require reversal under the federal constitution wh law, a prosecutor who uses such methods commits misconduct even when those actions do not result in a fundamentally unclaim of misconduct, a defendant must make a timely objection and request an admonition; only if an admonition would not have cured the harm is the claim of 2 in closing argument, the prosecutor reminded the jury about the statement appellant made when he was truth big deal. well, this was a big deal to s. this was a big deal to her mom, to her dad. and this is a big deal to society. [] and you need to send this defendant a message that this is a big deal. you cannot go around sticking your penis in a seven-year-and you cannot go around sticking your fingers in a seven-year-deal. [] 5 (2016) 62 cal.4th 944, 1010 ().) appellant failed to object to the remarks he now asserts were misconduct, thus forfeiting the misconduct claim on appeal. (, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1009.) moreover, the misconduct claim is without merit. b. misconduct it the attention from its (, supra, 62 cal.4th at pp. 1010-1011.) s were not an appeal to emotion and did not divert attention from its proper role. the prosecutor made comments while going over in detail the specific evidence that proved the charges. immediately after making the remarks, the prosecutor concluded the argument by summarizing that evidence: ttom line is s. told you what [appellant] did. he put his private part in her private part. he put his fingers in her vagina two to five times. he admits the digital penetration over and over. dna proves his sperm is in her vagina. and she has the significant vaginal injuries past her labia, proving blunt force penetration by that penis. [] so the overwhelming evidence is the we conclude that, in the context of the argument in which it was made, the remarks were an appeal to the jury to take the case seriously even though appellant may not have done so and to focus on the evidence of guilt. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct. 6 assuming, arguendo, the remarks were misconduct, there was no prejudice. the comment brief and transitory and did not suggest the jury should bypass the evidence and find defendant guilty in order to send him a message or teach him a lesson. (, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1012.) thus, rea (people v. fierro (1991) 1 cal.4th 173, 244.) c. ineffective assistance of counsel crecasts the issue as one of ineffective assistance of counsel. as we find no misconduct, andobject was not ineffective assistance, and appellant was not prejudiced by failure to object.3 (see omalley, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1010, fn. 12.) ii. calcrim no. 302 appellant contends the court prejudicially erred in failing to instruct sua sponte pursuant to calcrim no. 302, which provides the jury with guidance on how to evaluate conflicting evidence. we conclude there was no prejudicial error. calcrim no. 302 states: if you determine there is a conflict in the evidence, you must decide what evidence, if any, to believe. do not simply count the number of witnesses who agree or disagree on a point and accept the testimony of the greater number of witnesses. on the other hand, do not disregard the 3 a defendant must show that (1) ective standard of reasonableness under people v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1211.) if the defendant was not performance was deficient. (in re cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 974, 1019-1020.) 7 testimony of any witness without a reason or because of prejudice or a desire to favor one side or the other. what is important is whether the testimony or any other evidence convinces you, not just the number of witnesses who testify about a certain point. the instruction must be given in every criminal trial in which corroboration is not required. (people v. rincon-pineda (1975) 14 cal.3d 864, 884-885 [addressing calcrim no. 302].) where there is no reasonable probability the jury would have reached a result more favorable to the defendant had the instruction been given, the judgment is not reversible, because in that case, the failure to give the instruction would be harmless. (see people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1261-1262 [discussing caljic no. 2.22].) (see also people v. diaz (2015) 60 cal.4th 1176, 1195 [failure to give a cautionary instruction].) the jury heard conflicting evidence concerning whether appellant had sexual intercourse with s. and on how many occasions he engaged in digital penetration. ilure to give it was error. however, the error was harmless in the circumstances of this case. the jury received sufficient guidance on considering, evaluating and weighing the evidence from other standard instructions, including calcrim nos. 101 [cautionary admonitio; let bias, sympathy, prejudice, 220 223 [direct and circumstantial evidence defined 226 [witnesses guidance on determining credibility]; age or younger]; and 358 [evidence of defen 8 moreover, the prosecutor did not suggest the jury could or should resolve conflicts in the evidence solely on the number of witnesses who testified on each side of the conflict or because of prejudice or a desire to favor one side over the other. further, there was no imbalance in the number of witnesses whose testimony or statements conflicted: there was only s. on one side and appellant on the other. as the instructions as a whole provided ample guidance to the jury on how to evaluate the conflicting evidence in this case and there was no suggestion the jury should or could resolve conflicts in an impermissible way, it is not reasonably probable the jury would have reached a different result had calcrim no. 302 been given. accordingly, the error in failing to give the instruction was harmless. (see people v. virgil, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 1262.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. collins, j. 