filed 11/23/15 p. v. browning ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. toreano josephus browning, defendant and appellant. b261077 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma059956) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, daviann l. mitchell, judge. reversed with directions. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 toreano josephus browning (browning) appeals the revocation of his probation. browning contends that the court abused its discretion because the evidence does not establish that he violated the terms of his probation by willfully failing to complete various conditions, such as attend an anger management class and perform community service, in a timely manner.1 we agree with browning. no deadlines for the relevant probation officer. accordingly, we reverse and remand with instructions for the court to and also amend the terms and conditions of that probation by adding definite and reasonable deadlines for completion of the relevant terms and conditions. background i. plea and grant of probation between may 13, 2013 and june 19, 2013, browning, believing that his minor daughter was being sexually abused by other family members, made a number of threats against various members of his family, including his aunt, shirley browning, who he believed were directly or indirectly responsible for the alleged abuse.2 browning was subsequently arrested for making criminal threats (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)). in september 2013, trial resulted in a hung jury. in november 2013, browning entered a no contest plea to making criminal threats against his aunt and was convicted. in exchange for waiving his presentence credits, the court ordered an eight-year suspended prison sentence and granted probation for a period of three years. probation was conditioned on a number of terms, including the following: that browning [of] community labor or paaws [probation adult 1 browning also claims that the trial court erred by purportedly denying his right to effective counsel in connection with his sentencing following the revocation of probation. this claim is rendered moot by our finding that the trial court abused its discretion in 2 3 in california or out of state; -week anger management class and pay various fines and fees. although the trial court cautioned browning that the probation conditions would set deadlines for certain terms and conditions of 3 it chose not to set deadlines for most of the conditions, including all of the conditions identified above. ii. revocation of probation and imposition of sentence on november 20, 2014, a little over a year into the probation, the trial court held a completed an at the hearing, browning explained that ree years is lack of compliance thus far with these conditions was due, in part, . . . pay for e the trial court remanded browning into custody and set a probation violation hearing for the following month and ordered a follow-up probation report. on december 10, 2014, the trial court held a hearing probation violations. the prosecutor, who described browning of the terms of probation, submitted on the initial probation 3 for example, the court ordered browning to report to the probation officer with respect to the victim, shirley browning, the trial court directed browning to vice of the order. 4 report, prepared on october 28, 2014, prepared on december 8, 2014.4 in the october report, in violation of the following four probation terms: (1) enrolling and completing either a 30-day paaws program, or 30 days of community labor, because browning did not provide proof of enrollment or progress; (2) attending a 26-week anger management program, because browning did not provide proof of enrollment or progress in this program; (3) cooperating with the probation officer in a plan for drug treatment and rehabilitation, because browning did not provide proof of enrollment or progress in this program; and (4) making payments of court-ordered fees and fines, because browning made only one $20 payment on september 4, 2014. according to the october report, browning told his probation officer that he did not enroll in anger management program, drug treatment program or paaws, because he . . . ha[d] [no] transportation or money, that he was forced to quit a job selling kirby vacuums because his friend and housemate quit working at kirby and, as a result, browning was no longer able to get to work. it was the probation oalthough browning accountable for only making one payment, not being enrolled in a 26 week anger management class, drug counseling or 30 days of community labor,he nonetheless should accordingly, the probation officer recommended that while browning be found in violation of probation, he should also be given an opportunity show proof of progress in 26 week management class, drug and alcohol counseling class and 30 days of commu in the december report, the probation officer noted that she interviewed browning via video conference call on december 3, 2014. during the course of that call, browning ordered programs . . . according to the officer, browning appeared to be 4 f the alleged violations are established by a report from the probation officer no other evidence need be consideredpeople v. natividad (1963) 222 cal.app.2d 438, 442.) 5 focused and clear he probation officer, once again, recommended that while the trial court should find browning in violation of his probation, it should also give him the benefit of the doubt; specifically, the probation officer recommended that browning serve a suitable amount of time in custody, that a further progress report be ordereprobation be continued on all the same terms and conditions. at the december 2014 hearing, browning5 testified that since he was now receiving public assistance offered into evidence recent steps that he had taken to comply with the terms of his probation, including his paaws registration and his narcotics registration. pt for one month that i missed, . . . taking this very seriously. [] . . . [] i only ask the court for an opportunity to prove to in addition, browning argued that probation should not be revoked for his failure to complete community service, complete courses on anger management and drug counseling, and pay his fines and fees, because under the terms of his probation he had a total of three years to meet these conditions. after considering all of the evidence, including he trial court found that browning ordered; he failed to enroll and complete anger management, as ordered; he failed to enroll and complete community labor, as ordered; and he failed to enroll and complete drug counseling, as ordered . . . .the court then terminated probation. on december 15, 2014, the trial court, after re-reviewing the record, elected not to reinstate probation and, instead, imposed the suspended sentence. browning filed a timely notice of appeal on december 16, 2014. 5 browning, as he did at the november 2014 hearing, appeared in pro per; he did -the risk of being sent to prison. 6 discussion i. standard of review we review the revocation of probation pursuant to an abuse of discretion standard. (people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 443, 445.) although that discretion is very broad, the court may not act arbitrarily or capriciously; its determination must be based upon the facts ban abuse of discretion will be found where the decision is arbitrary or irrational. (people v. buford (1974) 42 cal.app.3d 975, 985.) we apply the substantial evidence standas finding of a probation violation.6 (people v. kurey (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 840, 848849.) (people v. rodriguez, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 439.) however, the evidence must suppos conduct constituted a willful violation of the terms and conditions of probation. (people v. galvan (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 978, 981982.) a violation is not willful when the probationer is incapable of fulfilling the terms of probation, or where unforeseen circumstances prevent the probationer from satisfying the terms of probation. (see, e.g., bearden v. georgia (1983) 461 u.s. 660, 672 [103 s.ct. 2064, 76 l.ed.2d 221]) [financial incapability]; in re robert m. (1985) 163 cal.app.3d 812, 816 [mental incapability]; galvan, at pp. 984985 [physical incapability]; people v. zaring, (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 362, 379 (zaring) [unforeseen circumstances].) zaring, supra, 8 cal.app.4th 362 is illustrative. in that case, a defendant's probation was revoked after she was 22 minutes late to a court appearance. she 6 must be of ponderable legal significance. . . . it must be reasonable . . . credible, and of solid proof of the essentials which the law requires in a particular case. (people v. bassett (1968) 69 cal.2d 122, 138139.) the substantial respondent in order to affirm the judgment. the court of appeal created . . . merely to echo the determinations of the trial court. a decision supported by a mere scintilla of evidence nekuhn v. department of general services (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1627, 1633.) 7 explained that she had arranged for a ride to court, but the ride fell through at the last minute due to a childcare problem. zaring held the trial court abused its discretion by revoking s violation had not been willful. (id. at p. 379.) nothing in the record in zaring s failure to appear was the result of irresponsibility, contumacious behavior or disrespect for the orders and expectations of the court. (ibid.) the court in zaring also noted that judicial discretion requires predictable and that things do not always go according to plan. (ibid.) ii. the trial court abused its discretion in finding browning violated the terms of his probation trial courts have broad discretion to prescribe probation conditions to foster rehabilitation and protect public safety. (people v. anderson (2010) 50 cal.4th 19, 26; people v. leon (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 943, 948949.) probation conditions are in re ramon m. (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 665, 677678.) people v. olguin (2008) 45 cal.4th 375, 382.) however, a] required of him, and for the court to determine whether the condition has been violated . . . . (in re sheena k. (2007) 40 cal.4th 875, 890; leon, at p. 949; in re r.p. (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 562, 566.) a condition is sufficiently precise if the terms have a plain commonsense meaning, which is well settled . . . . (people v. rodriquez (1975) 50 cal.app.3d 389, 398.) requires the doing of an act in terms so vague that persons of common intelligence must necessarily guess at its meaning and differ as to its appl(people v. freitas (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 747, 750.) here, we find that the trial court abused its discretion because there was no substantial evidence that browning willfully violated the terms and conditions of probation at issue. 8 first, wanger management and drug classes and perform the necessary community service in a timely manner, the evidence shows that this failure was not willful. the failure was due instead to the patent ambiguity of the terms of probation. the terms and conditions do not provide that browning was required to meet these conditions or even show progress toward meeting these conditions by a certain date. although the court warned browning that the terms and conditions of his probation would be very advise him that he must complete these conditions within a certain time period or even tell him that these conditions must be accomplished as soon as possible. in addition, neither of the probation reports contains any completion and/or progress dates for these conditions or otherwise indicates that the probation officer directed browning to complete these conditions within a certain time frame and that he had failed to comply with those directions. in the absence of any specific or general guidance with regard to completion dates from either the court or the probation officer, a reasonable person could easily conclude, as browning apparently did, that he had the entire three-year probation period to meet these conditions. because browning was under no express obligation to meet these conditions by a specific date or within a certain time frame after being granted probation, his purported noncompliance with these conditions did not violate his probation.7 7 even if a reasonable person would necessarily conclude from the totality of the circumstances that, despite the lack of any guidance with respect to completion dates, these conditions had to be completed during the first few months of probation, the trial court still abused its discretion by revoking probation. the uncontradicted evidence (testimony by browning and the probation reports) indicates that during much of the first year of his probation browning lacked the financial resources necessary to complete these conditions. as a result, a failure by browning in this regard was not willful because it was due to financial inability. (bearden v. georgia, supra, 461 u.s. at pp. 661665.) in bearden, a georgia court ordered the defendant to pay a fine and restitution as a condition of probation. although the defendant made one $200 payment, he was unable to pay the $550 balance and the court revoked probation and sentenced him to prison. the record showed the defendant was unable to find a job and had no assets or income, and thus had no ability to pay the fine. (id. at pp. 662663.) the supreme court held 9 second, with regard to br4 meeting with his probation officer, the evidence indicates that this failure was not the result of irresponsibility, contumacious behavior or disrespect for the orders and expectations of the court. (zaring, supra, 8 cal.app.4th at p. 379.) rather, the evidence suggests that browning probation order and that his failure to appear for the april 2014 meeting was due to an inability to do so. the evidence indicates that browning reported to his probation officer every other month (although not always at the appointed day and time) and he did so even if it meant that he had to walk to his noteworthyconsistent basis and tests negative for all narcotics. that, under the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment, a trial court may not findings that the defendant was somehow responsible for the failure or that alternative forms of punishment we (id. at pp. 665666; see people v. cookson (1991) 54 cal.3d 1091, 1096 [discussing bearden with favor and noting that with regard it appears the legislature sought to codify the bearden holding here, browning testified that he had trouble finding work after initially being granted probation and that when he did eventually find work he lost it through no fault of his own. as a result, he was initially unable to pay for the classes or perform the community service. browning further testified that at the time of the probation violation hearing, he was receiving public assistancethat is, he had the ability to pay for these classesand that he had taken steps to complete these conditions by registering for those classes. 10 disposition the judgment is reversed. the trial court is directed probation, and amend the terms and conditions of that probation by adding definite and reasonable deadlines for the completion of the 30 days of community labor, the 26-week anger management course, and the drug treatment program. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 