filed 9/7/16 p. v. nelson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james e. nelson, defendant and appellant. b261378 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta110447) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura f. priver, judge. affirmed. murray a. rosenberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted james nelson of attempted voluntary manslaughter, as a lesser included offense of attempted murder. there was some evidence the jurors briefly discussed the fact that nelson did not testify at trial in his defense. we conclude that the the admissible evidence of jury misconduct was not prejudicial. therefore, we affirm. factual and procedural background1 a. michelle barnes and her children michelle barnes has three children, all of whom were detained by the juvenile court in 2008. her oldest child, j., was placed with ester nelson, who lives in a house in compton, and whose brother is the father of one of . ester nelson is thus children, but not j. j. sometimes plays at the house of a next-door neighbor, christina valencia, with her son. in 2008 and 2009, barnes had monitored visits with j., usually at a fast-food restaurant. these visits were sometimes monitored by ester nelson, and sometimes by social workers or others. barnes also had monitored (by ester nelson) telephone conversations with j. whether barnes could have monitored visits at ester nelshouse was disputed. the relationship between barnes and ester nelson deteriorated after the juvenile court placed j. with ester nelson. barnes was displeased with the care ester nelson was providing for j. the two women argued about this, and barnes complained about ester 1 involves only the issue of juror misconduct, we summarize the facts briefly in a light most favorable to the judgment. (see gyerman v. united states lines co. (1972) 7 cal.3d 488, 492, fn. 1; superior gunite v. ralph mitzel inc. (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 301, 304, fn. 1.) 3 nelson to the juvenile court and county social workers. by the time of trial in this case, barnes had custody of j. again. b. december 24, 2009 j. christmas presents. she had made arrangements for the visit with ester nelson in advance. harold griffin, whom barnes had been dating since approximately 2007, accompanied her to less than five minutes, and barnes had no dispute with ester nelson. c. december 25, 2009 on christmas morning, 2009 barnes called j. j. asked barnes to bring him a plate of food she had cooked. barnes believed ester nelson was monitoring the call, and thus knew she was coming. house to bring j. the plate of food. griffin again accompanied barnes, and sat in the passenger seat of the car. when they arrived, there were no parking spaces adjacent to the curb, so barnes parked in the middle of the , and barnes called ester nelson on her cell phone. a young woman answered, and then hung up. while griffin remained in the passenger seat of the car listening to music, barnes . when a man opened the door, barnes asked if j. was there. the man said he was not, and closed the door. barnes then walk next door, thinking that j. might be there, playing with barnes spoke with valencia on the front steps of her house, and learned j. was not there. nelson (nelson), who has been confined to a wheelchair since the age of 14, came house in an electric wheelchair. nelson appr car, 4 where griffin was still seated. nelson began cursing at griffin, accusing him of disrespecting his mother, and telling him to leave his mother alone. griffin said he did not understand what nelson was talking about, and tried to ignore him. nelson then went around behind the car to . nelson continued to scream and curse at griffin, and yelled griffin got out of the passenger side door and called to barnes that it was time to leave. as barnes walked back to her car, nelson approached her in his wheelchair. nelson barnes then spit at nelson. foot or ankle with his wheelchair, and the two of them began exchanging punches. according to barnes, she was trying to defend herself and get nelson off her. and was torn. griffin got out of the car, ran towards barnes and nelson, and tried to separate them. griffin again yelled at barnes that it was time to leave, and he immediately went back to the passenger side of the car. griffin had opened the passenger door and turned to look back at barnes and nelson, when nelson bandareaand started firing at him. griffin got inside the car. ester nelson came out of her house with another woman james earl, do that. but nelson fired five or six shots while griffin lay across the front seat of the car. barnes, who was standing next to nelson as he fired, 2 barnes then got into her car, called 911, and drove griffin to the hospital. griffin had bullet wounds in his right ankle and heel, his right knee, his right thigh and his left thigh, all of which he suffered after he had taken cover in the car. he was in 2 valencia was inside her house and did not see who fired the gunshots. ester nelson, who came outside when she heard the argument, also did not see who fired the shots. 5 the hospital for five or six days, and had surgery to remove a bullet from his knee. barnes had an abrasion and swelling on her ankle, and swelling on her face. the rear passenger window of her car was shot out, and there were bullet holes in the front passenger seat and under the steering wheel and the emergency brake. on january 12warrant for nelson, but he was not there. although before the shooting nelson was often nelson was arrested on may 24, 2010 during a traffic stop based on the outstanding warrant for his arrest. d. the charges and the verdict the people charged nelson with attempted murder (pen. code,  187, 664),3 assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)), two counts of battery ( 242), and two counts of making a criminal threat ( 422). the people alleged that nelson personally used, and personally and intentionally discharged, a firearm that caused great bodily injury, and that he personally used a firearm in the commission of a felony or attempted felony. ( 12022.5, subd. (a), 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d).) the people also alleged that nelson personally inflicted great bodily injury on a person other than an accomplice during the commission of a felony or attempted felony. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) criminal threat (as to griffin) ather count of making a criminal threat (as to barnes). the jury found nelson not guilty of attempted murder, but found him guilty of the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter. the jury also found nelson guilty of assault with a firearm, and not guilty on the remaining count of making a 3 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 6 criminal threat. finally, the jury found true the firearm and great bodily injury allegations. e. the motion for a new trial and sentencing nelson filed two motions for a new trial, one prepared by his attorney, filed march 5, 2013, and one he prepared while representing himself, filed december 9, 2013. in the motion prepared by his attorney, nelson argued he was entitled to a new trial because the court erroneously dismissed a juror because of his views on law enforcement, the prosecutor engaged in misconduct by eliciting testimony that nelson was on parole, and the jurors engaged counsel for nelson sconcluded, i spoke with juror number three and she told me that during the deliberations the jurors discussed the fact that . . . nelson did not testify in his own defense. she stated testify? then there was a brief discussion about reasons why nelson may not have nelson also stated in his declarationon the charge of attempted voluntary manslaughter and assault with a firearm do not represent her verdict. she informed me that a verdict of not guilty on all counts was an in the motion for a new trial nelson prepared while representing himself, nelson argued that he had received ineffective assistance of counsel, the court erred in denying his motion for self-representation, where the jurors discussed [his] failure to testify in his own defense. for a new trial included a declaration by one of the jurorsdeliberations we briefly discussed the fact that [nelson] did not testify in his own testify? attempted voluntary 7 manslaughter does not represent my verdict; the verdict of not guilty on the charge of attempted voluntary manslaughter would a at the hearing, the court stated it had read and considered the motion filed by court those imotion for new trial on each of those gr made clear the court was denying both the motion filed by nelson and the motion filed by former attorney. the court sentenced nelson to an aggregate prison term of 18 years. nelson appealed.4 discussion nelson cites to four statements that he argues amount to prejudicial jury misconduct. they are (1) the statement in trial counsel for nelsonjuror trial represent her verdicts; (3) the statement in tthe guilty verdicts did not represent her verdicts. statements (1) and (2) are not admissible because they are hearsay statements by counsel, which cannot establish juror misconduct. hearsay evidence offered in support of a new trial motion that is based on alleged jury misconduct ordinarily is insufficient to establish an abuse of discretion in either denying the motion or declining to conduct an 4 application for relief from default for failure to file a notice of appeal. 8 evidentiary hearing5 (people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 55 (manibusan); see people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 810, 811 [es not abuse its discretion in declining to conduct an evidentiary hearing on the issue of juror misconduct when the ; people v. bryant (2011) 191 discretion in denying a motion for new trial based upon juror misconduct when the evidence in support constitutes ; people v. villagren .) nelson concedes that the declaration of statement (4)is not admissible under evidence code section 1150 because belief about the verdicts.6 (see manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 57; people v. engstrom because it was mistaken or see, e.g., people v. romero (1982) 31 cal.3d 685, 688-689 [statements in juror declarations that the verdict was inaccurate were inadmissible because they essentially subjective reasoning on the part of the jurorspeople v. chaney (1988) 202 cal.app.3d 1109, 1121 [statements in a juror and . . . at no time would i agree that the defendant was not guilty,admissible 5 nelson did not ask the trial court to conduct an evidentiary hearing, nor on appeal does he argue that the trial court should have done so. 6 validity of a verdict, any otherwise admissible evidence may be received as to statements made, or conduct, conditions, or events occurring, either within or without the jury room, of such a character as is likely to have influenced the verdict improperly. no evidence is admissible to show the effect of such statement, conduct, condition, or event upon a juror either in influencing him to assent to or dissent from the verdict or concerning the mental 9 under evidence code section 11fisapproved on another ground in people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 825-826; bossi v. state of california (1981) 119 cal.app.3d 313, 317-318 [statement in a juror declaration that the jurors were not in agreement on the evidence code section 1150 prevents a juror, like the juror here, from upsetting a verdict of the whole jury by impugning his own or his fellow jurors mental processes or reasons for assent or dissent.people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1234, 1281.) as nelson concedes, 1150 does not allow for a description of the mental process [the juror] used to determine that she did not agree statement (3), that the jurors discussed why nelson did not testify in his defense, was admissible, and the people do not dispute that this statement is evidence of juror misconduct. (see manibusan, supra this discussion was improper, and it at all, the fact that the defendant did not testify. do not discuss that fact during your deliberations or let it influence your dec (see people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 726 (avilathe people argue, however, that the jury misconduct evidenced by statement (3) was not prejudicial and did not justify a new trial. people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 437 (sandoval); see manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 59.) the presumption of prejudice from jury misconduct may be rebutted . . . determination, upon examining the entire record, that there is no substantial likelihood that the complaining party suffered actual harm.avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 726.) 10 sandoval, at p. 437; see manibusan, supra, 58 very lawyer, indeed anyone with common sense, knows that . . . individual jurors do wonder why a presumably innocent defendant does not testify and ransitory comments of wonderment and curiosity s failure to testify, although technically misconduct, are normally innocuouspeople v. hord passing reference to an inappropriate matter [has been] held not to be prejudicial; see also people v. lavender (2014) 60 thmisconduct . . . is a mixed question of law and fact subject to an appellate people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, 582; accord, people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1309.) here, the presumption of prejudice was rebutted. the juror declaration stated: during jury deliberations we briefly discussed the fact that [nelson] did not testify in his there was then a very brief discussion and we then moved on to another the juror stated twice brief, and that the jury then moved on to discuss another issue. (see manibusan, supra, 58 s failure to testify came up suggests that any comments about this subject were merely brief and passing observations, and the record offers no ; avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 727 [misconduct not prejudicial where the discussion was not of any length or significance]; people v. leonard s failure to testify mentioned in 11 s new trial motion merely expressed regret that defendant had not testified, because such testimony might have assisted the jurors in understanding him better.) there is also no evidence that the jurors discussed the matter any further, or that the . (cf. people v. hord, supra, 15 beyond mere curiosity and lean more s drawing inappropriate inferences nder these circumstances, manibusan, at p. 59), and the trial court did not err in denying -and that boiled down to a credibility contest between [him] and . . . griffin [and] b the existence of such a credibility contest, however, did not establish prejudice. a of events will probably differ from in most cases. if that were the test, juror misconduct relating to the defenalmost always be prejudicial. in any event, although the jury ultimately did not believe it, nelson presented evidence supporting his version of the incident and his theory of self-defense through the testimony of ester nelson and valencia. ester nelson testified that barnes came to her house on december 25, 2009 without permission, barnes and griffin attacked nelson by kicking and hitting him, griffin hit knocked nelson out of the wheelchair, and griffin showed nelson ester nelson stated that nelson was unable to defend himself, and she asked griffin and barnes not to hit her son. ester nelson testified that, although she did not see who did the shooting, she saw griffin run away from the scene.7 valencia testified that barnes , with griffin, beat . valencia stated 7 ester nelson also testified that she saw her son earlier that day, helped him get dressed, and did not see a gun in his possession or anywhere on him. 12 everywvalencia also thus, even though nelson did not testify, the jury heard the testimony of two witnesses who supported -defense. disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 