filed 4/22/16 p. v. leyva ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. freddy leyva, defendant and appellant. b261648 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba395133) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. craig j. mitchell, judge. affirmed. janyce keiko imata blair, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and nathan guttman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 defendant freddy leyva appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial that resulted in his conviction of first degree murder while using a deadly weapon (knife) (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 12022, subd. (b)(1)).1 he was sentenced to prison for 25 years to life, plus a consecutive one-year term for the use enhancement. defendant contends the trial court committed prejudicial error in failing to conduct a competency hearing ( 1368, subd. (b)) before allowing him to testify, because he was unable to assist counsel in a rational manner in presenting his defense. he also contends 2 as substantive evidence of his mental state during his stabbing of the victim violated his constitutional rights to present a defense and to due process of law. we affirm the judgment. a second competency hearing was unwarranted. substantial evidence supports tthat defendant was mentally competent to testify at the time he elected to do so. exclusion of of discretion. background on march 14, 2012, about 4:40 p.m., defendant stabbed to death dwayne alexander in the third floor office of the program advisors for the los angeles job corps (lajc) in hollywood. alexander, who had 29 stabbing or cutting wounds, including some probably inflicted from behind, died as the result of five of these wounds. lajc provided job training services to adult students to earn vocational degrees for various professions. at the time, alexander, nicholas smith, and man sing yip were the program advisors who were responsible for counseling defendant regarding employment, education, and day-to-day life. defendant resided in the third floor dormitory for male students. 1 all further section references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 on october 25, 2013, a mistrial was declared because the jury was deadlocked as to a verdict of murder (10) or manslaughter (2). 3 about 3:00 p.m. that day, when defendant entered the third floor office, alexander, smith, and yip were working at their computers. alexander and smith greeted him, and alexander asked how his day was going. defendant nodded his head, his usual response. about 4:40 p.m., defendant returned with a stack of bed sheets. alexander was sitting at his desk, facing the door, and working on his computer. yip was sitting at his desk, and smith was standing between two of the desks. after dumping the sheets, defendant rushed around the desk and began stabbing alexander with a downward motion. he first stabbed the right side of his back. alexander stood and attempted to defend himself, to no avail. smith yelled for him to stop. defendant hesitated, looked at smith, and resumed stabbing alexander. smith did not hear defendant say anything. smith and yip left to find help. through the open door, clevaughn wynter, a resident, saw defendant stab alexander multiple times, mainly in his upper body, as alexander attempted to kick him away. wynter tried to grab the knife, but defendant pubody, where it was stuck, and held it pointing down at wynter, who pushed him against the wall and asked what he was doing. defendant did not respond and struggled to free himself. alexander collapsed face-first on the floor. two other residents arrived at the scene. walter herrera saw defendant facedown on the office floor as wynter struggled to hold down his right hand, which held a knife. defendant tried to stab wynter and kick alexander. brian tack saw wynter and herrera grasping defendant hand while telling him to let go of the knife. defendant protested when tack began choking him. he said nothing when tack responded he knew he was choking him [said] pried the knife from his hand. tack loosened his grip after defendant ceased struggling and his face turned purple. his of shock at what he had done, and then it quickly turned to anger and he began kicking alexander. in other words, his face , rather than 4 after tack dragged defendant farther into the hallway, he struggled to return to the office. los angeles police officer robert davenport observed defendant, who was being escorted away after his arrest, look over to he had it officer nicholas zehner noted that defendant appeared prebooking at the police station, when asked for his social security number, defendant smiled and said, [, i.e., the blood on his fingers, clothing, and shoes,] makes me fucking horny. me a roommate of javier rocha. rocha thought from the beginning that defendant was , and his behavior became angrier during the time leading up to the murder. defendant would express his anger and and once, he asked peoplerocha responded, be hating anybody and [told him] just to relax, maybe take a walk or something, get another time, defendant angrily told rocha that he thought alexander and a lajc teacher were homosexual. rocha disputed this assertion and told him to relax. on one occasion, rocha saw defendant standing outside the shower stalls wearing only a towel covering his penis, which was very unusual, because the male residents typically wore towels around their waists while waiting to use the shower stalls. other residents, apparently disturbed, left the shower area. as defendant headed into the hallway, alexander approached and asked what he was doing. defendant responded that he was waiting for the shower. alexander told him to respect the other students and put the towel around his waist. the day before the murder, defendant told rocha that he lost his dignity; he needed to do something to get it back; and people were naked in the bible. he said he did nothing wrong and would fight alexander. but was not her boyfriend, met defendant after transferring to his dormitory and 5 that previous night, to which insult quiroa responded falsely that his mother had aids and so must defendant. later, during a game of pool, was retrieving a broom to clean thmade screaming noises to scare him, and walked away when quiroa did not react. he :00 p.m., he approached quiroa and mimicked stabbing a knife into his left palm. at trial, defendant testified that in 2012, he was studying at lajc to be an electrician. with respect to his interactions with alexander, defendant testified he did not earn his respect and that once or twice a week, during the lunch period at the lunch room, alexander made defendant uncomfortable by staring at him without saying anything or making any gesture toward him. he admitted he never talked to alexander about this. on a saturday, defendant was behind an opaque shower curtain with the water running in after defendant identified himself, alexander pulled open the curtain and grabbed his because he was reminded of the time he was sexually molested in the third grade. on a subsequent occasion, upon returning from school, defendant discovered noticed his underwear in the drawer had been moved. the day before the murder, defendant returning from school. he complied with alexanderto close the door. the small window in the door was covered with paper, which was unusual. alexander then hugged him from behind and although defendant struggled to get away, alexander kissed 6 his neck. defendant, disgusted, told him to stop. alexander let defendant go after he was mach and he could not sleep at night. he was scared because alexander was at trial, defendant acknowledged that march 14, 2012, that in the morning he went to school and then to his fatherhouse. he did not feel well and left about 3:00 p.m. he denied remembering what he did or what happened after his return to school. he denied recalling that smith, yip, rocha, wynter, or tack testified at trial. wstab mr. alexander to death? defendant responded he denied yelling, he or saying, is making me horny. defendant denied that he tried to intimidate quiroa; kicked his leg; made a stabbing gesture at him; or told him he had sex with . discussion 1. mental incompetency of defendant to testify not shown defendant contends the trial court erred in failing to suspend trial proceedings and conduct a competency hearing before defendant testified, because defendant was unable to assist his counsel in a rational manner with his defense. no error transpired. in her pretrial evaluation, dr. rebecca crandall opined that defendant was competent to stand trial. during trial, based on its observation of and interaction with defendant and in light of dr. crandasubstantial evidence suppo a. competency to stand trial background on march 27, 2014, during a pretrial conference not attended by defendant, defense counsel informed the trial court of his belief that defendant was mentally incompetent. he explained, defendant]. ponsive. 7 today i attempted to speak with him. he ishe was nonresponsive. the deputy [sheriff] indicated today although compliant he was nonresponsive and . . . has had no the court t has the court declared a doubt as to defendantsuspended the proceedings, and appointed dr. sanjay sahgal to evaluate defendant for the defense. on july 7, 2014, defendant refused to attend court. his counsel advised that he nonresponsive . . . he when i saw him last, i would say three weeks or a month ago he waswe joked about him being back and making sure he was on his meds, et cetera, and not to on july 21, 2014 defendant again was absent. his counsel explained that a jail deputy reported defendant had been refusing to leave his cell for any and [ed] with his fec he added that in early june, dr. sahgal e-mailed him a preliminary opinion that defendant was malingering. the court ordered defendant extracted from his jail cell for the july 29 hearing. on july 29, 2014, defendant was not present. the trial court appointed dr. crandall in place of dr. sahgal, who had not given the court an evaluation of defendant. on august 19, 2014, defendant appeared in court. the parties stipulated to a competence based on dr. crandall evaluation. dr. crandall opined defendant was mentally competent. the court agreed, found defendant competent to stand trial, and reinstated the criminal proceedings. defense counsel then made a record of his communications with defendant. he stated defendant had not attended court during the three or so preceding months; defendant ; and he defendant prior to raising an issue as to his mental competence. defense counsel added that when he spoke with defendant earlier that day, defendant understood their conversation. when he spoke about the importance of taking his medication, defendant responded that there might be an issue with his medication. 8 counsel advised if [defendant] me in jail, he conflict. there would be no communication between [defendant] and [me] and doing it pro bono be he as long as [defendant] is on his medication, he can fully cooperate and we can get through the trial and he even testified when counsel asked defendant to tell the court whether he still wanted counsel to represent him, defendant responded that he did. on september 18, 2014, at a pretrial hearing, when defense counsel declared a conflict and advised the trial court that defendant wanted a different attorney, defendant interjected and asked about his statutory speedy trial rights. asked whether he wanted defense counsel to continue representing him, defendant confirmed to the court that he did. the court then held an in-chambers discussion with defense counsel. afterward, the court discussed with defendant the time frame for trial. defendant responded that his questions had been answered. during trial, defendant engaged in various separate outbursts outside the presence of the jury. the first occurred at the hearing on motions in limine. when defendant began discussing the shower , the trial court interrupted and directed him to speak with his counsel. a few moments later, as the parties were discussing discovery matters, defendant at the conclusion of the hearing, defense counsel stated that defendant had not made any outbursts during his first trial but during the court noted, all his outbursts took place presence. counsel agreed and added he did not know the reason for his outbursts. the court commented that defendant had received the most recent dose of his medication, which was by injection. the court advised defendant that the jury could view such outbursts against him. defense counsel stated, defendant] understands we are in trial. attorney. he understands the procedure. it just makes me nervous that if his outbursts are the result of a mental issue, that someone might . . . come back later and say, well, he 9 was doing all these outbursts. counsel should have been aware that something else was responded, i think you would have the cause to be more nervous if, in fact, [defendant] had not been addressed by medical professionals with respect to his mental status. okay. but there is a significant record of such intervention, and the record should reflect that i e-mailed dr. teotoloff, [the jail facilit] yesterday afternoon [and h]e investigated the medication that [defendant] is receiving. he consulted with fellow doctors in the psychiatric unit. and so this is [not] an area that somehow is just being ignored.the court directed defense counsel to alert the court if he thought that defendant presence. after the court ruled that the prosecution could show the jury the knife itself rather than just a photograph, the prosecutor advised, as detective shafia, the investigating officer, was bringing the knife back to counsel table, defendant said, following the testimony of herrera, defense counsel informed the court that on the previous day, defendant told him he thought about committing suicide and harming counsel. he related that he did not know if defendant was joking. inal witness, the court advised that defendant needed to consult with his counsel and make his own decision whether to testify. defendant responded that he understood. after that witness testified, the court granted a recess to enable defense counsel to speak with defendant before he gave his answer. following the recess, counsel requested an additional recess. he related that defendant indicated he did not wish to testify although he had explained that the defense of imperfect self-defense would not be available unless he testified. defendant told the court he did not want to testify. the court granted another recess to allow counsel to seek legal advice from other attorneys. after the recess, the court again asked whether defendant wanted to testify. he there in the proceeding, so my 10 respect to your earlier testimony, [the jury] will not see or have a copy of that the court then that your prior testimony will not be available to this jury, is it still your defendant responded defense counsel voiced his belief that a doubt exs responses to his questions were illogical and [defendant in declining to declare a doubt, the court found defendant was attentive in court and had understood what the court said. defense counsel mentioned defendant mr. rocha discussed defendant3 defense counsel argued that insistence that he testify for defendant and that defendant had that, imperfect self-defense, he explaining to him because we went through this process one time before, and he understood it he concluded defendabehavior could only be explained by irrational thinking. t not testify, your attorney will not be able to present, as he has characterized it, and is accurate, any meaningful defense? do you understand that? defendant the 3 the record reflects that rocha testified defendant talked about losing his dignity, -ast year when [he] -the-record discussion then transpired between defense counsel and defendant. afterward, at theproceedings outside the presence of the jury, defense counsel acknowledged he did not know what defendant said. 11 court explained that the evidence from the first trial would not be before the jurors in this trial and they would not hear such evidence unless he testified. referring to his counsel, defendant responded the court at this trial, he cannot make any reference to what you said earlier. that would be a violation of the law. in order for him to tell your side of the story, as you did at the previous trial, you have to testify. do you defendant said, based on that explanation by the court, does that cause you to change your mind with respect to testifying at this trial? after the noon recess, the court invited defense counsel to address whether there was substantial evidence of incompetence. comparing defendant current conduct with his conduct in the first trial, counsel suggested defendant might be experiencing medication he stated that level of cooperation had varied over their two-year relationship, depending on his level of medication. he argued that the initial expert, dr. sahgal, opined defendant was incompetent. he also argued that his own observations of behavior were inconsistent with the reports defendant was receiving his medication. he stated that in the morning, defendant expressed to counsel his feeling about killing himself but in the afternoon he felt better. he added that defendant never mentioned harming counsel until this trial. counsel further argued that statements to the court, rocha, and shafia contradicted his advice and request that counsel testify for him was inconsistent with his understanding at the first trial. defense counsel further argued that defendant did not understand his explanation he mentioned, but did not describe, altercation while in custody during lunchtime. explanation for the difference in his conduct in the first and second trials. the trial court responded that no substantial evidence of incompetence had been the court over the lunch hour . . . report generated august 14, 2014. that report included representations that at times during her interview 12 with [defendant] that his cooperationand to quote on page 4 of that report with the interviewer, would wax and wane, and that at times he would engage in silly behavior. the doctor furthermore observed that his affect was bizarre. and in light of those observations, nonetheless, the doctor concluded that he was competent to stand trial.the court characterized defendant outside the presence of the jurors as reasonable and stated it was mindful of case law holding periodic outbursts or inappropriate statements certainly do not constitute sufficient or substantial evidence of incompetence.the court asked whether defendant understood defense counsel would not be able to argue his defense before the jury if defendant did not testify. defendant responded, , the court concluded choice to exercise that right, which exercise did not constitute substantial evidence of incompetence. the court also concluded the difference in defendant behavior with his counsel over several years did not constitute substantial evidence of incompetence, particularly in view of dr. evaluation. the court, however, reserved its ultimate ruling on the issue of substantial evidence of mental competency and proposed that trial be recessed for a couple of days for further evaluation by dr. crandall rather than suspending trial for a full hearing under section 1368. defense counsel agreed but without withdrawing his request for a 1368hearing. before a recess commenced, defendant asked if he could testify in both english and spanish. when the court replied that he could, defendant stated he would testify primarily in english. the court then ruled, the court does not find that there are sufficient grounds to postpone this trial should [defendant] testify and choose to testify. the crux of the decision . . . possibly involv[ing] dr. crandall in reevaluating [defendant] is a recognition by the court that his failure to testify presents significant problems for defending him. but if he conveys at this time that he is willing to testify under the [circumstances] that i would allow him to testify in both english and spanish, the court is making a finding that there is nowhere near sufficient evidence to find that there is substantial evidence of incompetency, let alone a justification to delay the trial. 13 the next morning, defendant acknowledged that he testified that in the mohouse and returned to the dormitory that afternoon. he denied remembering anything after his return. when asked whether viewing his previous testimony would refresh his memory, defendant the court instructed defendant, the law only permits you to be shown a document. you read it silently to yourself to help you remember what happened on that particular day. if after his counsel provided him with several transcript pages, defendant stated, walk into the top. you need to read that to yourself. and if it helps you remember what happened that day, then you let us know. so just keep defendant responded counsel prompted, looked at one page . . . . can you read the other three pages and see if that helps remind defendant testified he did not remember what happened or hearing the testimony of smith, yip, rocha, wynter, or tack. defense counsel renewed his request for a competency hearing and advised that he did not know whether defendant memory was feigned or due to mental issues. he added that during the lunch break, defendant paced back and forth in his cell about half an hour, which conduct defense counsel had never before seen. the court declined to declare a doubt about defendantfinding his claimed lack of memory was feigned. not prepared to pursue this matter further insofar as [defendant] has testified with precise and accurate recall up until the day when this murder took place. he was able to remember earlier in the day that he had watched tv with his father, that he had gone to purchase some food, that he was unable to eat the food. there is a wall being created now proximate to the killing of mr. alexander that i do not find to have anything to do with his ability to recall. simply into this area. 14 after defense counsel renewed his concern about competence. the court was not persuaded and found defendant lack of [defendant], in areas very proximate to the time of march 14, 2012, was able to recall with great detail what transpired between himself and mr. alexander. he was able to remember with great detail the mode of transportation, the number of buses that he took, what he and his father did on the day of the killing, what he ate that afternoon, that the court has observed [defendant representations are genuine or truthful. they appear to the court as simply [reflecting defendanot wanting to discuss the crucial subject matter that has brought [him] into these circumstances. i think the record should further reflect that when he was asked if reading the material would refresh his memory, there was a very cursory review of the material. he did not in any way, shape, or form carefully review the testimony line by line, not want to discuss this particular area. i think the record is quite clear that when he felt comfortable answering a question at any point during direct or cross-examination, he answered it. b. applicable legal principles an accused mental disorder or developmental disability,and the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist counsel in the conduct of a defense in a rational manner. ( 1367, subd. (a).) present ability to consult with his lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational understandingand whether he has a rational as well as factual understanding of the dusky v. united states (1960) 362 u.s. 402.) when the accused presents substantial evidence of incompetence, due process requires that the trial court people v. jones (1991) 53 cal.3d 1115, 1152.) 15 (ibid.) and the defendant has been found competent to stand trial, however, a trial court need not suspend proceedings to conduct a second competency hearing unless the validity of that finding. (idevidence that merely raises a suspicion that the defendant lacks present sanity or competence but does not disclose a present inability because of mental illness to participate rationally in the trial is not (people v. deere (1985) 41 cal.3d 353, 358, disapproved on a different point in people v. bloom (1989) 48 cal.3d 1194, 1228, fn. 9.) further, mere bizarre actions [citation] or bizarre statements [citation] . . . or psychiatric testimony that defendant is immature, dangerous, psychopathic, or homicidal or such diagnosis with deere, at p. 35.) in short, the litmus test is whether the defendant has the capacity to understand the nature of the proceedings and to assist his counsel in his defense in a rational manner. a regarding a competency hearing is entitled to great deference because ct in the trial court as indicating insanity, a calculated attempt to feign [mental incompetence] and delay the proceedings, or sheer (people v. danielson (1992) 3 cal.4th 691, 727, overruled on a different point in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) c. evidence defendant feigned mental incompetence substantial defendant contends the trial court erred in not holding a competency hearing prior to his taking the stand, because his mental competence was called into question by his irrational decisions and bizarre behavior. he first points to of multiple attempts by court and counsel, the very fundamental importance of his of imperfect self-defense, which was further evidenced by his decision testifying ] short of the very matter that made his testimony necessary 16 to his defense, problem in were due to feigning and unwillingness on the part of defendant rather than the product of any mental incompetence, which are supported by substantial evidence. court confirmed defendant understood his would preclude an imperfect self-defense, the strategy embraced by defense counsel. despite such understanding, defendant did not testify concerning the circumstances of the killing, claiming an inability to recall what happened, the testimony of eyewitnesses, and his prior testimony. based on its personal observation of and interaction with defendant, the trial court found defendant feigned his claimed inability to recall and he simply was unwilling to recount the circumstances of the killing. (people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 849 [insufficient ability to assist in own defense not shown by mere memory loss regarding charged crime].) in view of the above, we conclude defendanhis strategy of imperfect self-defense does not equate with an inability on the part of defendant to do so. (people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 735 [and disruptive actionsunwillingness to assist in his defense, buthis competence to do .) additionally, parting ways with his counsel was a calculated decision on -defense won him a hung jury in the first trial, defendant no doubt believed he could not count on acquittal based on that strategy alone in this trial, because that jury had split 10 for murder and 2 for manslaughter. he apparently thought, mistakenly, he could have his cake and eat it too by presenting his prior testimony regarding imperfect self-defense through the transcript of the prior trial, which tactic would foreclose a direct challenge to his credibility on cross-examination if he testified in this trial. (see people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, 1163-1164 [not presenting mitigating evidence to possible death penalty not incompetency]; people v. taylor (2009) disturbingly ineptdid serious doubt on t 17 he was charged people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1065 [ was a reflection of per se l training, not mental incompetence].) raised a doubt as to his mental competency also is unsuccessful. he fails to point to a circumstances or . . . finding made by the trial court on august 19, 2014, mere months before trial commenced on december 3, 2014. (people v. jones, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1153.) specifically, defendant does not describe or otherwise identify any behavior on his part following the initial finding of competency that raised a serious doubt as to his ability to understand the nature of the proceedings and assist counsel in a rational manner. (people v. medina, supra, 11 cal.4th 694, 734-735 [refusal to cooperate with counsel insufficient to justify second competency hearing]; people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 33 [bizarre actions or statements insufficient to raise a doubt of the refinding of no significant change in arguing for a full competency hearing, defense counsel repeatedly compared defendantconduct during the first trial with that during his second trial. behavior prior to such evaluation. both trials, because that court and the trial court presiding over the first trial are the same. (jones, supra, 53 cal.3d 1115, 1153 [where competency heamay appropriately take its own personal observations into account in determining trial court also confirmed defendant in fact was receiving his medication. additionally, 18 testifying to an imperfect self-defense strategy was resolved when defendant agreed to testify. 2. onsistent testimony not error defendant contends his rights to present a defense and to due process (u.s. const., 14th amend.) were abridged when the trial court erroneously excluded evidence of his prior testimony in the first trial as substantive evidence of his mental state in stabbing alexander, i.e., his mistaken belief he acted in self-defense. no error, and thus no constitutional violation, occurred. his prior testimony was not admissible as a prior inconsistent statement, because his trial testimony neither directly nor indirectly contradicted his prior testimony. a. defendant denied remembering what happened to alexander, the testimony of the eyewitnesses, and his prior testimony in the first trial. on cross-examination, when the prosecutor confronted defendant several times with his prior testimony, he maintained he did not remember any of that testimony. on redirect examination, his counsel asked whether he remembered a certain portion of his prior testimony. the court sustained objections to the question as calling for hearsay and falling outside the scope of cross-examination. during a jury instruction discussion the next morning, defense counsel argued he should have been permitted to impeach defendant with his prior inconsistent statements during redirect examination. the prosecutor argued that request should have been made during redirect examination. the court ruled the attempted impeachment was proper and allowed both sides to reopen. defense counsel read aloud prior testimony that he got the knife from a tool box in his closet and kept it at his waist because he thought he needed protection from being raped; he entered the office with the knife because he was scared; and upon entering the office, he thought him. when alexander stood up, defendant thought he was going to take the knife away and kill him. in the face of such fear, defendant took out the knife and stabbed 19 alexander. defendant testified he did not remember anything his prior testimony in that regard. in view of such impeachment, the court tentatively ruled that it would instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. the court took a noon recess before the cross-examination of defendant. after recess, the court reversed its ruling and announced that the court would strike the impeachment testimony and omit a voluntary manslaughter instruction. the court inadmissible, because truth prior inconsistent statements were admissible for their truth. the court instructed the jury that the court had ruled elicited on reopened direct examination was inadmissible and the jury was to disregard it. b. applicable legal principles statement made by a witness is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is inconsistent with his testimony at the hearing and is 4 (evid. code  1235.) statements are admissible under this provision to prove their substance as well as to (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1144.) thinconsistent testimony. [citation.] normally, the testimony of a prior statement describing the event. (people v. johnson (1992) 3 cal.4th 1183, 1219.) inconsistency in effect, rather than contradiction in express terms, is the 4 eunless the witness was given an opportunity to explain or deny the statement while testifying; the been excused from giving further testimony in the (evid. code,  770.) 20 test for admitting a (people v. green (1971) 3 cal.3d 981, 988, overruled on a different point in people v. chavez (1980) 26 cal.3d 334, 357.) when a witnessimplied denialmaterially statement, and the prior statement becomes admissible for its truth under section 1235. (green, at p. 989, italics added.) ruling under section 1235 is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 462.) c. feigned failure to remember not requisite inconsistent statement the trial court did not abuse from his first trial to establish the substance of such testimony.5 substantial evidence that inconsistent with that prior testimony. during his direct testimony, defendant acknowledged that march , but denied remembering what happened to alexander or his prior testimony from the first trial, during which he had testified he stabbed alexander under a mistaken belief of self-defense. the trial court concluded that defendant was being deliberately evasive in evasive testimony did not conwhen viewed in context, his denial of recollection was his prior during his testimoabout stabbing alexander in a mistaken belief of self-defense while, at the same time, depriving the jury of the opportunity to view his demeanor and thereby judge his credibility and the prosecutor of the opportunity to cross-examine him, perhaps to his detriment, if he were to testify before the jury. when defense counsel asked if 5 that the trial courtadmissible for their substance, is of no moment. (people v. mason (1991) 52 cal.3d 909, 944.) 21 testimony from the prior trial would refresh his memory, defendant requested that counsel read the testimony to the jury, stating, you can say what i said. you can although the court directed defendant to read the document to himself, defendant began reading his prior testimony out loud until stopped by the court. after being forestalled from presenting his prior testimony to the jury, defendant feigned reading such testimony before testifying he did not remember what happened to alexander, the testimony of the eyewitnesses, or his prior testimony. (cf. people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 415 [wrecollection was actually a deliberate evasion tantamount to a denial disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. hoffstadt, j. 