 filed 5/11/17 p. v. vantuinen ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. duane a. vantuinen et al., defendants and appellants. _____________________________________ in re edwin lynn valentine, on habeas corpus. b261581 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba415000) b270299 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba415000) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded in part with directions. the habeas corpus petition is denied. jennifer a. mannix, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant duane a. vantuinen. 2 susan k. shaler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant randall joseph whitmore. eric r. larson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant edwin valentine. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ this case involves a conspiracy on the part of defendants and appellants duane a. vantuinen, randall joseph whitmore, and edwin lynn valentineworking together with joshua box, lorraine vasquez, cory mulligan, brian duran and margaret highto burglarize the homes of los angeles and san bernardino county newspaper subscribers who requested temporary vacation stops of newspaper delivery. most of the victims were customers of the los angeles times, but some subscribed to other papers such as the inland valley bulletin. the evidence demonstrated that vantuinen, while working as a machine repairman for various newspaper distributors, stole vacation stop lists and passed them along to his co-conspirators who carried out the burglaries. using these lists, box and whitmore were able to commit burglaries at homes they knew would be temporarily unoccupied. the other co-conspirators apparently helped store and dispose of burglarized items. valentine and vantuinen also helped dispose of some of the stolen property. 3 the defendants were charged by indictment1 with having engaged in conspiracies to commit residential burglary and receive stolen property between april 2009 and september 2013. following a jury trial, the defendants were convicted of conspiracy, burglary, and receiving stolen property. on appeal, defendants raise various contentions of trial and sentencing error. for the reasons discussed below, we find that the june 2012 traffic stop of whitmore for a seatbelt violationa detention that ultimately resulted in discovery of the stolen vacation stop listsdid not violate the fourth amendment. we find the trial court did not err by denying convictions need not be reversed because of the way the trial court responded to a jury question during deliberations. we find rifle and ammunition that could be fired from that rifle did not violate section 654, but that his sentence for also possessing a shotgun should not have been stayed. finally, we find there was sentencing based on his 1986 conviction for aggravated assault. because valentine raised this same sentencing issue in his accompanying habeas corpus petition, we will deny the habeas petition as moot. 1 the indictment, dated november 22, 2013, named the defendants in addition to other co-conspirators. however, after the co-indictment counts were re-numbered as to the three defendants who went to trial and have now appealed. 4 background this appeal follows a lengthy trial. because much of the trial evidence is not relevant to the issues raised on appeal, we discuss the evidence in summary fashion, viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) 1. prosecution evidence. a. the charged burglaries. the jury heard testimony from various victims whose homes were burglarized between april 2009 and september 2013. were ransacked, and items including electronics, jewelry, collectible coins, firearms, cars, family heirlooms, checkbooks, and credit cards were stolen. some stolen property was subsequently recovered and returned to the victims; some was never found. the testifying victims included the following people: richard stevens from diamond bar; bassanio peters from hacienda heights; laura ann haydel from los angeles; daniel ma from la puente; lawrence gebhardt from hacienda heights; gary dumas from chino hills; charles dickie from chino hills; nget fah chong and her husband cham leong quek from chino hills; jonathan joslin from chino hills; william wong from chino hills; tony wang and his wife evangeline lin from hacienda heights; lana boutacoff and her husband eric remsen from los angeles; mildred ball from ontario; carl smith from culver city; dennis wilbourn from ontario; ronald paden and his wife nantana from chino hills; and sheila mauricio from burbank. 5 b. the police investigation. the police investigation involved the efforts of multiple law enforcement agencies: county sheriffs from los angeles, riverside and san bernardino, along with local police from san gabriel, glendora, arcadia, burbank and azusa. at different times during the course of this conspiracy, each conspirator was found in the possession of both burglarized property and illegal drugs (usually methamphetamine). (1) in 2009, the san gabriel police department searched the bedroom of joshua box in connection with an unrelated crime. burglary victims and suggested a possible connection between box and defendant whitmore. in mdiscovered a number of items that had been stolen from victim stevens, including four rifles and a shotgun. (2) .2 in april 2012, whitmore tried unsuccessfully to access an atm machine using a credit card stolen from one of the burglary victims. thereafter, in june 2012, following a routine traffic stop, police arrested whitmore on suspicion of possessing stolen 2 whitmore, like some of the other conspirators, was arrested more than once during the course of the investigation. because the charges involved only receipt of stolen property, he was released on bail. 6 property.3 finding, among other things, a 10-page typewritten list containing the names and addresses of people who had requested los angeles times vacation holds, as well as start and stop dates; and a five-page handwritten list containing similar information. police also discovered burglary tools (including hand drills, drill bits, flashlights, a screwdriver, screwdriver bits, and bolt cutters), and jewelry, musical instruments, and a ninendo game console stolen from the lin/wang family. (3) investigation. more than 40 burglaries in los angeles and san bernardino counties that had occurred at homes on the los angeles times seized phone with individuals listed as employees of the los angeles times, jordan discovered a connection between defendant vantuinen and the los angeles times. specifically, jordan learned that vantuinen worked as a subcontractor repairing the binding and tying machines used by newspaper distributors hrach besnilian and gary veron. both besnilian and veron testified that they had employed vantuinen since 2009 to repair their binding and tying machines, and both testified that vantuinen sometimes worked without supervision. veron recognized one of the typewritten lists seized 3 the details of this arrest are discussed more fully in section 1 of the discussion. 7 as having been provided to his newspaper carriers in june 2012, and all the addresses on the handwritten list other newspaper distributors, robert cronkhite and freddy terrazas, also testified that they had hired vantuinen and that he would have had access to their vacation hold lists. (4) additional arrests and investigation. in july 2012, box and vasquez were stopped in a car containing burglary tools and stolen items, including coins, jewelry, a musical instrument, electronics, and purses. at about distributed to other law enforcement agencies photographs of the person who attempted the april 2012 atm withdrawal using one of the burglary jordan recognized the person at the atm machine as defendant whitmore. in november 2012, defendant valentine was arrested driving a car stolen from one of the burglary victims. also in november 2012, detective jordan searched and arrested him for possession of methamphetamine. in a detached garage near the house, jordan found property stacked from floor to ceiling, including items stolen from victims ma, dickie, the kakukas, smith, wong, and chong. during a subsequent search of the garage, jordan found additional stolen items belonging to dumas, paden, wong, gebhardt, and boutacoff/remsen. at some point between december 2012 and january 2013, whitmore was rearrested. in january 2013, officers arrested box and searched his house. o8 linked to nine of the burglary victims. further, a memory card whitmore entering the home of one of the victims. (5) arrest. -gauge shotgun, a 22-caliber rifle, 22-caliber ammunition, and stolen property belonging to victims dickie, haydel, dumas, and wilbourn. in a shed near the house, officers found 0.4 grams of methamphetamine that vantuinen admitted belonged to him. on january 30, 2013, vantuinen was arrested. inside his backpack were antique coins belonging to victim dickie. (6) cell phone evidence. telephone company cell phone data established that there had been hundreds of phone calls and text messages between various members of the conspiracy. 2. defense evidence. michael belanoff testified he ran an online retail business garage, including dvds, toys, electronics, knives, swords and computers. belanoff learned this property was later confiscated by the police. valento may or june of 2012, and while there was permitted to use felony convictions for receiving stolen property, forgery and possession of narcotics for sale. 3. trial outcome. the jury convicted whitmore of the two counts of conspiracy (pen. code,  182/459 and 182/496 [conspiracy to 9 commit residential burglary; conspiracy to receive stolen property]),4 five counts of burglary ( 459), and four counts of receiving stolen property ( 496). vantuinen was convicted of the same two conspiracy counts, plus two counts of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800), possession of ammunition by a felon ( 30305), and possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11377). valentine was convicted of the same two conspiracy counts, but acquitted on all other charges. the defendants were sentenced to the following prison terms: vantuinen 8 years 4 months; whitmore 14 years 4 months; valentine 25 years to life. contentions whitmore contends that the vacation stop lists were discovered in his car as the result of an illegal police search; a mistrial should have been declared after the jury learned he had suffered prior arrests and convictions; and the trial court did not adequately answer a jury question during deliberations. vantuinen contends the trial court erred by failing to adequately answer the jury question, and that he was impermissibly sentenced for both illegally possessing a rifle and illegally possessing ammunition that could have been loaded into that rifle. valentine contends the trial court erroneously found his prior conviction for aggravated assault (former  245, subd. (a)) was a strike under the three strikes law.5 4 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 5 valentine raises this issue both directly on appeal and indirectly via an ineffective assistance of counsel claim in his 10 discussion 1. to suppress evidence seized from the june 2012 warrantless search of his car. whitmore contends the trial court erroneously denied his motion to suppress the evidence seized from the june 2012 warrantless search of his car. ( 1538.5.) according to whitmore, although glendora police department officer russell ziino had the right to briefly stop him for failing to wear a seatbelt, ziino was not permitted to detain him for 75 to 80 minutes or to search his car. as we now discuss, we find no error. a. factual background.6 at about 8:00 a.m. on june 24, 2012, officer ziino stopped whitmore in a black dodge durango suv for driving without having his seatbelt fastened. as ziino walked registration and insurance cards.7 ziino testified that, during accompanying habeas corpus petition. because we agree with habeas corpus petition and will deny it as moot. 6 the following facts are basat the suppression hearing and a recording of the encounter between ziino and whitmore, portions of which were captured by 7 in 2012, california vehicle code section 4000, subdivision (a)(1), provid . . any motor vehicle . . . unless it is registered and the appropriate 4454, 11 s to low 70 further, perspiring. based on my training and experience, i suspected he ziino returned to his patrol car to have dispatch run computer. ziino testified that at that point, he already suspected dispatch reported that license was valid, but that whitmore had a criminal record. ziino, now joined by officer stein, walked back to and asked if whitmore used methamphetamines. whitmore replied that he last used methamphetamines a few years earlier. ziino then asked whitmore to step out of his car so ziino could check him for drug use. ziino patted whitmore down whitmore said he had been arrested about two years earlier for stealing or attempting to steal copper wire. as a result of the subdivision registration card, shall maintain the same or a facsimile copy vehicle code section of a motor vehicle shall present the registration or identification card or other evidence of registration of any or all vehicles under his or her immediate control for examination upon demand of any 12 copper wire incident, whitmore apparently had been convicted of burglary. ziino conducted a sobriety test, ultimately concluding that whitmore was not under the influence of a controlled substance. ziino then asked for whitmore refused. the following exchange then occurred: registration card? your car for current registration and insurance. okay? what is in the car that i need to be concerned about? . . . ation] in ziino told whitmore he was not under arrest, but that ziino was going to search the car for proof of current registration and insurance. ziino initially looked in the center console because that was where whitmore told him the documentation would be. inside the center console, ziino found a valid insurance card, but no valid registration card. he then searched the glove box and behind the sun visor, but did not find a current registration card. immediately gray backpack with bolt cutters sticking out of it. i also saw the center console . . . in the middle of the car on the floorboar ziino could see the bolt cutters and pliers because the zipper compartment of the backpack was open and the tools were 13 ziino looked in the gray backpack because whitmore said it was where he kept his paperwork. ziino did not find any vehicle paperwork, but he found more tools and a list of some kind. whitmore told ziino that he used the tools in the backpack for his work as an electrician. whitmo ziino then back seat; one purse was empty and the other contained video game controllers, one of which had a sticker with the name belonged to his kids. ziino opened a violin case and a flute case; each contained an instrument. ziino testified the reason he looked inside the gray backpack and the musical instrument cases was because and based on what he had seen, ziino called dispatch and asked them to check on a recent burglary at a local music store to see if any violins or flutes had been taken; dispatch reported that they had not. whitmore gave ziino permission to examine his cell phone. ziino testified he saw a text message conversation between whitmore and somebody listed in his contacts as van. subsequently, whitmore d. ziino testified that in that text message conversation, van van also texted, e you at?,which whitmore responded, ,whitmore 14 texted, whitmore said the texts were just car] from and [whitmore] said he got it from his friend big d. [] . . . in covina. w ziino called big d, identifying himself as a police officer. whoever answered the phone denied knowing whitmore. after the person hung up on ziino, the following conversation occurred: in your phone that says van. he says nobody in a black durango was just at his house. what? damn. wow. [] . . . [] where did van get this stuff from? to my house. . . . . . . it blows which ziino estimated to have been 75 to 80 minutes after the traffic stop began, he believed there was probable cause to arrest whitmore on suspicion of possessing stolen property. ziino arrested whitmore and had his car towed to the police station. a subsequent search uncovered 15 two more lists of names, dates and addresses. these turned out to be newspaper vacation stop lists that included some of the burglary victims. yielded stolen property belonging to burglary victims tony wang and b. . at the suppression hearing, defense counsel argued that once ziino determined whitmore was not under the influence of drugs, he was required to issue a seatbelt citation and allow whitmore to go on his way. everything that took place subsequently was an impermissible prolongation of the traffic stop and, therefore, the vacation stop lists and stolen items case involving multiple investigations, starting from a de minimus seatbelt violation up through and including an investigation for possession of burglary tools and/or receiving stolen property. but one evolves into another during the course citing in re arturo d. (2002) 27 cal.4th 60 (arturo d.) and people v. webster (1991) 54 cal.3d 411, the trial court noted that s license . . . does not mean the officer does not have the right to could lawfully search the center console, where whitmore told him the missing documents would be, and while doing so ziino noticedin plain viewthe possible burglary tools protruding that whitmore was in possession of stolen property was 16 opportunity to justify or explain the need to have these items, that being the bolt cutter, pliers, [that] could be construed as burglary tools. . . . s that there is illegal activity afoot given the text messages in the phone, the inability to confirm through big d that the defendant had rightful possessory interest in all these items that were within this vehicle. at that point . . . i think the officer was reasonable in . . . forming the opinion that perhaps the defendant was in possession extended the traffic stop in order to complete his investigation. therefore, seizing the vacation stop lists did not violate the fourth amendment. c. discussion. whitmore contends the vacation stop lists and stolen property found in his car should have been suppressed because the traffic stop, although initially lawful, should have been terminated as soon as ziino determined whitmore was not driving under the influence of illegal drugs.8 we disagree. 8 even if whitmore had been successful in suppressing the vacation stop lists, it would not have helped vantuinen and valseizure only through the introduction of damaging evidence 17 (1) legal principles and standard of review. ]he right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, detention of individuals during the stop of an automobile by the police, even if only for a brief period and for a limited purpose, provision. [citations.] an automobile stop is thus subject to the circumstances. as a general matter, the decision to stop an automobile is reasonable where the police have probable cause to whren v. u.s. (1996) 517 u.s. 806, 809810 [116 s.ct. 1769].) a police -terry [terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1 [88 s.ct. 1868] (terry)] . . . than a terry stop, the tolerable duration of police inquiries in the traffic-stop context is to address the traffic violation that warranted the stop. [citations.] because addressing the infraction is the purpose of the [citations.] authority for the seizure thus ends when tasks tied to the traffic infraction areor reasonably should have been (rakas v. illinois (1978) 439 u.s. 128, 134 [99 s.ct. 421].) 18 rodriguez v. u.s. (2015) 135 s.ct. 1609, 1614 [191 l.ed.2d 492] (rodriguez).) checking the outstanding warrants against the driver, and inspecting the these checks serve the same objective as enforcement of the traffic code: ensuring that vehicles on the road are operated rodriguez, supra, 135 s.ct. at p. 1615.) therefore, atemporarily detain the offender at the scene for the period of time necessary to discharge the duties that he incurs by virtue of the (people v. mcgaughran (1979) 25 cal.3d 577, 584.) long as the officer has reasonable suspicion of criminal activity to expand his investigation, even if his suspicions were unrelated to (u.s. v. gomez serena (8th cir. 2004) 368 f.3d 1037, 1041.) determining the propriety of an circumstances of the particular governmental invasion of a determination, each case. [citations.] [] reasonable suspicion is a lesser standard than probable cause, and can arise from less reliable information than required for probable cause, including an anonymous tip. [citation.] but suspicion must be supported by some specific, articulable facts 19 mere curiosity, rumor, or hunch is unlawful, even though the [citation.] but where a reasonable suspicion of criminal activity such c people v. wells (2006) 38 cal.4th 1078, 1083, italics added.) suspicion and probable cause should be reviewed de novo on appeal. having said this, we hasten to point out that a reviewing court should take care both to review findings of historical fact only for clear error and to give due weight to inferences drawn from those facts by resident judges and local law enforcement (ornelas v. united states (1996) 517 u.s. 690 [116 s.ct. 1657findings if they are supported by substantial evidence. (people v. williams (1988) 45 cal.3d 1268, 1301, disapproved on other grounds in people v. diaz (2015) 60 cal.4th 1176, 1190.) 1538.5 to suppress evidence is a full hearing on the issues before the superior court sitting as finder of fact. [citations.] the power to judge credibility of witnesses, resolve conflicts in testimony, weigh evidence and draw factual inferences, is vested in the trial court. on appeal all presumptions favor proper exercise of that power, and the trial whether express or impliedmust be upheld if people v. superior court (keithley) (1975) 13 cal.3d 406, 410420 proposition 8 . . . [was enacted in 1982] a court may only exclude evidence from a state criminal proceeding if exclusion is mandated by the federal exclusionary rule applicable to evidence gikas v. zolin (1993) 6 cal.4th 841, 867; accord people v. coffman (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 43.) (2) a limited search of vehicle was lawful because whitmore failed to provide adequate documentation during a valid traffic stop. whitmore does not dispute that ziino properly pulled him over because he was not wearing a seatbelt. (veh. code,  27315, subd. (d)(1).) whitmore also does not dispute that ziino was permitted to detain him in order to conduct a field sobriety test because ziino had a reasonable suspicionbased on the facts that whitmore was shaking and perspiringthat whitmore was under the influence of a stimulant. whitmore contends, however, that ziino was required to release him after writing a citation for the seatbelt violation and determining that he was not under the influence. we do not agree. once whitmore had lawfully been stopped, officer ziino was entitled to demand license and registration. (e.g., people v. saunders (2006) 38 cal.4th 1129, 1137, citing veh. code,  4462, subd. (a), 12951, subd. (b); arturo d., supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 67.) further, because whitmore did not produce a valid registration or insurance card, it was constitutionally proper for ziino to conduct a limited warrantless search of [his] vehicle for the purpose of locating (arturo d., supra, at p. 71.) under in arturo d.21 registration and identification documentation are permissible when, following the failure of a traffic offender to provide such documentation to the citing officer upon demand, the officer conducts a search for those documents in an area where such documents reasonably may be expected to be found. under this standard, an officer may not search for such documents on pretext [citation], or without first demanding that they be produced [citation], and an officer may not search in containers or locations in which such documents are not reasonably expected to be found. id. at p. 86, fn. omitted.) under arturo d., therefore, it was permissible for ziino to search the center console because that was where whitmore said a valid proof of registration and insurance would be found. and, when ziino found a valid insurance card but not a valid registration, it was permissible for ziino to search the glove box and behind the sun visor because those were areas where proof of registration reasonably may be expected to be found.9 (3) reasonable in light of the totality of the circumstances. while properly searching the center console proof of insurance and registration, ziino saw a gray backpack in which bolt cutters and pliers were visible. the backpack and toolswhich ziino recognized as commonly used to commit burglarieswere in plain view. (see quezada v. city of los 9 registration w 22 angeles (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 993, 1006-view doctrine authorizes seizure of illegal or evidentiary items visible to a police officer whose access to the object has some prior fourth amendment justification and who has probable cause to suspect that the item is connected with criminal activity. [citations.] the plain-view doctrine is grounded on the proposition that once police are lawfully in a position to observe an item first-hand, its at this point, ziino could have arrested whitmore based on probable cause to believe he was violating section 466 (possession of burglary tools).10 (see illinois v. gates (1983) 462 u.s. 213, 244, fn. probability or substantial chance of criminal activity, not an actual showing of such people v. southard (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 1079, 1090 [defendant properly convicted of violating section 466 after found in possession of tools, including requisite intent proved].) this would have allowed a warrantless 10 ziino also had a reasonable suspicion that whitmore was in possession of stolen property. whitmore had admitted to a prior burglary conviction and his car contained common burglary tools. whitmore had offered an implausible explanation for the presence of the tools: he said he had just gotten off work as an electrician, but also said he was unemployed. whitmore was shaking and sweating, symptoms not explained either by the weather or by e contained appeared not to belong to him. 23 a search of such cases. (see people v. evans (2011) 200 cal.app.4th 735, 753 exception [to the fourth amendment], police who have probable cause to believe a lawfully stopped vehicle contains evidence of criminal activity or contraband may conduct a warrantless search of any area of the vehicle in which the evidence might be found.]; see also u.s. v. ross (1982) 456 search of an automobile thus is not defined by the nature of the container in which the contraband is secreted. rather, it is defined by the object of the search and the places in which there ].) ziino did not immediately arrest whitmore, however, but instead extended investigation into the facts. this was reasonable. (see united states v. arvizu (2002) 534 u.s. 266, 273 [122 s.ct. 744] [in determining the lawfulness of a temporary detention, courts look at the totality of the circumstances to see whether police have legal examined ziino saw suspicious texts from ziino asked [whitmore] said he got it from his friend big d. in covina. ziino when ziino calle.answered the phone denied knowing whitmore. 24 at this point, which ziino estimated to have been 75 to 80 minutes after the traffic stop began, ziino arrested whitmore and conducted a search of his car.11 (4) ntions are without merit. whitmore argues ziino either lied about not having dispatch check on whether the registration was current (when ziino first returned to his patrol car), orif he did notthat he for detaining whitmore further was based on the expired , whitmore himself ziino suspected whitmore was under the influence of a stimulatraffic stop began there arose several indicators of criminal registration card, his criminal history involving both drugs and theft, and the possibility that his car contained stolen property. (see u.s. v. calvetti (6th cir. 2016) 836 f.3d 654, 667 [criminal sus anything. this claim is an overused sham to prolong . . . it is true that, standing by itself, nervous behavior is generally an insufficient reason to suspect 11 whitmore does not contend that the search of his car incident to his arrest was improper. 25 criminal activity. but many cases have cited it as a legitimate articulable factor when combined with other suspicious factors. (see u.s. v. calvetti, supra, 836 f.3d at pp. 666667 [although necessary to justify expanding the inu.s. v. awer (1st cir. 2014) 770 f.3d 83, 91 [legitimate factors pointing to possible u.s. v. lyons (7th cir. 2013) 733 f.3d 777, 782 eared nervous, and that his hands were shaking. although not conclusive, such observations u.s. v. cotter (8th cir. spicion factor].) the point is that it is the totality of circumstances that determines whether or not a temporary detention was circumstancesu.s. v. sokolow (1989) 490 u.s. 1, 8 [109 s.ct. 1581].) moreover, the accumulation of sometimes innocent-appearing details occasionally provides articulable reasonable suspicion warranting explanation does not deprive the officer of the capacity to entertain a reasonable suspicion of criminal conduct. indeed, the principal function of his investigation is to resolve that very ambiguity and establish whether the activity is in fact legal or illegale to quickly determine whether they should allow the suspect to go about his business or hold him to people v. leyba 26 alone validates all unconsented government searches is, of course, the seizure of persons who have committed or are about to commit crimes, or of evidence related to crimes. but demand that the government be factually correct in its illinois v. rodriguez (1990) 497 u.s. 177, 184 [110 s.ct. 2793].) hence, . . does not preclude an officer from effecting a stop to investigate the ambiguity. people v. saunders, supra, 38 cal.4th at pp. 11361137.) his suspicions quickly. worse, when one suspicion was dispelled ore is ignoring the trial was reasonably prolonged because he kept discovering new suspicious circumstances that he properly investigated in order to in possession of burglar people v. williams, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 1301 [reviewing court must evidence].) the record does not show anything. he spotted the seatbelt violation from his patrol car. noticed many items strewn about12 and whitmore being 12 compa 27 unusually sweaty, shaky and nervous. when ziino informed whitmore he had to produce a valid registration card, whitmore told him to look in the center console. when ziino did that, he saw burglary tools in the gray backpack. ziino knew that whitmore had fairly recently both used methamphetamine and been convicted of theft. whitmore offered numerous implausible explanations: he was unemployed but had just gotten off work; the video game items belonged to his children but one of them had a sticker identifying it as belonging to a justin wang; his this car by making a phone call, but when the story did not check out whitmore expressed total shock. these accumulated suspicious facts were not all apparent when ziino initially stopped whitmore for the seatbelt violation; rather, they emerged over the next 75 or 80 minutes. there was, detention just to give himself time to possibly discover more suspicious facts. it is far more accurate to say that ziino people v. mcgaughran, supra, 25 cal.3d 577, is misplaced because in that case a ten-minute delay in issuing a traffic citation, during which time the officer ran a warrant check, was held illegal because the requirements of a permissible terry stop were clearly not met. as our supreme 28 court explained, the officer there purportedly relied on five they appeared to be lost, and they were adults traveling in the vicinity of a high school), and the other two (high crime area and a furtive gesture) were insufficientby themselvesto warrant a reasonable suspicion of criminal activity. (id. at pp. 588590.) the facts of mcgaughran could not be more different than the facts of the case at bar. suppression motion. 2. whitmore contends the trial court erred by not granting him a mistrial after the prosecution caused the jury to learn he had suffered prior arrests and convictions, and that when he was arrested he was possibly in possession of methamphetamine. a. background. the following series of questions about what he found in w observations of anything in the car that was relevant to your investigation? whitmore about his previous convictions and he told me that he was examination. [] go ahead, mr. inaba [the prosecutor]. whitmore] mention any incident involving copper? 29 what he said about the copper? stealing copper wire. ago that was? line of questioning. inaba. was it [] if i can ask this one more question? information. rs in june 2012. when you said [you are] not sure of the year, do you remember whether or not [it was] in 2012, the year that you did the stop, or some prior year? defense counsel subsequently asked for a mistrial because do it once, but he did it two more times during his testimony, and sic: 30 the trial court acknowledged that this kind of information could prejudice a jury, but denied the mistrial motion because whitmore may have been arrested, and in offic[going to] deny mr. whitmore a fair trial. . . . [b]ut i will admonish the jury if, . . . that they are to disregard any mention by officer ziino of a prior arrest connected to mr. defense would raise the specter of the criminal history even further and hi in later trial testimony, detective jordan testified about going to la verne on november 29, 2012, to arrest whitmore. jordan testified whitmore was taken into custody and searched. the prosecutor asked if the items taken from testified one item taken from whitmore appeared to be methamphetamine. defense counsel objected and a sidebar that possession of methamphetamine is filed and charged in a possession of methamphetamine. . . . i think i even . . . stated it in my opening, that that is the motivation for why they are doing all these residential burglaries. they are trying to get money to 31 the trial court noted there had been evidence that vantuinen, valentine, high, duran and mulligan had all been individuals would commit thefts, which is typical of people who abuse drugs. if this helps the people establish or explain why mr. whitmore a fair trial. it is motive evidence and i cannot keep it out. b. discussion. granted if the court is apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable [citation.] (people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 985986.) a mistrial motion of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged. (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 749.) whitmore argues he was prejudiced because the jury learned h[his] he was in possession of methamphetamine when he was arrested. the problem testimony, which was only that he believed whitmore had last in any 32 prejudice the jury because theft was precisely the crime whitmore was now on trial for: residential burglaries, conspiracy to commit burglary and conspiracy to receive stolen property. littlpeople v. harris (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1575, 1580; see, e.g., people v. anderson (1978) reversal in itself [citations] [such evidence may be] nonprejudicial (people v. rolon (1967) 66 cal.2d 690, 693; compare people v. harris, supra, at p. 1581 [harmless where evidence of guilt was people v. duran (1969) 269 cal.app.2d 112, people v. rolon, supra, at pp. 693694 [not harmless in very close case: there were unimpeached alibi witnesses and the admitted perpetrator testified his accomplice had been somebody else]) and people v. allen (1978) 77 in this case, the evidence against whitmore was overwhelming: the vacation stop lists were found in his car; stolen property was found in his possession; there was a video of 33 photographed trying to obtain money from an atm machine cigarette butt found at the scene of the dickie burglary. in his opening brief on appeal, whitmore has not one word to say about the vast amount of inculpatory evidence presented against him at trial. whitmore relies on people v. allen, supra, 77 cal.app.3d to the fact the defendant was on parole might well have tipped the balance. (id. at p. 935.) the case at bar was far different from that case. hence, the trial court did not err by denying a mistrial because of the copper wire theft evidence. furthermore, we do not believe there was any error in admitting evidence that whitmore had methamphetamine in his possession when arrested. as the trial court recognized, this the conspiracies and for committing the burglaries and receiving stolen property.13 argued [motive] as justification for introducing the [methamphetamine] evidence. . . . the prosecutor barely mentioned a methamphetamine motive during closing we cannot agree with this characterization of the 13 defendant to commit the particular crime charged is admissible to assist in resolving a doubt as to the identity of the perpetrator, no matter how that evidence may reflect on the defendant and even when it may show that he has committed other offenses. people v. morales (1979) 88 cal.app.3d 259, 264.) 34 seen attached to every si . . on heroin. erything. drugs are a motive in instruction that talks about that. but you can consider motive, again, as another element amongst the hundreds that link these moreover, even if the methamphetamine testimony should not have been admitted, we would still find thatas with the theft arrest testimonyin light of the overwhelming evidence against whitmore the result would have been no different without the evidence. (see, e.g., people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 555 [finding miranda the many other damaging admissions defendant made on the tape recording, the error in admitting this very brief exchange was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. therefore, the trial 3. trial court did not err in responding to jury question. whitmore and vantuinen contend their convictions must be reversed because the trial court failed to adequately respond to a question from the deliberating jury. we disagree. 35 a. background. while deliberating, the jury sent the following question to the trial court: , is indirect circumstantial evidence enough to charge someone with committing burglary? but remember the jury instruction regarding circumstantial evidence. if you can draw two or more reasonable conclusions from the circumstantial evidence and one reasonable conclusion points to innocence and another to guilt, you must adopt the one that points to innocence. however, when considering circumstantial evidence, you must consider only reasonable conclusions. you must reject any that are unreasonable. so, was inadequate because the jury had no business worrying about what evidence was sufficient for charging a defendant, the court it could convict the defendants based on some standard less than beyond a reasonable doubt. b. discussion. deliberation, if. . . they desire to be informed on any point of law arising in the case, they must require the officer to conduct them into court. upon being brought into court, the information required must be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the prosecuting attorney, and the defendant or his counsel, or after he court has a primary duty to help the jury understand the legal principles it is asked to apply. 36 [citation.] this does not mean the court must always elaborate on the standard instructions. where the original instructions are themselves full and complete, the court has discretion under section 1138 to determine what additional explanations are indeed, comments diverging from the standard are often risky. people v. beardslee (1991) 53 cal.3d 68, 97.) as the attorney general points out, defendants waived this 14 (see people v. kageler (1973) 32 cal.app.3d 738, 745746 [failure to object when trial court answers jury question may be construed as tacit approval and waives issue for appeal]; see also people v. boyette . . defendant did not object. he thus failed to preserve the issue for appeal and, indeed, may be held to have given tacit approval of but even had the issue been preserved, we cannot see that there was any error. the defendants complain complete misunderstanding of circumstantial evidence and of evidence: direct evidence, circumstantial evidence and (the non- 14 as vantuinen acknowledges, by agreement of the parties defense counsel for whitmore was standing in for all the defendants when this jury question was asked and he did not 37 difference between direct and circumstantial evidence (calcrim no. 233 and how it was to use circumstantial evidence in deciding guilt or innocence (calcrim nos. [234 & 235]). yet, neither of evidence, evidence offered during trial. . . . to conclude that the term was a common or non-legal description of circumstantial evidence is speculation at best. instead, the most logical conclusion is that the jury was referring it appears to us, however, that it is defendants who are minds. in particular, both vantuinen and whitmore are ignoring the actual words of calcrim no. 233, which the jury was given by the trial court as follows: ct or circumstantial evidence or by a combination of both. direct evidence can prove a fact by itself. for example, if a witness testifies that he saw it raining outside before he came into the courthouse, that testimony is direct evidence that it was raining. circumstantial evidence also may be called indirect evidence. now, circumstantial evidence does not directly prove the fact to be decided but is evidence of another fact or group of facts from which you may logically and reasonably infer the truth of the fact in question. for example, if a witness testifies that he saw someone come inside wearing a raincoat covered with drops of water, that testimony is circumstantial evidence because it may support a conclusion that it was raining outside. h direct and circumstantial evidence are acceptable types of evidence to prove or disprove the elements of a charge 38 including intent, mental state, and acts necessary to a conviction. neither is necessarily more reliable than the other. neither is entitled to any greater weight than the other. you must decide whether a fact in issue has been proved based on all the the defendants have entirely ignored the italicized instruction, we find it far more likely thatrather than having the jury was merely being colloquial (albeit, redundantly so) in referring to what it believed to be the opposite of direct evidence. (see people v. goldstein (1956) 139 accord people v. yokum (1956) 145 cal.app.2d 245, 250.) form of evidence, or possibly even speculation, was sufficient for her, we agree with the attorney general that, circumstantial evidence may have been redundant, it was also understandable as a matter of common sense and parlance. it is likely that by using distinguishing circumstantial evidence as something different believe that the jury had invented a new form of evidence out of thin air on its own ini 39 sufficient for charging a crime with evidence sufficient for conviction of that same crime.[15] in other words, the court failed to clarify that the jury was not to decide what evidence was added.) but the defendants do not dispute that the jury was adequately and properly instructed on the beyond-a-reasonable-doubt burden of proof borne by the prosecution, both by the instructions as a whole and by the two other circumstantial evidence instructions given to the jury (calcrim nos. 234 & circumstantial evidence to conclude that a fact necessary to find the defendant guilty has been proved, you must be convinced that the people have proved each fact essential to that conclusion g closing 2009 residential burglary involving mr. stevens, an l.a. times customer burglarized while he was on vacation . . . . why is that incident important? charge mr. stevens as a makes a lot out of the fact that, during these phone calls, mr. valentine knows about the vacation list. no, you are wrong. 15 the burden of proof to charge a defendant with a crime, by people v. mower (2002) 28 cal.4th 457, 473), whereas the burden of proof for beyond a reasonable doubt. (id. at p. 477.) 40 mr. valentine was arrested, charged with receiving stolen property. interesting, not burglary. not burglary. he was charged in light of these references to the charging aspect of a criminal 16 furthermore, the series of cases cited by the defendants question were all cases in which the court misled the jury as to a very specific and crucial aspect of the case. (see bollenbach v. united states (1946) 326 u.s. 607, 613 [66 s.ct 402] [jury incorrectly told it could convict defendant of conspiracy to transport stolen notes even if he joined in their disposal after transportation had ended]; mcdowell v. calderon (9th cir. 1997) 130 f.3d 833, 838 (en banc) [during capital case penalty phase, jurors did not ating evidence must be given 16 although not denominated as an appeal issue, whitmore complains thatcontrary to the bench notes directionsthe trial court instructed the jury with both calcrim no. 224 and calcrim no. 225. it is true that there is no need to give both instructions. (see people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th same information on how the jury should consider circumstantial evidence, but calcrim no. 224 is more inclusive.] because no. 224 covers any use of circumstantial evidence, while no. 225 covers the use of circumstantial evidence to prove state of mind. whitmore has not cited any authority, or given any reasoned argument, why he would have been prejudiced by the jury hearing both instructions. 41 consideration]; u.s. v. gordon (9th cir. 1988) 844 f.2d 1397, the risk of a nonunanimous verdict resulting from the duplicitous people v. hodges (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 531, 543 allowed the jury to conclude defendant was guilty of robbery without regard to whether defendant intended to permanently deprive the owner of the property at the time the force or people v. gonzales (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 382, 389391, disapproved on other grounds in people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 998, fn. 3 [court failed to clarify illful intent element of domestic violence charge]; people v. thompkins (1987) relationship between heat of passion and premeditation was in error . . . [because] they are mutually exclusi in the instant case, the court repeated the instruction regarding circumstantial evidence and did not misstate the law or mislead the jury. hence, we conclude the trial court did not err when it 4. there was no section sentencing for possession of a rifle and ammunition, but his sentence for possession of a shotgun should not have been stayed. vantuinen contends the trial court erred by not staying, under the authority of section 654, his concurrent sentence for illegal possession of ammunition because he was also sentenced for illegal possession of a rifle. we disagree. we also conclude, however, that the trial court did err by staying the sentence on egal possession of a shotgun. we 42 will reverse that sentencing decision and remand to the trial court for resentencing on that conviction. a. legal principles. 654, subdivision (a), provides in pertinent part, ishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than 654 t punishment for a single act or for a course of conduct comprising . . enses were merely incidental to, or were the means of accomplishing or facilitating one objective, defendant may be found to have harbored a single intent and therefore may be however, if the objectives, independent of and not merely incidental to each other, the defendant may be punished for each violation committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations share common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of conduct. 654 applies in a given case is a question of fact for the trial court, which is vested with broad latitude in making its determination. [citations.] its findings will not be reversed on appeal if there is any substantial evidence to support them. [citations.] the light most favorable to the respondent and presume the existence of every fact the trial court could reasonably deduce 43 from the evidence. (people v. jones (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1139, 11421143.) b. background. vantuinen was convicted for possession of a .22caliber rifle found during the january 9, 2013, search of his residence. he was also convicted of possession of .22caliber ammunition found during the same search. the rifle was found in a closet in bed in the same room. prior to sentencing, the trial court heard arguments on whether these offenses were subject to section 654. the court concluded that, because the ammunition was not loaded into the rifle but rather stored separately, section 654 did not apply. vantuinen argues this was incorrect because his possession of both a rifle and ammunition that could have been loaded into that rifle constituted but a single course of action with only a single intent: to possess a loaded gun. he asserts the attorney separately and did not plan to use the rifle himself. but this is mere speculation without support in the record. instead, ability to use and fire the rifle. he told detective jordan that he use vantuinen argues that the ammunition with a different criminal objective than his objective in possessing the firearm, namely to use the gun for hunting. he may have kept the ammunition separate from the even though detective jordan did testify vantuinen told him he used the rifle for hunting, jordan did not testify that 44 vantuinen told him anything about the ammunition, and the .22-caliber rifle? did he initially tell you about that? but when jordan reminded vantuinen that, as a convicted felon, he was not allowed to possess any firearms, vantuinen said two of the cases relied on by vantuinen are unhelpful to him. in both people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 350 (jones), and people v. atencio (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 1239 (atencio), there was only one item of contraband involved: a single gun. in jones, possession of that single gun violated three statutes: possession of a firearm by a felon, carrying a readily accessible concealed and unregistered firearm, and carrying an unregistered loaded firearm in public. in atencio, possession of a single gun resulted in convictions for grand theft and felon in possession of a firearm. both cases held that section 654 applied, either on the theory there had been only one act in each case or because the defendant only had a single intent and objective. as explained by atencioit through the following day are considered a single physical act, then pursuant to jones defendant cannot be punished for the possession of the pistol in addition to being punished for the theft of it. but even if the taking and the subsequent possession do not 45 constitute a single physical act, defendant still can be punished ] course of criminal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and atencio, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at pp. 124312 in taking the gun was to gain possession of it . . . id. at p. 1244.) but the case at bar involved two items of contraband: the rifle and the ammunition. a better case for vantuinen is people v. lopez (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 132, which held that multiple punishment for possessing a single loaded firearm was proscribed by section 654. of course, in the case at bar the ammunition was not loaded into the rifle, but vantuinen argues that was not the basis for the holding in lopezets were loaded into the firearm was not the key fact upon which the lopez court concluded the sentence for unlawful possession of ammunition must be stayed under section 654. section 654 applied because, se persons from [citing lopez.] ammunition is combined with a firearm when it is in the firearm or we believe vantuinen is quoting lopez out of context and that the full text clearly indicates that it was precisely the fact that all of the ammunition had been loaded into the gun which rendered section 654 inapplicable. this is what lopez said: person committing another crime, possession of ammunition alone will not. the former may be used as a club and a victim 46 may be fearful that the firearm is loaded. while the latter may be thrown at a victim, it is extremely unlikely that possession of bullets alone would scare anyone but the most timid. in combination, however, the mixture is lethal and that is why criminals have a penchant for loaded firearms. should not possess firearms and/or ammunition. the obvious legislative intent is to prohibit these persons from combining possess a loaded firearm. 654 issues, our california supreme court has recently stated that the appellate courts should not to allow multiple punishment for possessing ammunition in a firearm would, in our judgment, parse the objectives too finely. while there may be instances when multiple punishment is lawful for possession of a firearm and ammunition, the instant case is not one of them. where, as here, all of the ammunition is loaded into the firearm, an is present and section 654 precludes multiple punishment (people v. lopez, supra, 119 cal.app.4th at p. 138, italics added.)17 17 see also people v. sok (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 88, 100, fn. his two convictions for unlawful possession of a firearm [citation], the trial court erred in failing to stay the sentences for counts 2 and 8 (unlawful possession of ammunition . . .), pursuant to section 654 because the ammunition at issue in those two counts 47 we think this language clearly distinguishes the two situations: one where all the ammunition has been loaded into the firearm, and the other where the ammunition and the firearm are separate. the latter situation is akin to the simultaneous possession of multiple items of contraband, which even after jones does not fall under section 654. as jones not always be easy to ascertain. in some situations, physical acts might be simultaneous yet separate for purposes of section 654. for example, in hayes, both the majority and the dissenters simultaneous possession of different items of contraband are separate acts for these purposes. [citation.] as chief justice traynor explained, the possession of one item is not essential to the possession of another separate item. one does not possess in the abstract; possession is meaningless unless something is possessed. the possession of each separate item is therefore a separate act of possession (jones, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 358, fn. omitted, italics added.) here, tstatement to detective jordan that he used the rifle for hunting. in fact, it was just as likely that the police found the rifle and (along with other stolen property) because they were stolen property that he intended to sell. as such, there is substantial evidence to support the trial 654 finding. however, we do not believe substantial evidence supports a second section 654 finding, although no party on appeal has raised the issue. that is, the trial court appears to have erred by 48 shotgun. (see people v. sanders (2012) 55 cal.4th 731, 743 ection 12021(a)(1), based on his simultaneous possession of two firearms, are exempt . . shall constitute a distinct tute. ( 12001, subd. (k).)].) 654 are corrected on appeal regardless of whether the point was raised by people v. hester (2000) 22 cal.4th 290, 295), we will remand to the trial the shotgun. 5. valentine contends there was insufficient evidence that his 1986 conviction for aggravated assault constituted a prior serious felony conviction, thereby making him subject to three strikes sentencing. this claim has merit, and we will reverse the strike finding and remand to the trial court for resentencing.18 18 in his current trial, valentine did not contest the fact that he had been convicted in 1986 of aggravated assault, but he retained the option of challenging the legal effect of that prior conviction. at his sentencing hearing, valentine argued that the facts surrounding his 1986 conviction were disputed and, therefore, it could not be proved that he had violated section 245, subdivision (a), by using a deadly weapon as opposed to using force likely to cause great bodily injury. 49 in 1986, valentine pled guilty to violating section 245, subdivision (a), whichat that time19deadly weapon or instrument other than a firearm or by any means of force likely qualify as a strike under section 667, that prior conviction had to assault weapon, or semiautomatic firearm or assault on a peace 1192.7, subd. (c)(31); see people v. rodriguez (1998) 17 cal.4th 253, 261 bodily injury without . . . using a deadly weapon. accordingly, the least adjudicated elements of the crime defined in section 245(a)(1) are insufficient in rodriguezconviction for aggravated assault qualified as a strike. however, the only evidence they offered was an abstract of judgment showing that he (like valentine) had pled guilty to former section 245, subdivision (a). rodriguez held this proved nothing more than the least adjudicated elements of the offense, which did not prove the defendant had committed the crime in a manner qualifying it as a strike. rodriguez saprosecution was entitled to go beyond the least adjudicated elements of the 1983 conviction and use the entire record to prove that defendant had in fact personally inflicted great bodily injury 19 in 2011, the legislature amended section 245 by deleting from subdivision (a)(4) to section 245 which defined the offense of assault by force likely to produce great bodily injury. (stats. 2011, ch. 183,  1.) 50 ( 1192.7, subd. (c)(8)) or personally used a dangerous or deadly weapon ( 1192.7, subd. (c)(23)). (people v. guerrero (1988) 44 cal.3d 343, 355-356 . . . .) however, the people failed to do so. they offered only the abstract of judgment, which proved nothing more than the least adjudicated elements of the charged offense. the evidence supporting this strike allegation was thus people v. rodriguez, supra, 17 cal.4th at pp. 261-262.) in the case at bar, there were two principal sources of information regarding the 1986 incident, which apparently involved a violent encounter between valentine and two others, on one side, and off-duty police officer daryl russell and his friend arch hobgood, on the other. one source was a partial excerussell testified that a car driven by frank webb (carrying valentine and his brother dennis copley) began harassing him and hobgood. russell testified that webb and valentine threw beer bottles, shattering his windshield and hitting him in the head, after which russell retrieved a gun from his trunk and shot at webb and valentine when it appeared they were going to throw more bottles. at the sentencing hearing, valentine related a very different story. he testified he had been driving (not webb) and that an argument between the two groups turned into a fistfight during which webb was fighting with russell while valentine was fighting with hobgood. afterward, russell went to his car trunk, retrieved a gun and shot webb. russell also shot at valentine, but missed. valentine testified he then threw a beer bottle at russell which missed because russell ducked. 51 me and missed and i was scared because the bullet came pretty . . throwing it just to . . . try to throwing that single bottle, but that other bottles were thrown by webb and copley. the trial court acknowledged valentine had been charged with both theories of aggravated assault in 1986namely, use of a deadly weapon and use of force likely to produce great bodily injurylify gued the plea-entitled to look behind . . . the information and the plea to the reports and the preliminary hearing testimony, the trial court concluded until recently, this analytic procedure would have been considered a proper action for the trtrial courts in california have been allowed to determine whether descamps [v. united states (2013)] 570 u.s. __ [133 s.ct. 2276], the united states supreme court pointed out the constitutional problems in doing people v. saez efendant and state judge must 52 the jury in a prior trial must have accepted as the theory of the id. at pp. 12071208.) agreeing with saez, the court of appeal in people v. marin (2015) 240 cal.app.4th descamps leaves no true room for debate also people v. wilson may not impose a sentence above the statutory maximum based on disputed facts about prior conduct not admitted by the 20 here there were disputed facts regarding how valentine violated section 245, subdivision (a), in 1986. the attorney that it was incontrovertible that appellant valentine threw a beer bottle during the incident. therefore, even assuming that but as the attorney general acknowledges, there were factual inferences that had to be drawn from the preliminary hearing testimony in order to reach that conclusion. for 20 our supreme court is currently considering this issue in people v. gallardo, s231260 (review granted dec. 17, 2015), on constituted a strike incompatible with descamps v. u.s. (2013) 570 u.s. __ [133 s.ct. 2276] because the trial court relied on judicial fact-finding beyond the elements of the actual prior conviction? 53 beer bottle[,] . . . russell saw appellant valentine making a throwing motion with his arm and immediately was hit in the head with another bottle. this constituted powerful circumstantial evidence that appellant valentine threw a bottle (italics added.) again: appellant valentine admitted that the bottle he threw at officer it implies that appellant valentine aimed the throw at officer russell with the intent to hit him, but that officer russell fortuitously moved out of the waythe trial court resolved a factual dispute by deciding to disbelieve -there was no fistfight but only an unprovoked attack on him and hobgood. all of this the trial court was not permitted to do under descamps. valentine contends the trial court violated the sixth amendment by adjudicating factual disputes in order to find that his 1986 conviction had been for assault with a deadly weapon rather than assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury. as a result, valentine argues, there was insufficient evidence to sustain a three strikes sentence. we agree and conclude his sentence must be reversed. however, because retrial of a prior conviction allegation after a reversal for insufficient evidence is permissible (see monge v. california (1998) 524 u.s. 721, 734 [118 s.ct. 2246]; people v. marin, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at p. 1365), we will ial of this strike allegation. 54 disposition the judgments are affirmed in part, reversed in part, and petition is denied as moot. the judgment against whitmore is affirmed. the judgment against valentine is affirmed except as to the prior strike finding, which is reversed and remanded to the trial court for a retrial (which must be a jury trial unless waived by valentine). the judgment as to vantuinen is affirmed in part and reversed in part (as to the section 654 ruling regarding his conviction for possessing a second trial court for resentencing on that conviction. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: aldrich, j. lavin, j. 