 filed 8/11/16 p. v. sanchez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. victor hugo sanchez, defendant and appellant. b261177 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka100488) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed. john f. schuck, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and thomas c. hsieh, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 introduction victor hugo sanchez appeals from the judgment entered after he pleaded no contest to one count of driving with a suspended license and a jury convicted him of one count of driving under the influence. he challenges the latter conviction, arguing the people impermissibly relied exclusively on his extrajudicial statements to establish the corpus delicti of the offense. because there was sufficient proof of the corpus delicti apart from extrajudicial statements, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. the charges in february 2014, following a fatal traffic accident, the people charged sanchez and a co-defendant, vincent lopez, with one count each of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)), driving under the influence causing injury (veh. code,  23153, subd. (a)), and driving with a suspended license (veh. code,  14601.1, subd. (a)).1 the people also alleged that sanchez had a previous conviction for driving with a blood alcohol level of .08 percent or more (veh. code,  23152, subd. (b)). sanchez pleaded no contest to driving with a suspended license, and trial began on the remaining counts. b. the evidence kristian portillo testified that on the afternoon of december 25, 2012 he, luis castro, jess rodriguez, and sanchez approximately four hours before deciding . sanchez drove them to tavern in his red ford escort. tavern, the four men continued to drink beer and play pool. at some point in the evening lopez joined the group. the five men 1 the people also charged lopez with driving while having a blood alcohol level of .08 percent or more. 3 tavern in two cars: eclipse, with lopez driving, and castro and rodriguez in on the way to s house, lopez ran a stop sign and collided with a van.2 s tavern, testified that on december 25, 2012 a group of four men arrived at approximately 3:30 p.m. and were joined about an hour later by a fifth. the group of five men included sanchez and lopez. miller estimated that by the time her shift ended at 6:00 p.m. she had served the group five 64-ounce pitchers of beer, which they shared among themselves. that she served the group one or two more pitchers of beer. castro testified that the group ordered and shared at least five pitchers of beer at castro also confirmed that, on december 26, 2012, he told police that tavern. castro testified that, s tavern the street to pass a car, and traveled at approximately 40 miles per hour on a street where the speed limit was 25 miles per hour. castro stated that he feared for his safety because were stopped next to each other at a red light, and that when the light turned green both cars started forward and began swerving between and around other cars. castro was frightened because sanchez drove his car into spaces that castro did not think it would fit. susan lopez was driving in the area around 9:00 p.m. that evening, with her two adult children, heather and joshua, as passengers. she testified that while she was driving , at a high rate of speed. the cars were traveling side-by- 2 not guilty of offenses relating to that injury and death, and sanchez challenges only his conviction for driving under the influence. 4 side s left rear bumper. after the two cars passed her, they continued up the street at the same high rate of speed, running the stop sign at the next intersection. heather, estimated the two cars ran that stop sign at 60 miles per hour. heather testified that she continued to watch the two cars travel at that same rate of speed until they reached another intersection, where the silver car collided with a white van. heather believed the two cars were racing. detective brandon karmann interviewed sanchez at his home on the morning of december 26, 2012. at trial the people played an audio recording of the interview. in the interview, sanchez stated he witnessed the collision the night before but was too ed escort, had left the scene of thinfluence. detective karmann and his partner arrested sanchez and took him to the police station, where detective karmann interviewed sanchez again. the people played an audio-video recording of this interview as well. in the interview, sanchez again s tavern, admitted stated he left the scene of the accident because he knew he detective karmann concluded that sanchez was driving under the influence when ecember 25, 2012. the detective based this [sanchez] at the bar, one of the bartenders there saying that he was there consuming alcohol, and then his own admission of drinking and probably being under the influence of alcohol and should not have been driving and also his recollection of the actual detective karmann also noted that sanchez was approximately six feet four inches tall and weighed approximately 220 pounds. 5 c. the verdict, sentence, and appeal the jury found sanchez not guilty of murder, but guilty of driving under the influence (veh. code,  23152, subd. (a)), a lesser included offense of driving under the influence causing injury. the jury found true the allegation that sanchez had previously been convicted for driving with a blood alcohol level of .08 percent or more. the trial court sentenced sanchez to 365 days in county jail for driving under the influence and 365 days in county jail for driving with a suspended license, to be served consecutively. the court awarded sanchez credit for time served and released him. sanchez timely appealed. discussion sanchez challenges his conviction for driving under the influence. sanchez argues that the people relied exclusively on his extrajudicial statements to establish the corpus delicti of the offense because, aside from his statements to the police, insufficient evidence showing that the red escort was driven by a person who was under this argument. of the crime itself -- i.e., the fact of injury, loss, or harm, and the existence of a criminal agency as its cause. in california, it has traditionally been held, the prosecution cannot satisfy this burden by relying exclusively upon the extrajudicial statements, confessions, people v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161, 1168-1169; accord, people v. sanchez (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 167, 173.) requirement ensures that a defendant will not be convicted of a crime that never people v. tompkins (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 1253, 1259; see people v. alvarez on appeal, w the trial people v. alvarez, at p. 1170; see people v. sanchez, at pp. 173-174.) 6 the independent proof may be circumstantial and need not be beyond a reasonable doubt, but is sufficient if it permits an inference of criminal conduct, even if a noncriminal explanation is also plausible. [citations.] there is no requirement of long as there is some slight or prima facie showing of injury, loss, or harm by a criminal agency. [citation.] in every case, once the necessary quantum of independent evidence value to strengthepeople v. alvarez, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1171; accord, people v. sanchez, supra, 246 cal.app.4th at p. 173.) to a prima (people v. tompkins, supra, 185 cal.app.4th at p. 1259; accord, people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 301.) of the perpetrators. it is not necessary that it connect the defendant with the commission people v. rivas (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1410, 1428; accord, people v. cullen (1951) 37 cal.2d 614, 624.) the offense of driving under the influence consists of proof that the automobile was being people v. martinez (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 851, 855; see people v bowen (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 102, 106 the corpus delicti of the offense [has long consisted of] proof of the ultimate facts that the automobile in question was being driven . . . by some person who was then and there under the influence of intoxicating liquor) independent of sanch to police, the evidence was much more than that on the evening of december 25, 2012 some person was driving the red escort under the influence of alcohol. (people v. tompkins, supra, 185 cal.app.4th at p. 1259.) indeed, there was substantial evidence that person was sanchez. portillo and castro testified that sanchez drove the red escort after tavern. sanchez and the other members of his group six or seven 64-ounce pitchers of beer, 7 which the group shared. castro told police that sanchez consumed as many as three pitchers of beer (the equivalent of 16, 12-ounce bottles). castro also stated that, when avern, street, and zig-zagged around other cars causing castro to fear for his personal safety. susan and heather lopez also described the recklessness with which the red escort was driven. at a minimum, this independent evidence supports a reasonable inference that on the evening of december 25, 2012 someone was driving the red escort under the influence of alcohol. (see people v. canty gravamen of driving while under the influence is driving despite an impairment of people v. enriquez (1996) 42 cal.app.4th 661, 665 [must have so far affected the nervous system, the brain, or muscles as to impair to an appreciable degree the ability to operate a vehicle in a manner like that of an ordinarily prudent and cautious person in full possession of his faculties], italics omitted.) and, although not necessary to establish the corpus delicti, the independent evidence supports a reasonable inference that it was sanchez. disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. garnett, j. * *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 