filed 5/18/16 p. v. amadeo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james michael amadeo, defendant and appellant. b261791 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba111319) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. richard d. pfeiffer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in 1997, james michael amadeo was convicted of a special circumstance murder he committed at the age of 16 and sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole (lwop). in 2013, amadeo filed a writ of habeas corpus, seeking recall of his sentence and resentencing pursuant to miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. ___, 132 s.ct. 2455 (miller) and people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354 (gutierrez). after holding a hearing at which it considered the factors outlined in miller and gutierrez, the court amadeo now contends the trial court improperly balanced the factors, placing undue weight on the circumstances while giving insufficient consideration to his efforts at rehabilitation. we disagree. by miller 190.5, subdivision (b), give such weight to the relevant factors as it reasonably (people v. palafox (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 68, 73 (palafox).) the trial court here considered the relevant factors and acted within the bounds of reason when it concluded that a sentence of lwop was the appropriate one. accordingly, we affirm. factual and procedural history i. underlying conviction and sentence1 in 1994, when he was 16 years old, amadeo was a ward of the juvenile court housed at the dorothy kirby center. he and another juvenile housed at the facility hatched a plan to escape . the plan called for amadeo to call for a guard, throw aspirin in his face, and money, 1(people v. amadeo (mar. 1, 1999) b114458 [nonpub. opn.]), of which we take judicial notice on our own motion. (evid. code,  452, subd. (a), 459, subd. (a).) the facts as 3 amadeo put the plan into motion on april 3, 1994. he borrowed a screwdriver from a guard, for the ostensible purpose of fixing a curtain rod. instead, he used the screwdriver to remove a leg from the desk in his room. later that evening, amadeo made a request to use the restroom. when the guard on duty, 58-year-old arnold garcia, arrived at his door to let him out, amadeo beat him repeatedly with the desk leg. garcia sustained at least four severe wounds to the head, any one of which would have been fatal, as well as bruising to his shoulders, arms, hands, upper thigh, and buttocks. the wounds were consistent with garcia lying on the ground being beaten while his head scraped against the ground. garcia later died at the hospital. amadeo and his coconspirator were apprehended while running away from the dorothy kirby center. amadeo had in his possession both a screwdriver and a set of keys. a jury found amadeo guilty of four felony offenses: murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),2 second degree robbery ( 211), conspiracy to escape from a juvenile facility ( 182, subd. (a)(1)), and escape from a juvenile facility by force or violence (welf. & inst. code,  871, subd. (b)). the jury found true the allegation that amadeo used a deadly weapon in the commission of the offense ( 12022, subd. (b)), and further found true three special circumstance allegations: (1) that the murder was committed for the purpose of preventing arrest and perfecting an escape ( 190.2, subd. (a)(5)), (2) that the murder was an intentional killing of a peace officer engaged in the performance of his duties ( 190.2, subd. (a)(7)), and (3) that the murder was committed during the course of a robbery ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)(a)). the trial court sentenced amadeo to lwop on the murder count, plus one year for the use of a deadly weapon, and stayed the sentences on the remaining counts. we affirmed the convictions in 1999. (people v. amadeo (mar. 1, 1999) b114458 [nonpub. opn.]) ii. petition and hearing amadeo filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in propia persona on june 26, 2013. he contended he was entitled to resentencing because the trial court that sentenced 2all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 him in 1997 did not adequately consider the distinctive mitigating circumstances of his youth and background, as required by miller, supra, 132 s.ct. 1255. amadeo attached to his petition a handwritten declaration in which he described his tumultuous childhood, including physical abuse at the hands of his mother and her boyfriend, to whom he upstays at four mental health facilities. amadeo also expressed remorse for his crimes. in addition, he including successfully completing numerous self-help and coping courses, obtaining a paralegal degree, taking college courses, and writing a book about his life. amadeo immature, impulsive child i once was. time tempers youth, and the years have tempered me through and through. i no longer pose the threat that i did as a child, and i humbly ask although it is unclear from the limited record before us precisely what transpired after the petition for writ of habeas corpus was filed, amadeo at some point obtained counsel th resentence him to 25 years to life. 1994 cand failure to appreciate risks demonstrated t in support of the latter contention, counsel attached approximately 100 pages of exhibits, including a letter of remorse amadeo -stage prison gang debriefing program; numerous certificates reflecting his participation in and completion of self-help programs such as anger management, narcotics anonymous, victim awareness, and life skills and self-development; laudatory notes 5 from his work supervisors; samples of his artwork; and his transcript and completion certificate from a paralegal program. the deputy district attorney filed an opposing sentencing memorandum. he argued that amadeo should remain sentenced to lwop because his actions were premeditated and calculated, the court previously considered his dysfunctional upbringing, the offense was planned and initiated by amadeo, and his rehabilitative con3 on december 1, 2014, the matter came before the court for hearing by the same judge who originally sentenced amadeo. during the hearing, the court commented that the two main cases amadeo relied upon, miller and gutierrez, were factually miller involved killings by - - or sentences that were extreme in the sense that non-killers were sentenced under a mandatory scheme of life without parole sentences,gutierrez does not involve killing of a police 4 and their applicability to his own. regarding rehabilitative efforts and family circumstances, and from the deputy district attorney, who emphasized that amadeo had mitigating evidence concerning his age and family circumstances at the original sentencing hearing. the deputy district attorney further highlighted the persistence of 3although both parties referred toand amadeo purported to incorporatethe sentencing memorandum amadeo filed in 1997, that memorandum is not in the record before us. 4these comments were partially incorrect. miller resolved two consolidated cases, and although the juvenile offender in one of them, kuntrell jackson, was guilty of murder only as an aider and abettor, the other offender, evan miller, was a direct perpetrator. (see miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at pp. 2461-2462.) gutierrez also resolved two consolidated cases (see gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1361), one of which involved the murder of a peace officer (see id. at p. 1362) and the other of which did not (see id. at p. 1366). miller but agreed with the court as to gutierrez. 6 prison as an adult before undertaking his rehabilitative efforts. during the deputy district acourt pointed out poor choices, to the point that prison officials plac the court also stated that , the court nonetheless declined to resentence amadeo. in arriving at this conclusion, the court articulated and miller factors,five factors courts deciding whether to impose lwop on juvenile offenders must consider pursuant to miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at pp. 2468-2469 (which we discuss, post). as to the chronological age and hallmark features, immaturity, impetuositythe court noted that , took sequential steps to carry out the plan, and continued to strike garcia after knocking him unconscious. in considering the extricate himself, the court noted that amadeo and his family moved a lot and that amadeo witnessed abuse. statements that he was sent to visit with school counselors and psychiatrists and psychologists on multiple occasions. the court also noted, however, that amadeo was placed with his grandmother, and that he stole from her uld to getting him four different treatment centers. pressure may have affected him,crime, even though he had a coconspirator. who planned it. he asked for a screwdriver, he loosened the table leg. he then asked for 7 a head call. he then struck the 58-year-old probation officer several times with great the court characterized the crime as , and because -year-old man that he killed was unarmed, was no threat to 5 the court also noted that miller the court found the not as to the final factor, any evidence bearing on the possibility of rehabilitation, the ve the court amadeo timely appealed. (see  1237, subd. (b).) discussion amadeo contends that the trial court erred by placing controlling weight upon the nature of his offense of conviction when balancing the miller factors. seizing on the trial court relied upon the commitment offense to virtually issue a mandatory lwop sentence by not resentencing mr. am[a]deo because of the immutable circumstances of the underlying crime. is amenable to r ion for abuse of discretion (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 847; palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 91) and conclude that 5court also amadeo refutes this point, arguing it was contradicted by eyewitness testimony that the court presided over the trial, however, and was within its discretion to credit the testimony of one witness over the testimony of another. 8 all of the circumstances (see denham v. superior court (1970) 2 cal.3d 557, 566). i. legal framework in miller, the united states supreme court held that statutes requiring courts to sentence juvenile homicide offenders to lwop violated the eighth amendment ban on cruel and unusual punishments. (miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at pp. 2469, 2475.) the high court explained that its other recent precedents concerning juvenile sentencing, roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551 and graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, along with its [,] make clear that a judge or jury must have the opportunity to consider mitigating circumstances before imposing the harshest possible (miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2475.) cer misses too much if he treats every child as an a (id. at p. 2468.) the court accordingly set forth five considerations miller that sentencing courts need to evaluate before sentencing a juvenile homicide offender to lwop: ark featuresamong them, immaturity, environment that surrounds himand from which he cannot usually extricate himself circumstances of the homicide offense, including the extent of his participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer a lesser offense if not for incompetencies associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors (including on a plea agreement) or his the possibility of rehabilitationmiller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2468.) the miller conclude that lwop was an appropriate sentence for a particular juvenile homicide offender. (miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2469.) instead, it explicitly stated that its ruling youth and attendant characteristicsid. at p. 9 2471), such that sentencing courts going forward were obligated account how children are different, and how those differences counsel against irrevocably sentencing them to a lifetime in prison before imposing lwop sentences (id. at p. 2469). in montgomery v. louisiana (2016) ___u.s. ___, 136 s.ct. 718, 736, the court held that miller applies retroactively to offenders like amadeo, whose lwop sentences became final before miller was decided. the pertinent statute governing sentencing of juvenile offenders remains section 190.5. subdivision (b) of that statute providguilty of murder in the first degree, in any case in which one or more special circumstances enumerated in section 190.2 or 190.25 has been found to be true under section 190.4, who was 16 years of age or older and under the age of 18 years at the time of the commission of the crime, shall be confinement in the state prison for life without the possibility of parole or, at the discretion oetion on the sentencing court to impose either life without parole or a term of 25 years to life on a 16- or 17-year-old juvenile convicted of special (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1387.) mitigating factors enumerated in penal code section 190.3 and the california rules of (pen. code,  190.3, (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1388.) section 190.3, e miller requires. (miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p.__ (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1388.) the california supreme court has interpreted miller to require a sentencing court miller factors. (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at pp. 1388-1389.) relevant evidence on a petition for resentencing includes evidence that a juvenile offender has undertaken efforts to rehabilitate him or herself while incarcerated. (people v. lozano (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1126, 1137-1138.) 10 although a court must consider the miller factors and all relevant evidence pertinent to them prior to sentencing a juvenile offender to lwop or declining to resentence him or her to a determinate sentencedecision whether to impose lwop on a juvenile who has committed murder, (palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 73.) as subdivision (b), give such weight to the relevant factors as it reasonably determines is (ibid.) ii. analysis amadeo contends the trial court gave impermissibly undue weight to the third miller factor, the nature and circumstances of his crime of conviction. it is apparent from the record that the court placed significant weight upon this factor: it repeatedly emphasized the heinous nature of the crime and concluded that the other circumstances, o before arriving at this conclusion, however, the court articulated and considered the other pertinent miller factors. it considered whether the crime reflected the hallmarks of youth, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks, and concluded that the planned nature of the crime demonstrated it did not. the court also took note of the environmental vulnerabilities to which amadeo was exposed as a child, noting that it had read ama addressing those issues. upbringing was difficult, the court nevertheless found compelling that amadeo began living with his grandmother four to five years before the garcia murder and continued to act out despite her efforts to obtain treatment for him. the court also considered the efforts amadeo made to rehabilitate himself, even interrupting the deputy district to 11 efforts at rehabilitation. the court concluded that positive factor did not outweigh the other factors, which in its view were neutral at best and negative at worst. the approach the court took was similar to that taken by the court in the closely analogous case of palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at pp. 79-80. in palafox, the juvenile defendant and a coconspirator were convicted of burglarizing a home and beating the elderly residents to death with a baseball bat. (see palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at pp. 73-74.) the court sentenced the defendant to two consecutive lwop terms and was ordered to reconsider the decision in light of miller, which was decided during the pendency of his appeal. (see id. at pp. 74-75). the trial court articulated and considered the miller factors. (see id. at pp. 78-80.) the court concluded: cising my discretion, i find some factors that are essentially neutral, just a couple that tend to against it, and a couple of factors that i think do weigh in favor of a less than life without it is a weighing exercise as it would be in a penalty phase in a death penalty case were the jury trying the matter. [] i come back to the fact in the end when i weigh these factors, the one that is by far the greatest weight to me is the circumstances of the offences [sic] that were committed in this particular case and not just the severity and brutality of the crimes involved, . . . there is absolutely no question that the potential consequences to the [victims], who were doing nothing other than sleeping in their own home, were unaware prior to the assaults at the beginning . . . . [] i find almost more chilling than . . . what happened . . . when the offences [sic] were committed the fact two individuals in question stood outside at some point and had a discussion about what to do to the people inside if they were located. that to me is almost a very definition of premeditated (palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at pp. 80-81, emphasis added.) the court resentenced the defendant to two consecutive terms of lwop (id. at p. 81), and the defendant appealed. 12 the appellate court affirmed. weighed circumstances, and implicitly concluded defendant was unfit ever to reenter society. we cannot say it exceeded the bounds of reason, all of the circumstances being considered, under (palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 91.) we reach the same conclusion here. the trial court considered the miller factors, and appropriately gave the most weight to the one it found most compelling. while we or another court may have drawn different inferences or weighed the miller factors bounds of reason. amadeo argues that the court should have placed more weight upon his well-documented and apparently substantial efforts at rehabilitation. indeed, one could read his briefing to suggest that the court should have placed controlling weight upon the final miller factor, evidence bearing on the possibility of rehabilitation. for instance, he rehabilitated, and when that is shown, they should not be sentenced to life without ,and that was whether or not mr. am[a]deo court to reverse the decision all of the relevant miller factors and select an appropriate sentence under section 190.5. no particular factor uniformly may predominate over the others, regardless of the outcome to which it tends to point (see palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 73); it would be just as problematic to afford presumptively controlling weight to the rehabilitation factor as it would to afford controlling weight to the nature of the crime. amadeo also points to language in miller sentencing juveniles to this harshest possible 13 unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects (roper, [supra,] 543 u.s. at p. 573; graham, [supra,] 560 u.s., at ___, 130 s.ct., at 2026- (miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2469.) he contends the gutierrezand miller. although the trial court did initially question the applicability of miller and gutierrez to were applicable and considered each of the miller petition. miller. (miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2471.) its conclusion lies within the bounds of reason and accordingly is affirmed. disposition the order of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 