filed 9/3/15 p. v. garcia ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steven garcia, defendant and appellant. b261125 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na099753) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. christopher love, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________________ 2 a jury convicted steven garcia of unlawfully driving a vehicle, with findings that he had a prior conviction for unlawfully driving a vehicle and a prior strike conviction. (veh. code,  10851; pen. code,  666.5; 667, subds. (b)-(j); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d).) the trial court sentenced garcia to a total aggregate term of eight years in state prison consisting of the upper term of four years for the vehicle offense, doubled for the prior strike. appointed counsel on appeal filed an opening brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). garcia has filed a letter brief asserting various claims of error. we affirm the judgment. facts the crime at about 6:00 a.m. one morning, jose olivo went outside to start his toyota truck. while the truck was warming up, olivo walked about 50 feet away to fill up a bottle of water. the noise of the truck and . . . turned around and [it] olivo did not see who was driving his truck; he had not given anyone permission to drive it. , joanna, promptly called police and reported that the truck had been stolen. later that m based on the information from his neighbors, olivo used another car to go look for his truck. he found his truck parked near 256th street and marigold avenue, and parked his car directly behind the truck. at that point, olivo saw garcia the truck olivo approached garcia and asked, garcia responded, olivo said that he was going to call the police, and garcia said, at about noon, olivo called his daughter, joanna, and told her that he had found his truck. joanna drove to 256th street where she saw the truck, olivo, and garcia. maria martinez also drove to 256th street where she too saw the truck and saw olivo and 3 garcia. joanna called the police. garcia did not leave the scene, but paced back and forth and from one side of the street to the other. the police arrived. the keys to the truck were not in the truck and were not found on garcia. olivo and joanna helped the police to look for the truck keys. joanna eventually found the keys near the curb where garcia had been pacing. a lawn mower and other gardening tools that had been in the back of the truck when it was taken from were missing. the criminal case on july 25, 2014, before the preliminary hearing, the trial court granted oral request to represent [him]self1 stated that he had experience with criminal court, explaining that he had presented himself in ases. in august 2014, the people filed an information charging garcia as indicated at the outset of this opinion. the case was tried to a jury in mid-october 2014, at which time the prosecution presented evidence establishing the facts summarized above. garcia testified in his own be in the area, and had been merely looking at the truck when olivo arrived at the scene. on october 17, 2014, at about 2:45 p.m., the jury retired to begin its deliberations. at about 3:50 p.m., the jury advised the trial court that a verdict had been reached. the jury found garcia guilty of the alleged unlawful vehicle driving charge, and also found that he suffered a prior conviction for unlawfully driving a vehicle and a prior conviction for assault with a deadly weapon. on october 31, 2014, the trial court sentenced garcia as indicated at the outset of this opinion. garcia filed a timely notice of appeal. 1 although not expressly cited during the hearing, we note that the right to self-representation is guaranteed pursuant to faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806. 4 discussion we appointed counsel to represent garcia on appeal. appointed counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, requesting independent review of the record on appeal for arguable issues. we then notified garcia by letter that he could submit any claim, argument or issues that he wished our court to review. garcia filed a letter brief which we discuss below. the initial one-letter brief consists of an autobiography of sorts describing his involvement with the law over a course of more than 20 years, and multiple criminal and civil proceedings. further, he recounts a number of personal trials and been victimized on several occasions by police and or lawyers, arising from events that he contends current criminal case was infected with error. as such, it does not support reversal of his conviction for unlawfully driving a vehicle. is labeled as a his current appeal because we have independently reviewed the record on appeal, and find that appointed counsel has fulfilled his duty, and that no arguable issues exist. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106.) disposition the judgment is affirmed.2 bigelow, p. j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 2 during the pendency of this appeal, garcia filed a self-represented petition for habeas corpus relief in this court. we dispose of the habeas petition (b265882) by separate order. 