filed 3/9/16 p. v. ramirez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando sabino ramirez, defendant and appellant. b261613 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga090571) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dorothy l. shubin, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant fernando sabino ramirez was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury. he challenges his convictions, arguing that they fail for want of sufficient evidence. in addition, he contends that the trial court committed evidentiary and instructional error, and that there was prosecutorial and juror misconduct. we reject his contentions and affirm. relevant procedural history on april 29, 2014, an information was filed, alleging that appellant had committed two offenses against joshua martinez. the information charged appellant in count 1 with assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (count 1; pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)), and in count 2 with involuntary manslaughter (count 2; pen. code,  192, subd. (b).) 1 accompanying count 1 were allegations that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury on martinez, thereby causing him to become comatose ( 12022.7, subds. (a), (b).)2 appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. a jury found appellant guilty as charged, and found the special allegations to be true. the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of seven years. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 the information also charged the offense alleged under count 1 against timothy coley, jonas ramos, angel moroyoqui, and jonathan aquino. none of those co-defendants was tried with appellant. coley pleaded no contest to the charge and testified as 3 facts a. prosecution evidence on august 5, 2013, appellant attended the ixtapa club in pasadena with sister ashley.3 accompanying them were jonas ramos, angel moroyoqui, and jonathan aquino. also present in the club was a group of members of the united states marine corps, including joshua martinez, andrew olson, and christopher chung. the marines were not on duty. in the company of the marines were mary rivera and two other females. coley testified that at some point, ashley returned from the crestroom, crying. ashley said that while she was using the restroom, a man walked in on her. later, appellant remarked to according to coley, appellant was mad. coley saw that ramos, moroyoqui, and aquino were also upset. mary rivera testified that inside the club, four or five people approached martinez and her in an unfriendly manner. she asked group and the other group to leave the club. michael hernandez, a bouncer at the ixtapa, testified that he saw five men surround one of the marines near the dance floor. the group directed angry remarks toward the marine, who remained calm. shortly afterward, a female group to leave the club. the marine and his friends were compliant, and agreed to 3 because timothy coley and his sister share their surname, we refer to her as 4 do so. as they left the club, the other although hernandez did not identify appellant as among the five men who surrounded the marine, he saw appellant in the club that evening, and believed that appellant was a member of an angry and aggressive-incident involving the marine. coley testified that his group gathered in the ixtapa where appel. coley, ramos, moroyoqui, and aquino then followed appellant out of the club and onto the street. they saw martinez, olson, and chung standing by a light post close to staurant near the ixtapa. the events that followed were recorded by two video cameras. one was in a taxi parked in front of the ixtapa, and the other was beanery. the prosecution called several witnesses regarding the events outside the ixtapa, as shown in the video recordings from the cameras. according to coley, marines, beanery. as appellant and his friends neared martinez, coley passed olson. appellant approached martinez from behind and punched him one time. martinez fell to the ground. after appellant struck martinez, fighting broke out. nearby, olson stabbed ramos and moroyoqui. although coley testified that during the fight he did not see olson draw or use a knife, he also stated that the taxi video recording showed that the stabbings occurred after appellant punched martinez. chung testified that after his group left ixtapa, some of his friends entered barnehe, martinez, and olson remained outside, along with two females. olson pointed out 5 some people were following them, but chung did not know whether they posed a threat. chung did not see the approach of , who came up to martinez from behind and punched him. after martinez fell to the ground, chung moved toward the assailant, who threw a punch at him. chung then fought with the assailant and his group in order to defend himself and martinez. olson he noticed some individuals approaching with their eyes on martinez. moments later, he heard a loud hit, and saw several persons attack martinez, including appellant, ramos, moroyoqui, aquino, and coley.4 force, and blood came from his mouth. in order to distract the assailants from martinez, olson drew a knife and stabbed the closest person attacking martinez. he later stabbed another person. the altercation ended when the assailants saw fight him. shortly afterward, olson threw the knife away and changed his clothes. when questioned by police officers, olson said that he had used a knife and described where it was. rivera testified that after leaving the ixtapa, she and a friend were walking ahead of the marines when she heard a commotion behind her. although she did not see the fight begin, at some point she heard someone yell that a person had a blade or knife. martinez suffered a severe cranial injury that rendered him comatose. he later died of that injury. 4 because olson was unavailable as a witness, excerpts from his preliminary hearing testimony were admitted at trial. 6 b. defense evidence ashley testified that on august 5, 2013, she went to the ixtapa bathroom, entered a stall, locked its door, and pulled down her pants. martinez came into the bathroom with a woman, pushed open, and despite her repeated demands, did not close it. after ashley closed the door herself, martinez left the bathroom. upon returning to martinez, who smirked at her. ashley began to cry, and talked to ramos and coley. she told they walked into my stall, somebody opened my stall door.according to ashley, she did not identify martinez as that person to anyone in her group. called by the defense, coley testified that when he saw ashley, she told him when his group approached martinez, and the closest person to olson. according to coley, the video recording from the taxi camera showed that at the approximate time appellant punched martinez, ramos threw a punch at someone. pasadena police detective cuong pham testified that after the incident he interviewed olson, who showed him the location of the knife olson had used. pham concluded that olson had stabbed two people because they attacked him. appellant did not testify. discussion appellant contends (1) that the trial court improperly excluded evidence, (2) that c(3) 7 that there is insufficient evidence to sustain his convictions, (4) that the jury was misinstructed, (5) that there was prosecutorial misconduct, and (6) that the jury engaged in misconduct. for the reasons discussed below, we reject his contentions. a. limitation on presentation of evidence relating to bathroom incident appellant contends the trial court improperly evidence regarding xtapa bathroom. although the court it excluded some details of the incident. appellant argues that the excluded evidence was relevant to his theory of self-defense because it showed that martinez wafight. in addition, he argues that the evidence established that coley and ramos had powerful reasons to wish to punch martinez. as explained below, we see no 1. governing principles our focus is to coley regarding the bathroom incident while limiting the admission of evidence concerning the details of that incident. generally, remarks admitted as circumstantial evidence of the hear submitted for their truth, and thus fall outside the scope of the hearsay rule. (people v. bolden (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 707, 714-715; people v. roberson (1959) 167 cal.app.2d 429, 431; 1 witkin, cal. evidence (5th ed. 2012) hearsay,  32, n, pp. 825-826, 835.) relating to the bathroom incident are reviewed for abuse of discretion. (see spolter v. four wheel brake serv. co. (1950) 99 cal.app.2d 690, 699.) 8 2. underlying proceedings prior to trial, the prosecutor asked the court to limit the admission of prosecutor argued that the incident itself s remarks to coley after the incident, which were he requested leave to examine witnesses regarding the details of the bathroom incident. the court concluded that remarks were admissible because they were not offered for the truth, but request to admit sent an adequate showing of relevance. the court further ruled that counsel would be permitted to renew his request if ashley was called as a defense witness. d-in-chief, coley testified that ashley told him a man had walked into the bathroom. the court instructed the jury that the [,] but . . . only for the limited purpose of explaining subsequent actions, if any, of [coley] after the prosecution completed its case-in-chief, defense counsel sought to examine ashley regarding the bathroom incident. proof, ashley would testify that after she entered a bathroom stall and pulled down her pants, a man followed another woman into the bathroom and asked her to have sex with him in a stall. when the woman refused, the man forced open the door of 9 stall door, and demanded that the man leave the bathroom. she then reported the incident to coley and two other people. in response, the prosecutor contended that the proposed testimony was irrelevant, as ashley did not intend to testify that her statements to coley contained more details regarding the bathroom incident than the statements already described by coley. the prosecutor argued that the proposed testimony the trial court concluded that although some details of the bathroom incident were additional the court state of mind during the incident was certain events she saw. 3. analysis in our view, testimony. in people v. davis (1965) 62 cal.2d 791, 793, the defendant was charged with the murder was committed in the heat of passion and while he lacked the mental capacity to engage in a premeditated murder. (id. at p. 795.) in support of those theories, he sought to admit three notebooks containing passages purportedly showing that his wife and his victim were engaged in an affair. (id. at p. 798.) although the trial court admitted those passages, it excluded the remaining portions of the notebooks as irrelevant. (ibid.) our supreme court affirmed the ruling, concluding that the selected passages were properly admitted as circumstantial evidence of the 10 refusing to admit the remainder of the notebooks. (ibid.) we reach a similar conclusion here. there is no evidence that the excluded details of the bathroom incident were ever communicated to coley, appellant, or irrelevant -s motivations in attacking martinez. accordingly, the court did not err in limiting the admission of evidence relating to the bathroom incident.5 b appellant contends there was insufficient corroboration of the testimony from coley, who was the sole witness to identify appellant as the person who accomplice unless it be corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to ( 1111.) because coley was an accomplice to the attack on martinez, appellant argues his convictions must be reversed. we disagree. s.] relate to some act or fact which is an element of the crime but it is not necessary 5 it is thus unnecessary for us to examine each reason for the evidentiary rulings, as we may affirm those rulings on any correct ground shown by the record. (philip chang & sons associates v. la casa novato (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 159, 173.) 11 that the corroborative evidence be sufficient in itself to establish every element of smust produce independent evidence which, without aid or assistance from the testimony of the accomplice, tends to connect the defendant with the crime rating evidence is sufficient if it people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1128.) ed not independently to which the accomplice testifies [citationpeople v. romero (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 32, quoting people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 505 (abilez).) in abilez, the defendant and a co-defendant were charged with the murder of the abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 481-482.) at trial, the co-defendant testified that he saw the defendant attack his mother, and that he then helped him loot her house. (id. at p. 484.) although the co-defendant was the sole witness to identify the defendant as the killer, other witnesses testified they heard the defendant state he wanted to kill his mother, and overheard an argument between the defendant and his mother on the date of her death. (id. at pp. 505-506.) other evidence also substantiated aspects of the co-of the killing. (ibid.) corroborating the co-did. at p. 506.) we reach the same conclusion here, as there was considerable independent attack on martinez. ashley testified that appellant was with her in the ixtapa. the club bouncer, hernandez, testified that he believed appellant was in the angry and 12 aggressive-surrounded the marine in the club. according to olson, appellant was one of the although chung did not identify appellant at trial, shortly after the underlying -pack lineup and identified appellant as people v. falconer (1988) 201 cal.app.3d 1540, upon which appellant relies, is distinguishable. there, the defendant was charged with the robbery of marijuana plants from a farm. (falconer, supra, 201 cal.app.3d at p. 1542.) at testified that the defendant had planned the robbery, which was carried out by several masked intruders, including the defendant. (id. at p. 1542.) reversing the as the evidence independent of that testimony showed only that the defendant was the father of one of the intruders, that he had visited the farm several months prior to the robbery, and that he knew that marijuana was grown there. (id. at p. 1543.) in contrast, here there was significant independent evidence that appellant, in fact, participated in the assault on martinez. in sum, the record discloses sufficient corroboration testimony. c. s offenses appellant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support his convictions, arguing there is no substantial evidence that he was the person who 13 punched martinez.6 that contention fails, as coley testified that he saw appellant punch martinez. accordingly, the jury reasonably concluded that appellant was pointing to conflicts between that testimony and other evidence, the uncertainties attending eyewitness identifications, and the fact that coley was called as a prosecution witness after he pleaded no contest to the assault charge relating to martinez.7 regarding the latter event, coley testified at trial that he was charged as a defendant in the case, entered a plea of no contest, and was placed on probation. according to coley, probation was imposed due to his lack of a criminal record and minimal involvement in the crime. coley further testified that he provided a circumstances of the crime in response to questioning by the prosecutor. at trial, the prosecutor relied on the transcript of 6 the proper test for determining a claim of insufficiency of evidence in a criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] although we must ensure the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our evaluation of a witnesss credibility for that of the fact finder. [citations.] [citation.] (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) 7 in addition, appellant also asserts that the jury engaged in misconduct relating to its determination that appellant punched martinez. we consider and reject that contention separately below (see pt. d.2. of the discussion, post). 14 martinez. credibility appellate court. review for substantial evidence is not trial de novo. [citation.] (ocm principal opportunities fund, l.p. v. cibc world markets corp. (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 835, 866.) on such review, [c]onflicts and even testimony which is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of . . . [the factfinder] to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. (people v. huston (1943) 21 cal.2d 690, 693, disapproved on another ground in people v. burton (1961) 55 cal.2d 328, 352.) a witnesss statements in testimony may be rejected only when there must exist either a physical impossibility that they are true, or their falsity . . . [is] apparent without resorting to inferences or deductions. (people v. huston, supra, 21 cal.2d at p. 693.) that is not the case regarding testimony. in a related contention, appellant ashim . . . [to] testify that appellant . . . started the fight by punching martinez and the record provides no support for those assertions. coley testified that when he prosecutor said e could not later the prosecutor examined coley regarding the factual basis of the crime in order to deter him from providing a different account at trial more favorable to appellant. 15 in sum, the record discloses substantial evidence that appellant was the person who punched martinez. d. instructions regarding self-defense appellant contends the trial court erred in rejecting his requests for jury instructions relating to the defense of self-defense. need not give such instructions on request absent substantial evidence to support (people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 551 (stitely); people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581 (manriquez).) as explained below, that is the case here.8 1. perfect self-defense instruction the trial court declined to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 3470, which sets forth -defense. that defense, if established, exonerates a defendant of the crimes of manslaughter (people v. randle (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 991, overruled on another ground in people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1200) and assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury (people v. goins (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 511, 517). upon the existence of actual danger, but rather depends up(people v. clark (1982) 130 cal.app.3d 371, 377, abrogated on another ground in people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 92.) to establish the defense, the to defend himself . . . . (people v. rodarte (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 1158, 1168.) 8 on appeal, we employ a de novo standard of review, and thus independently determine whether the instruction should have been given. (manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 581, 584.) 16 must be of imminent (stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 551, quoting people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082.) the defense is subject to two principles pertinent here. when the victim belongs to a potentially hostile group, the defendant must show that threatening conduct by group members other than the victim is [with] the victim . . . .people v. minifie (1996) 13 cal.4th 1055, 1068.) furthermore, perfect self-defense may not be invowrongful conduct (e.g., the initiation of a physical assault or the commission of a in re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 773, fn. 1.) -defense instruction, the trial court found no evidence that appellant attacked martinez because he actually believed martinez posed an imminent danger to him, and no evidence that appellant had a reasonable basis for any such belief. we agree. the record is devoid of evidence that inside the ixtapa, martinez group engaged in threats or other conduct sufficient to create in appellant the actual and reasonable belief that martinez posed an imminent danger to him. coley hernandez testified that the marine surrounded by the angry men remained calm, and that was compliant when hernandez asked them to leave the club. olson testified that he did not see that incident. according to olson, inside the club, martinez told him that [had] ed that . . . . 17 chung testified that he was martinez inside the club. nor is there evidence that outside the club, martinez group engaged in any threatening conduct. although the video recordings show that shortly before the attack, martinez and his friends turned to face the general direction of appellant oley testified that appellant punched martinez from behind. although olson and chung noticed individuals following them, neither immediately regarded them as engaged in an attack. olson testified he first focused on ma second before martinez was punched, and chung testified he saw an assailant only when the punch occurred. a knife supported a self-defense instruction. however, there is no evidence that appellant punched martinez because he actually and reasonably believed that martinez -- rather than olson -- had a knife. the only percipient from olson himself, who stated that when a punch felled martinez, he drew a knife and used it to defend martinthe timing of his knife use was not challenged by coley or chung, who stated they did not see olson holding a knife during the fight.9 does not 9 appellant maintains that that olson drew his knife before appellant punched martinez, pointing to the -examination: during this whole incident . . . until we got back to the ixtapa restaurant . . . . (fn. continued on next page.) 18 support a reasonable inference that appellant regarded martinez as threatening imminent harm to him by means of a knife before he punched martinez. nor does the remaining evidence support such an inference. the video recordings -- which were concededly grainy -- appeared to show olson making a stabbing motion toward ramos immediately after martinez was punched, but did not clearly show when olson first displayed his knife or whether appellant ever saw it. although rivera -- who did not see how the altercation began -- testified she heard a person yelling that someone had a knife or blade, she could not say when that event occurred. the only witness to do so was olson, who testified that the fighting ended when the assailants saw that he had a knife, warned one another, and fled. there is thus no evidence that before punching martinez, appellant reasonably believed that martinez intended to use a knife against him. in sum, the trial court properly declined to instruct the jury regarding perfect self-defense. someone pulling a knife out? know if the knife was out before [appellant] threw pulled on this record, adrew his knife before appellant punched martinez does not constitute substantial evidence regarding the timing of those events. (roddenberry v. roddenberry substantial evidence 19 2. mutual combat instruction the trial courcalcrim no. 3471, which states that a defendant engaged in mutual combat with another person by agreement has the right to self-defense after making good faith efforts to end the combat.10 for the reasons discussed above, there is no evidence to support that instruction, as nothing suggests that appellant and martinez had been engaged in mutual combat by agreement or that appellant made s to foreclose combat with martinez before punching him. e. prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends the prosecutor engaged in three instances of misconduct during the rebuttal portion of her closing argument. as explained below, we discern no misconduct supporting a reversal of the judgments. 10 calcrim no. 3471 states in pertinent part: a person who (engages in mutual combat/ [or who] starts a fight) has a right to self-defense only if: [] 1. (he/she) actually and in good faith tried to stop fighting; [] [and] [] 2. (he/she) indicated, by word or by conduct, to (his/her) opponent, in a way that a reasonable person would understand, that (he/she) wanted to stop fighting and that (he/she) had stopped fighting(;/.) [] . . . [and [] 3. (he/she) gave (his/her) opponent a chance to stop fighting.] [] if the defendant meets these requirements, (he/she) then had a right to self-defense if the opponent continued to fight. [] . . . [] [a fight is mutual combat when it began or continued by mutual consent or agreement. that agreement may be expressly stated or implied and must occur before the claim to self-defense arose.] 20 1. governing principles . . intemperate behavior violates the federal the trial with such unfairness as to make the confundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it pt to persuade people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 260.) prosecutorial misconduct is examined for prejudice under the test in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, unless it requires assessment under the test for federal constitutional error in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. (people v. herring (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1066, 1077 (herring).) absent an objection and request for an admonition to the jury, we review a contention of prosecutorial solely when an admonition would not have cured the harm caused by the misconduct. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 858.) 2. vouching appellant contends the prosecutor engaged in improper vouching in explained below, appellant has shown no misconduct. from evidence introduced at the trial, he or she may not express a personal opinion as to guilt if there is substantial danger that a juror will interpret it as being based on information not in evidence. further, the prosecutor is prohibited from stating or implying facts for which there is no evidence before the jury. (people v. heishman (1988) 45 cal.3d 147, 195, abrogated on another ground in 21 people v. diaz (2015) 60 cal.4th 1176, 1190, 1195.) in view of these principles, [i]mpermissible may occur where the prosecutor places the prestige of the government behind a witness through personal assuranceveracity or suggests that information not presented to the jury supports the (people v. fierro (1991) 1 cal.4th 173, 211, disapproved on different grounds in people v. letner & tobin (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 205-206 and people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 941.) a. underlying proceedings the jury was instructed with calcrim no. 523, which sets forth factors relevant to the evaluation of witness credibility, including the witnessability to see, rstatements and the other trial evidence. during the rebuttal portion of closing argument, in discussing colattention to those factors. after asserting that coley had been well positioned to view the attack on martinez, tdescribe what happened? . . . [h]e told the police what happened. he pled guilty to assault . . . . defense counsel then asserted an objection on the ground that the argument court overruled. uninterrupted by further objections from defense counsel, the prosecutor . . . to come back and testify on 22 was really me or it was really johnny? [] we want to lock them into their statement to the police. we want to lock them into the truth. . . . [] . . . [coley] told this to the police. he said this during his factual basis plea which was also under oath, and he came into court, and . . . testified to what happened twice. and testifying? well, . . . coley was not thrilled to be here, obviously. . . . [h]e had to testify against a family friend and friend of his. and while he was not excited to be here, he answered every question truthfully and to the best of his ability, squirming sometimes as he had to, but he answered everything truthfully. [] . . . did [coley] make a statement in the past that was consistent or inconsistent with his testimony? [] everything that he said so far has been consistent. [] how reliable is the testimony when you consider all the other evidence in this case? and everything . . . coley has testified to comports with all the other evidence . . . . b. analysis plea relying on that purported implication, he argues that the prosecutor improperly tried to by reference to facts outside the trial evidence and the prestige of the district attorneys office. we conclude that appellant has forfeited his contention, as defense counsel asserted no objection to the pertinent remarks, which cannot be regarded as incurably prejudicial. ainitial reference ground 23 testimony. as coley had described his factual basis plea in detail, that objection was properly overruled. appellant otherwise raised no objection to the ensuing remarks regarding plea, which are the focus of contention. furthermore, a timely admonition would have nullified any suggestion conveyed by those remarks that there might be an extrinsic basis for accepting account of the crime. viewed in context, th remarks were aimed at showing the consistency of crime from his first police interview to his trial testimony, and not at enhancing credibility by reference to improper considerations. coley did not testify that his . on the contrary, as noted above (see pt. c. of the discussion, ante), coley expressly stated that no one had required him to testify against appellant. rather, the alluded to a specific portion of where he explained that at the time of his plea, the prosecutor told him she as discussed above (see pt. c. of the discussion, ante), that testimony was intended to show that the prosecutor had examined coley regarding the factual basis of the crime in order to deter him from providing a different account at trial more favorable to appellant. tthus focused on statements regarding the crime, notwithstanding her characterizations of his statements to the police, factual basis plea, and trial testimony as truthful. for that reason, any suggestion of vouching was curable by a timely admonition. accordingly, appellant has established no prosecutorial misconduct. 24 3. appellant contends the prosecutorstatement, improperly argued that defense counsel knew that he was guilty. for the reasons discussed below, he has established no misconduct. generally, a prosecutor is given wide latitude during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefrom.(people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 567, quoting people v. sassounian (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 361, 396.) under that principle, [i]t is no[t] misconduct to pointedly highlight . . . people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 752-753 (welch), overruled on another ground in people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 90-91.) thus, the prosecutor may comment on discrepancies between defense case presented at trial. (people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 385.) nonetheless, the prosecutor may not argue that defense counsel does not believe in an argument directs attention to an irrelevant factor. (people v. thompson (1988) 45 cal.3d 86, 112 (thompson).) instructive applications of these principles are found in thompson and welch. in thompson, the defendant was charged with the murder and rape of a 20-year old woman. (thompson, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 96.) at trial, the defendant testified that he was asleep when the crimes occurred, and identified another person as the probable perpetrator. (id. at pp. 99-100.) during the open portion of the closing argument, the prosecutor stated that defense counsel would probably disregard tid. at p. 112.) on appeal, the defendant contended the implied that defense counsel disbelieved his own client. (ibid.) rejecting that 25 contention, the court concluded that the focus of the was on (id. at pp. 112-113.) in welch, the defendant was charged with murder. (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 721.) at trial, the defendant testified that he did not commit the crime, but his counsel also presented evidence that the defendant was not mentally capable of premeditated killing when the crime occurred. (id. at p. 725.) during closing arguments, the prosecutor commented on the contradiction in the defense [t]hey want[ed] it both ways. (id. at p. 752.) our supreme (id. at p. 753.) a. underlying proceedings during the opening statements, defense counsel asserted that the video recordings would show that olson drew his knife before martinez was punched. in this case, you will find that [appellant] is not guilty of these charges because any punch that he threw was in reaction to . . . olson brandishing this knife and threatening[] not only . . . counsel further maintained that the jury would find in self-defense and . . . also acted in the defense of his buddies . . . . following the close of the presentation of evidence, the trial court denied -defense on the ground that there was no evidence to support them (see pt. d.1. of the discussion, ante). during argument, upon an objection by the prosecution, the trial court ruled that defense counsel could not offer a theory of self-defense to the jury. following that ruling, defense counsel argued to the jury, inter alia, that there was 26 identification of appellant as the puncher was insufficiently corroborated. during the rebuttal portion of closing argument, the prosecutor after noting that the opening statements paraphras[e]ectively stated, -defense counsel then raised an objection on the ground that the argument ], which the trial court overruled. when the prosecutor resumed her argument, the following dialogue occurred: : not once does he mention in his opening statement that [appellant] is not the puncher. that is because he knows [appellant is] the puncher. [appellant] is the puncher. throughout the entire course of this trial, [counsel] is asking questions . . . . . . s phrased. -- the defendant knows that he is the puncher. [defense counsel] stopped and started and stopped and started the video. . . . why? because he was trying to establish self-defense. he never even -- ection, your honor. -defense. 27 after sustaining that objection, the court conducted a sidebar conference, during which defense counsel sought a mistrial on the ground that the prosecutor had commented on theory of self-defense set forth in his opening statement. theory during his closing argument, and thus constituted prosecutorial misconduct. in denying that motion, the trial court remarked that the prosecutor was entitled to comment on defense opening statement, but told the prosecutor that the opening statement did following the sidebar conference, the prosecutor . . . coley and all the other witnesses that corroborate . . . b. analysis appellant was the puncher constitutes reversible prosecutorial misconduct. he argues that the remark implied that defense counsel knew that appellant was guilty, accused defense counsel of suborning perjury, and denigrated the presumption of innocence, as well as the requirement that criminal guilt be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. however, as the record discloses no request for an admonition in connection with the objections to the prosecutor, appellant has forfeited his contention. as our supreme court has explained, to preserve the issue of prosecutorial misconduct on appeal, the defendant must both object and request a curative admonition unless such admonition would have failed to cure to any prejudice. 28 (people v. lopez (2013) 56 cal.4th 1028, 1073.) request a curative admonition . . . forfeits the claim, unless no such admonition is available. (lopez, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1073.) ordinarily, remarks by the prosecutor that cast defense counsel in a negative light are susceptible to curative admonitions (ibid.), as are remarks suggesting that defense counsel disbelieves an aspect of the defense case (thompson, supraremark that defense counsel knew that appellant was the puncher was incidental to the focus of her argument, namely, that defense counsel initially proposed a because the prosecutor emphasized to the jury that the opening statement was not evidence and identity on the basis of the evidence, her remarks cannot be regarded as beyond a curative admonition. for similar reasons, we would reject the contention were we to address it. to show prosecutorial misconduct based on remarks to the jury, a defendant must demonstrate a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied those remarks in an improper or erroneous manner. (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1337.) knowledge of the from a self-defense theory -- which implicated appellant as the puncher -- to a assailant. that shift was properly subject to comment by the prosecutor. because the prosecutor repeatedly argued that ty must be resolved on the basis of the evidence, there is no reasonable likelihood that her remarks misled the jury. herring, supra, 20 cal.app.4th 1066, upon which appellant relies, is distinguishable. there, the defendant was charged with sexual assault and related 29 crimes against a single victim. (id. at p. 1070.) during the closing arguments, the prosecutor repeatedly disparaged defense counselhis people are rapists, murderers, robbers, child molesters. he has to tell them what to say. he has to help them plan a defense. he does not want you to hear the truth.(id. at pp. 1073, 1075.) the appellate court concluded that the remarks constituted presumption of innocence and the requirement that guilt be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. (idhad no such implications. in sum, appellant has shown no misconduct. 4. remark regarding failure to take responsibility appellant contends the prosecutor, in asserting that appellant had failed to take responsibility for his conduct, improperly commented on his failure to testify. in griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 [citation], the united states supreme court held that the prosecution may not comment upon a detestify in his or her own behalf. its holding does not, however, extend to bar prosecution comments based upon the state of the evidence or upon the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call anticipated witnesses. [citations.] nonetheless, . . . a prosecutor may commit griffin error if he or she argues to the jury that certain testimony or evidence is uncontradicted, if such contradiction or denial could be provided only by the defendant, who therefore would be (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1339, italics omitted.) as explained below, the record discloses no such error. 30 a. underlying proceedings prior to the closing arguments, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no later, near the end of the rebuttal portion of the closing argument, the other players in this tragedy have taken responsibility [appellant]. [appellant] punched . . . martinez -- when defense counsel raised an objection to that remark, request for a sidebar conference. the court then inquired whether remark referred solely to coley. the prosecutor agreed. after the court again denied a request from defense counsel for a sidebar conference, counsel has been violated . . . [] . . . [] [the prosecutor] cannot comment on that.court as to taking responsibility, that reference is to . . . coley onlyin any way a comment as to [appellant]. when the prosecutor resumed her argument, she stated: of innocence is what everyone is entitled to. . . . when that person is brought to [] so [appellant] gets that presumption and . . . immediately following has an absolute right to go to trial and deny the charges against him 31 b. analysis appellant maintains take responsibility was a comment on his decision not to testify. we disagree.11 because the prosecutor asserted that appellant had not taken responsibility for punching martinez, it is not reasonably likely that the jury regarded testifying as the intended method of taking responsibility, as few defendants plead not guilty and then admit the charged misconduct in testimony at their trial. furthermore, the trial court instructed the jury not to take the remarks as a comment on appethat instruction directed the jury to draw no inferences regarding appellant from the prs remark. on this record, there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury understood the remark as an invitation to infer that appellant was guilty from his failure to testify. (people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 756.) in a related contention, appellant ercise of his right to a trial. insofar as the remark conveyed such a right to a trial, nullified any potential for prejudice. (u.s. v. smith (1in closing argument that defendant, by pleading not guilty, had failed to take admonition].) in sum, appellant has shown no prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct. 11 objection, we decline to find that he forfeited the contention by failing to request an admonition. 32 f. juror misconduct appellant maintains that the judgment must be reversed due to juror misconduct. as explained below, he has established no such misconduct. 1. governing principles generally, a defendant forfeits a contention of juror misconduct absent a timely objection by means of a mistrial motion or other suitable motion. (people v. wisely (1990) 224 cal.app.3d 939, 947-948.) a mistrial should be granted only ce that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854.) although juror misconduct raises a presumption of prejudice, the in the particular case, including the nature of the misconduct or other event, and the surrounding circumstances, indicates there is no reasonable probability of prejudice . . . . in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, 296.) we independently assess whether such a reasonable probability of prejudice exists, but accept the substantial evidence. (people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1303.) 2. sleepy juror appellant contends the trial court erred in failing to dismiss a juror who fell -in-chief, the court 33 difficulty staying awake. when questioned by the court, juror no. 10 stated that she had fallen asleep for a juror no. 10 further stated that she had heard all the other testimony, and was statedefense counsel affirmatively declined to request that juror no. 10 be excused, the court decided to permit her to remain on the jury, provided that she was fully attentive. service, appellant has forfeited his contention. (people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th prejudicial were thersubject to cross- and re-cross-examination by defense counsel, and the video recordings shown during his direct examination were repeatedly displayed later in the trial. in addition, during thread back to the jury. the juror misconduct was thus harmless, even if assessed under the stringent test of prejudice applicable to federal constitutional error. 3. appellant contends the jury improperly considered evidence not admitted at trial -- -- instructions were insufficient to prevent that purported misconduct. prior to the presentation of evidence of the jury, the trial court instructed the you must not allow anything that happens outside of the courtroom to affect your decision unless i tell you ot 34 is the sworn testimony of witnesses, the exhibits admitted into evidence, and anything else i tell you to consider as evidence. following the close of the presentation of evidence, the trial court provided a similar instruction, stating evidence, and anything else i told you to consider as evidence. . . . [] . . . [] you must disregard anything you saw or heard when the court was not in session, even which jurors had conference on the request, defense counsel argued that the correct answer was you must disregard anything you saw or heard when the court was not in session, even if it was done or said by one of the appellant has forfeited his contention, as defense counsel raised no reject the contention were we to address it, as the record discloses no inadequacy in that answer or potential for prejudice to appellant. because the court had repeatedly stated that it was entitled to identify items of information as evidence, it is unsurprising that the jury requested a deindeed, the fact that the jury expressly sought guidance manifested its intent to accordingly, appellant has shown no prejudicial juror misconduct. 35 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. collins, j. 