filed 10/18/17 p. v. solis ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gabriel solis et al., defendants and appellants. b261806 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba417000) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, david m. horwitz, judge. (retired judge of the l.a. sup. ct. assigned by the chief justice pursuant to art. vi,  6 of the cal. const.) affirmed. valerie g. wass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant gabriel solis. laurie wilmore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant kristhian perez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant 2 attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ introduction defendants gabriel solis and kristhian perez appeal from judgments of conviction entered after a jury trial. the jury convicted defendants of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211)1 and found true the allegation that the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the trial court sentenced solis to the lower term of two years plus 10 years for the criminal street gang enhancement. it sentenced perez to the upper term of five years plus 10 years for the criminal street gang enhancement. on appeal, solis contends that the gang enhancement must be reversed because there was insufficient foundation for the primary activities. solis also claims that the trial court erred in before sentencing. perez contends that the trial court erred by admitting irrelevant expert testimony regarding witness intimidation. he also claims that the trial court erred by failing to obtain a supplemental before sentencing. we affirm. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 factual and procedural background a. the crime at about 10:00 p.m. on july 8, 2013, erik de la cruz was sitting on a bench in the parking lot at los angeles city college, doing homework and listening to music while he waited for his brother to pick him up. three men approached, talking among e men approached him and demanded his beats headphones. de la cruz gave them the headphones because he felt threatened. the following day, de la cruz reported the robbery to the police. he told the police that three hispanic men were involved. they wermembers. de la cruz said he heard the names risky and vandal. he thought that the men were from a gang in the neighborhood. b. the investigation on october 3, 2013, the police showed de la cruz two six-pack photographic lineups. he identified solis (also known as risky) and perez (also known as vandal) from these lineups. the following day, the police executed a search warrant at a house at 629 north juanita in los angeles. there were approximately 10 people at the house, including solis. perez had been at the house the previous day. the police recovered some beats headphones wrapped in a black or blue cord at the house. de la cruz tentatively identified them as his, although his had a red cord and less damage when they were taken. 4 c. identification evidence at the time of the robbery, it was dark, and de la cruz was not wearing his glasses. he had difficulty seeing without his glasses. de la cruz testified that in january 2014, he was interviewed by a deputy district attorney and a police officer before the preliminary hearing. he told them the men who robbed him never spoke to each other. he later clarified that he talked amohad never before seen the two men who robbed him. at trial, de la cruz identified perez/vandal and solis/risky as the individuals who robbed him. he recognized perez as someone he had seen at his high school. on cross-examination, de la cruz was impeached with his preliminary hearing testimony. he testified at the preliminary hearing that also at the preliminary hearing, he testified he did not tell the police that he thought the men who robbed him belonged to a gang, that they lived in the area, or that he had seen one of them in the past. he further claimed that he did not tell the police that he heard the men call each other risky and vandal. and he testified at the preliminary hearing that he told the police he did not remember what clothes the men were wearing and could not identify them because he did not see their faces. on redirect examination, de la cruz testified that even without his glasses he could see well enough to attend class, read, see that three men were approaching him, and see that they were hispanic. he clearly heard the men say the names risky and 5 vandal. he also testified that he did not tell the whole truth at the preliminary hearing and did not want to be there. he confirmed that risky and vandalsolis and perezwere the men who robbed him. weeks ago, sde la cruz believed de la cruz was not scared, explaining, d so many people go up to me and nothing new. been d former girlfriend. she knew perez as vandal and solis as risky. she testified that about two weeks before trial, perez told her that he had approached de la cruz and told him not to say anything in court. kimberly acknowledged that she told the prosecution about this conversation only after she got upset with perez over a personal problem. d. gang and witness intimidation evidence los angeles police officer calvert tooley is assigned to the rampart division gang enforcement detail and is familiar with the gangs in the northwest corner of the division, including the la mirada locos, which is the largest gang in the area and . the parking lot across vermont avenue from los angeles city college is inside t 6 officer tooley testified that the la mirada locos has about 130 documented members, including about 60 active members. blue sports jerseys. their primary activities are vandalism, robberies, and weapons possession; they also commit assaults and narcotics sales. la mirada locos member derek sida, known as soldier, was convicted of a 2012 attempted murder, and member christopher joseph sanchez, known as oso, was convicted of a 2011 attempted murder. officer tooley was familiar with solis, having spoken to him twice on the street in la mirada locos territory in 2013. solis had admitted to tooleyas well as to other officersthat he was a la mirada locos member. solis had tattoos consistent with membership in the la mirada locos. solis told tooley that his gang moniker was leche. field interview cards prepared by other officers also identified solis as leche; one card, however, listed both leche and risky as sols gang monikers. based s gang moniker was actually risky. the officer noted that gang members frequently give the police fake monikers. officer tooley had also spoken to perez on the street on several occasions. perez admitted that he was a la mirada locos member, and tooley had seen perez in the company of other la mirada locos members, though not solis. perez also had la mirada locos tattoos. perez had indicated that his gang moniker was infant. he had other monikers listed on different field interview cards; only one identified his moniker as vandal. based on conversations with other officers as well as other s gang moniker was actually vandal. 7 in response to a hypothetical question based on the facts of this case, officer tooley opined that the robbery was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. committing the crime in ere of fear and intimidation, allowing the gang to keep operating and making people less likely to testify against gang members. additionally, when gang members commit crimes together, it enhances their hborhood. tooley added that people testifying against gang members may face retaliation, including assaults, vandalism, and shots fired into their homes. e. defense evidence dr. mitchell eisen testified as an expert regarding eyewitness identification, focusing on memory and suggestibility. he also discussed the factors affecting the accuracy of eyewitness identification. martin flores testified as a gang expert. he explained that gang members gain respect for crimes targeting rival gang members, not people who are not members of a gang. in response to a hypothetical question based on the facts of this case, flores opined that the robbery appeared to be a crime of opportunity by gang members acting for their own benefit, not that of the gang. this was based on the facts that the victim was not a gang member and the robbers did not call out their gang name. that the robbers used their gang monikers did not make it a gang crime, because those were the names by which they knew one another. 8 solis testified on his own behalf. since high school, his friends had called him leche. he gave himself the name risky in high school, and he had continued using that name. he joined the la mirada locos after graduating from high school. he lived on his own for a while, but eventually he moved in with his father in san bernardino because of financial issues. he returned to los angeles to help out other family members but would move back to san bernardino when things got better. solis experienced some personal crises in 2013 and as a result started using crystal methamphetamine and losing his family. he also sold the drugs to support his habit. he never robbed or assaulted anyone to support his habit and had no criminal record other than one drug case. he had no tolerance for thieves and never got into a fight or used violence against someone who was not a gang member. on july 20 and august 8, 2013, officer tooley stopped solis. solis answered his questions and was not arrested. solis met perez about september 4, 2013, s birthday party. solis saw him a couple of times after that but did not hang out with him, because perez is younger than solis. solis testified that he did not rob de la cruz and did not go to the area around los angeles city college, because law enforcement patrolled the area and he wanted to avoid them. he had been to 629 north juanita on one occasion, when he dropped off some drugs and ended up staying and getting high. when interviewed by the police, he told them he was not risky or a member of the la mirada locos. he also said he did not remember committing the robbery. he explained that he had been asleep after using methamphetamine for about a week; the 9 officers woke him up, and he did not really understand what they were asking him. discussion a. sufficiency of the evidence that the la mirada locos are a criminal street gang section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), mandates additional any person who is convicted of a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members.statute criminal street gangorganization, association, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in paragraphs (1) to (25), inclusive, or (31) to (33), inclusive, of subdivision (e), having a common name or common identifying sign or symbol, and whose members individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity.id., subd. (f).) the enumerated criminal acts include robbery. (id., subd. (e)(2).) (people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 806.) in determining whether the evidence is sufficientthe light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find [the necessary facts] beyond a reasonable 10 doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the trwarranted simply because the circumstances might also reviewing court neither reweighs evidence nor reevaluates a people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60.) solis claims the evidence is insufficient to support the criminal street gang enhancement because there was no adequate foundation for concerning the primary activities of the la mirada locos. in his reply brief, on testimony was inadmissible. in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605, in which the court found that a gang enhancement was not supported by substantial evidence because id. at p. 612.) the expert had testified vaguely id. [he] (id. at p. 612.) in re alexander l. is distinguishable because officer tooley did directly testify that vandalism, robbery, and weapons possession are the primary activities of the la mirada locos, and 11 he also provided more than sufficient foundation for that testimony. tooley testified that he is assigned to the gang enforcement detail in the rampart division, that the la mirada locos are the largest gang in the area to which he is assigned, and that [n]early in his reply brief, solis argues that because officer tooley did not specifically state that his opinion mirada locos] members, his arrests of [la mirada locos] members for those particular crimes, or reading reports of other officers who had arrested [la mirada locos] members for such the cases cited by solis (such as in re alexander l. ) do not support his argument, and we are aware of no authority that does. tooley testified that most of his time at work focuses on the la experience with the gang and its memberstooley did not have to say that the opinion was based on that experience in order for the opinion to have a sufficient foundation. describing his extensive familiarity with the la mirada locos and his near daily personal interaction with its members provided ample foundation for his opinion constitutes substantial evidence that one of the primary 12 challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence for the gang enhancement lacks merit. b. admission of evidence regarding witness intimidation perez argues that the trial court abused its discretion by admitting evidence of witness intimidation by members of the la mirada locos and other gangs, because de la cruz testified at trial, identified solis and perez, and stated that he was not afraid. perez further argues that the admission of this evidence was prejudicial, it violated his constitutional rights to due process and jury trial, and his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object to all of it. we conclude that all of those arguments lack merit because the evidence was admissible. at the preliminary hearing, de la cruz testified that (1) he s, (2) he did not tell the police that he thought the men who robbed him belonged to a gang, that they lived in the area, or that he had seen one of them in the past, (3) he did not tell the police that he heard the men call each not remember what clothes the men were wearing and could not identify them because he did not see their faces. all of that prior testimony was used to impeach de la cruz at trial. very much a disputed issue at trial, as the closing arguments reflected. counsel for with a witness having a bunch of difcounsel for been in court or spoken to the [district attorney] 13 at the preliminary hearing, de la cruz did not identify could determine what testimony was the truth and what they could believe. the prosecution argued that de la cruz had lied at obviously still scared at trial, notwithstanding his testimony to does anybody here really believe see his lips shaking or quivering and his hands shaking when he retaliation is admissible because it bears on the issue of credibility. (people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1288; people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 946.) it may be relevant previous statements, helping to explain why a witness gonzalez, supra, at p. 946; see harris, supra, at pp. 1288-1289.) here, it was relevant to explain the inconsistency between preliminary hearing testimony, on the one hand, and his trial testimony and statements to police, on the other, . (we note that at the preliminary hearing too de la cruz denied that he was scared.) intimidation evidence should have been excluded as irrelevant therefore lacks merit. consequently, his constitutional claims and ineffective assistance of counsel claim fail as well. 14 c. failure to obtain 1. perez perez argues that his sentence must be vacated and the matter remanded for resentencing because the trial court erred by failing to obtain (2) we are not persuaded. rez was prepared on october 17, 2013, two weeks after perez was arrested and long before trial. pursuant to a court order that defendants not be interviewed for pre-interviewed for the report. rule 4.411.5(a)(4) of the california rules of court (rule 4.411.5(a)(4)) provides that the probation defendant to the probation officer, or a summary thereof, ces of the perez was sentenced on january 28, 2015, more than one year after preparation of the report. rule 4.411(c) of the california rules of court (rule 4.411(c)) provides report in preparation for sentencing proceedings that occur a eight months is a significant period of time within the meaning of the rule. (people v. dobbins (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 176, 181 (dobbins).) statutory right to a complete probation report that included his we disagree. rule 4.411.5(a)(4) requires that the 15 made does not require that the defendant be interviewed for the report. perez does not identify any statement by him that was not included. moreover, the advisory committee comment to rule -conviction, pre-plea reports as authorized by section 12prohibited. perez was not interviewed for his pre-conviction report because a court order sensibly prohibited such interviews. and there is case law indicating that he therefore forfeited the issue for purposes of appeal. (see people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 352, fn. 15; people v. johnson (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1429, 1433; people v. begnaud (1991) 235 cal.app.3d 1548, 1556, fn. 7.)2 in any event, we conclude that perez has failed to show that he was prejudiced by either the failure to obtain a supplemental report or the putative incompleteness of the original report. the history and recommended probation or, if probation were denied, 2 perez argues that two of these cases are inapposite because report be prepared unless both the prosecution and the defense stipulate to the contrary either in writing or orally on the record. ( 1203, subd. (b)(4).) we disagree because the statutory not to a supplemental report under rule 4.411(c). and we have not complete, so any argument that he did not forfeit his right to a complete report is moot. 16 - perez does not identify any additional information that would have been included in a supplemental report (or a more complete original report). perez has made no showing of a reasonable probability that he would have obtained a more favorable recommendation, a more robustly supported recommendation, or a more favorable result at sentencing if a supplemental report (or a more complete original report) had been prepared. we therefore must conclude that any error was harmless.3 (dobbins, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 183 [evaluating failure to obtain a supplemental probation people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836].) 2. solis solis argues that the trial court erred by failing to obtain a respondent concedes the error but argues that it was not prejudicial. we agree with respondent. solis was represented by counsel at the sentencing hearing. [n]o legal cause for 3 perez argues that the prejudice analysis should be governed by chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 supplementawatson. (dobbins, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 182.) 17 personal background, and the circumstances of the charged offense, and counsel asked that the court strike or stay the gang enhancement and impose the mid or low term. counsel conceded the court imposed the low term but declined to strike or stay the enhancement. solis does not identify any additional information would have made it reasonably probable that he would have obtained a more favorable result at sentencing. we accordingly (see dobbins, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 182.)4 4 solis argues that erroneous failure to obtain a probation report is reversible per se or, in the alternative, should be reviewed for harmlessness under the standard of chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24. we disagree. although dobbins involved failure to obtain a supplemental probation lessness under watson. (dobbins, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 182.) that holding is consistent with contemporary case law concerning reversible error and harmless error analysis. (see, e.g., people v. anzalone (2013) 56 cal.4th 545, 554-555; people v. vasquez (2006) 39 cal.4th 47, 66.) 18 disposition the judgments are affirmed. menetrez, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 