filed 10/23/15 p. v. sanchez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and appellant, v. jaime sanchez, defendant and respondent. b262456 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba428620) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county. dorothy b. reyes, judge. reversed and remanded. jackie lacey, los angeles county district attorney, steven katz, head deputy district attorney, and matthew brown, deputy district attorney, for appellant. ronald l. brown, los angeles county public defender, albert j. menaster and mark harvis, deputy public defenders, for respondent. ___________________________________ 2 after being charged with first degree burglary, jaime sanchez entered into a plea agreement pursuant to which he pled no contest to one count of second degree burglary and admitted a prior serious felony for strike and prior prison term enhancement purposes. in exchange, he was sentenced to a negotiated 44-month prison term. two months later, voters passed proposition 47 (prop. 47 or the act), which reduced certain theft and drug possession offenses from felonies to misdemeanors. among other things, prop. 47 added section 459.5 to the penal code.1 under this section, certain offenses previously punishable as felony burglaries are now punishable as the new statute defines a commercial establishment with intent to commit larceny while that establishment is open during regular business hours, where the value of the property that is taken or intended to be taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950). ( 459.5, subd. (a), italics added.) pursuant to section 1170.18another statute added to the penal code by prop. 47sanchez petitioned the trial court to have his sentence recalled and to be resentenced as a misdemeanor offender. ction, the trial court granted the petition and . the people have appealed, claiming (1) sanchez did not qualify for prop. 47 resentencing because he broke into the laundry room of an apartment complex, which is not , and (2) even assuming that the new shoplifting statute could apply to the facts of this case, the proper remedy would be to vacate the plea and reinstate the original charges. tion directions. 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 factual and procedural background 1. the felony complaint and plea the relevant facts are undisputed. in august 2014, the people filed a felony complaint, charging jaime sanchez with one count of first-degree residential burglary ( 459). the complaint did not allege any specific facts regarding the nature of the ed dwelling house and trailer coach and inhabited portion of a building . . . the complaint also allegedfor strike and prior prison term enhancement purposesthat sanchez had suffered a first degree burglary conviction in 2012. in september 2014, sanchez entered into a plea agreement pursuant to which (1) the people amended the complaint to add one count of second degree burglary ( 459), (2) sanchez pled no contest to the newly-added second degree burglary count and admitted the prior first degree burglary conviction for various enhancement purposes, (3) the court dismissed the first degree burglary count, and (4) the court sentenced sanchez to a negotiated 44-month prison term, comprised of the low term of 16 months, doubled because of the prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (e)(1)), plus an additional one year because of the prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the parties ts and 2. the passage of proposition 47 in november 2014, voters enacted prop. 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act, which reduced certain theft and drug possession offenses from felonies to misdemeanors. among other things, prop. 47 added section 459.5 to the penal code. a commercial establishment with intent to commit larceny while that establishment is open 4 during regular business hours, where the value of the property that is taken or intended to 459.5, subd. (a).) under prop. 47, a person serving a felony sentence for an offense that was reduced to a misdemeanor under the act may petition the sentencing court to have the sentence recalled and to be resentenced under the new misdemeanor provisions of the act.2 ( 1170.18, subd. (a).) 3. sanchez petitions for resentencing under prop. 47 in december 2014, sanchez petitioned the trial court for resentencing under prop. 47. on the one-page form containing the petition, sanchez checked the box indicating that he had been convicted of 459 2nd degree burglary sanchez made no attempt to show that the offense of which he was convicted qualified as shoplifting under the definition contained in newly-enacted section 459.5. he did not provide any supporting documentation and did not cite to the record or other evidence. 4. the trial court hears and grants the petition in february 2015, the trial court conducted a brief hearing on the petition. the court first asked the prosecutor whether he wished to be heard. the prosecutor stated that the people objected to resentencing, noting that sanchez was initially charged with first . . . commercial burglary. it happened in a laundromat connected to the apartment complex. . . . he is not eligible.3 counsel submitted without offering any argument. 2 the applicable statute refers to a petition to recall the sentence and for resentencing. ( 1170.18, subd. (a).) for simplicity, we will refer to it as a petition for resentencing. 3 as discussed below, the only document in the record describing the facts of the underlying crime in any meaningful detail refers to a laundry room, not a laundromat. 5 the parties then engaged in a brief discussion regarding whether a first degree burglary conviction could be reduced to a misdemeanor under prop 47. the prosecutor cond degree burglary . . . is reduceable depending when the court asked for the amount stolen in the case, my reading of the arrest report and the probation report. he was observed by the manager through closed-circuit television, the officers were called and he was then this was the first reference at the hearing to either the probation report or the arrest report.4 the court did not purport to address the other erson in . . . while that establishment is open during regular business hours 459.5, subd. (a).) the prosecutor also objected to the resentencing on the ground that doing so would violate the terms of the plea agreement. he argued that if sanchez was entitled to any relief, it would be to set aside his plea. for this reason, and because a laundromat is often understood as a commercial establishment open to the public, we will use the term laundry room. 4 the probation report is the only document in the record that contains any meaningful description of the facts of the crime. according to the report, sanchez, armed with burglary tools [and accompanied by his girlfriend who stood watch], entered private property and bypassed the locking security door, entering the laundry room of an the apartment complex manager observed sanchez through a live surveillance camera and called police, who arrived in time to witness sanchez via the same live camera feed. the officers detained sanchez and his girlfriend before they left the laundry room. officers observed fresh pry marks on laundry equipment and recovered unspecified evidence. sanchez allegedly told officers he was homeless and was breaking in to the coin operated machines for money. the apartment complex manager loss. 6 [ed] , and it proceeded to sentence sanchez to two years of summary probation, while ordering sanchez to serve 332 days in county jail. because sanchez had served 332 days (after considering good time/work time credits), - 5. the people appeal the people filed a timely notice of appeal. in their opening brief, they claim (1) sanchez did not qualify for prop. 47 resentencing because his offense did not involve ness hours, and (2) even if the new shoplifting statute could apply to the facts of this case, the proper remedy would be to vacate the plea and reinstate the original charges, not to reduce the conviction to a misdemeanor. sanchez argues (1) the facts of the underlying crime were not properly before the trial court because they were based on a hearsay probation report; as a result, there is no basis to determine that sanchez did not meet the eligibility requirements for resentencing, (2) even if the probation report can be considered, a commercial establishment of reduction to a misdemeanor was proper. discussion a. appealability the trial courn order made after judgment, affecting the substantial rights of the people n order modifying the verdict or finding by reducing the degree of the offense or the punishment imposed or modifying the offense to a lesser offense 1238, subd. (a)(6)). (see also people v. superior court (kaulick) (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 1279, 1294-1295 (kaulick) [order 7 recalling sentence and resentencing inmate under proposition 36 (the three strikes reform act of 2012) is appealable under section 1238.5, subdivisions (a)(5) and (a)(6)].) appeal is properly to this court and not to the appellate division of the superior court. (people v. rivera (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1085; people v. lynall (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1102, 1111.) b. the trial court erred in granting relief 1. relevant provisions of prop. 47 voters enacted prop. 47 on november 4, 2014. pursuant to the state constitution, prop. 47 went into effect the following day. (cal. const., art. ii,  10, subd. (a).) under prop. 47, certain drug and theft-related offenses that had previously been designated as felonies or wobblers (crimes that can be punished as either felonies or misdemeanors) were reduced to misdemeanors. (people v. rivera, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 1091.) prop. 47 did so by adding new, or amending existing, statutory provisions. (see ibid.) one of the statutory provisions added by prop. 47 is section 459.5, which provides: (a) notwithstanding section 459, shoplifting is defined as entering a commercial establishment with intent to commit larceny while that establishment is open during regular business hours, where the value of the property that is taken or intended to be taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950). any other entry into a commercial establishment with intent to commit larceny is burglary. shoplifting shall be punished as a misdemeanor, except that a person with one or more prior convictions for an offense specified in clause (iv) of subparagraph (c) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of section 667 or for an offense requiring registration pursuant to subdivision (c) of section 290 may be punished pursuant to subdivision (h) of section 1170. any act of shoplifting as defined in subdivision (a) shall be charged as shoplifting. no person who is charged with shoplifting may also be charged with burglary or theft of the same property 8 as is evident from the statutory language, not all burglaries were reduced to misdemeanors. the only burglaries reduced were those (1) involving entry into a during regular business hours, and (3) where the value of the property in question does not exceed $950. prop. 47 also added section 1170.18, which contains two procedural mechanisms for the benefit of those previously convicted of felonies that were reduced to misdemeanors by virtue of the act. the two mechanisms differ, depending on whether the potential beneficiary has completed serving his or her sentence. subdivision (a) of the statute applies to persons still serving their sentences and was the applicable provision in this case. it provides: a person currently serving a sentence for a conviction, whether by trial or plea, of a felony or felonies who would have been guilty of a misdemeanor under the act that added this section (this act) had this act been in effect at the time of the offense may petition for a recall of sentence before the trial court that entered the judgment of conviction in his or her case to request resentencing in accordance with sections 11350, 11357, or 11377 of the health and safety code, or section 459.5, 473, 476a, 490.2, 496, or 666 of the penal code, as those sections have been amended or added by this act. 1170.18, subd. (a).) if the petitioning inmate meets the statutory eligibility requirements, the trial court must resentence the inmate in accordance with prop. 47 unless the court, in its discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. ( 1170.18, subd. (b).) risk of danger to public safety( 1170.18, subd. (c)) and lists various factors that a court may consider in determining whether the inmate poses such a risk ( 1170.18, subd. (b)).5 2. the burden to establish eligibility for resentencing person currently serving a sentence for a conviction . . . of a felony or felonies who would have 5 persons with certain prior offenses may not obtain relief under section 1170.18. ( 1170.18, subd. (i).) this provision is not at issue here. 9 been guilty of a misdemeanor under the act . . . had this act been in effect at the time of the offense may petition for a recall of sentence before the trial court that entered the judgment of conviction in his or her case to request resentencing . . . receiving a petition under subdivision (a), the court shall determine whether the petitioner satisfies the criteria in subdivision (a). 1170.18, subd. (b).) prop. 47 does not state who bears the initial burden to establish eligibility for resentencing under section 1170.18, subdivision (a). the issue was squarely addressed in people v. sherow (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 875, in which the court held that the petitioner has the initial burden of establishing eligibility for resentencing under prop. 47. in that case, an inmate convicted on numerous counts of second degree burglary petitioned for resentencing under prop. 47 with respect to five of thid. at p. 877.) the people opposed the petition, claiming the loss exceeded the $950 threshold. (ibid.) the trial court denied the petition. the inmate appealed, challenging the denial of the petition with respect to two the record does not show the loss as to each count exceeded $950 and thus the two counts should be resentenced as misdemeanorsibid.) the court of appeal rejected his contention, holdihad the burden to show the property loss in each of those counts did not exceed $950 and thus fell within the new statutory definition of shoplifting.ibid.) among other things, the court quoted the following from the published work of judge j. richard couzens and presiding justice tricia a. bigelow devoted to prop. 47: the petitioner will have the initial burden of establishing eligibility for resentencing under section 1170.18(a): i.e., whether the petitioner is currently serving a felony sentence for a crime that would have been a misdemeanor had proposition 47 been in effect at the time the crime was committed. if the crime under consideration is a theft offense under sections 459.5, 473, 476a, 490.2, or 496, the petitioner will have the additional burden of proving the value of the property did not exceed $950. (id. at p. 879, quoting couzens & bigelow, proposition 47: p. 40 <http://www.courts.ca.gov/documents/prop-47-information.pdf> [as of oct. 21, 2015].) 10 we agree with the holding in sherow. indeed, it is consistent with the well-established rule contained in evidence code section 500, which provides: except as otherwise provided by law, a party has the burden of proof as to each fact the existence or nonexistence of which is essential to the claim for relief or defense that he is asserting. (see also people v. barasa (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 287, 295-296 [under evidence code section 500, defendant has the burden of proving that his drug possession or transportation was for personal use and that he was therefore eligible for sentence reduction under proposition 36]; people v. atwood (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 805, 812 f producing evidence and of party petitioning for relief. as such, he had the initial burden of demonstrating eligibility under section 1170.18, subdivision (a).6 in though he claims he met that burden by filing his petition to recall his sentence on a form approved by the los angeles county superior court.7 t similarly, he asserts that -approved] form requested of 6 in contrast, if the petitioning inmate establishes that he is eligible for resentencing under section 1170.18, subdivision (a) (i.e., that the crime of which he was convicted was reduced to a misdemeanor by the act), the prosecution has the burden of establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. (kaulick, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at pp. 1301-1305.) 7 approved by the los angeles county superior court. a revised version of that form can http://www.lacourt.org/forms/pdf/crim235.pdf> [as of oct. 21, 2015].) 11 we -approved form, in and of itself and without supporting evidence, satisfies his burden of proof. as discussed each fact the existence or nonexistence of which is essential to the claim for relief . . . that he is asserting 500, italics added.) completing a form does not establish the requisite facts. sanchez maintains the people waived the right to challenge the sufficiency of his fficiency of the showing. at most, they were required to argue that the showing was insufficient. moreover, as a factual matter, is not a . . . commercial burglary. it happened in a laundromat connected to the apartment complex. . . . opening brief. there was no waiver of the right to challenge the adequacy of the showing. finally, as we discuss below, irrespective of which side had the burden of proof, 3. the propriety of relying on the probation report to establish initial eligibility for resentencing in arguing that the trial court erred in resentencing sanchez, the people rely on the commission of the crime as described in the probation report which, as noted above, is the only document in the record containing any meaningful description of the facts and was the only document relied upon by the parties and the trial court at the hearing on sanchez maintains properly before the court because they were based upon a hearsay probation report . . . therefore, he claims, 12 first, sanchez forfeited any claim of error because he report on hearsay, or on any other grounds. (see people v. brimmer (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 782, 799-evidence regarding his section 1170.126 petition [for resentencing], claiming the trial and transcripts of the 911 call and witness statements submitted by the people are not proper sources of information regarding the factual circumstances of the crime. defendant, however, did not object to the documents submitted by the people or challenge them. .) second, any error was invited. nwas the one who first cited and relied upon the probation report in an effort to show her client was eligible for resentencing because the amount taken was less than $950. (see people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 237 [if there was error in admitting hearsay statements, defense invited the error].) as the people note in their reply brief, sanchez wants to him, but sanchez cannot have it both ways. he invited the trial court to consider the probation report. he cannot now complain about its use. finally, acknowledges, without the probation report, the facts of the underlying crime were not before the trial court. if so, sanchez failed to meet his burden of establishing eligibility for resentencing under section 1170.18, subdivision (a); i.e., he failed to establish that the crime of which he was convicted was reduced to a misdemeanor by prop. 47. (see evid. code,  550, the burden of producing evidence as to a particular fact is initially on the party with the .) without the probation report, there is no . 13 as we now explain, the facts contained in the probation reportthe only evidence upon which the trial court reliedhat sanchez was eligible for resentencing. 4. no evidence supports resentencing order as discussed entering a commercial establishment with intent to commit larceny while that establishment is open during regular business hours, where the value of the property that is taken or intended to be taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950). 459.5, subd. (a), italics added.) the probation report reflects that sanchez bypassed a locking security door and entered a laundry room on private property (an apartment complex). he did so without permission and was apprehended, apparently while breaking into the coin operated laundry machines for money. of first, sanchez concedes that the probation report contains no evidence regarding of the laundry room. in and of itself, this is enough to require bation report states the offense occurred on august 22, 2014 (a friday), at 3:20 in the afternoon. if the laundry room perhaps an argument could be made subdivision (a). we need not decide this question however because (1) it was not raised laundry room neither prop. 47, nor the penal code, defines the terwe therefore must follow the ordinary rules of construction. people v. superior court (pearson) (2010) 48 cal.4th 564, 571 (pearson); accord evangelatos v. superior court (1988) 44 cal.3d 1188, 1212.) 14 meaning and construing this language in the context of the statute and initiative as a whole. if the language is not ambiguous, we presume the voters intended the meaning apparent from that language, and we may not add to the statute or rewrite it to conform to some assumed intent not apparent from that language. if the language is ambiguous, and understanding of a ballot measure. (pearson at p. 571; see also people v. woodhead (1987) 43 cal.3d 1002, 1007-1008.) because was not defined in the ballot initiative and is not defined in the penal code, we begin with the words themselves, giving them their ordinary meaning. usual and ordinary meaning of a woe.w. bliss co. v. superior court (1989) 210 cal.app.3d 1254, 1258, fn.2; see also wasatch property management v. degrate (2005) 35 cal.4th 1111, 1121-ordinary, usual meaning of a word, courts appropriately refer to the dictionary definition scott v. continental ins. co. (1996) 44 found in its dictionary definition..) as relevant here, blacks law dictionary defines as (blacks law dict. (10th ed. 2014) p. 664, col. 1.) it ng of goods; mercantile. , supra, at p. 325, col. 2.) similarly, the american [e] of dict. (4th ed. 2000) p. 371.) thus, these place of business where goods are commonly sold. this construction is consistent with the common understanding 15 se from a store or business; specif., larceny of goods from a store or other commercial establishment by willfully taking and concealing the merchandise with paying the purchase (blacks law dict., supra, at p. 1590, col. 1.) in sum, the term commercial establishment is generally understood to mean a business or store that sells goods or merchandise. such a place of business, at least during regular business hours, is generally open to the public and permission is not ordinarily required to gain entry. a laundry room of an apartment complex is not open to the general public sanchez did not engage in what is ordinarily understood to be theft of goods from a store. our conclusion finds support in tpeople v. woods (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 345, 347 (woods). the facts in woods are remarkably similar to those of the instant case. in woodspolice officers responded to a report of a burglary in progress at an apartment complex. the officers found defendant woods and a female companion inside a laundry facility within the complex. one of the washing machines had been pulled from the wall and its coin box had been broken. fresh pry marks were visible on the door to the laundry room. the apartment manager told police he had locked the laundry room an hour before and at that time nothing in the room had been disturbed. the manager further reported that neither woods nor his companion lived in the complex.id. at p. 347.) one of the issues in woods was whether degree burglary conviction. defendant woods argued that the laundry room of the not have been convicted of first degree burglary. (see  every burglary of an inhabited dwelling house . . . rejected his argument. (woods, supra, 65 cal.app.4th at pp. 347-350.) the cowoods fails to cite any authority for his contention that the laundry room must be an integral part of an individual apartment unit as opposed to 16 an integral part of the complex in order to constitute an inhabited dwelling. . . . [t]he relationship of the laundry room to the complex itself is the proper focus of inquiry. based on the evidence of the physical placement of the laundry room within the complex and the fact it was used by tenants to do their laundry, a household chore, we find no error in the courts implied finding this room was an integral part of the complex, and thus an inhabited dwelling.id. at p. 349.) woods, supra, 65 cal.app.4th at p. 349.) the court acknowledged that a tenant might expect to encounter the strangers a tenant would expect to meet in the laundry room were fellow tenants doing laundry, not burglars.ibid.) the court concluded that the evidence was sufficient to support a finding, under the reasonable expectation test, that the laundry room is an area where tenants would expect protection from unauthorized intrusions, and thus it qualifies as an inhabited dwelling.id. at pp. 349-350.) we agree with woodinto a commercial establishment. he broke into a laundry room that was an integral part of a residential complex. that the prosecutor was agreeable to a second degree burglary disposition does not mean defendant was entitled to resentencing under prop. 47. he was not. disposition granting defendanfor resentencing is reversed, and the matter is remanded to the trial court with directions to enter a new order for resentencing. rubin, acting p. j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 