 filed 1/12/17 p. v. campos ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david campos, defendant and appellant. b262258 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka099394) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, christian r. gullon, judge. affirmed. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 david campos appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of one count of willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder, another count of attempted murder, two counts of assault with a deadly weapon (a knife), and one count of battery. the jury also found true great bodily injury allegations as to all counts, and deadly and dangerous weapon allegations as to the attempted murder and battery counts. the trial court sentenced campos to life plus 15 years in prison. campos contends (1) his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing to have him evaluated for a diminished actuality defense, (2) the trial court erred in rejecting his ineffective assistance of counsel claim, made in his motion for new trial, without first granting his request for appointment of an expert to evaluate him for a diminished actuality defense, (3) the trial court erred in denying his request for jury instructions on imperfect self-defense, and (4) there was insufficient evidence 5 was willful, deliberate and premeditated. finding no reversible error, we affirm. 3 background the guilt phase1 in the afternoon, on september 13, 2012, 21-year-old campos stabbed his 23-year-old brother, roque,2 and girlfriend, lizbeth gonzalez, at the family home where campos, roque, their parents, and another sibling lived. prior to the attack, roque ordered a pizza. when it was delivered, he placed it on the kitchen table and went to take a shower. after getting dressed, roque returned to the kitchen and found campos standing there. bedroom. roque offered campos some pizza, but campos did not respond. roque noticed campos was holding a kitchen knife.3 1 campos entered dual pleas of not guilty and not guilty by reason of insanity. the trial court appointed two psychiatrists to evaluate him and both concluded in their reports that campos was not legally insane at the time of the offenses. prior to trial, competence. after considering a competency evaluation prepared by an appointed psychiatrist, the trial court found campos competent to stand trial. 2 because the brothers share the same surname, and to avoid confusion, we refer to appellant david campos as brother, roque campos, jr., as 3 based on a photograph of the knife, which was admitted osecutor displayed the knife for the jury. 4 according to a police interview roque gave four days after the stabbing,4 campos was standing near the open refrigerator s gaze seemed strange and unfamiliar to roque. roque with the other hand. roque [campos] has a knife he always does roque indicated that campos had acted aggressively in the past with other family members. roque explained to the detective that campos nodded at twice in the ribs.5 roque attempted to protect himself by pushing campos unsuccessful. according to roque, campos was stronger than he 4 after roque testified at trial that he could not recall certain statements he made to the police about the incident, the hostile witness, and th2012 police interview was played for the jury. the transcript of the interview was admitted into evidence at trial and is included in the record on appeal. 5 at trial, roque testified that when he saw the knife, he on campos before campos touched him. when the prosecutor asked 5 was, campos continued to stab roque on his face, chest and back, while the two moved from the kitchen into the living room. roque fell to the ground and noticed that gonzalez was watching the struggle. gonzalez called out to 6 campos turned away from roque and moved toward gonzalez. her. campos stabbed gonzalez on the right side of her face, below her eye, and she fell to the ground on her back. seeing campos coming toward her again with the knife, gonzalez turned onto her side and curled into a fetal position because she believed campos was aiming the knife at her stomach. gonzalez was six-months pregnant, and roque was the father. campos stabbed gonzalez in the lower back above her coccyx bone. then roque moved to gonzalez and her and the fetus from campos. gonzalez heard campos stabbed roque in the back. roque moved off of gonzalez, allowing her to get up and escape from the house. roque told campos he was sorry for whatever he had done to make campos angry, although he was unsure what had provoked the attack. campos ordered roque to leave the house. neighbors dialed 911. roque and gonzalez were transported to the hospital by helicopter. officers arrested campos and recovered the knife. roque was hospitalized for six days. his treating physician believed the stab wounds on his 6 gonzalez testified at trial. 6 abdomen and chest were life-threatening. he had broken ribs and an injured lung. he had surgeries on his face, stomach and arm, and stitches on his head. a portion of his left ear was cut off. at trial, scars from the attack were still visible on his face. gonzalez was released from the hospital the day after the attack. she received stitches on her face and lower back, and still had scars in both places at the time of trial. during the september 17, 2012 police interview, roque told the detective that he and gonzalez had planned to go to the roque thought that perhaps campos became always uncomfortable with her roque associated). campos did not call any witnesses in his defense. the jury found campos guilty of assault with a deadly weapon on roque (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1);7 count 1), assault with a deadly weapon on gonzalez (count 2), attempted murder of roque ( 187, subd. (a), 664; count 4), and attempted murder of gonzalez (count 5). in count 3, the jury found campos not guilty of aggravated mayhem on roque, but guilty of the lesser included offense of battery. ( 243, subd. (d).) as to all counts, the jury found true the allegation that campos inflicted great bodily injury on the victims. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) as to counts 3-5, the jury found true the allegation that campos used a deadly and dangerous weapon (a knife) in the commission of the 7 further statutory references are to the penal code. 7 offense. ( 12022, subd. (b)(1).) finally, the jury found true the allegation that campos committed the attempted murder of gonzalez willfully, deliberately and with premeditation.8 the sanity phase campos waived his right to jury trial in the sanity phase of the trial. the only evidence presented were the written reports prepared by the two psychiatrists who both concluded campos was not legally insane at the time of the stabbings. the trial court found campos was legally sane at the time he committed the offenses. we discuss below portions of the reports relevant to dr. rebecca crandall stated in her february 28, 2013 past with bipolar disorder, taking anti-depressant and anti-crandall did not review any medical records. she concluded based on her interview with campos and her review of the police reports and preliminary hearing transcript, dr. crandall statedbeen taking his medication for approximately four years. he described experiencing racing thoughts and difficulty sleeping 8 the jury was not asked to decide whether campos committed the attempted murder of roque willfully, deliberately section 995 motion to dismiss as to this allegation only. 8 around the time of the instant offense. despite his untreated psychiatric condition and some active symptoms, there is not sufficient evidence to suggest that, due to his mental illness, he did not know the nature and quality of his acts, or was unable to distinguish right from wrong, at the time of the instant offense. thus, he does not qualify for the defense of ngi [not guilty by would not have stabbed the victims but for his mental illness, campos told dr. crandall he was angry with roque, and had not spoken to him for a while prior to the attack, due to the manner in which roque reacted when campos confided in him that he had been sexually abused by their stepbrother between lot of rage about his sexual abuse, and occasionally feels out of control with rage reactions against his family. it appears that this is what happened duri campos also told dr. crandall that he grabbed the knife to scare roque into leaving the house with gonzalez so that he could be alone in the house and would not have to hear them making noise. ther, his brother began to wrestle with him for the knife and this of anger and frustration. after he stabbed his brother, he also ed and actions. 9 dr. sanjay sahgal stated in his march 1, 2013 reportcampos has an authentic mental illness characterized by mood instability and intermittent agitation. at the time of the charged offense, the defendant was not taking any psychotropic medication and was mentally impaired to some extent due to his untreated mental illness. nevertheless, mr. campos was capable of understanding the nature and quality of his actions and their moral wrongfulness at the time of the alleged crimes despite his mental health problems. he does not meet the criteria for an interviews with campos and his father and his review of the police reports and preliminary hearing transcript. campos told that the defendant has had problems with his temper and his behavior since his early teens. he stated that, even as a child, the defendant would sometimes attack or bite one of his parents. he tried to get the defendant mental health treatment but teens, the defendant was prescribed medication after a series of brief hospitalizations for suicidal ideation and agitation. however, the defendant apparently never took his psychotropic medications while in the community and his family was very campos entered the juvenile justice sentencing the trial court sentenced campos to life plus 15 years in prison: on count 5, an indeterminate term of life with the possibility of parole for the willful, deliberate and premeditated 10 murder of gonzalez, plus a consecutive three-year term for the great bodily injury enhancement and a consecutive one-year term for the weapon enhancement; and on count 4, a consecutive term of seven years for the attempted murder of roque (the middle term), plus a consecutive three-year term for the great bodily injury enhancement and a consecutive one-year term for the weapon enhancement. on counts 1-3, the court imposed and stayed the middle term of three years for each offense. discussion ineffective assistance of counsel claim rial counsel represented to the jury that the defense would present evidence that campos had a history of bipolar and depressive disorder, which precluded him from premeditating murder or forming the specific intent to kill or disfigure the victims. the defense did not present such evidence, although trial counsel continued to represent during trial that campos had a history of mental illness (for example, in closing argument, which drew objections by the prosecution). campos contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by neglecting to have him examined for diminished actuality and failing to present a diminished actuality defense,9 after indicating to the jury that he would do so. as explained below, campos cannot prove his ineffective assistance of counsel claim on appeal because he cannot establish prejudice, a 9 in support of a diminished actuality defense, a defendant may present evidence of mental illness for the jury to consider in deciding whether the defendant actually formed the requisite mental state for the charged offense. (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1253.) 11 necessary element of the claim. based on the appellate record, he cannot show his counsel could have obtained evidence supporting a diminished actuality defense or that the outcome of the trial would have been more favorable to him if counsel had not made comments about an alleged mental illness. counsel, defendant bears the burden of demonstrating, first, that objective standard of reasonableness [] . . . under prevailing within the wide range of professional competence and that appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory s.] if a defendant meets the burden of establishunprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been differepeople v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 745-746.) campos cannot prevail on his ineffective assistance of counsel claim based on the appellate record because he cannot establish a reasonable probability of a more favorable outcome, even if counsel had acted in the manner campos now advocates. there is nothing in the record on appeal demonstrating campos 12 could have presented evidence showing he did not form the requisite mental states for the charged offenses in support of a diminished actuality defense. drs. crandall and sahgal did not opine on this issue. in his supplemental opening brief, campos contends the trial court erred in rejecting the ineffective assistance of counsel claim made in his motion for new trial without first granting his request for appointment of an expert to evaluate him for a diminished actuality defense. this contention is moot. on june 7, 2016, in the separate habeas corpus proceeding (b270209), this court issued an order authorizing a psychiatric evaluation of campos. the evaluation occurred on july 9, 2016, and campos because the psychiatric evaluation already has occurred, we cannot grant campos any effectual relief on appeal based on this contention, even if we were to agree with him that the trial court erred in declining to appoint an expert to evaluate him for a diminished actuality defense. assistance of counsel claim fails. denial of request for jury instructions on imperfect self-defense campos contends the trial court committed prejudicial error in denying his request for jury instructions on imperfect self-defense. if a person kills with an actual, but unreasonable belief in re 13 christian s. (malice aforethought, the mental element necessary for murder, (ibid.) no matter how great the fear and no matter how great the likelihood of the harmwill not suffice. the defendants fear must be of imminent danger to life or great immediate and present and not prospective or even in the near future. an imminent peril is one that, from appearances, must be instantly dealt withpeople v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) life, unintentionally kills in unreasonable self-defense, the killing is voluntary, not involuntary, people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 88-89.) voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 all theories of a lesser included offense which find substantial support in the evidence. on the other hand, the court is not obliged to instruct on theories that have no such evidentiary id. at p. 162.)10 any evidence, no 10 in people v. breverman, supra, the california supreme colesser included offense. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162.) the principles set forth in breverman also are applicable here where campos requested an instruction on a lesser included offense and the trial court refused to give it. (see people v. elize (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 605, 611.) 14 included offense, but such instructions are required whenever evidence that the defendant is guilty only of the lesser offense is [citations.from which a jury composed of reasonable [persons] could . . . ibid.) ce of a lesser offense, courts should not evaluate the credibility of people v. breverman, supra, 19 people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 581.) the record does not include substantial evidence presented at trial demonstrating campos stabbed the victims because he actually believed he was in imminent danger of being killed or suffering great bodily injury. campos armed himself with a knife before roque even entered the kitchen. inconsistent trial testimony that he approached campos to defend himself, placing his hands on campos campos before campos touched him, there is insufficient evidence indicating campos actually believed he was in imminent danger of being killed or suffering great bodily injury. campos immediately stabbed roque in the face, knocking roque to the ground, and continued to stab roque as he lay defenseless on the ground. the evidence shows that gonzalez posed no threat to campos, but he stabbed her repeatedly anyway. the record does not include substantial evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude campos stabbed the victims in imperfect self-defense. 15 sufficiency of evidence supporting of a willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder campos contends there is insufficient evidence supporting attempted murder of gonzalez willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. in reviewing a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence, s task is to determine whether, in light of the whole record viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, a rational trier of fact could have found the elements people v. felix (2009) the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce people v. smith (2005) accorded the evidence are matters within the province of the trier of fact.people v. ramos (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 1194, 1207.) gical inferences that the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if the court would have cpeople v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th tever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) over in true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great 16 rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1182.) in people v. anderson court described the categories of evidence relevant to premeditation and deliberation that have been found sufficient to and what defendant did prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killingwhat may be activity; (2) facts about the prior relationship and/or conduct with the victim victim, which inference of motive, together with facts of type (1) or (3), would in turn support an inference that the killing was the -citation]; (3) facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must have intentionally killed according to a s life in a particular way people v. concha (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1072, 1084.) required evidence which excludes all other types and [deliberation and] premeditation [citation], nor does it require conclusion that [a deliberate and] premeditated murder was 17 people v. felix, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1626; see people v. halvorsen, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 420 [the guidelines of people v. andersonexhaustive, and . . . reviewing courts need not accord them any finding that campos committed the attempted murder of gonzalez willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. campos armed himself with a knife and stood in the kitchen where gonzalez would soon appear to take some pizza. according to roque, it made campos uncomfortable and unhappy when roque brought women, including gonzalez, to the family home. roque told the detective his family members did not like gonzalez when gonzalez called out to campos to stop the attack on roque, campos turned to her and approached with the knife. the evidence does not indicate that gonzalez posed any threat to campos. she was unarmed and had not approached campos before he attacked her. yet campos stabbed her in the face and then continued to stab her after she fell to the ground. campos had sufficient time to decide deliberately and with premeditation that he would attempt to inflict life-threatening stab wounds to gonzalez. 18 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. lui, j. 