filed 5/3/16 p. v. alvidrez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando alvidrez, defendant and appellant. b262295 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma059617) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa mangay chung, judge. affirmed. marks & brooklier, anthony p. brooklier, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant fernando alvidrez and ana a.1 were in a dating relationship that turned sour. defendant placed a tracking device at various locations , and ployment, stating that she was being investigated by police. one night, defendant appeared outside a restaurant when ana was on a date. he confronted ana when she came outside with her date, slapped her, and carried her to a truck being driven by his nephew. while the nephew drove, defendant fought with ana and threatened to kill her and dump her body in the desert. when ana said she was going to report defendant to police, defendant threatened ana and her family. he also threatened to have ana deported or to have child protective services take when ana said she was going to call police, defendant took her phone. took her back to the restaurant where her car was parked, they found that the car had been vandalized. following attempts to hide from defendant by storing her car in a tow lot so d followed ana. tcharged defendant with making criminal threats (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)2), dissuading a witness from reporting a crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)), vandalism causing over $400 in damage ( 594, subd. (a)), stalking ( 646.9, subd. (a)), and second-degree robbery ( 211). a jury found defendant guilty on all counts except making criminal threats. defendant appealed, arguing that testimony was so inherently improbable that it cannot sustain the conviction. we do not make credibility determinations on appeal, and testimony does not meet the very high threshold of inherent improbability. we therefore affirm. 1 we refer to the victim by her first name only to protect her privacy. no disrespect is intended. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 factual and procedural background a. prosecution case much of the prosecution case rested on the testimony of ana. because evidence at trial is recounted here in detail. ana testified that she met defendant when they were both in federal prison in los angeles in 2000. ana was 18 years old, pregnant, and serving a sentence for transporting drugs. although ana was housed on the and defendant was housed on a , the inmates on different floors could communicate with each other through the air conditioning vents. defendant and ana began a relationship by speaking through the vents. ana was released from prison approximately three years later. defendant was still incarcerated, and they wrote letters to each other about once a week. ana stopped communicating with defendant after she received a letter from him intended for another woman. when defendant was released from prison in 2011, he hired a private detective to find ana. defendant and ana began dating. ana testified that defendant was jealous and controlling; for example, he made her change her clothes when he did not like what she was wearing. he regularly would take away her cell phone and not give it back. he would monitor ana sometimes he would respond to text messages received on her cell phone, pretending to be ana. defendant also would take away anapurse to pressure her to go places with him. she testified that in those situations ana testified that once, when she threatened to leave defendant, he blocked her exit from the house and hit her, causing her eye to bleed. in another incident, defendant hit ana 4 when ana tried to break off her relationship with defendant, she discovered him hiding in the trunk of her car. ana reported defendant to police once, but then did not report any other incident defendant threatened to call immigration officials to have ana deported, and also told ana that he had a gun. she testified that she was afraid of defendant. ana also testified that defendant followed her. the stores, to work, he will be outside waiting for me. or sometimes even sitting inside 3 defendant would come to anare she lived with her mother and daughter, and the two would fight. ana started staying in hotels in an effort to distance herself from defendant. defendant would sometimes show up at these hotels. ana testified that on one occasion, the desk clerk told her that a drunk man had been asking for her room key the night before. the following day, the front desk called to ask if a man was staying there. then theana opened the door, it was defendant. he told her people were coming to kill her and that she needed to leave right away. fearing for her life, ana gathered her things and quickly left. ana testified that she began to suspect that defendant was tracking her somehow. she discovered a tracking device under the carpet in the trunk of her car. she testified, a car repair shop discovered another tracker on anaana began parking her car in different places and calling cabs to take her to work. on february 17, 2013, ana went on a date with another man, rigoberto rodriguez, who also testified at trial. on the night of the date, ana and rodriguez met outside a restaurant in the parking lot, and had dinner inside the restaurant. during dinner, ana mentioned to rodriguez that she was afraid of her ex-boyfriend. 3 -traditional tenses; she explained at trial that english is not her first language. we include the testimony herein as it was given at trial. 5 when ana and rodriguez emerged from the restaurant after dinner, defendant confronted them in the parking lot. ana testified that when she saw defendant, she got between rodriguez and defendant and told rodriguez to run. rodriguez testified that ana seemed scared. defendant violently pulled anaarm so that she fell down. rodriguez testified that ana said defendant was hurting her. ana testified that defendant slapped her on the face, tried to drag her, and then picked her up and carried her to a black pickup truck. rodriguez ran inside to call 911; when he emerged 30 to 40 seconds later, ana and defendant were gone. when questioned by police, rodriguez later identified defendant from a photograph lineup. the black pickup joey nuno. ana and defendant were in the back seat of the truck, fighting. ana testified that defendant told her that he was going to kill her and dump her body in the desert. he also kissed her: and then he said that he was going to kill me. that was before he kissed me. and then he said that he was him, he wanted his money back. ana explained that defendant had paid for ana, and that was the money he wanted back. ana testified that the doors on the truck were locked so she could not get out, and she lunged for the steering wheel in an attempt to get the attention of other drivers. she also testified that she was scared: ana testified that although the truck initially began heading away from her house, she convinced joey to turn around and drive her home. when they got there and ana threatened to call the police, defendant took her pursephone, my cell phone, was, and he took it when i told him that i was going to call the ana tried to grab her purse and phone from the truck defendant never gave ana her phone back, and she had to get a new one. ana deputy joshua stamsek responded to the call. he offered to drive ana to the restaurant to get her car. when they arrived, they discovered that acid had been poured on the car. ana testified that the paint 6 deputy and her headlight was, like, corrosive. like melted. and then her paint was chipping; ana did not know if the damage was done before the encounter with defendant in the parking lot or afterward, because she had not seen her car when she and rodriguez came out of the restaurant. ana testified that she later asked defendant if he poured acid on her car, and he said he did not. but ana also testified that in a previous incident, defeif only i had acid, i will ana testified that defendant called her after midnight the same night. he came to was going to come back and shoot me or shoot the house, and we have kids at the house. so i was i was just scared for my family. so i she testified that she did at any point he was going to send somebody to kill my family, or . . . call i.n.s. to pick she testified that this threat scared her, and explained her reluctance to report i thought by going [to police] they were just going to take me in and send me back, she also testified that she thought it would be best to placate defendant for the time being and seek a restraining order when the courts opened. when defendant picked ana been out with another man. defendant took ana to a hotel, where they argued most of the night. she did not tell him that she had called police, but he knew that police had responded to the incident in the restaurant parking lot. ana to keep . . . his eyes close to me before i talk to the detectives or else the detectives were defendant took ana home the following morning. the following day, dawn oldham, a bouncer at the club where ana worked, got a 7 how ana would usually text him. after a short text exchange in which oldham assumed that defendant was texting but pretending to be ana, oldham texted a male caller then called oldham from number, and accused oldham of being a coward for running away from him the night before. oldham had no idea what the caller meant by that. after further communication, the caller apologized and said he probably had reached the wrong person. t know who you are messing with. i know you used to hurt ana after defendant had takhe attempted to communicate with ana , sometimes at ana testified that defendant said if she gave him her new phone number, he would stop calling her family. when ana got a new phone, she gave defendant the phone number so he would stop harassing her family members. she was afraid that defendant could harm her family. she testified that two grandchilson. after the restaurant incident, began sleeping on the floor of the grand know if he was going to come three days after the restaurant incident, ana attempted to get a restraining order against defendant. she filed the required papers and went to the shave them serve defendant with the documents. shortly before the scheduled hearing, she discovered that the sheriff had never served defendant. the court set another hearing date, and ana attempted to have the sheriffs serve defendant again. again service was never completed, and ana never got the restraining order. ana testified that she regularly communicated with defendant in april 2013. they would call and text each other every day. she would tell him she loved him. they saw each other about once a week. they went out to meals together. ana explained her reasoning: for him not to get physical with me when he finds me. or that was my only way to keep on in peace away for a couple of days so i 8 can go see my daughter and then come back to when asked why she did not ana testified that she would be nice to him ana ana warned security at the club where she worked that her ex-boyfriend was stalking her and showed them his picture. oldham, the club bouncer, testified that when she would have oldham check the parking lot before she left work, and he would drive with her partway home to ensure no one was following her. defendant came into the club sometime after the february restaurant incident, and ana appeared the general manager and oldham told defendant to leave. employees at the club posted a security camera picture of defendant near the entrance as one of the people who were not allowed into the club. ana had the acid damage on her car repaired at an auto-body shop. the estimate for the repairs was $8,000. it took about three weeks for the car to be repaired, and in the meantime the body shop loaned ana a car to drive. she testified that not having a tracking device on the loaner ad for a while peace with my daughter and when everything started she also testified that she did not respond to defendants calls and texts during this time, because she knew defendant could not find her. ana testified that when she was driving her own car with the tracking device on it, 9 4 she testified that defendant would call her and he l shop, after she had her car repaired, ana device [sic] an thinking she was safe, ana went to a hotel and defendant showed up: was doing my makeup. and i am sitting there. because i thought he was maybe i pulls me from the hotel like a block away where he parked his car. and i was naked she continued, so he takes me to a different hotel, and then he tells me, like, we should go out for dinner, like nothing happened. like and i told him, how can you even ask me to go out with you and have dinner when i am e nothing ana testified that she took her car to two additional places, including the car dealership, in an attempt to locate the tracking device she suspected was on her car. they were unable to locate any devices. because defendant already knew where she was, sometimes she would tell him her location: ana also testified that she would be nice to him and call him mi amor on may 4, 2013, ana told defendant she was staying in a hotel in hesperia. defendant went to the hotel, told her that he had an upcoming court date, told ana to wait for him if he got arrested. ana testified that this scared her because ad seen my daughter when she was 4 ana identified various hotels she stayed in during this time period, and provided receipts for those stays. 10 alone so i can continue my life becaus ana testified that defendant cried, and stayed at the hotel, saying that he wanted to think about it. the next morning he was acting strange and asked her to go to the state line with him, near nevada. ecause he had already mentioned my daughter a lot that night she felt that she could have told defendant that she did not want to go, as they were driving through the desert, she wondered if he was planning to kill her and dump her body in a desolate area. they went to las vegas, shopped for some clothes, and had lunch. although she had run away from defendant in the past, while they were on this trip she did not run away because defendant had talked about her daughter, and she could not be sure that her daughter would remain safe if she was not with defendant. while they were in las vegas, defendant suggested that they get married. ana told him that she could not because she did not have identification with her. two days later, on may 6, 2013, ana hid her car in a tow lot again for a week. ana testified that dhesperia, victorville, all the people who live up there. and i thought, like, he was rea ana defendant also told ana that he would kill her daughter. in ices on me and [sic] because i was defendant found out that ana had spoken to police about him, and he began calling her traicionera, which ana testified means traitor or backstabber. on may 6, defendant texted her, telling her to answer her phone, saying she had , and saying vas a pagarwill pay). around the same time, defendant called the club where ana worked, telling the manager that detectives were looking for her. on 11 on may 8, defendant texted ana over and over telling her to answer her phone. she responded to defendant, asking him to stop. on may 9, defendant texted, ces. they are the same day, defendant also you call the owner of the tow lot where ana stored her car testified that he received calls from a woman inquiring about ana, which the owner found to be odd. he also received a call from a man saying that his girlfriend left her car there. the owner testified that the said it was his vehicle and that i should should put it outside so he the male caller also told the tow lot owner that he knew where children went to school. the owner told the caller that he would need to see proof of ownership before he could release a car, and that if the car was stolen he would cooperate with authorities. the male caller also said that ana was ana received a phone call from a phone number appearing to be child protective services. a ana immediately suspected that the phone call was not legitimate. she received additional missed calls and a voice mail from the same number. although ana testified that she saved the voice mail, it was eventually lost and was not entered into evidence at trial. on may 13, 2013, ana was driving from lancaster to los angeles. as she neared east los angeles, where defendant lived, defendant called her and said he knew she was in the area. he said he wanted to meet with her, and she suggested that they meet near she parked under a security camera and got out of her car to meet defendant. he grabbed her purse and rifled through it looking for her phone, which she left hidden in her car. when he could not find the phone, he threw her purse to the ground. he told ana that she needed to pay him back. 12 ana testified that because defendant had mentioned her daughter and she had received a call purportedly from child protective services, she became increasingly worr on may 15, 2013, two days after she met defendant near in east los angeles, ana decided to report defendant to the police. she was afraid defendant would find out that she reported him. ana met with detective elizabeth sheppard and told her what had been happening. when ana went back station. because i thought he was you know, by then i thought he was going to shoot me or something. like, i fear for my life. . . . and i called the detective, and i told her detective sheppard testified that she met ana in the lobby, and ana breath and panicked. detective sheppard and three other detectives went across the street, and him in the six-pack, i knew what the defendant looked like. and as we approached his car, he came walking out of a restaurant across the street, and we approached him and detectives recovered a tracking d-activated audio recorder. detectives also found a brass law enforcement badge hidden in a vent near the steering wheel of the car. defendant had two phones with him, and he had a slip of paper in his pocket that had oher one of the phone numbers was detective sheppard testified that she checked with dcfs, and there was never a dcfs case opened involving ana or her daughter. called dcfs the day before, on may 14. 13 detective sheppard testified that in her investigation of the case, she discovered a number of purchases made by defendant relating to two tracking devices, such as the devices themselves, battery packs for the devices, and magnetic cases for the devices. she also received all of the data relating to the trackers. after defendant was arrested, detectives searched anaand initially did not find one. detective sheppard suggested that ana take her car to another service that had better equipment to search for a tracker; ana did, but no tracker was found. but ana felt that she was still being followed; at one point a car and a truck were following her despite her speeding up, slowing down, and making evasive turns. ana called detective sheppard again and took the car back for a search. detective sheppard called in detectives from the major crimes unit to assist her, and a detective with a long-arm mirror and a flashlight finally detective sheppard removed the item and found that it was indeed a gps tracking device. based on the information she obtained from the company that sold the tracking device, detective sheppard testified that the location, battery, and speed information in november 2012. detective sheppard also tewhere she had been over the preceding months. detective sheppard testified that the 17, 2013, when she went on a date with rodriguez, and that it was later moved when the acid damage on february 28, 2013. detective sheppard testified that the tracker remained in the same area for several weeks while the car was being repaired, but on march 27, the car was driven to a different location and the battery percentage on the tracker jumped from 59% to 100%, showing that the battery pack had been replaced. the owner of the body shop testified that defendant picked up the car from the body shop and 14 took it for a couple of hours. the body shop owner also testified that defendant paid for the repairs to the car. detective sheppard testified that the tracker data showed that car was parked at the hesperia tow lot from may 6 to may 13. the tracker also showed that ana detective sheppard also testified that the tracking device data where she had stayed at hotels. ana testified that she gets panic attacks requiring medication as a result of b. defense case on cross-examination, defense counsel showed ana a phone company printout showing text messages from ana to defendant from april 9 to may 15, 2013. texts from earlier than that time were not available because they already had been purged by the phone company. defense counsel questioned ana about many of the texts she sent defendant in april 2013 that included expressions of love or terms of endearment. for example, ana admitted that she texted defendant that she loved him; ana explained that it was a lie. counsel asked her why she instructed when asked if she wanted to have sex with defendant, ana explained that sometimes sh on april 14 defendant and ana had a text conversation about him gaining que bueno if not so i can go to ana explained that she wanted to know if defendant was going to show up someplace. when defense counsel asked ana whether she was encouraging 15 defendant after discussing texts in which ana used terms of endearment and encouraged him and made him think that you loved him and you want to spend time with ana explained that defendant thought he was going to be sent back to prison, and incarcerated. ake him think that you were in another exchange, ana texted defendant about getting a hotel room. that you were in love with when defendant wished her a good night on april 22, ana interpreted it as a suggestion that he knew she was in bed because he could see the location of the tracker in the car. ana also testified that in a text in may 2013, the month defendant was arrested for stalking, defendant threatened to kill her in a text message. detective sheppard, who had data relating to some of the text messages between defendant and ana, was unable to corroborate this. defense counsel and ana had a long exchange about whether defendant had defense counsel pointed out that ana signed a paper allowing defendant to pick her daughter up from school in an emergency; ana explained that she signed it early in their relationship, and had never thought to change it, but that defendant never picked her daughter up from school. er twice. defense counsel asked about why ana got angry when it appeared defendant had will be like, yes, i have somebody else. he will come to me. yes, i have somebody else, abuse me and all his anger that he had about his business or whatever he used to come and tell me, he will come and just 16 ana also testified that defendant told her that if he were arrested relating to his actions toward hertold anag ana admitted that defendant made some of her car payments. ana also admitted that of the five phones defendant had taken from her, defendant had bought one of them. defense counsel also called ana back to the stand during the defense case. ana admitted that she could not clearly remember whether the caller purporting to be from dcfs had specifically referenced defendant by name. defense counsel also questioned ana about whether she was in the country illegally. ana testified that after she was deported to mexico, someone tried to kidnap her daughter. defendant sent ana $1,000 to reenter the united states illegally with her daughter. ana also testified that on the night defendant showed up at the restaurant, she did not call defendant, and none of the calls on defendant did not testify. he presented the testimony of a translator, who provided translations of some of the text messages between ana and defendant. defendant also presented the testimony of his adult daughter, who said she met ana while her father was still in prison. made payments once when defendant asked her to. defendant also presented the testimony of his nephew, joseph nuno, who was driving the truck on february 17, 2013, the night defendant showed up at the restaurant where ana was on a date. nuno testified that on the night of the incident, defendant received a call from ana indicating that she needed assistance; defendant and nuno then drove to the restaurant in lancaster. nuno was driving his pickup truck while defendant directed him where to go and where to park. after they parked, defendant got out of the truck while nuno waited for a period of time less than ten minutes. nuno did not see the initial interaction between defendant and ana. when defendant came back, ana was with him. defendant and ana were arguing in spanish, which nuno could not easily 17 understand. nuno did not see defendant knock ana down or hit her. he testified that defendant did not force ana into the truck. defendant and ana continued arguing and talking loudly in spanish in the back seat. as they were driving, ana lunged for the steering wheel three separate times. nuno then said he would take her home, and ana seemed to calm down. when she got out of the truck at her house, ana yelled that she was going to call the police. ana got out of the truck and came back to the car to get her phone; nuno was unsure if she ever retrieved it. argued, for examplewho thinks like you do. [] the jury found defendant guilty of dissuading a witness from reporting a crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)), vandalism causing over $400 in damage ( 594, subd. (a)), stalking ( 646.9, subd. (a)), and second-degree robbery ( 211). the jury found defendant not guilty of making criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)). defendant later moved for a new trial; the court denied the motion. the trial court sentenced defendant to a total of 16 years, four months. defendant timely appealed. standard of review defendant primary argument on appeal is ana was substantially impeached. as a result, defendant argues, there is insufficient evidence to support the verdict on any count. this argument is unpersuasive. court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a people v. rountree (2013) 56 cal.4th 823, 852-853.) he test is whether substantial evidence 18 (people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 432.) we therefore consider whether a rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. romero (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 15, 18.) e may not reweigh the evidence or people v. ewing (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 359, 371.) moreover, s findings, the reviewing court may not reverse the judgment merely because it believes (people v. gonzales (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 295people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) -existent. iven by a witness who has been believed by a trial court, there must exist either a physical impossibility that they are true, (people v. ennis (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 721, 728 (ennis).) discussion defendant argues on appeal that his convictions were not supported by substantial evidence. he argues that was utterances of love, invitations to have sex and other matters . . . are totally inconsistent defendant also ely based on a witness whose testimony on the stalking count has been found to be unworthy of belief, particularly since her testimony on those counts credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 996 [italics omitted].) 19 doubts about the credibility of in-resolution. (ibid.) appeal is not merely an enhanced version of implausibilityhe plausibility of testimony is reserved for the trier of fact. (ennis, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at p. 725.) inherently improbable, by contrast, means that the challenged evidence is the things testif (lane v. safeway stores, inc. (1939) 33 cal.app.2d 169, 175, 91 p.2d 160.) the determination of inherent improbability must be made without resort to inference or deduction, and thus cannot be established by comparing the challenged testimony to other evidence in the case.ennis, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at p. 725.) where an inherent improbability claim more than an attack on witness credibility, and cannot be the basis for a reversal of the ibid.) here, defendant argues actions and testimony are contradictory. that assertion cannot support an inherent improbability claim. defendant argues that because ana told defendant she loved him, used terms of endearment, and sometimes interacted with him in ways that seemed voluntary, ana could not possibly have been the victim of stalking. but ana testified at trial that she did these things to placate defendant because she was terrified that he would cause problems at work or with her family. when asked why she told defendant where she was, for example, ana explained that defendant already knew where she was all the time, and if she maintained contact with him at least she would have some warning before he showed up at her location. in the weeks before defendant expected to be arrested on other charges, ana explained that she was nice to defendant because -hurt and whether it was plausible that ana had attempted to placate defendant based on her stress and fear was a credibility determination for the jury. stated motives are not physically impossible, nor can ennis, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at p. 728.) 20 moreover, supported by other evidence in the case. there is substantial evidence that defendant was tracking all of the tracking device hidden in her car. detective sheppard testified in detail about the tracker itself and the related documentation showing that defendant purchased the tracker and gathered the data on it. the body shop owner testified that defendant picked up fingerprint was on the tracker . rodriguez testified that defendant showed up unexpectedly during his date with ana, and the phone records showed that ana had not called defendant that evening, indicating that defendant was monitoring somehow. detective sheppard testified that defendant also showed up number of dcfs. faprosecution presented extensive evidence from multiple sources supporting of events. april 2013. ewere somewhat contradictory then, the evidence nonetheless makes clear that the relationship between ana and defendant was hostile by may 2013. ana stored her car in the tow lot in hesperia for a week so he would stop tracking her, and she stopped answering was calling ana names such as traitor, whore, and sad bitch. he texted to anaall me or i will send your family something. he threatened to defendant actions had become so unbearable that ana finally went to department. defendant was arrested the same day, apparently after following her by using the tracker. he had his phone showed that he had called dcfs, indicating that he intended to make good on his threats 21 . s testimony about the events in may 2013 was further confirmed by the testimony of detective sheppard, phone records, tracking device records, the owner of the hesperia tow lot, and receipts from multiple hotels where ana stayed in an attempt to draw defendant away from her family. there is no indication in inherently implausible. defendant people v. carvalho (1952) 112 cal.app.2d 482. there, a wife testified that her estranged husband kidnapped her at gunpoint. on appeal following a conviction for kidnapping, the court of appeal found that because the wife did not take advantage of various chances to escape or call attention es do not in our opinion reasonably justify the conclusion reached in the court below that the prosecutrix was transported by the use of force and id. at p. 491.) defendant argues carvalho is relevant here, btestimony was a question for the jury, and significant evidence corroborated her testimony. moreover, we agree with the court in ennis which the age of the precedentand the changes in understanding about the psychology of victimization since its publicationennis, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at p. 731 fn. 3.) to the extent carvalho has any continuing vitality today, it is not relevant in light of the testimony, evidence, and circumstances of this case. defendant also argues that the evidence does not support some of the specific findings required for his conviction. he argues, without citations to the record or any legal authority, that one element of stalking, and the vandalism, robbery, and witness intimidation counts are not supported by substantial evidence. because these assertions in defendanare wholly lacking in citations to authority or evidence, we may treat them as forfeited[e]very brief should contain a legal argument with citation of authorities on the points made. if none is furnished on a particular point, the court may treat it as waived, and pass it without consideration. . . .this principle is especially true when an appellant makes a general assertion, unsupported by specific argument, 22 regarding insufficiency of evidence. people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793.) would reject them. stalking is committed by and repeatedly follows or willfully and maliciously harasses another person and who makes a credible threat with the intent to place that person in reasonable fear for his or  646.9, subd. (a).) defendant assing ana cannot be met ntion that defendant gave her. there is no evidence that ana encouraged defendant to secretly track her every move. moreover, ample evidence from other sources at trial indicated that ana did not when they encountered defendant in the restaurant ana seemed terrified when defendant showed up at the club where they worked, the sheriff herself from the tracker by having the car searched for devices and stowing her car at the hesperia tow lot. this element is therefore well supported by the record. defendant also argues that the vandalism count is unsupported it is totally base we do not evidence showed that defendant was in the parking lot where car was parked on the night it was vandalized. nuno testified that he waited for up to ten minutes as defendant was out of the truck in the parking lot before he returned with ana, and nuno could not see what defendant was doing during that time. ana testified that defendant was angry that she was on a date with another man, rodriguez testified that defendant seemed very angry in the parking lot, and nuno testified that defendant and ana were arguing when they approached the truck. moreover, ana testified that defendant made a 23 comment about using acid as a weapon when he was angry at a different woman. ana also testified that while they were fighting in the truck, defendant told her that if she was going to be with another man, she needed to pay him back the money he had paid to have her car paintedcar. reversal for insufficient evidence is unwarranted unless it appears that upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support the conviction. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 577.) the circumstances, plus all the logical inferences the jury might have drawn from them, (people v. tripp (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 951, 955.) here, the jury reasonably could have inferred from the evidence that defendant, who had both motive and opportunity, intentionally and maliciously damaged the paint on while it was parked in the restaurant parking lot as ana was on a date with another man. defendant also argues that the counts for dissuading a witness and robbery are however, unless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently people v. young physically impossible or inherently improbable. her testimony alone is therefore sufficient to support the convictions for both counts. defendant was convicted under section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1), which prohibits to prevent or dissuade another person who has been the victim of a crime or who subd. (b)(1).) ana testified that defendant attempted to dissuade her from communicating with police on multiple occasions, including taking her phone from her the night of the restaurant incident after ana threatened to call police; telling her after the restaurant incident that he would have to keep her close so she did not disclose too much to police; telling ana that if he was arrested he would send someone to kill her family; telling ana that no one would believe a stripper and that he could hire expensive attorneys; telling 24 ana that she would be deported if she went to authorities; calling ana a traitor when she posing as a dcfs representative call ana to threaten that her daughter would be taken away. tracionaravas a pagareverything prepared to send your things to child protective services. they are going to ample evidence in the record to support the conviction for dissuading a witness. robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear. about the robbery of her phone was clear. she testified that when defendant and nuno took her home the night of the restaurant incident, she threatened to call police and attempted to grab her phone. but defendant pushed her away, closed the truck door, anuncontroverted testimony alone is sufficient to support the conviction, but her testimony is also corroborated by multiple sources. nuno testified that ana tried to retrieve something from the truck when they dropped her off, oldham testified that defendant contacted him defendant was attempting to contact her through other means, indicating that ana did not have her phone. therefore there was sufficient evidence to support the conviction for robbery as well. defendant argues in passing, without any citation to authority, that because there violate the fede as noted above, argument without citation to authority may be deemed waived. furthermore, we have already found that there is sufficient evidence to sustain the convictions, and therefore this argument is unpersuasive. 25 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 