 filed 9/9/16 p. v. lozano ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john vincent lozano, defendant and appellant. b262337 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba429161) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert c. vanderet, judge. affirmed in part; reversed in part; remanded. danalynn pritz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer, deputy attorney general, and wyatt e. bloomfield, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant john vincent lozano (defendant) of forcible sodomy and sodomy of an intoxicated person involving his girlfriend veronica doe. veronica had a history of alcohol-induced black-outs, and had in the past sought out defendant for sex while in a highly intoxicated state. the defense at trial was that recall of events on the night in question was so sketchy and inconsistent that there was no proof that any anal intercourse had occurred, let alone nonconsensual anal intercourse. we consider whether the trial court erred in excluding the testimony of a defense expert witness on memory reconstruction, or in the alternative whether trial counsel was ineffective in his approach to presenting that expert testimony. we also consider whether trial counsel was ineffective in failing to present a defense based on accident, and whether there is sufficient evidence of force to support the forcible sodomy conviction. in addition, we decide various claims of sentencing error. i. background veronica has known defendant and his sister vicky lozano since junior high school or high school. during most of that time, veronica was friends with vicky. vicky estimated she had known veronica for about 15 years.1 she described veronica as one of her best friends. veronica began her relationship with defendant in march 2013, about eight months before the offenses in the case occurred. the evidence at trial additionally established the following facts. veronica acknowledged that she liked to drink to the point of intoxication, and had experienced events she described as black-outs. during black-outs, she remained functional and did not pass out, but she did need help. she usually did not remember what she did during black-outs. she was unable to estimate the total number of times she had had black-outs in her life. during the eight months she dated defendant, she believed 1 veronica was 35 years old at the time of trial. vicky lozano was called by the defense as a witness. we summarize her testimony here in order to present events in chronological order. 3 that she had black-vicky estimated that veronica had a black-out about once a month. she went out with vicky and defendant, became drunk, and had a black-out. she believed she and defendant had sex multiple times that night. she did not have an independent memory of it, but defendant later told her about the sex. after that first outing, veronica and defendant started dating and became a couple. during her relationship with defendant, veronica went out with him, drank, and had sesometimes, she would not remember the sex the next day. she was sure, however, that it was vaginal sex, not anal sex. veronica and defendant had discussed anal sex and she told p.m. to prepare for a party there that night. over the course of the day and evening, veronica consumed various different types of alcohol. she did not remember precisely how much she drank, but by the end of the evening, her intoxicatione of her when the party ended around 1:00 a.m., veronica called defendant to ask for a ride home and he agreed to pick her up. veroni(or calls) to defendant varied over the course of the investigation and trial in this matter. veronica testified that once defendant arrived at home, veronica left the party in her own car and followed dpulled over near a jack-in-the-box restaurant and parked because veronica could not drive. defendant got into vicky it. she remembered defendant driving and she remembered him becoming upset over the dress she was wearing because he viewed it as low cut. veronica, however, did not remember reaching the apartment where defendant lived, or getting out of the car and entering the apartment. veronica further testified that she did not remember what happened inside the apartment until pain in her anus brought her to consciousness. as veronica returned to consciousness, she realized she was laying on her stomach and defendant was on top of her with his penis in her anus. she tried to get out of that position but could not. 4 veronica started crying and screaming for defendant to stop. veronica testified that defendant eventhe did stop on his own. on cross-examination, defense counsel asked ica replied, (defendant interprets this question and answer to mean that he stopped immediately after she said stop, a questionable interpretation that we reject under the applicable standard of review that requires us to view the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict.) after defendant stopped, veronica got up and put on her dress, which was not torn or damaged. veronica called 911 on her cell phone. she believed that she called the 911 operator once, and could only remember one call. in fact, records show that she called twice. veronica accordingly gave an incomplete and somewhat inconsistent account of the call(s). for instance, she claimed both that she told defendant she was calling 911 and also that she did not want him to know she was calling 911. recordings of the 911 calls, which also captured audio of conversations between veronica and defendant while the calls were ongoing, were played for the jury. the recordings reflect veronica was unable or unwilling to provide the 911 operator with the not trace her call to determine her location, she hung up. veronica called back a few minutes later, but when she did not provide any location information to the 911 operator, the operator ended the call. after the unsuccessful 911 calls, veronica went back to bed with defendant. she wanted to sober up before trying to leave, and they both fell asleep. veronica testified that she woke up at 6:00 a.m. and was able to get her belongings and leave without waking defendant up. again called 911 and reported that she had been raped by her boyfriend. the 911 operator said she would send police. veronica testified that she then called defendant and asked him to bring her car keys down to her. when he did not do so, she called him again and threatened to call the 5 police if he did not bring the keys down. defendant did bring the keys down and placed them on the hood of the car. tell [her] it was she replied that she was going to press charges. veronica drove straight to white memorial hospital. she testified that the 911 operator told her to do so, but the transcript of the call does not reflect any such instruction. at white memorial, hospital personnel called police to take her to usc medical center. los angeles police department (lapd) officer evan guillermo2 and his partner responded to white memorial hospital. they met with veronica and transported her to usc medical center. veronica told officer guillermo that she and defendant had consensual vaginal indefendant started having anal intercourse with her, which was painful and nonconsensual.3 after defendant stopped, veronica felt she was too drunk to drive and she and defendant went to sleep. according to officer guillermo, veronica said that defendant was either awake or she woke him the next morning. veronica asked him for her car keys so she could drive home, but he said that he was going to drive her home. ent, however, veronica obtained her keys. she then told defendant she was going to call the police. at usc medical center, nurse practitioner patricia sandoval conducted a sexual assault examination of veronica. sandoval had been hired by usc a few months earlier and had recently trained veronica was one of the first examinations sandoval conducted on her own. 2 officer guillermo was called by the defense. we summarize his testimony here in order to present events in chronological order. 3 by the time of trial, veronica no longer remembered the consensual vaginal sex. she said did not know if she had vaginal sex with defendant. she just assumed that she did because she at times would have sex with defendant when she got drunk and then be unable to remember it the next day. 6 sandoval began by asking veronica about the assault. veronica stated that she was having consensual vaginal intercourse with defendant when he flipped her over and inserted his penis into her anus. she told him to stop but he did not stop until he was finished. veronica mentioned that she had consumed alcohol, but denied any memory loss or lapse of consciousness. veronica told sandoval that defendant had asked her many times for anal sex but she always refused. s. there, redness was visible. area with a colposcope, which is basically a magnifying instrument. with that device, sandoval could see lacerations, abrasions, and bruising, and one of the lacerations was deep and bled during the exam. sandoval believed the injuries were more significant than the photographs shown at trial suggested. although sandoval testified the injuries were consistent with nonconsensual intercourse, she also agreed it was possible that a person could sustain such injuries from consensual intercourse. a few days after the sexual assault examination, lapd detective steven juarez, a sex crimes investigator, interviewed veronica about the events on the night in question. detective juarez testified that veronica told him she called defendant, who was her boyfriend, for over an hour to harass him and get a ride from him. defendant came to the party and picked her up and took her to his house, but she did not remember the car ride from veronica told detective juarez she had consensual sex with defendant. she also explained she had never had anal sex with defendant her thing,and when defendant inserted his penis into her anus it was painful. she was unable to get up at the time while defendant was on top of her. veronica also told detective juarez that she called 911 after defendant finished and was no longer on top of her, but she was unable to leave the apartment at that time because she could not find her keys and was still intoxicated. she also told the detective that 7 defendant intimidated her by telling her to sit down when she was trying to leave and saying . detective juarez recorded his interview with veronica, and a transcript was shown to her at trial by defense counsel in an effort to highlight the inconsistencies between her prior statements and her trial testimony. on re-direct, veronica stated that she tried to just trying to do my best. defendant presented several witnesses at trial. sexual assault nurse examiner cari caruso testified as an expert witness for the defense. she reviewed the sexual assault examination of veronica and identified some injuries in the anus. she opined that consensual or nonconsensual sexual conduct, and in her view, it was inappropriate for a nurse to form an opinion on this subject. reviewing the report, are you able to make an opinion as to whether the injuries were sustained by sexual conduct at all? caruso are findings that occur she added[e]verything i see is not going to be related to the complaint. . . . [s]ome or most of the injuries that we find could be related to departure from the party, and vicky and officer guillermo provided testimony we have already summarized. on cross-examination by the prosecution, vicky testified about vicky testified that veronica came to her after the incident with defendant and told her what happened. vicky did not know what to tell vicky thought 8 the jury convicted defendant of one count of sodomy by use of force in violation of penal code section 286, subdivision (c)(2)(a)4 and one count of sodomy where the victim is prevented from resisting by an intoxicating substance in violation of section 286, subdivision (i). defendant waived his right to a jury trial on prior conviction allegations the district attorney had alleged against him. (as we shall later discuss, however, defendant never admitted the allegations.) the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 21 years in state prison, consisting of the upper term of eight years for the count 2 sodomy of an intoxicated person conviction, doubled to 16 years pursuant to the three strikes law, plus a five-year enhancement term pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a). the court stayed sentence on the count 1 forcible sodomy conviction pursuant to section 654, imposed a $300 restitution fine pursuant to section 1202.4, subdivision (b), imposed a $500 sexual offender fine pursuant to section 290.3, and imposed and stayed a $300 parole restitution fine. ii. discussion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to allow him to present the testimony of an expert witness on memory, or in the alternative, his counsel was ineffective in making the case for admission of the testimony. based on our review reasonably probable the testimony would have resulted in a more favorable verdict if it had been admitted. defense coudefendant has not shown ineffective assistance of counsel this issue. defendant also argues that his counsel was ineffective in failing to present a defense based on accident, and implies that this would have been the better defense to the anal intercourse was an accident. defense counsel was not deficient in failing to attempt to present a defense based on such thin evidence, and even if we were to second- 4 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 9 conclude that accident would have been the better defense, and thus, that the decision to forego presenting such a defense was prejudicial. defendant further argues that a single act of penetration is insufficient to support his convictions for both forcible sodomy and sodomy of an intoxicated person and that there was insufficient evidence he used any force to sodomize veronica. we find both arguments unpersuasive; a single act may support a conviction under both statutes because they have different elements, and there is substantial evidence on which the jury could rely to find the force element of forcible sodomy satisfied. we further hold, as we will describe in more detail, that there were certain errors committed in connection with sentencing that must be addressed by the trial court on remand. a. exclusion of expert testimony defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in precluding him from presenting the testimony of dr. mitchell eisen, an expert on memory. he further contends denied him due process, a fair trial, and the right to present a defense as provided in the u.s. and california constitutions. (u.s. const. v., vi, & xiv amends.; cal. const., art. i.,  7 & 15.) 1. proceedings in the trial court a ththe court dismissed the jury for several days until the last defense witness, cari caruso, was expected to testify. the court arranged to meet with counsel the day after dismissing the jury to go over jury instructions and to discuss any issues the attorneys might want to raise. the next day, after the jury instruction discussion was complete, the following discussion took place: just for record purposes, i did want to be heard regarding the expert testimony of mitchell eisen. 10 certainly. memory based on things that might have occurred even though they really have no true memory or experience of it. and thenand in this case, veronica would be pulling her memory in forming something that she thinks is her memory from instances that may have happened in the pastogether a memory that [defense counsel]: to the issue ofof the injuries themselves. i think it goes to the issue of consent and what she remembers that entire night. [] her testimony went completely 180 where she had informed at least three different individuals that the sex was consensual, and now when she testified most recently, s dr. eisen is purpor [defense counsel]: i understand that, and i appreciate that, your honor. i just want to make a record, [trial court]: too specula , [a]s i indicated when i declined to 11 understanding to haveto hear generalized statements about people making up memories 5 2. applicable law: expert testimony of discretion. (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1222.) experience that ,  801, subd. (a).) conclusion as intell (people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, 367)the testimony. (people v. mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d at p. 367.) ignorance] were (ibid.) [] rather, the pertinent question is whether, even if jurors have some knowledge of the subject matter, expert opinion testimony would assist the jury. (evid. code,  801, subd. (a), people v. mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d at p. 367. (people v. prince, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 1222.) people v. ashmus (1991) 54 cal.3d 932, 970 overruled on other grounds by people v. yeoman people v. ashmus, supra, at p. 970.) there is no bright line rule about whether memory and the effects of alcohol are people v. plasencia (1985) 168 cal.app.3d 546, 555.) expert testimony about specific aspects 5 xplanation of defendant has not claimed the trial court erred in denying that motion. 12 of memory can assist the jury, however. (see, e.g. people v. mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d 351; people v. earle (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 372, 405 [defense expert testified that by deficiencies s original perception, but may in effect be corrupted by information later encountered and people v. campos (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1228, 1235 [defense expert mitchell eisen, the same expert proffered here, testified fallibility of memory, and how people remember major features of important events and similarly, it is considered common knowledge that the ingestion of drugs affects perception. (people v. fauber (1992) 2 cal.4th 792, 839.) expert testimony to that effect would be unlikely to help the jury. testimony regarding what [an alcoholic] blackout is, and what an individual is aware of during an event that he or she cannot later remember, was beyond the common experience of the jury and assisted it in determining defendantpeople v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 756-757.) as our supreme court has observed, ]he effect of drugs, while certainly a proper subject of expert testimony, has become a subject people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 162.) 3. analysis testimony on memory did not sufficiently demonstrate that the testimony would be useful to the jury or even show counsel a witness testifies in the past, but not nthe trial court apparently understood this to refer to the anal intercourse, questioning how a memory of a past event would be consistent with fresh injuries. counsel then shifted gears and stated that the expert testimony 13 dr. eisen clearly could not offer expert testimony about whether or not veronica consented to any intercourse that night. dr. eisen might or might not have been able to offer expert testimony useful to the jury osodomy (see, e.g., people v. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 756-757 [expert testimony on alcoholic blackouts and memory]), but defense counsel did not proffer any details of proposed testimony about memory. after trial, the court explained that it understanding to haveto hear generalized statements about people making up memories defendant, however, points to various comments made by the trial court at the time of its ruling and contends those comments betray an abuse of discretion. he highlights in particular the comment speculati defendant contends the comments are best understood as references to the rule of people v. kelly (1976) 17 cal.3d 24 (kelly), and that kelly is not applicable to expert medical testimony, including psychiatric testimony. defendant is correct that as a general rule, the kelly rule does not apply to expert medical or psychiatric opinion. (people v. mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d at pp. 373-374 kelly-frye rule to expert medical testimony, even when the witness is a psychiatrist and the subject matter is as esoteric as the reconstitution of a past people v. stoll (1989) 49 cal.3d 1136, 1155-1157; people v. rowland (1992) 4 cal.4th 238, 266.) it is not unreasonable for defendant to view the initial comments to refer to the kelly rule. (see people v. mcdonald, supra invoking the kelly-frye rule when the trial court expressed the opinion that expert testimony on eyewitness as we have explained, however, the trial court ultimately explained the basis of its ruling more clearly. that basis, at least in part, was that t 14 understanding to haveto hear generalized statements about people making up memories , and so understood, we do not find the court excluded the testimony on kelly grounds. at bestthe proffer constituted ed statements about people making up memories,and that such testimony would not assist the trier of fact. 4. lack of prejudice use of discretion. according to defense offer of proof[ ]really have no past, but not from an alcohol- in this case, however, the jury heard a great deal of concrete evidence about a e results of those attempts. veronica herself acknowledged that she often had no direct memory of her behavior during black-outs, often learned about her behavior during black-outs from others, and then assumed that she behaved similarly in similar situations. thus, she assumed she usually had sex with defendant when she was intoxicated, based on almost certainly was the reason she told the nurse examiner and law enforcement officials that she had consensual vaginal sex with defendant the night of the sodomy. memories of events during black-outs was internally inconsistent in several respects. 15 key in this regard were the recordings and transcripts of the three 911 calls veronica made. veronica had some memories of her conversation with the 911 operator on her took place in a single phone call. the 911 recordings show that there were two conversations. similarly, veronica was convinced that when she called 911 from the the recording of the call shows that the 911 operator did not tell veronica to go to a hospital; instead, the operator given the nearly uncontested evidence that veronica lacked a memory of certain events, and pieced together memories of other events in ways that could not be reconciled with certain other of her statements or evidence presented at trial, there is no reasonable probability that defendant would have obtained a more favorable outcome if dr. eisen had testified as proffered by defense counsel. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818.) his testimony may have given the jurors some further marginal reason to believe veronica may not accurately recall aspects of what transpired, but given the manner in which the reliability of her memory had been forcefully challenged by the defenseand the common instructions the jury received regarding factors it should consider in deciding whether to believe a witnesswe are convinced there is no reasonable probability the jury would have come to a different conclusion on this record. 5. federal constitutional claim respondent contends defendant has forfeited his claim that the exclusion of dr. violated his federal constitutional rights by failing to raise that claim in the trial court. respondent is correct. (people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 510, fn. 3; people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1044.) because defendant contends that trial counsel was ineffective for failing to obpeople v. osband, supra, 13 people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 431.) 16 performance was deficient before (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697.) ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, . . . that course should (ibid.) . . does not imperm (people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1102-people v. mcneal (2009) 46 defense, and [does] not preclude defendant from presenting a defense, any error is one of state law (ibid.) here, as we have discussed, defendant was able to demonstrate veronica had large gaps in her memory. more importantly, he was able to demonstrate that she had false or incorrect memories of events. given the abundant evidence of verondifficulties, defendant has not shown that the trial court prevented him from presenting a defense and violated his federal constitutional rights. accordingly, he has not shown that a different result would have been reasonably probable if his counsel had objected on constitutional grounds, and so his claim of ineffective assistance of counsel fails. b. ineffective assistance of counsel expert testimony contributed to the exclusion of dr. federal constitutional right to effective assistance of counsel. defendant posits that a different result would have been reasonably probable if counsel had raised the issue sooner and requested an evidentiary hearing.6 6 ailure to constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. we have already addressed this point. 17 1. applicable law in assessing claims of ineffective assistance of trial counsel, we consider whether counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217.)people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189.) we presume that counsels performance fell within the wide range of professional competence and that counsels actions and inactions can be explained as a matter of sound trial strategy. defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate assistance of counsel.ibid.) as defendant claims his attorney should have , a reviewing court on direct appeal must reject an ineffective assistance of counsel claim could be no satisfactory explanation.(people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1189, citation omitted [rejecting claim on direct appeal that counsel should have presented defense witnesses].) 2. analysis dr. eisen was identified twice as a possible expert witness during voir dire, but he was not mentioned again until the proffer which took place during the defense case. that the timing of the proffer could have been set by the trial court to occur after the court heard idence. (see people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1051 [on direct appeal, where reasons for decisions by counsel do not appear on the record, courts will not find ineffective assistance unless there could be no conceivable reason for omissions].) even if we were to assume that the timing of the proffer 18 however, there is nothing in the record to show that an earlier proffer would have resulted in a d similarly, there are circumstances that could satisfactorily explain why no statement before the proffer that he wanted to be heit is even possible that counsel did express some desire to present the court with additional information during an unrecorded sidebar or other exchange with the court. in any event, if we assume that counsel failed to seek a hearing, was constitutionally deficient in failing to do so, and such a hearing would have resulted in a decision to permit dr. eisen to testify, there is nothing in the record to show that testimony would have changed the outcome. im fails. (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1189; people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266.) c. ineffective assistance of counsel - accident defense defendant contends he was denied his sixth amendment right to effective counsel because his trial counsel did not argue accident as a defense or request an instruction on accident, such as calcrim no. 3404. part ii.b, ante, counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probabilitypeople v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1189.) ourts should not second-guess reasonable, if difficult, tactical decisions in the harsh light of hindsight (people v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1212). tactical errors are generally not deemed reversible, and counsels decisionmaking must be evaluated in the context of the availab (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 333.)(people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 926.) 19 an accident defense is a claim that the defendant lacked the intent required for the crime. (see people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 997.) calcrim no. 3404, the instruction referenced by defendant, guilty of [the crime charged] if (he/she) acted . . . . without the intent required for that defendant is correct that forcible sodomy is a general intent crime (people v. warner (2006) 39 cal.4th 548, 557), and so the only intent required is the intent to engage in the proscribed sexual act itself. (see people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 518, fn. 15.) that does not mean that the required intent is simply to have sex. it means the intent to have sex under the forbidden circumstances. section 286, subdivision (c)(2)(a) proscribes anal intercourse against the will of the victim by force. thus, this offense requires an intent to commit the sodomy against the will of the victim. (see people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1130, overruled in part on other grounds in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151 [discussing forcible rape].) section 286, subdivision (i) proscribes sexual intercourse with a person who is not capable of giving legal consent because of intoxication. (people v. giardino (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 454, 462 [discussing section 261, subdivision (a)(3) which uses language identical to the pertinent language of section 286, subdivision (i)].) this offense requires an intent to commit sodomy on a person who is not capable of consent. both sodomy offenses, there are factual scenarios which could, in theory, support an accident defense to these offenses. but here, there is virtually no evidence which would have supported an accident instruction. the only evidence that defendant acted accidentally was veronicclaim, made under self-serving circumstances, that the sodomy was an accident. testimony indicates that defendant elaborated on how or why he believed it was an e of the word accident to the victim is not sufficient to support an instruction on the defense of accident. absent some evidence from defendant 20 concerning the facts which supported his claim that he lacked the required intent, any request by counsel for an accident instruction would have lacked merit. , defendant could have meant that he had no intent to penetrate veronica at all. defendant suggests on ere having vaginal intercourse. there was, however, no evidence before the jury that this was what defendant meant.7 it is also possible that when defendant said it was an accident, he meant that he mistakenly believed that veronica consented to the anal intercourse, and so he lacked the intent to have anal intercourse against the will of the victim, as required for forcible sodomy. at a minimum, this form of an accident defense this would require some evidence explaining why defendant believed that veronica consented. there is no such evidence.8 7 defendant attempts to side-step the absence of proof by contending broadly that infer accident from the there is no logical reason whether the penetration was accidental or intentional, veronica would not have been expecting it. even assuming a brief episode of penetration (which was contrary to 8 or no force to accomplish the penetration and that veronica did not flee immediately afterwards. greater than or different from the force used to engage in the act of sodomypeople v. hale (2012) 204 cal.app.4th 961, (idphysically facilitated sexual penetration(people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 1015, 1027 [discussing rape]). the people need only ical force to overcome people v. hale, supra, veronica lacked serious injuries does not compel the conclusion that defendant did not use force to accomplish the sodomy against her will. 21 instruction for which there was insufficient evidence. (people v. ochoa, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 434 [counsel cannot have been ineffective for failing to seek an instruction for which there was no supporting evidence: the court should properly have denied such a requestee people v. mcpeters (1992) 2 cal.4th 1148, 1173 [defense counsel is not requ.) in our judgment, defense counsel made a reasonable tactical choice to focus the any argument urging the jury to believe that veronica was capable of accurately recalling one portion of the encounter, when defendant said it was an accident, would very likely have undermined the main defense, and for very little gain, given the lack of detailed evidence to support an accident defense. counsel could reasonably have made a tactical decision not to argue that the jury should believe veronica on this one point only. this would have been sound trial strategy, not deficient performance. defendant further implies that his counsel might have been ineffective in failing to investigate whether defendant had a viable accident defense, contending at one point he suggests that this would have been a better defense than the one actually offered. we see nothing that would suggest a constitutionally deficient investigation. defenses to pursue is a quintessentially tactical judgment we are not in a position to second guess. moreover, an accident defense would have required testimony from defendant, and defense counsel could have made a reasonable tactical decision to recommend to defendant that he not testify. alternatively, defense counsel might in fact have suggested that defendant testify, and defendant decided against it. 22 d. double convictions defendant contends there is evidence of only one act of anal penetration (followed and so insufficient evidence to support his convictions for two counts of sodomy.9 he asserts a conviction which rests on insufficient evidence violates his right to due process under the fifth and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution and article i, section 15 of the california constitution. convictionsconvictions can be based upon a single criminal act or an indivisible course of criminal people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 9710 (people v. gonzalez (2014) 60 cal.4th 533, 537.) here, as long as sodomy by force and sodomy of an intoxicated person are different offenses, convictions for both offenses based on one act would be proper. we hold the offenses are separate. as our supreme court has explained, all crimes in california are statutory. (people v. gonzalez, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 537.) thus, whether subdivisions of the ine different offenses or merely describe different ways of committing the ibid.) as has long been the rule, we begin our determination of legislative intent by examining a plain and commonsense meaning. (ibid.) we consider 9 the intoxicated person when he initially penetrated veronica and then sodomy by force when the prosecutor did not present the case in a manner that would suggest both charges were based on a single act. 10 an accusatory pleading may charge two or more different offenses connected together in their commission, or different statements of the same offense or two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses, under separate counts . . . . the prosecution is not required to elect between the different offenses or counts set forth in the accusatory pleading, but the defendant may be convicted of any number of the offenses charged 23 the words in context, however, keeping in mind the nature and purpose of the statute. (ibid.) we harmonize the various parts of a statute by considering the statutory framework as a whole. (ibid.) nce, duress, menace, or intoxicating or anesthetic substance, or any controlled substance, and this condition was the two offenses have different elements. sodomy may be committed by the use of force against a person who is not intoxicated ( 286, subd. (c)(2)(a)), and may also be committed without the use of force against a person who is intoxicated ( 286, subd. (i)). further, sodomy by force must be against the will of the victim, that is, the victim must have refused consent, while sodomy of an intoxicated person must be against a victim who is incapable of legal consent. (see people v. giardino, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at p. 462.) thus, neither offense is included in the other, a fact which indicates there are two offenses, not one. (cf. blockburger v. united states (1932) 284 [w]here the same act or transaction constitutes a violation of two distinct statutory provisions, the test to be applied to determine whether there are two offenses or only one, is whether each provision requires proof of a fact which the other does not since sodomy by force ( 286, subd. (c)(2)(a)) and sodomy of an intoxicated person ( 286, subd. (i)) are two different offenses, defendant could properly be convicted of both based on the same act. (people v. gonzalez, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 539.) claim that his federal constitutional right to due process was violated also fails. that one conviction, leaving the other unsupported by any evidence. 24 e. sufficiency of the evidence force defendant contends that even if there is sufficient evidence of more than one penetration, there is insufficient evidence of force to support his conviction for forcible sodomy in violation of section 286, subdivision (c)(2)(a). he further contends such a conviction violates his federal constitutional rights.11 he specifically contends that even if the evidence shows that he did not stop immediately after veronica told him to, he did not use conviction, the reviewing court must examine the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578.) the appellate court presumes in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. reilly (1970) 3 cal.3d 421, 425; accord, people v. pensinger (1991) 52 cal.3d 1210, 1237.) the same standard applies when the conviction rests primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. perez to acquit a defendant if it finds the circumstantial evidence susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the 11 due process and a fair trial because the evidence was insufficient. in his introduction, he argued that the conviction based on insufficient evidence violates the double jeopardy provisions of the u.s. constitution. defendant has cited no case law holding that a conviction based on insufficient evidence violates double jeopardy provisions, and he makes no argument in support of this claim. accordingly, we do not consider the double elements of the crime proven beyond a reasonable doubt, the due process clause of the united states constitution is satisfied [citation] as is the due process clause of article i, people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 690.) 25 doubt. (ibidopinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled (people v. thomas people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053-1054.) as we have already explained, to obtain a conviction under section 286, subdivision (c)(2)(a), taccomplished by enough physic (people v. hale, supra, 204 cal.app.4th at p. 979.) this is in part because there is no requirement that the victim resist. (id. at p. 1024.) here, veronica was on her stomach with her arms underneath her when she felt defendant, at least partly on top of her, thrusting his penis into her anus. weight was more she testified she tried but could not get out of that position. veronica started crying and screaming for defendant to stop. veronica testified that defendant did not stop right away, and that it felt like it lasted this is sufficient evidence to show that defendant used force to overcome people v. hale, supra, 204 cal.app.4th at p. 979 [evidence that defendant was much larger than victim and did not stop sodomizing victim even though she said she was being hurt is sufficient to show that the sodomy was accomplished by force].) hands on hleast in part, which prevented her from getting out of her position on her stomach underneath defendant. never sought to circumscribe the nature or type of forcible conduct that will support a conviction of forcible rape, and indeed, the rape case law suggests that even conduct which might normally attend sexual intercourse, when engaged in with force sufficient to s will, can support a forcible rape conviction.people v. griffin, 26 supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1027.) that is equally the case here. f. cumulative effect of error defendant contends that even if considered individually, the cumulative effect of the five preceding errors is prejudicial. we have found no errors and so lative error necessarily fails. g. prior conviction allegation defendant maintains he did not admit his prior conviction and the trial court did not hold a court trial on the truth of the prior conviction allegation. respondent concedes the trial court failed to adjudicate or obtain an admission of defendant, and that a remand to the trial court is therefore appropriatewell taken. defendant did waive his right to a jury trial, but he did not expressly admit his prior conviction, or even exhibit an intention to admit it.12 (compare people v. moore (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 411, 415, 422 prior conviction, this expression of intent was sufficient to constitute an admission].) we therefore remand for further proceedings in connection with the unresolved prior conviction allegation. 12 ior conviction has been established. that memorandum, however, was filed almost two months after the relevant hearing. occurred during the proceedings. it is not itself an admission and cannot serve as a 27 h. denial of romero13 motion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to strike his prior 2004 conviction for a violation of section 245, subdivision (c), which was alleged to be . respondent contends the trial court did not abuse its discretion, but suggests the issue may be moot if we remand the matter we are remanding the matter for that purpose, and we agree that the issue is therefore moot. iconviction is found true, defendant will have an opportunity to make a romero motion before resentencing. i. section 290.3 fine defendant contends the trial court erred in imposing a $500 fine pursuant to section 290.3. he maintains the proper amount of the fine is $300. defendant also contends that even with this reduced amount, the trial court was required to hold a hearing to determine if defendant had the ability to pay the fine and associated penalty assessments of $930. any offense specified in subdivision (c) of section 290 shall . . . be punished by a fine of three hundred dollars ($300) upon the first conviction or a fine of five hundred dollars ($500) upon the second and each subsequent conviction, unless the court determines that n of section 286 is a listed offense. ( 290, subd. (c).) each qualifying conviction in a single case constitutes a separate conviction for purposes of section 290.3. (see (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 817, 822.) fines that are punitive in nature may not be imposed on a sentence which is stayed pursuant to section 654. (people v. sharret (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 859, 865.) as the 13 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 28 plain language of section 290.3 shows, fines imposed under that section are punitive. (see people v. valenzuela (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1246, 1248.) conviction was stayed pursuant to section 654. thus, this conviction cannot be used as a second conviction for purposes of section 290.3. since defendant has only one conviction for purposes of section 290.3, the applicable fine is $300. although not ordered by the trial court in this case, the imposition of a $300 fine under section 290.3 triggers additional assessments. (see people v. johnson (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 1432, 1457-1458 [total amount of additional assessments is $930].) thus, on remand, the trial court should determine whether defendant has the ability to pay the fine and assessments, and if so, impose them and ensure the abstract of judgment is amended accordingly. j. sex offender registration the trial court ordered defendant to register as a sex offender for life pursuant to section 290, subdivision (c). this directive, however, is not reflected in the abstract of judgment and respondent requests that we order the abstract corrected to reflect the requirement. since we are remanding this matter to the trial for resentencing, the trial court should ensure this correction is made. 29 disposition of the truth of the prior conviction allegation and for imposition of the section 290.3 fine and related assessments, unless defendant lacks the ability to pay. the clerk of the superior court is instructed to prepare a corrected abstract of judgment aft resentencing and to deliver a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: turner, p.j. raphael, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 