filed 6/7/16 p. v. garcia ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. omar garcia, defendant and appellant. b262876 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va136224) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, brian f. gasdia, judge. vacated and reversed in part, affirmed in part, and remanded. james r. bostwick, jr., under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and andrew s. pruitt, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 omar garcia was convicted by jury of one count of driving under the influence of alcohol (dui) within 10 years of three other dui offenses. (veh. code,  23152, subd. (a), 23550.)1 garcia admitted the allegation that he had committed three dui offenses within ten years of his current offense. ( 23550.) the jury found true an request to take a chemical test. ( 23612, 23577, 23578, 23538, subd. (b)(2).) the trial court sentenced garcia to a term of two years. garcia appeals, contending that his admission of the three prior dui convictions was not knowing and voluntary. garcia further contends that the enhancement for refusing to take a chemical test should be reversed because the officer failed to inform him of his rights and of the consequences of refusing. finally, garcia asks us to conduct an independent review of the pitchess hearing. (pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531.) we conclude that the totality of the circumstances does not show that finding on the allegation, vacate the sentence and remand for further proceedings. we otherwise affirm. factual and procedural background prosecution evidence on april 20, 2014, around 6:00 p.m., pablo galvez was driving on studebaker road toward florence avenue. in his rearview mirror, he saw a pickup truck approaching him from the left side. the truck came so close to galvez that galvez needed to move to the right to avoid an accident. the truck passed galvez, stopped at the signal at florence, then turned left on florence. 1 further unspecified statutory references are to the vehicle code. 3 galvez also turned left onto florence. galvez was driving at approximately 35 to 40 miles per hour and estimated the truck to be going approximately 60 to 65 miles per hour. galvez saw the truck weave and almost hit cars parked on the right side of the street as it traveled down florence avenue. around the same time, lewis ponce was driving on florence avenue approaching lakewood avenue. ponce saw a pickup truck in front of him swerve between lanes and almost hit parked cars. ponce saw the truck enter a gas station at the intersection of florence and lakewood. he reported the truck to the downey police department. galvez followed the truck into the gas station. galvez parked at a gas pump and called 911 . two police cars arrived a few minutes later, and galvez drove away without speaking to the police. downey police officer blanca reyes arrived at the gas station and saw the pickup truck parked in a handicapped space. with the door open, leaning slightly outside the car. officer reyes opened the officer reyes asked garcia to step out of the truck, but garcia insisted he was fine. officer reyes pulled garcia out of the truck, helped him to the sidewalk, and asked him to sit down. officer eyes were bloodshot and his speech was slurred. officer reyes told garcia she was going to give him a field sobriety test because she smelled alcohol on him. garcia did not take the test, but he repeatedly insisted that he was not refusing to take the test. garcia was argumentative and uncooperative and failed to respond to officer reyes. garcia started speaking spanish and told officer reyes he did not understand what she was saying, so officer reyes spoke to him in spanish. garcia then spoke in english 4 and told officer reyes that he was not refusing the sobriety test. garcia refused to perform a test known as the horizontal gaze nystagmus test. officer reyes gave garcia the option to do either a blood test or a breath test and explained to him that if he refused, his license would be suspended automatically. at trial, she did not recall whether she had advised garcia that refusing the test would result in a fine or imprisonment. garcia never performed a chemical test. based on her observations of garcia, officer reyes believed he had been driving under the influence and therefore placed him under arrest. defense evidence garcia did not present any evidence. procedural background in october 2014, the district attorney charged garcia with dui within 10 years of three other dui offenses, alleging that garcia had suffered dui convictions in 2006, 2008, and 2010. the information further alleged that garcia willfully refused to submit to a chemical test pursuant to section 23612, within the meaning of sections 23577, 23578, and 23538, subdivision (b)(2). garcia filed a pitchess motion, seeking information regarding citizen complaints or disciplinary proceedings as to officer reyes. the court granted the motion and conducted an in camera hearing, but found no discoverable items. before trial started, garcia through counsel offered to admit the three prior dui convictions. the trial court told garcia the prosecutor would ask him some questions and that garcia could then ask his attorney and the court some questions. the prosecutor asked garcia if he admitted being convicted of dui offenses on november 22, 2006, january 2, 2008, and june 17, 2010. garcia admitted all 5 three. the trial court asked garciathat decided by me after this trial and i could decide that on my own if you dadmit; you also have the right to a jury trial separate from me deciding that you could have the same jury that hears the case decide those priors? [] do you garcia said he understood. waiving you garcia conferred off the record with his trial counsel and then told the court he had no questions. plea as knowing and intelligent. the court did not advise garcia that he had the right to remain silent and the right to confront adverse witnesses. the jury convicted garcia of the charged offense and found true the allegation that he refused to submit to the chemical test. the trial court sentenced garcia to the midterm of two years, designated him a habitual traffic offender, and revoked his license for four years. garcia filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. admission of prior convictions garcia contends that his admission of three prior dui convictions was not knowing and voluntary. we conclude that the totality of the circumstances does not establish his admission was knowing and voluntary. the trial court must advise the defendant and obtain waivers of (1) the right to a trial to determine the fact of the prior conviction, (2) the right to remain silent, and (3) the right to confront adverse witnesses. [citation.] proper advisement and 6 people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 356 (mosby).) in people v. lloyd (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 49 (lloyd), all their boykin-tahl id. at p. 53; see people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, 170 (cross) [discussing requirement established by boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238 and in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122 that the trial court ensure that a guilty plea is knowing and voluntary].) transcript does not reveal complete advisements and waivers, the voluntary in light of the totality omosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 361.) . he was advised of his right to have a court trial or a jury trial to decide the prior conviction allegations, but he was not advised of his right to remain silent and his right to confront adverse witnesses. the people acknowledge that garcia was not advised of all three rights but argue that the totality of the circumstances shows his admission was voluntary and intelligent. we disagree. the circumstances presented here are similar to cases in which courts have found the admission not to be knowing and voluntary and distinguishable from the case on which the people rely. we rely on three cases with circumstances simi cross, the defendant stipulated to a prior conviction, and the trial court accepted the stipulation without advising him of his trial rights or the penal consequences of his admission. our high court concluded there was no indication in the record that 7 immediately accepted it. the court did not ask whether [the defendant] had discussed the stipulation with his lawyer; nor did it ask any questions of [the defendant] personally or in any way inform him of his right to a fair determination cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 180.) moreover, the defense had not yet cross-examined any witnesses, and there was ibid.) aware of his right to a fair determination of the truth of the prior conviction ibid.) the second case is lloyd. before the defendant admitted five state prison priors, the trial court advised him of his right to trial, but not of his rights to confront adverse witnesses and to remain silent. 2 (lloyd, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 59.) also like this caseppellate record in [lloyd did] not include information about how defendant was convicted on any of the five felony cases id. at pp. 59-60.) the appellate court held that the failure to advise the defendant of the right of confrontation and the right to silence was prejudicial error and therefore reversed his admission of the prison priors. (id. at pp. 53, 60.) third, in people v. christian (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 688 (christian), the trial court failed to advise the defendant of his rights to confront witnesses and against self-incrimination when the defendant entered a plea and admitted to prior 2 the admission in lloyd was obtained seven months after trial in a bifurcated proceeding. 8 felony allegations.3 like garcia, the appellant in christian not just participated in a trial at which he would have exercised his right to confront witnesses, nor had he just taken advantage of nor waived this right against self-id. at p. 697.) similar to the record here, there was no evidence in christian to indicate whether the prior convictions were obtained by plea or trial. the court thus held that the totality of the circumstances did not indicate that the appellant understandingly and voluntarily entered his plea and admission. (id. at p. 698.) this case is unlike mosby, on which the people rely. mosby concluded that the totality of the circumstances indicated that the defendant voluntarily and him of his rights. (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 364-365.) the court relied on the fact that the defendant admitted the prior conviction of possessing cocaine id. at p. 364.) the court reasoned that the just undergone a jury trial at which he did not testify, although his codefendant did. thus, he not only would have known of, but had just exercised, his right to remain silent at trial, forcing the prosecution to prove he had sold cocaine. and, because he had, through counsel, confronted witnesses at that immediately concluded trial, ibid.) would have received boykin-tahl id. at p. 365.) 3 although christian differs slightly from the instant case because it involved a plea to the substantive offense in addition to an admission to prior conviction allegations, the 9 unlike mosbyundergone a jury trial at which he could have exercised his right to remain silent and to confront adverse witnesses. nor is there any evidence in the record that the people admission was knowing and voluntary. to support their argument, they first rely on a comment by the trial court that impeachment if garcia chose to testify. the people also cite a comment the court made to garcia after accepting his admission, informing him that if he decided to testify, the court would consider admitting the evidence of the prior convictions. garcia had a constitutional right to testify or not to testify. even if these comments indicate that garcia was aware of his right to remain silent, this does not establish that he waived this right. (see people v. johnson (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 169, 178 (johnson) [where the defendant had just exercised his rights in trial, but the trial court only informed him of his right to a jury trial when he admitted prior convictions, the determine from this silent record whether [the defendant] not only was aware of [his boykin-tahl] rights, but was also prepared to waive them as a condition to moreover, even assuming the comments indicate s awareness of his right to remain silent, none of the statements establish that he was aware of and waived his right to confront adverse witnesses. the people also evidence that trial counsel advised garcia of his rights. we disagree. [w]e are not privy to the conversation [garcia] had with his counsel about the plea offer, only that the conversation took place. it is necessary to have an adequate record 10 for review [citation] as this ensures defendants know and understand the significance of the constitutional rights they are waiving. [citation.]christian, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at p. 698.) the trial court did not ask garcia if his counsel discussed the rights he was waiving or explained the penal consequences of the admission. the record indicates only that the court asked garcia if he had any questions for his attorney. in the same way that the presence of an attorney alone does not satisfy the boykin-tahl requirements [citation], we will not presume [garcia] was informed of his boykin-tahl rights in [his] conversation with his (ibid.) the people furthdemonstrated by his prior experience with the criminal justice system. however, as in christian, cross, and lloyd, o not know if they were by plea or trial and we cannot infer that he would have received advisements in his christian, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at p. 697; see cross, supra, 61 r conviction ; lloyd, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 60 [where the ice system does not permit a reasonable inference he was aware of and intended to .) occurred eight, six, and four years prior to the present offense. (see christian, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at pp. 697-698 significant gap [between his prior convictions and the charges at issue], and the lack of other facts demonstrating an awareness and comprehension of his 11 criminal justice system demonstrated his present knowledge and understanding of r convictions do not indicate that he was aware of the rights he was waiving and the potential consequences of his admission to the allegations. (see cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 170-171 [before admitting a prior conviction allegation, must be advised of the precise increase in the prison term that might be imposed, the effect on parole eligibility, and the possibility of being adjudged a habitual criminal. [citati].) thus, the totality of the circumstances does not demonstrate garcia knowingly and intelligently waived his rights, and his admission of his priors must be reversed. (lloyd, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 53 [reversing and remanding for retrial where and voluntary]; johnson, supra, 15 cal.app.4th at p. 178 [reversing judgment where the record did not show he was prepared to waive his boykin-tahl admitting his prior offens.) ii. refusal to take chemical test chemical test should be reversed because the officer failed to advise him of his rights and of the consequences of refusing to take the test as required by section 23612.4 he contends that the true finding on the enhancement is not supported by 4 best evidence of blood alcohol content at the time of the arrest of a person who is reasonably believed to he passage of time [citation] and (2) to provide incentive for voluntary submission to 12 consequences of refusal. we find that the enhancement is supported by substantial evidence. on appeal, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the unless it describes facts or events that are physically impossible or inherently improbable, the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction. people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) the jury found garcia guilty of dui ( 23152, subd. (a)) and found true the allegation that to section 23612. vehicle is deemed to have given his or her consent to chemical testing of his or her blood or breath for the purpose of determining the alcoholic content of his or her blood, if lawfully arrested for an offense allegedly committed in violation of detained person must be told that failure to submit to, or complete, a required test will result in suspension or revocation of his or her license for specified periods. [citations.] an arrested person must also be told that he or she is subject to a fine chemical tests thereby eliminating the potential for violence inherent in forcible testing molenda v. department of motor vehicles (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 974, 993.) 13 and mandatory imprisonment if convicted of a violation of [section] 23152 or & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) crimes against public peace and welfare,  297, p. 1034; see  23612, subd. to submit to, or the failure to complete, the required chemical testing will result in a fine [and] mandatory imprisonment if the person is convicted of a violation of section 23152 or 23153 . . . . the people acknowledge that officer reyes did not give garcia the admonitions required by section 23612. officer reyes advised garcia that his license would be suspended automatically if he refused to submit to the chemical test. she did not advise him that a refusal could be used against him in court, and she did not recall if she told him that a refusal would result in a fine or imprisonment. despite the fact that officer reyes did not give garcia the requisite admonitions under section 23612, the remedy is not necessarily to reverse the enhancement, as garcia requests. in people v. superior court (maria) (1992) 11 id. at p. 144.) the court concluded that the remedy of the dismissal of criminal charges was not appropriate in the absence of a constitutional violation. (ibid.; see also ritschel v. city of fountain valley contentions that a failure to advise an arrestee of the tests available or to honor the ) the statute in its current version still does not contain a remedy for under section 23612. (see  23612.) 14 further, we disagree with garcia that the enhancement must be reversed for insufficient evidence. officer reyes testified that garcia was very argumentative and abusive, did not listen to her and did not acknowledge her statements. although garcia repeatedly told her that he was not refusing the test, he never acknowledged her request to take the test and never made any effort to take the test. he . he tried speaking in spanish to claim that he did not understand what officer reyes was saying, then switched back to english when she spoke to him in spanish. garcia also refused to perform the horizontal gaze nystagmus test that officer reyes asked him to take. because garcia was so belligerent and uncooperative, officer reyes concluded that he was refusing to take a test. the evidence is sufficient to sustain the finding that garcia refused to submit to a chemical test. (cf. morphew v. department of motor vehicles (1982) 137 cal.app.3d 738, 743 [under predecessor statute to  23612, arresting officer was not required to persist interruptions and obstreperous behavior, until [the arr iii. pitchess hearing pitchess motion and conducted an in camera hearing. the court concluded that there were no discoverable items. garcia requests that we independently review the sealed transcript of the in camera proceedings personnel files is reviewed under the abuse of discretion standard. (people v. cruz 15 people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 714.) ra review of officer the procedural requirements of a pitchess hearing. there was a court reporter present, and the custodian of records was sworn prior to testifying. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1229, fn. 4; people v. yearwood (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 161, 180.) the custodian of records complied with the requirement to bring all the records and submit them for the court to review and determine which documents were relevant. (people v. wycoff (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 410, 414-415.) the record on appeal therefore is adequate to permit meaningful appellate proceeding, we find no error or abuse of discretion. 16 disposition the true finding on the allegation that garcia had committed three dui offenses within 10 years of his current offense is reversed and the sentence imposed is vacated. the matter is remanded for further proceedings on that allegation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 