filed 4/5/16 p. v. valdivia ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony e. valdivia, defendant and appellant. b262115 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma061286) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, daviann l. mitchell, judge. affirmed. george w. taylor, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and timothy m. weiner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 summary anthony e. valdivia appeals from a judgment following a no contest plea and issuance of a certificate of probable cause, contending that the trial court abused its discretion by terminating his right to self-representation. we affirm. background in december 2013, an information in case no. ma061286 charged valdivia with one count of possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)) and alleged that valdivia suffered three prior felonies pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). in february 2014, a separate information filed in case no. ma061442 charged appellant in count 1 with kidnapping (pen. code,  207, subd. (a)); in count 2 with assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)); in count 3 with kidnapping (pen. code,  207, subd. (a)); in count 4 with torture (pen. code,  206); and in count 5 with assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)). the information alleged that counts 1, 2, and 3 were serious felonies within the meaning of penal code section 1192.7, subdivision (c) and valdivia suffered from a prior felony within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). on april 23, 2014, valdivia requested to proceed in pro. per. in both cases and filed a faretta waiver. during the hearing, the court prior incarceration disciplinary history for stealing food in 2006 and fighting in 2012 and stated, out-of-court misconduct . . . is also a basis for revoking your the court also explained to so you understand that with this kind of history, the slightest misconduct, whether it is coming to court, whether it is not conforming your behavior the court warned pro per privileges are granted, you are going to be given a copy of the sherfailure to do so can also be a basis for revoking your privileges 3 again -court misconduct [or] any nonconformance with any of the pro per rules and regulations could be a basis for violating [sic] his pro per . per. status and appointed stand by counsel, stating, in the event that your pro per privileges are ever revoked, he will be in may 2014, the court appointed valdivia a private investigator, martin henricks, to assist him. at a july 21, 2014 hearing, the court indicated that it had received notice that an administrative wilson1 hearing had been held the prior business day, july 18, 2014. valdivia stated that he planned to contest the findings of the wilson board and planned to retain private counsel. the court continued the hearing because it had not yet received the administrative decision and digest of evidence. i. wilson hearing the administrative record received by the court showed the following: while in custody on july 9, 2014, appellant received macks, his court-appointed investigator. all mail must be screened for contraband, drugs, inappropriate pictures, and none [sic] legal custodial assistant hinton opened the envelope in valdivpresence and saw that it contained 60 to 70 pages of what appeared to be a printout of valdivaccount, including ] with large stacks of cash money and displaying and comments, and graphic nude pic the mail included a cover letter from henricks along with other written indications that the mail contained evidence in when custodial assistant hinton asked valdivia about the mail, valdivia claimed it was legal mail and evidence in 1 in wilson v. superior court (1978) 21 cal.3d 816, the supreme court held that . per. privileges in jail. (id. at pp. 821-822.) 4 his case. custodial assistant hinton treated the mail as contraband and took it to be sent back. the next day, july 10, 2014, from sviolated, at which point valdivia started speaking concerning his legal mail and the watch deputy realized that valdivia was also on the call using three-way calling. all three-way calling is against jail house rules as it is used by inmates to circumvent the jail telephone system. the wilson hearing was conducted on july 18, 2014, in the presence of valdivia, custodial assistant hinton and lieutenant trejo, who served as the hearing officer. at the start of the hearing, valdivia was asked if he had received notice of the hearing and valdivia denied receiving notice, saying deputies could search his cell but would not find the notice. lieutenant trejo ordered the hearing stopped so that deputy montez, who had delivered the notice, could be present. according to deputy montez, the day prior, july 17, 2014, custodial assistant hinton gave him an envelope for valdivia, telling him wilson hearing and instructing him to deliver the envelope to valdivia. deputy montez handed valdivia the envelope and told him it was for his wilson hearing. around an hour later, valdivia handed the envelope back to deputy montez, stating he did not need it. at the hearing, however, they would not find it. after valdivia was asked multiple times if he was sure he did not receive an envelope from deputy montez, lieutenant trejo stated that he would look at surveillance video from the jail cameras to determine if valdivia was telling the truth. valdivia then admitted he was lying and that deputy montez had given him the envelope. of the wilson delayed the operational procedure of the hearing. valdivia did not present any witnesses, but asserted his innocence. 5 after the hearing, lieutenant trejo concluded that appellant had violated the rules and pro. per. policy, and accordingly, revoked -custody pro. per. privileges. appellant was notified of this decision on july 18, 2014. ii. court hearing at the july 23, 2014 court hearing to review the wilson hearing, valdivia indicated that he had not yet retained counsel and proceeded in pro. per. the trial court stated that it had received and reviewed the administrative record of wilson hearing. valdivia argued that jail staff violated his rights by reading his mail when they could only inspect his mail and when he tried to contact the watch commander to complain, staff was uncooperative which was the reason it was necessary for him to initiate a three-way call in order to lodge his complaint with the watch commander. the trial court summarized its review of the administrative record and various e [wilson] hearing was initially to be conducted at twelve claim that he did the hearing officer, lieutenant trejo, to call a deputy to confirm that he had in fact served valdivia. after the deputy was summoned, the court noted that valdivia continued to repeatedly claim he did not receive notice and further alleged that the deputy lied about delivering the notice, and the court noted that it was not until lieutenant trejo stated he would examine video footage that valdivia admitted he had received the notice and had been lying about not receiving it from the deputy. after reviewing the mail and three-way calling offenses giving rise to the wilson procedures of conducting the actual wilson hearing by misrepresenting the fact of notice and ser the court then found that the wilson hearing was appropriately conducted, noting the procedures that had 6 contention that his legal mail was improperly read given that it would have been unnecessary to read valdcontraband given the sexually graphic photographs in the mail. thus, the court therefore upheld -custody pro. per. privileges at the jail. . per. status in the court should be revoked. after quoting from ferrel v. superior court (1978) 20 cal.3d 888, which states that [l]. per. privileges . . . would not . . . preclude a defendant from making an intelligent and voluntary decision to continue to represent himself provided that he has been warned of the dangers and (id. at p. 892), the court confirmed that valdivia wished to maintain his pro. per. status despite the dangers and difficulties of proceeding without pro. per. privileges in the county jail. the trial court noted that when valdivia was granted pro. per. status he was admonished in light of his history of disciplinary violations that misconduct might lead to revocation and his faretta not abuse the conduct of the trial court might terminate his self-representation. the court then stated -of-court disruptions or noncompliance with rules where they support a high likelihood of in-citing people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1. based on the totality of the circumstances ring an actual proceeding that was held,concluded that no viable alternative to revocation existed. the court policies and the court looking at the overall totality of the circumstances, this all indicates directives or pro. per. policy and will continue to be obstructive or noncompliant with 7 d accordingly revoked pro. per. status, appointing standby 2 iii. plea and sentence on january 5, 2015, valdivia withdrew his plea of not guilty and pleaded no contest to count 1 of case no. ma061286 (possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)) and, after the information was amended in case no. ma061442 to include count 6 alleging assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)), withdrew his plea of not guilty on count 5 (assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)) and pleaded no contest to counts 5 and 6 of case no. ma061442. counts 1, 2, 3, and 4 were dismissed. valdivia was sentenced in case no. ma061286 to the upper term of three years in state prison plus an additional three years pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b), for a total of six years. he was also ordered to pay the various fees and fines and awarded custody credit. in case no. ma061442, valdivia was sentenced on count 5 to one-third of the middleterm, one year in state prison, to be served consecutive to the sentence imposed in case no. ma061286. for count 6, he was sentenced to one-third of the middleterm, which is one year in state prison, to be served consecutive to the sentence imposed in count 5. valdivia was ordered to pay various fees and fines and was given custody credits for this case. on january 26, 2015, appellant filed a timely notice of appeal for both case nos. ma061286 and ma061442. on february 2, 2015, request for a certificate of probable cause was granted. 2 the court also noted that henricks appointment would be suspended not only because valdivia was no longer representing himself but also because henricks might be materials cited as evidence,dered the matter reported to the membership committee for private investigators appointed by the court. 8 discussion valdivia contends on appeal that the trial court abused its discretion when it terminated his right of self-representation based on his out-of-court misconduct. we affirm. i. standard of review -representation is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 12.) self-people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 735.) a -of--of-ord due deference to the context of his misconduct and its impact on the integrity of the trial in determining whether termination of faretta rights is necessary to maintain the fairness of the carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 12.) ii. applicable law under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, a defendant has a constitutional right to self-representation in a criminal proceeding. however, the right of self-representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the courtroom. neither is it a faretta v. california, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 834, fn. 46; see carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 8, 9 [quoting farretta].) in carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at page 6, our supreme court held a -seriously threatens the core integrity of the trial,ing out-of-court misconduct. (see people v. doss (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 46, 55.) culmination of many weeks or months of preparation and related proceedings, such as 9 discovery matters and in limine rulings. not all these pretrial activities will take place in court. concomitantly, opportunities to abuse the right of self-representation and engage carson, supra, 35 cal.4th faretta rights are id. at p. 10.) self-impact on the trial proceedings,vailability and suitability of alternative sanctions,warned that particular misconduct will result in termination of in propria status, (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 10.) act will be so flagrant and inconsistent with the integrity and fairness of the trial that need not result in a disruption of the trial . . . . the likely, not the actual, effect of the id. at p. 10.) iii. analysis motives and sincerity as well as the nature and context of his misconduct and its impact carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 12), valdivia has not demonstrated a strong showing of abuse. (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735.) first, valdivia charac. per. status as relying on . per. policy, prohibited mail and three-way calling, arguing that the court failed to explain how either his receipt of sexually explicit pictures attempting to make a three-way call would support the conclusion that valdivia would be non-compliant with court directives or attempts to delay or disrupt his trial. the trial court, however, while considering the two violations, in fact focused at length on wilson hearing. 10 next, valdivia argues that nexus between his false allegations that he did not receive notice of the wilson hearing and his trial process was limited to the fact that his in-custody pro. per. privileges were terminated, thus limiting his ability to represent himself at trial, and the only delay caused was to the wilson hearing itself, not his trial. while valdivia is correct that his misconduct at the wilson hearing did not result in a delay of the trial proceedings, . per. status. (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 10 [the primary consideration is the likely, not the actual, effect of the misconduct].) itrial court abused its discretion. here, valdivia falsely claimed that he did not receive notice of the wilson hearing, requiring the hearing officer to summon the deputy who delivered the notice; falsely accused the deputy of lying about delivering the notice and repeatedly claimed he did not receive the notice; and did not admit receiving the notice until the hearing officer stated that he would delay the proceedings to review video surveillance footage of the jail. the trial court reasonably believed that valdivia was wilson proceedings and concluded that nt in trial motives and sincerity, it was not an abuse of discretion for the trial court to conclude that valdivia would engage in similar behavior in trial proceedings in the hopes of generating error or obstruction of the proceedings. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. lui, j. 