filed 5/3/16 p. v. deshone ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeremy shantell deshone, defendant and appellant. b262327 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba386199) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, drew e. edwards, judge. affirmed. nikoo n. berenji, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant jeremy shantell deshone appeals from his conviction following a nolo contendere plea to a violation of penal code section 211,1 and we have reviewed the record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441 (wende) and see no arguable error that would result in a determination more favorable to defendant. we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background the facts of the crime are taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. victim gino t. placed an ipad for sale on craigslist. a man contacted gino about the apartment in los angeles. gino met three men in a mitsubishi lancer at the curb outside his apartment. defendant was seated in the back seat on the passenger side. gino had a new ipad defendant and the man sitting in the front passenger seat asked to see the ipad, so gino opened the box, took the ipad out, and showed it to them without handing it to them. defendant grabbed the ipad but gino did not let go, so gino was pulled partway into the car. gino saw that as defendant was pulling the ipad with his left hand, right hand was on or near the grip of a gun in his waistband. gino let go of the ipad and withdrew from the car, and the men drove away. gino went into his apartment to get his keys, got in his car, and chased the men several blocks in an attempt to get a license plate number, but was unsuccessful. he simultaneously called 911, and the operator instructed him to stop chasing the men, so he went back home. the man in the front passenger seat later admitted to being present when the crime occurred, and reported that the ipad was pawned at a pawn shop for $50. the people charged defendant with robbery in violation of section 211. at some point not reflected in the record on appeal, the people added an enhancement alleging personal use of a firearm in the commission of the crime in violation of section 12022.53, subdivision (b). defendant initially pleaded not guilty at his arraignment on november 1all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 29, 2011. after several trial continuances, defendant pleaded no contest on june 17, 2013. allegation. the following exchange occurred at the hearing: you are charged . . . with the crime of second degree robbery, in violation of penal code section 211. that is a felony. it is further alleged you personally used a firearm, in violation of penal code section 12022.53(b). the maximum time you could be sentenced on this charge as it is alleged is 15 years state prison. in exchange for your plea here today, the people have agreed to strike the gun allegation and permit you to plead to the term of five years state prison. is that your understanding? the defendant: [prosecutor]: has anyone made any threats or promises to you or anyone close to you to get you to plead today other than what we have stated in court? [prosecutor]: are you doing this freely and voluntarily because you feel it is in your best interest? the defendant: defendant also stated that he knowingly waived his right to a jury trial. the prosecutor explained that this offense was a strike under the three strikes law, and defendant said he understood. june 22nd, 2011, you committed the crime of second degree robbery in violation of penal code section 211, a felony, what is your plea? the defendant: no contest. [prosecutor]: do you understand your plea of no contest will be treated the same as a guilty plea by this court? the defendant: tdeshone, has knowingly, expressly, and understandingly waived his statutory and constitutional rights in this case. the court further finds mr. deshonvoluntarily made with a full understanding of the nature of the charges and the nature of sentencing to september 30, 2013. 4 after continuances spanning more than a year, defendant filed a motion to withdraw his plea. neither the motion nor the opposition is in the record, and the superior court clerk filed a certificate stating that the motion was not found in the court file. at the hearing on december 30, 2014, counsel for defendant said that the victim she asked that the court nothing else was said about the contents of the motion. however, defense counsel asked the court to strike several statements apparently included opposition , including statements about failure to appear for sentencing, and references to the prosecution offered the testimony of lee , who was present in the courtroom. testimony. the court asked defense counsel if she had any additional statements. defense she stimony was inconsistent as to what he reported to the 911 that the victim is no in addition, defense counsel argued that defendant did not understand what was involved in the plea agreement: understanding whwhich is obvious from the records that i submitted to the court. so i think we have shown the trial court noted that it had read the documents submitted by the parties, and held that defendant had not met his burden to show that the plea was not free, intelligent, and voluntary. the court therefore denied the motion. the court sentenced defendant to 5 the high term of five years pursuant to the plea agreement, and accounted for the time defendant had already been in custody. the court set a restitution hearing for a later date. on february 17, 2015, defendant appealed from his plea. he also filed a request for a certificate of probable cause, which statedand my counsel told me otherwise. i feel like i was wrongfully sentenced and that my rights to a jury trial were violated because of ineffective a with these documents, defendant included a handwritten letter, stating that he had been misled by his attorney when accepting the plea. according to the letter, defelater, the attorney said defendant could get up to 15 years, and asked if he was willing to n just like my they returned to the courtroom: judge spoke which i did not understand but my counsel told me when to say yes so i just repeated counsel later told defendant he needed to return to court to begin his five- forced into takeing [sic] a deal on february 26, 2015, defendant filed an amended notice of appeal, which specified that he was appealing from the denial of his motion to withdraw his plea. he also filed an amended request for a certificate of probable cause, which stated, repeated what his attorney told him to say, but did not understand that he was pleading the court granted the amended request for a certificate of probable cause. on october 26, 2016, don appeal filed a brief requesting that we independently review the record for error. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) the same day, we directed counsel to send the record and a copy of the brief 6 to appellant, and notified him of his right to respond within 30 days. appellant did not respond. discussion we have reviewed the record and find no error. disturbed on appeal absent a showing th(people v. breslin (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 1409, 1415-1416.) . . for a good cause shown, permit the plea of guilty to be withdrawn and a plea of not defendant must show by clear and convincing evidence that he or she was operating under mistake, ignorance, or any other factor overcoming the exercise of his or her free judgment, including inadvertence, fraud, or duress. [citation.] the defendant must also show prejudice in that he or she would not have accepted the plea bargain had it not been breslin, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 1416.) the materials in the record, however, indicate that defendant was not misled about the import of his plea. his handwritten letter accompanying his notices of appeal and requests for certificates of probable cause indicate that defendant is reasonably proficient in english, and that he understood the case against him, the proceedings, and the plea agreement. defendant argued in his letter that he did not understand that he was agreeing to five years in state prison. but that assertion is directly contradicted by the clear testimony from the hearing, in which defendant acknowledged his sentence: exchange for your plea here today, the people have agreed to strike the gun allegation and permit you to plead to the term of five years state prison. is that your understanding? the defendant: in addition, defendant testified that he was entering the plea freely and voluntarily because he felt it was in his best interest. 7 in his request for a certificate of probable cause, defendant stated that he pleaded did not understand that i was pleading guilty and [i] to the robbery charge: crime of second degree robbery in violation of penal code section 211, a felony, what is your plea? the defendant: no contest. [prosecutor]: do you understand your plea of no contest will be treated the same as a guilty plea by this court? the defendant: the record papers, the transcripts, and other documents filed in the case. there is no indication that the trial court abused its discrewe have examined the entire record, and are satisfied appellate counsel has fully complied with the required responsibilities and no arguable issues exist in the appeal before us. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278; people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 110; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 