filed 1/26/16 p. v. colwell ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district c division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard colwell, defendant and appellant. b262521 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na093758) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard r. romero, judge. affirmed. david m. thompson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and amanda v. lopez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ 2 richard colwell was convicted of committing a lewd act upon his stepdaughter d.m., a child under the age of 14 (pen. code,1  288, subd. (a).) on appeal, he argues that the trial court should have limited or sanitized evidence of domestic violence and that the court abused its discretion when it denied his motion to strike his prior conviction and imposed the upper term sentence. we affirm. factual and procedural background colwell then approximately 12 years old, disclosed to mother that her stepfather colwell had raped her in 2007 when she was six years old, shortly before the incident of domestic violence that ended the marriage. colwell was charged with sexual intercourse with a child under the age of 10 years ( 288.7, subd. (a)) and with lewd conduct with a child under the age of 14 years. it was also alleged that colwell had suffered a prior serious or violent felony three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). d.m. testified that one night, when she was about six years old and mother was away from home working a night shift, colwell carried her into his bed. while playing pornography on the television, he attempted to place his penis inside her vagina multiple times both with and without a lubricant, ultimately masturbating until he ejaculated on her stomach. colwell then washed d.m. off in the shower and put her in his bed, telling mean that the something that would happen would be bad. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 that d.m. had been in bed with colwell, she asked d.m. whether colwell had touched anything to just days later between colwell and mother, and she testified that the violence made her even more afraid of colwell. although she spoke to the police at that time about the domestic violence against her mother, d.m. did not disclose the sexual abuse because she later what had happened, d.m. still feared that colwell would find her and retaliate. the jury was unable to reach a verdict on the sexual intercourse count but strike offense, selected the upper term of eight years, and imposed a total sentence of 21 years in state prison. colwell appeals. discussion i. evidence of domestic violence colwell filed a motion in limine seeking to exclude evidence of the incident of domestic violence by colwell against mother that occurred a few days after the charged offenses on the ground that it was more prejudicial than probative. (evid. code,  352.) in the alternative, colwell requested that the evidence be sanitized and that the jury be advised only that d.m. was afraid to report the crime because she had seen him in a fight with another person; that he had been very angry; and that she was afraid of angering he was asking only that the evidence be sanitized. the prosecutor argued that the motive (colwell turned to his young stepdaughter for sexual contact because his relationship with mother was ending); and that it incident to mother at the time (fear based on seeing colwell be violent toward mother). 4 strong. it can only be established through actual physical evidence of the photograph of the injuries. otherwise, the jurors cannot properly asses the full force of that conduct and its effect on the alleged victim. it is not substantially outweighed by the danger of undue at trial, d.m. testified about the domestic violence incident and seeing mother that something would happen if she told her mother what he had done, and feared that he insecurity, the disintegration of their marital and sexual relationship, his need to play pornographic videotapes in order to perform sexually, and the 2007 incident in which he argued with her about her relationship with her cousin and then attacked her, causing her to lose consciousness. she related awakening with injuries to the side of her face, mouth, lip, arm, and thigh. mother testified that colwell dropped her off at the hospital and never returned. mother never reunited with colwell, and ultimately divorced him. objected to the photographs, most specifically to the final four, each of which depicted and more prejudicial than probative, and that the final four were particularly unnecessary because they depicted the same injury from different angles. the court admitted the l-that. the close[-]ups are necessary because if you look at [exhibit] 3, the injuries there there. unless you look at the close[-]up, they are not all that apparent. so they are probative, and the close[-]ups are necessary. the probative value is not substantially outweighed by any undue prejudice. they are not inflammatory. they are not pleasant, 5 colwell contends on appeal that the trial court erred in permitting this evidence to ng under evidence code section 352 for an abuse of discretion (people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 108), credibility. d.m. had waited five years to reveal the sexual abuse, and there was no physical evidence of the incident. accordingly, her credibility was a central issue in the case. the testimony about, and photographic evidence of, the domestic violence that m. gave context to and explained happen if she disclosed the abuse tended to explain why it took years for d.m. to tell mother what had happened. (see, e.g., people v. garcia (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1321, 1335-1336 [domestic violence evidence highly probative on issues of motive, consent, fear and delay in reporting].) in terms of prejudicial effect, the jury was instructed on the limited purpose of the evidence, and the evidence was not particularly inflammatory, no more so than the charged offense of the rape of a six-year-old child. colwell argues that the evidence of domestic violence was not needed to establish either the time frame of the sexual assault or why d.m. did not reveal the incident testimony about her fear of colwell that prevented her from revealing the claimed abuse eighed by the prejudicial specific fact of the domestic violence . . . actually caused her to suppress reporting any her. he notes that d.m. did not state that he was afraid colwell would do to her what he had done to mother. moreover, given that s.c. moved away from colwell after the violence and d.m. was not exposed to him again, colwell argues that under these circu 6 evidence had probative value, that value was outweighed by its prejudicial impact. he characterizes the photographs of mother as multiple and graphic, and argues that it likely resulted in the jury being emotionally biased against the defendant, as well as confusing the issues and unduly consuming time. these arguments are not persuasive. the evidence was relevant and probative  210, 352.) the victim was six years old at the time of the offense, and colwell threatened that something bad would happen if she told mother what he had done. her failure to disclose the abuse immediately does not mean that she would have continued to conceal it from mother absent the domestic violence, nor does it suggest that the incident of domestic violence that followed within a few days did not impress further upon d.m. that colwell was dangerous and that his threat of retribution could come to pass, whether by means of injury to herself or to mother, if she disclosed what he had done to her. d.m. may not have specifically testified that the domestic violence actually caused her to suppress reporting any sexual assault, but the evidence certainly permitted the inference -year-old child. as to whether d.m. reasonably could remain in fear of colwell after contact with him we have reviewed the eight photographs shown to the jury. four depict the multiple internal mouth area; two show her face from different angles; and the remaining two display the bruises she sustained to her arm and thigh. we do not find them graphic, unduly prejudicial, or likely to bias the jury against colwell. colwell has not estabevidence or its decision not to sanitize it. ii. imposition of upper term sentence the trial court imposed the upper term sentence of eight years in prison, observing that the offense involved a high degree of callousness; the victim was particularly 7 incident in this pe colwell argues that the court abused its discretion in imposing the upper term sentence. first, he argues that the aggravating circumstance in california rules of court, rule 4.421, subdivision (a)(1), that threat of great bodily harm, or other acts involving a high degree of cruelty, viciousness, anything to make iactually say he would hurt her or anyone else; it was d.m. who interpreted his words as a threat that he would hurt her. the trial court found that the offense involved a high degree of callousness, which is supported by the evidence that colwell encouraged mother to take a night shift, leaving d.m. in his care, and that he not only sexually abused this small child but also threatened her with harm if she disclosed what he had done, leaving her with lasting trauma and feelings of low self-worth. next, colwell contends that d.m. was no more vulnerable than any other minor left in the care of a stepparent, and he also observes that the trial court cannot base a basis for a finding of vulnerability (people v. alvarado (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 178, 195), age may be viewed as making a child particularly vulnerable when the child is extremely young within the age range for an offense and dependency or fear is involved. (people v. ginese (1981) 121 cal.app.3d 468, 477.) in such cases the dependency or fear offers a basis for the vulnerability finding. (ibidt she people v. garcia (1983) 147 8 cal.app.3d 1103, 1106 [child is vulnerable when attacked by a person entrusted with his or her supervision or control]; people v. garcia (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 1056, 1070 [child victim of sexual molestation was particularly vulnerable in light of extreme youth and close relationship to the defendant].) which he was placed on probation, ainvolving such conduct as driving with a suspended license and disorderly conduct. in 1998 he was convicted of felony assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) with a great bodily injury allegation under section 12022.7, and his next offense was a 2007 misdemeanor conviction for battery of a spouse or cohabitant ( 243, subd. (e)(1)). then came the instant charges of sexuinclude felony convictions and increasingly involved attacks on people. factor concerns dissuading a witness from testifying, but whether the prosecutor made an argument at sentencing has no bearing on whether the court abused its discretion in violated a position of trust, but it is not clear from the record that the court did so. the court did not make specific findings that both the aggravating factors of california rules persindings of multiple factors in aggravation and there is no indication that the court would have 9 imposed a different sentence in the absence of this arguably improper sentencing factor. (people v. williams (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 146, 153.) finally, colwell makes arguments about mitigation and about the appropriate balancing of aggravating and mitigating factors. he argues that in mitigation the court trustworthy incontention that the court was required to note on the record that it had received to establish thamitigating ci(and colwell admits elsewhere in his briefing) that he had a criminal record prior to the before the present crime is belied by the record. colwell has not demonstrated any error. iii. denial of romero motion colwell asserts that the trial court abused its discretion when it denied his motion to strike his prior conviction under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 for the purposes of applying the three strikes law. in deciding whether to strike a prior serious and/or violent felony conviction allegation or finding under the three her, in light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed in part, and hence should be treated as though he (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161 (williams).) colwell argues that his prior strike should have been stricken because the current offense involved no violence and the victim was not particularly vulnerable; the court 10 failed to carefully consider the nature and circumstances of the current offense, which he contends is minor in the scope of crimes encompassed by the three strikes law; and his prior convictions were neither numerous nor increasing in seriousness. he compares and contrasts his criminal history and personal circumstances with those of the defendants in williams, supra, 17 cal.4th 148 and people v. bishop (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 1245, we review rulings on motions to strike prior convictions for an abuse of discretion (williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 162), and find none here. we have reviewed the transcript of the hearing on the romero assertion, the trial court discharged its duty to consider whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, colwell should have been rit. (id. at p. 161.) the trial court discussed these considerations when ruling, first noting that the strike prior was not very remote in time given that colwell molested d.m. in close temporal proximity to the conclusion of his probation supervision fcomments concerned both the decision to deny the romero motion and to impose the high term: the offense involved a high degree of callousness; d.m. was particularly care; he threatened her; his prior convictions were of increasing significance; and the offense, though the only one in its time period, was the use of violence to commit the crime, but as we have already discussed above, the evidence supported the a conclusion that his convictions were numerous and had increased in seriousness, as he had moved from his earlier misdemeanor property and conduct crimes to offenses involving violence against people, two of which constituted felonies. although the three strikes law encompasses many heinous offenses, we are not prepared to agree with 11 colwell that sexually abusing a six-year-such crimes. colwell has not shown, and we cannot say, that the court abused its discretion in finding that he did not fall outside the spirit of the three strikes law. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. blumenfeld, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 