filed 8/8/16 p. v. price ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andre lashaun price, defendant and appellant. b262143 (los angeles county super. ct. no.ba415163) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed. stephen temko, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, joseph p. lee and jaime l. fuster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant andre leshaun price appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury for second degree murder. he contends there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction. he further argues the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of involuntary manslaughter. we affirm. procedural history the los angeles county district attorney (the people) filed an information on september 25, 2013 charging defendant with the murder of jeffrey davis (penal code section 187, subd. (a),1 count 1) and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1), count 2). as to count 1, the information further alleged that defendant personally and intentionally discharged a handgun causing great bodily injury and death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d). with respect to count 2, the information alleged that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a). the people also alleged that defendant suffered a prior felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivisions (a)(1) and (b) through (i). defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. conviction allegations for trial.2 on may 8, 2014, the jury found defendant not guilty of first degree murder on count 1, but guilty of the lesser included offense of second degree murder. the jury found not true the firearm enhancement on count 1, and acquitted defendant on count 2 of possession of a firearm by a felon. following a subsequent court trial, the court found true the alle new trial. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 subsequently, the people moved to strike the gang allegation for the purposes of the trial. 3 the court sentenced defendant to 35 years to life, comprised of a base term of 15 years to life on count 1, doubled pursuant to section 667, subdivisions (b)-(i), and an additional five-year enhancement pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court also imposed various fines and fees, and awarded defendant 517 days of custody credit. defendant timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution evidence defendant was a friend of rodney longmiyer. longmiyers cousin, andrea fowler, was a friend of defendant, longmiyer, and fowler planned to rob davis, and that in the course of that robbery, defendant assaulted davis, and that longmiyer or defendant then fatally shot him. the following evidence was adduced by the prosecution at trial. a. shooting of jeffrey davis witness jennica chaparro testified that she was in her apartment on august 2, 2012 at around 1:30 p.m. when she heard two gunshots from the alley behind the building. her apartment building was located on western avenue, between 92nd and 94th street, in los angeles. the alley ran behind the building to the east, stretching parallel to western avenue in a north-south direction. a few seconds after chaparro heard the gunshots, she looked outside and saw three cars in the alley. two of the cars were darker colored sedans, either black or blue; -door, compact she saw people in the cars and believed they were all african-american males, but she could not see their faces. 4 b chaparro testified that she did not see any of the cars again that day and did not see anyone get shot.3 fowler called 911 at 1:32 p.m. on august 2, 2012 from her home phone.4 she when asked what happened, fowler told the operator: she gave no further information and the call ended. the 911 operator attempted to call her back but the call was routed to voicemail. officer vincent han of the los angeles police department (lapd) responded to a radio call at approximately 1:35 p.m. regarding a shooting in the alley at 92nd street and western avenue. he canvassed the area but did not discover any gunshot victims or get any witness reports regarding the shooting. he then received a report that the victim (davis) and a witness (fowler) were at a hospital nearby. at the hospital, another officer gave han the keys to the mazda 6 in which davis and fowler arrived. han secured the car and then spoke to fowler. during their davis was transported to another hospital, where he was pronounced dead. deputy medical examiner juan carrillo conducted the autopsy on davis. carrillo described davis as an older black male, approximately 60 years old, with his hair in short braids. davis died from a gunshot wound to the chest. the entry wound was located on , and the exit wound was in his right chest. there was a muzzle imprint at the entry w 3 at trial, the people showed chaparro photos of a two-toned buick century and a black ford thunderbird, which she had previously been shown by investigating shown the photos in 2013, she was unable to identify the cars. 4 based on evidence collected in the alley, police concluded the shooting occurred behind the was located at 9300 western avenue, just north of that location. 5 carrillo determined that the death was a homicide. davis sustained other injuries shortly before his death: a red contusion above his right eye, contusions to the inside of both his upper and lower lips, bruising on the right and left side of the scalp, two three-inch abrasions across his left upper chest, a dark abrasion on the back of his right shoulder near the top, two separate bruises on the top of his right hand, an abrasion on his right palm below the thumb, and several abrasions on his left leg and knee. based on his injuries, carrillo opined that davis was involved in a physical struggle. nches b. investigation lapd detective david ross investigated the alley a few hours after the shooting occurred. he observed items on the ground, including a $20 bill, a few pennies, bullet fragments, some braided hair, and what appeared to be blood. around 6:00 p.m. that evening, detective ross spoke to fowler at the police station. fowler told detective ross that before the shooting she and davis, the victim, had gone to a nearby apartment building and also to a liquor store at 92nd street and western avenue. fowler stated she did not go into the apartment building, but waited in the car while davis went in. fowler also told detective ross that she had made the 911 call from her home phone (number ending in -1333) because her cell phone had been broken that day. after her interview, detective ross drove fowler home to her apartment at 9300 western avenue. ced the same alley where the shooting occurred, about fifty yards north of where the items related to the shooting, including money and hair, had been found. lapd detectives secured surveillance video for the date of the shooting from the apartment complex and liquor store fowler said she and davis had visited. both videos showed the same two individuals, identified at trial as fowler and davis. 6 the video footage showed both fowler and davis entering the lobby of the apartment building at 1:04 p.m. and then entering an apartment. davis was carrying a white bag in his hands when he entered the apartment. about six minutes later, fowler and davis left the apartment empty-handed and returned to their car. the liquor store video showed a car parking in its parking lot at 1:17 p.m. davis got out of the car and walked toward the store. a few minutes later, fowler joined davis in the store. at 1:25 p.m., the car left the parking lot, heading toward the alley just east of western avenue. from the liquor store, that alley crosses 92nd street and extends south to the site of the shooting about a block away. another lapd investigator testified at trial regarding items recovered from the mazda 6 used by davis and fowler on the day of the shooting. a red stain on the cars front passenger seat tested positive for blood. among other items, the car contained a e passenger seat. there also were two receipts from a pharmacy in mission viejo, in orange county, one from the date of the shooting. the police also recovered two cell phones from under the the cell phones belonged to davis (number ending in -5403) (davis phone). the police electronically copied the contents of davis phone. c. dna evidence prior to the autopsy, the coronerbehind when a samuel sund, a criminalist with the lapd dna/serology unit, compared these samples to the dna profiles from reference samples collected from davis and from defendant.5 5 e dna sample was taken from blood drawn during swabbing the inside of his cheek. 7 by individuals. sund concluded that the million times more likely to occur if [defendant] is the second contributor, versus an in other words, it was eight hundred million times more likely that the second contributor rather than some other individual. d. testimony of julie legardye julie legardye was a key witness, both during the investigation and at trial. she provided crucial testimony regarding the relationships between defendant and the other alleged perpetrators, as well as information regarding cell phones and cars. the police used this information during the indentification to identify defendant and trace his and longmiyers movements on the day of the shooting. rodns boyfriend and the father of her daughter. in 2012, longmiyer stayed with legardye several nights a week at her house on parmelee avenue near 112th street. a friend of legardye had also cousin. legardy legardye testified that she and longmiyer purchased a black 2004 pontiac grand prix during the first half of 2012. longmiyer usually drove it, and was driving it in august of 2012.6 legardye stated that she registered the car using defendants name, as 6 during her third interview in july 2013, detective ross showed witness chaparro a photo of the grand prix owned by legardye and longmiyer. she said the car in the photo could possibly be the dark compact sedan she had seen in the alley at the time of the shooting. 8 well as the name of one of her friends, because neither she nor longmiyer had valid th detective ross interviewed legardye on august 1, 2013. the police also copied her contacts from her cell phone, which included a phone number under the name -0577) -9169) phone) from her phone contact list. legardye stated that she had several phones during the period of july and august 2012. the first was a pre-paid flip phone with the number ending in -2857. during her 2013 interview, legardye stated that she and longmiyer were the only two people who used that phone. she also stated that she did not use the phone, because the prepaid minutes ran out quickly. legardye further claimed she had lost the phone in april or may of 2011. however, at trial, legardye testified that she had the phone until august 22, 2012, when she got a new phone for her birthday. she also testified that longmiyer only used the phone when he was in her house, which she had not told the detectives in 2013. legardye identified a second phone as a metro pcs phone with the number ending in -2692. she stated she and longmiyer used this phone in july and august 2012. e. phone records the people presented extensive cell phone record evidence at trial to show the movements of davis, fowler, and longmiyer on the day of the shooting, as well as the calling activity between them and defendant. the custodian of records for sprint testified likewise, the custodian of records for verizon wireless explained the phone records for the pre-paid flip phone used by legardye and longmiyer with number ending in -9 phone).7 the people also presented maps of the cell tower sites used by those three phone numbers on the day of the shooting. the phone records showeon the cell phone shows the same pattern of activity, contrary to her statement to detective ross that her cell phone was not working that day. the records also showed many calls among longmiyer, defendant, and fowler home phone (number ending in - calls to messages between 10:38 and 10:41 a.m. one. 11:48 a.m. between 12:47 and 1:17 p.m., the last one going to voicemail. at 1:18 p.m., while davis was in this is the only call between davis and longmiyer reflected in the several weeks of cell phone records introduced. 11:30 a.m. and 2:14 p.m. on august 2, 2012. between 1:42 p.m. and 8:17 p.m., all calls went to voicemail, including calls from other calls between 5:10 p.m. and 5:43 p.m.. the phone records also established the approximate location of the caller, by showing the first and last cell tower used by the phone for each call. early in the 7 he was identified as a possible suspect in 2013, but the phone company no longer had these records. 10 avenue home where he often stayed with legardye. between 11:55 a.m. and 12:47 p.m., ng location on western avenue. shooting. the shooting ii. defense evidence mark taylor testified as a dna expert for the defense regarding the different types of dna transfer that could occur. for example, according to taylor, a primary e second individual might touch another surface and transfer some of the first individualthat surface. taylor also asserted that additional levels of transfer are possible, including he also stated that there is no way to tell what type of transfer occurred by looking at the dna profile testing. during cross-examination, he acknowledged that a punch could transfer one person discussion i. second degree murder conviction defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conviction for second degree murder. in reviewing a claim of insufficient evidence, the proper test is beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the (people v. ochoa the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or 11 ibidthe circumstances reasonably justify the findings made by the trier of fact, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 638639.) the standard of review remains the same in a case based upon circumstantial evidence. (people v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 528-529.) in th was that fowler, defendant, and longmiyer attempted to rob davis, davis resisted, and either longmiyer or defendant shot him. as such, the people argued defendant was guilty of first degree felony murder.8 the jury also was instructed regarding first and second degree murder with malice aforethought ( 187, calcrim nos. 520, 521) and aiding and abetting (calcrim no. 401). in acquitting defendant of first degree murder, the jury implicitly failed to find that defendant engaged in a robbery or attempted robbery beyond a reasonable doubt. the jury also found the gun use enhancement not true thus failing to find beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant personally used a gun against davis. given these results, defendant argues that the evidence was also insufficient to sustain his conviction for second degree murder, either as the shooter or under an aiding and abetting theory. we disagree. a. inconsistent verdicts ontention that we are required to defendant argues that a conviction for second degree murder as the shooter would be inconsistent with the negative finding on the gun allegation, because the negative finding s well settled that, as a general rule, inherently 8 one who unlawfully kills a human being during the commission of a robbery or an attempted robbery is guilty of first degree murder under the felony-murder rule. (see people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1175;  187, 189.) 12 people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 656; see also people v. lopez (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 565, 569 [inconsistency between guilty verdict on assault with deadly weapon and negative finding on dangerous weapon enhancement allegation did not require reversal]; people v. federico (1981) 127 cal.app.3d 20, 31 [inconsistency between verdict of murder, which was result of gunshot wounds, and finding that defendant was not armed with firearm did not require reversal]; guilty as the aider and abettor opeople v. santamaria (1994) doubt exactly who did what. there may be a reasonable doubt that the defendant was the direct perpetrator, and a similar doubt that he was the aider and abettor, but no such doubt id. at p. 919.) all that is required is that each juror is convinced of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (ibid.) ng regarding the personal gun use allegation against defendant does not limit the scope of our review for substantial evidence supporting his conviction for second degree murder. in any event, we need not reach the ct perpetrator because we conclude substantial evidence supports his conviction as an aider and abettor. b. aiding and abetting a person who aids and abets the commission of a criminal offense is considered a fined the required mental states and acts for a crime committed by the knowledge of the direct ntent to assist in achieving those unlawful ends, and conduct by the aider and abettor that in fact assists people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 116-117.) 13 as to the first question, assuming defendant was not the shooter, the attorney general contends that the evidence supports the conclusion that longmiyer committed second degree murder by shooting davis at close range.9 defendant does not challenge this proposition, and we agree the record supports it. davis was shot point blank in the chest, at such close range that the gun left a mark on his skin. this manner of shooting is sufficient to establish malice. (see people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1218 act of shooting a firearm toward a victim at close range in a manner that could have inflicted a mortal wound had the shot been on target is sufficient to support an the cell phone evidence suggests that longmiyer made several calls to and from fowler, who was with the victim, about ten minutes prior to the shooting.10 during these calls, phone used the cell tower less than half a mile from the site of the shooting. chaparro, the witness, identified the time of the shooting. thus, a jury could reasonably infer that longmiyer shot davis and thereby committed second degree murder. we next turn to the question shooting committed by longmiyer. no particular factor is dispositive in establishing knowledge and intent; the court must look at the totality of the circumstances. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th . . . 9 second degree murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought, but without the premeditation, deliberation and willfulness necessary to elevate the offenspeople v. bohana (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 360, 368.) express malice murder requires an intent to kill. ( 188; people v. saille (1991) 54 cal.3d 1103, 1114.) 10 although defendant argued at trial that the prosecution failed to establish record to reasonably conclude that longmiyer was using the phone. in addition to the use of the phone in the same area where chaparro identified a car that looked like and chaparro stated that she believed she saw three males in the alley at the time of the shooting. 14 are: presence at the scene of the crime, companionship, and conduct before and after the in re lynette g. (1976) 54 cal.app.3d 1087, 1094; see also in re juan g. (2003) 112 cal.app.4constitute aiding and abetting, nor is the failure to take action to prevent a crime, responsibilitypeople v. nguyen (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 518, 529530.) instantanepeople v. swanson-birabent (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 733, 742.) here, there was substantial evidence at trial to support the inference that defendant knowingly and intentionally aided and abetted longmiyer in the murder. first, as discussed above, the evidence supports the conclusion that longmiyer was in the alley and intentionally delivered a fatal gunshot to davis at close range. the evidence also established that longmiyer and defendant were friends, that longmiyer and fowler were cousins, and that these three individuals communicated with each other repeatedly on the minutes before the shooting. the jury reasonably could infer fowler made this call to longmiyer while davis was inside the liquor store. after fowler made her last pre-rather than her cell phone. she later lied to police after the shooting, stating her cell phone was not working that day. from these facts the jury could infer that fowler was attempting to conceal evidence of their pre-arranged plan. there was also substantial evidence at trial placing defendant at the scene at the gnificance of the dna evidence and reject his effort to ignore the additional evidence put forth at trial. the record showed that davis sustained significant injuries from an assault, including 15 bruising, lacerations and having his braided hair ripped out. sufficiently to generate a likelihood ratio of eight hundred million to one, was found on suggest that the dna could have been placed there by some earlier handshake, his own expert acknowledged that a handshake would most likely transfer dna (if any) to the ed the jury to reasonably conclude that defendant assaulted davis and davis tried to fight back. alley, as well as the short period of time between when davis and fowler left the liquor store and whetook place in the alley, shortly before he was shot.11 additionally, the cell phone records showing that defendant had frequent contact with longmiyer and fowler during the morning of august 2, but then had no phone contact for about three hours surrounding the time of the shooting, support the inference that defendant and longmiyer were together during this period. finally, the record shows that chaparro saw at least two cars leaving the scene immediately after the shooting and did not see any individuals from the alley within minutes after the shooting. this evidence suggests that defendant and longmiyer left the alley immediately after the shooting; a circumstance supporting the inference that they were working together and that defendant had the knowledge and intent to carry out the murder. 11 these facts distinguish this case from people v. trevino (1985) 39 cal.3d 667, disapproved on another ground in people v. johnson (1989) 47 cal.3d 1194, 1221, cited by defendant in his reply brief. in trevino, the only evidence connecting defendant with bedroom. (id. at 696.) there was no other evidence establishing how or when it came to be placed there, other than testimony that defehome prior to the murder (id. at pp. 696-697.) the court acquitted defendant, finding id. at p. 697.) 16 thus, the jury reasonably could have concluded that longmiyer, fowler, and defendant engaged in a plan to carry out the attack on davis, that longmiyer and defendant travelled to the alley with at least one of them armed with a loaded gun in aid of that plan, and that by assaulting davis, defendant intended to and did assist longmiyer in carrying out the crime.12 in sum, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, we conclude the record contains substantial evidence from which the jury could have found beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant knew of and shared ii. instruction on lesser included offense defendant contends that the trial court erred in refusing to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense to murder. we find no error. a. factual background during trial, defense counsel requested an instruction on the lesser-included offenses of voluntary and involuntary manslaughter. testimoattempted robbery, and somehow that there was a homicide with some type of mutual combat, which [would] support a voluntary manslaughter, and/or conclude that maybe there was s the people argued that the only reasonable inference from the evidence was that davis was attacked in the alley and that there was no evidence to support a finding that the gun negligently discharged. the court agreed, finding that there was no substantial evidence to support the giving of either instruction. b. governing principles included in, a charged greater offense, . . . whenever there is substantial evidence raising 12 the lack of an established robbery motive does not undercut this finding. (see people v. houston, supraan intent to kill, the absence of a clear motive does not demonstrate the lack of an intent 17 a question as to whether all of the elements of the charged greater offense are present. people v. huggins hat the trial court must instruct sua sponte on the panoply of all possible lesser included ibid.; see also people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162.) offense de novo [citations] considering the evidence in the light most favorable to the defendant [citations]people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 30 (brothers).) c. analysis manslaughter. we conclude there was no substantial evidence at trial to support such an instruction. the evidence presents a material issue of whether a killing was committed without malice, and if there is substantial evidence the defendant committed involuntary manslaughter, conpeople v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596.) defendant does not advance the argument he did below regarding negligent discharge of the gun as support for an involuntary manslaughter theory. instead, he argues that even assuming he assaulted davis, there was substantial evidence showing that he lacked an intent to kill. specifically, he relies on a recent line of cases requiring an instruction on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser inc18 jury could entertain a reasonable doubt that an unlawful killing was accomplished with (brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 33.) in brothersbrothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 34.) the court found no evidence supporting an instruction on involuntary manslaughter, explaining that reasonable doubt that brothers had acted in conscious disregard of the risk her conduct posed to gatessponte duty to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter. (see people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 934, 1028 [involuntary manslaughter instruction unwarranted . . . when the evidence left no room for reasonable doubt that the defendant acted with intent people v. evers (1992) 10 without realizing the risk involved, the defendant has acted with criminal negligence. by contrast where the defendant realizes and then acts in total disregard of the danger, the defendant otherwise negated by heat of passion or imperfect self-brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at pp. 3435.) here, as discussed above, there is no evidence from which a jury could reasonably conclude that the shooter acted without an intent to kill. the fatal shot to davis delivered at extremely close range was clearly intentional and precludes the suggestion that the shooter acted without, at the very least, implied malice, i.e., a conscious disregard for brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at pp. 3435.) there is no evidence to 19 involuntary manslaughter was unwarranted as to the shooter. on the other hand, if we assume defendant was not the shooter, his guilt hinges on his intent and actions in aiding and abetting the murder. if defendant knew that longmiyer (as the presumed shooter) intended to kill davis and he took steps to aid the commission of that crime, he would be liable for murder as an aider and abettor. instead, defendant now suggests, then he would not be liable for the killing under any theory argued at trial. either way, there would be no basis to establish involuntary manslaughter as an applicable lesser included offense. we therefore conclude that the court did not err in refusing to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 