filed 2/19/16 p. v. hinojos ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david hinojos, defendant and appellant. b262317 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta133739) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kelvin d. filer, judge. affirmed. doreen b. boxer and dee hayashi, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 defendant david hinojos was charged by information with assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2); count 1), being a felon in possession of a firearm ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 2), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; count 3), with prior prison term and prior conviction allegations, as well as a firearm enhancement ( 1170, subds. (h) & (h)(3), 1170.12, 667, subd. (a)(1), 667.5, subd. (b), 12022.5, subds. (a), (d)). he was convicted by jury of counts 1 and 2, the firearm enhancement was found true, and defendant admitted the prior conviction allegations; count 3 was dismissed after the jury was unable to reach a verdict. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted a photograph of his gang tattoo, and that the error also had the consequence of denying him a fair trial. defendant also contends the court erroneously and prejudicially denied his request for a limiting of these contentions, we affirm the judgment of conviction. facts on the afternoon of june 10, 2014, n.w. drove to a lynwood shopping center to pick up a t-shirt. as she was looking for a parking space, a white toyota corolla pulled was arguing with her male passenger, defendant.1 in shock, n.w. stopped her car. defenddefendant yelled at n.w., calling her a b----wearing a white t-shirt and blue jeans. defendant got back into the corolla and it drove away. n.w. followed the white corolla for a short distance instead of completing her errand. she called 911 and tried to read the license plate number to the operator. the corolla stopped, and n.w. stopped as well. defendant got out of the passenger side of 1 n.w. was unable to identify defendant at trial. she started crying when she looked at defendant and was asked to identify him. she denied having any concerns about testifying. 3 the corolla and ran toward the driveway of a nearby home. defendant signaled someone over to him, who came out of the house and handed defendant a gun. defendant aimed the gun at n.w., and started firing at her. n.w. reversed her car and drove away. n.w. was still on the phone with the 911 operator when she drove away, and related what had happened. on june 10, 2014, a.q., a security guard for the lynwood shopping center, heard several gun shots. he left the guard shack and saw a hispanic male, in a white shirt, speaking to someone in a car before the car sped away.2 the man then ran into a pink house. described defendant to deputy oscar rodriguez as a male hispanic, in height inches tall, with a thin build, very short hair, with a tattoo on the back of his head, wearing a white t-shirt and light blue jeans. n.w. was unable to describe the tattoo. deputy rodriguez put out a crime broadcast describing the defendant and the area where the shooting had occurred. deputy carlos mejia responded to the radio broadcast. when he arrived on the scene where the shooting occurred, he saw a.q. and asked him if he had seen anything. a.q. reported that he had heard gunshots, and that he saw a male hispanic pointing a gun, and then running to a white car and putting a gun in the car. the car drove away and the man went inside a pink house. deputy mejia found three .25-caliber shell casings near the area where a.q. saw the shooter. the pink house identified by a.q. was officer rodriguez and his partner drove n.w. to where defendant was being detained to conduct a field identification. they read a field identification admonishment to n.w., and advised her that she did not need to identify the person if she was not sure. n.w. immediately identified defendant as the person who shot at her. 2 later testimony by another witness indicates that the car a.q. saw defendant approach after the shooting was the white corolla. 4 defendant was arrested, and a gunshot residue test of his hands and arms was a white toyota corolla. n.w. was later shown a photographic array that did not include a photograph of as not in the array. when shown a she also identified two women in a photographic array as resembling the female driver involved in the incident, one of whom was d discussion defendant contends the trial court erred when it admitted a photograph of his tattoo into evidence, and that the trial court erroneously failed to give a limiting instruction on the use of the evidence after he requested one. 1. relevant facts after jury selection, defendant made an evidence code section 402 motion to introduc[e] trial, and statements to deputies that her assailant had a tattoo on the back of his head. the court the court concluded, however, that there would be no evidence or explanation of the not mention any gang issues or connection to the jury. those lines. [] at the end of trial if you think the jury needs to be reminded of that and 5 the prosecutor wanted to use defense counsel suggested taking n.w. on voir dire outside the presence of the jury to see if she recognized the tattoo. if she recognized it, counsel was willing to enter into a stipulation that defendant had a tattoo on the back of his head. defense counsel objected evidence was relevant, and that the probative value outweighed any prejudice. the court at trial, when n.w. testified, the prosecutor showed her the photograph of er recollection as to whether she saw a tattoo photograph, but it did not refresh her recollection. she could not recall whether she told officer rodriguez that defendant had a tattoo on his head. later in the trial, a deputy identified the photograph as a picture of shortly before the close of evidence, the court finalized the instructions to be given to the jury. the court stated on the record, we have gone through the jury instructions, and as to the instructions proposed everybody is in agreement. the parties and court went on to discuss various instructions, none of which was a limiting instruction concerning the tattoo evidence. after the parties concluded their discussion, the court aske the court intends on giving that the defense wants to pose any additional objection to or are there any instructions that the defense is ect to any instruction or identify any instruction the defense had requested that the court refused to give. immediately following this discussion, juror no. 8 asked to be excused because d she was a victim of a not indicate that she understood the tattoo to be gang related. 6 defense counsel made a motion to dismiss, based on the issues raised by the juror, arguing that the tattoo evidence was prejudicial, and ttoo was readily apparent. the court denieprejudice . . . everybody . . . has tattoos to what type of tattoo it is. no evidence as to what the tattoo says. all they know is he that does raise a question. should the jury instruction for evidence is presented for a limited purpose be appropriate as to that k that would . . . draw attention to it. i dont think court asked if thobjections. 2. tattoo evidence only relevant evidence is admissible [citations], and all relevant evidence is admissible unless excluded under the federal or california constitution or by statute. [citations.] relevant evidence is defined in evidence code section 210 as evidence having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action. the test of relevance is whether the logically, naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts such as identity, intent, or motive. [citation.] the trial court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence [citations] but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. people v. heard (2003) 31 cal.4th 946, 972-973.) evidence code section 352. relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is outweighed by a danger of undue prejudice, is merely cumulative to other evidence, or will consume an undue amount of time. (people v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 7 281-282.) o admit or exclude evidence is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355, 1373.) defendant contends that gang evidence is highly inflammatory and prejudicial, and should be carefully scrutinized because of the impact it may have on the jury. (see people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 223.) defendant has taken a logical leap with this argument. the court specifically excluded any gang evidence. there was no evidence from a gang expert or any lay witness to the effect that the tattoo on s head was a gang tattoo. juror no. 8 was frightened by the tattoo because she had been the victim of a crime where several tattoos [were] involved, but she did not say the perpetrator or perpetrators of the crime against her were gang members or that she believed defendant was a gang member. defendant also contends that a stipulation would have been just as effective in at defendant had a tattoo on the back of his head without describing its characteristics. we disagree. the unique and unusual nature and characteristics of the tattoo (cv3) were relevant to help the jury evaluate why n.w. did not remember what it looked it, and could not describe it to deputies. (see, e.g., people v. mcclellan (1969) 71 cal.2d 793, s case of its persuasiveness and forcefulness by forcing the prosecutor to accept stipulations that soften the impact of on this record, we find no abuse of discretion. identification was the central issue attacker. there was nothing particularly inflammatory about the tattoo, and there was absolutely no evidence that the tattoo was gang related. as the trial court correctly noted, tattoos have become commonplace and are not in themselves inflammatory. accordingly, we also reje 3. limiting instruction defendant also contends the trial court erroneously refused his request for a 8 contends that any climiting instruction. we agree with respondent. the trial court generally has no duty to give a limiting instruction sua sponte; a limiting instruction must be requested by counsel. (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1051.) here, defense counsel did not propose to give a limiting instruction. instead, counsel asked the court whether such an instruction might be warranted. uction, and acquiescence to the issue, forfeits his claim of error on appeal. (evid. code,  355 [trial court shall give people v. valdez defendant who fails to ask the trial court to give a limiting instruction may not raise the people v. clark to request a limiting instruction below, he has forfeited his claim that it was error for the guilt was overwhelming, and it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a more favorable verdict had the jury been given a limiting instruction. it would not have promoted defendants interests in having a fair trial for the court to tell the jury, which had heard no reference to gangs during the trial, that they could not consider the tattoo as evidence that defendant was a gang member. the obvious inference from such an instruction is that the tattoo was indeed a gang tattoo, but the defense did not want the jury to know or consider that. (see people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 905.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 