filed 1/21/16 p. v. nolan ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lair d. nolan, defendant and appellant. b262125 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma064639) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed in part, modified, and remanded. law offices of john f. schuck, john f. schuck, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, david a. voet, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction following a no contest plea pursuant to a plea bargain, defendant and appellant lair d. nolan was convicted of dissuading a witness (pen. code,  136.1, subd. (b)(1)1). defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his post-plea marsden2 motion,3 and he received ineffective assistance of counsel. defendant also contends, and the attorney general agrees, should be stricken. we remand the matter for the trial court to strike the protective order. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. background a. factual background the parties agree the probation report states the background facts for this appeal. the defendant strangled and hit the victim, his girlfriend. [] the defendant and the victim have been in a dating relationship and living together for four years. on october 2 and both had been drinking and were arguing over the the defendant punched, pinched, slapped and strangled the victim. she made several attempts to get away, but the defendant was too strong. he strangled her to the point [that] she could not breathe and felt as though she was going to lose consciousness. when deputies arrived after a witness called 911, you better gonna 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 the parties agree that a certificate of probable cause is not required to raise on appeal the denial of a post-plea marsden motion. (people v. vera (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 970, 978.) 3 fuckin kill you. the defendant was arrested. there was an active domestic violence restraining order against the defendant at the time of the incident. b. procedural background an information was filed charging defendant with dissuading a witness in violation of section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1) (count 1), injuring his girlfriend in violation of section 273.5 subdivision (a) (count 2), and disobeying a court order in violation of section 166, subdivision (a)(4) (count 3). it was further alleged defendant was on bail on his own recognizance when he committed the charged offenses in violation of section 12022.1offense. ( 211, 667, subds. (b)-(j), 667.5, subd. (c), 1170.12, subd. (b), 1192.7). the trial court characterized the plea bargain off in accepting the plea bargain offer, defendant stated, inter alia, that he understood no one threatened him or made any promises to him [him] to [enter the plea] against [his] voluntarily because [entering the plea] the trial court found his plea and admission are freely and voluntarily made with the understanding of the consequences. pursuant to section 1385, the remaining charges and several outstanding tickets were dismissed. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of six years, awarded him custody credit, and ordered him to pay various fees, fines, and penalties. 4 discussion a. marsden motion 1. standard of review we review a trial courts decision to deny a marsden motion under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 599.) denial is not an abuse of discretion unless the defendant has shown that a failure to replace counsel would substantially impair the defendants right to assistance of counsel. (people v. smith [(2003)] 30 cal.4th [581,] 604.)(people v. taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 599; people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 431.) 2. applicable law a defendant who believes that his appointed counsel is providing ineffective assistance may seek to have that counsel relieved and substitute counsel appointed what is commonly called a marsden motion. (people v. smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 604.) to prevail, a defendant must make a sufficient showing that denial of substitution would substantially impair his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel [citation], whether because of his attorneyincompetence or lack of diligence [citations], or because of an irreconcilable conflict [citations]. we require such proof because a defendants right to appointed counsel does not include the right to demand appointment of more than one counsel, and because the matter is generally within the discretion of the trial court. [citation.] (people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 980, fn.1.) a trial court does not err in denying a marsden s complaints of his counsels inadequacy amounting to tactical decisions. (people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 922.) when a defendant chooses to be represented by professcaptain of the ship and can make all but a few fundamental decisions for the defendant [citation.](people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) 5 3. relevant proceedings inter on november 20, 2014, dand he was sentenced to six years in state prison. in early december 2014, defendant stated he wanted to withdraw his plea. in late ; and as of de at the january 13, 2015, hearing on the motion to withdraw the plea, the parties submitted on the moving papers. the trial court ruled defendant failed to establish good other factor overcoming the exercise of his . . . free judgment including inadvertence, proceedings and noted defendant stated no one had threatened him or made any promises to force him to act against his will; and defendant said nothing about being under any sort of duress. he trial court asked s he is taking took the plea, i ha[d] no indication that he was under medication or that he was under any denied the motion without stated that she would which would support a second motion to withdraw the plea. sentencing hearing to obtain additional information 6 , however, represented that defendant was not under the care of a psychologist at the time of his plea; and explained that after defendant entered his plea, going to be for the treatment he received after he took the stated that his related to the day defendant pled because he did not seek help until after he pled. the trial court staother than [what defendant] indicated [which is] what i included in the court reviewed the plea proceeding and concluded colloquy that [defendant] was lucid in terms of giving all the a the trial court held a marsden hearing outside the presence of the prosecutor. at the marsden hearing, defendant sought new counsel because his counsel: persuaded him to take the plea deal the first time they spoke; did not employ a private investigator; did not meet or speak to him after their first meeting; did not talk to him er followed up after he told her that he could not think straight without his medication. she had reviewed the information that she received from the prosecutor; she had advised plea bargain offer; and in early december 2014, defendant indicated to her that he wanted to withdraw his plea, he told her his reasons, and she put those reasons in the motion to withdraw the plea. she also said that sometime in december, after she and defendant spoke, defendant agreed to continue the hearing on the motion to january 13, 2015. 7 the trial court denied the marsden motion, finding id not denied. 4. analysis defendant has failed to establish the trial court abused its discretion. the record doses not demonstrate representation was inadequate or that defendant and counsel had such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation was likely to result. we first turn to defendant seemed to criticize counsel for allegedly persuading him to accept the plea bargain at their initial meeting, but defendant did not explain the manner of inappropriate persuasion or why taking the plea bargain was a bad decision. the trial court pointed out the charges exposed defendant to approximately 20 years in state prison and that the offer an experienced criminal defense attorney who advised her client of the offer. thereafter, it was up to defendant to decide whether the .4 defendant points out, as he did at the hearing on the motion, that his counsel did not use a private investigator or speak with him after their first meeting. but defendant did not explain why a private investigator was necessary or what that investigator may have discovered; nor did he claim he asked his attorney for a meeting after he had agreed offer or the reason such a meeting was even necessary. 4 not think straight without his medication, but there was no evidence that defendant had sought mental health assistance prior to entering his plea, was taking medication at the time he entered his plea, or that his mental illness, if any, existed at the time of his plea. there was no evidence that defendant was unable to understand the proceedings when he pled no contest to the charges. defendant never specified his medication or his diagnosis. 8 defendant faulted his counsel for not talking to him about the motion to withdraw his plea. but counsel told the trial court that defendant advised her he wanted to withdraw his plea, he told her his reasons, and she set forth those reasons in the motion to withdraw his plea. credible in her explanations of her representation. to the extent there was a credibility question between client and counsel at a marsden hearing, the trial court is entitled to people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 488.) defendant has also failed to establish he and his counsel became embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation was likely to result. as our s claimed lack of trust in, or inability to get along with, an appointed attorney were sufficient to compel appointment of substitute counsel, defendants effectively would have a veto power over any appointment, and by a process of elimination could obtain appointment of their preferred attorneys, which is certainly not the law. [citations.](people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1246; people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 728 [a defendant does not have the right to present a defense of his own choosing, but merely the right to an adequate and competent defense].) defendant never argued that, at any point in time, counsel refused to represent him in the manner he desired. he voluntarily accepted the plea agreement, and counsel complied with his request to subsequently file a motion to withdraw his plea. we see no conflict in the record between counsel and defendant, much less an defendant did not make a substantial showings denial of his marsden motion was likely to result in constitutionally inadequate representation. (people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 230.) the marsden motion was properly denied. 9 b. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant claims his counsel rendered ineffective assistance because she did not seek a certificate of probable cause authorizing defendant to raise an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel based ofile a second motion to withdraw his plea. we disagree. to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, defendant must s representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. (people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 979-980; people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) a reviewing court will indulgs performance fell within the wide range of professional competence . . . . defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate assistance of counsel. [citations.](people v. carter, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1211.) in addition, to establish a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, defendant must prove prejudice. (people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 623.) [citation]people v. lucero (2000) 23 cal.4th 692, 728-729.) 1. representation of conviction upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere . . . except where both of the following are met: [] (a) the defendant has filed with the trial court a written statement, executed under oath or penalty of perjury showing reasonable constitutional, jurisdictional, or other grounds going to the legality of the proceedings. [] (b) the trial court has executed and filed a certificate of probable cause for such appeal with the clerk subdivision (b) of section 1240.1 imposes a duty on trial counsel to execute and file on his or her clients behalf a timely notice of appeal when the attorney is of the opinion that arguably meritorious grounds exist for a reversal or modification of the judgment or orders appealed from or when directed to do so by a defendant having a 10 right to appeal. (people v. hodges (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 1096, 1105.) s obligation to assist in filing the notice of appeal necessarily encompasses assistance with (people v. ribero (1971) 4 cal.3d 55, 66, superseded by statue on other grounds, as stated in in re chavez (2003) 30 cal.4th 643, 656.) a certificate of probable cause is required before a defendant may pursue an plea. (people v. johnson (2009) 47 cal.4th 668, 676-685.) tefendant contends in only three opportunity by neglecting to obtain a certificate of probable cause. dstatement cannot reasonably be interpreted to mean defendant wanted counsel to pursue an appeal on that basis. there is no evidence in the record that defendant, or anyone on his behalf, instructed al the issue of ineffective assistance of counsel and obtain the corresponding certificate of probable cause. 2. prejudice defendant was not prejudiced by the absence of a certificate of probable cause as it is quite clear an appellate argument attackfailed. in addressing such a claim, a reviewing court would first look to the record. if the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. [citation.](people v. carter, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1211.) here, the record demonstrates a satisfactory explanation for the absence of a second motion to withdraw the pleathe 11 first motion was denied and there is nothing to suggest a second motion would have fared any better. in addition, the record does not demonstrate that, further investigated , the results of the investigation would have yielded a reasonable probability defendant would be permitted to withdraw his plea. records for the day defendant entered his plea because he did not seek help until after he pled. thus, even if counsel should have obtained a certificate of probable cause on this issue, there was no prejudice in failing to do so because the record is devoid of any support for a second motion to withdraw his plea. 3. the reply brief argument in his reply brief, in three sentences, defendant for the first time contends his thereby preventing him from raising that issue on appeal. points raised for the first time absent a showing of good cause for the failure to present them earlier. (tellez v. rich voss trucking, inc. (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1052, 1066.) defendant has not shown good cause for his failure to raise this issue in his opening brief and we exercise our discretion not to consider the argument. there is no evidence in the record that defendant instructed his counsel, or that his counsel should otherwise have reasonably known, to appeal the ruling on the motion to withdraw his plea and to obtain the corresponding certificate of probable cause. in addition, defendant has not established there is e prs error, the result of the proceeding would have been different. (people v. lucero, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 728-729.) 12 c. protective order defendant contends, and the attorney general agrees, that the protective order issued by the trial court was unauthorized. we agree. when the trial court sentenced defendant, it imposed a protective order pursuant to section 273.5, subdivision (j) ordering defendant to, inter alia, not have personal contact with, or come within 100 yards of, the victim. defendant pleaded no contest to a violation of section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1)), not section 273.5, subdivision (a). section 273.5, subdivision (j) authorizes the imposition of a protective order; it provides in part, upon conviction under subdivision (a), the sentencing court shall also consider issuing an order restraining the defendant from any contact with the victim . . . section 136.1 does not authorize the imposition of such a sentencing protective order. accordingly, the protective order should be stricken. 13 disposition the matter is remanded for the trial court to strike the protective order. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. kumar, j. we concur: turner, p. j. baker, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 