filed 6/30/16 p. v. gayles ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david lamont gayles, defendant and appellant. b262637 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka104590) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mike camacho, judge. affirmed. carlos ramirez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted david lamont gayles (defendant) of attempted voluntary manslaughter and assault with a firearm, and the trial court sentenced him to 26 years in state prison. on appeal, defendant argues that the court abused its discretion in denying his motion for a mistrial due to juror misconduct occurring during voir dire. we conclude there was no abuse of discretion, and affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts on the day he was released from prison for robbery, defendant, who is a gang member, located betweeterritories. the gunshots put the victim in the hospital for three months. defendant told police that he shot the victim in self-defense because the victim was reaching for a gun in his waistband. ii. procedural background a. charges the people charged defendant with (1) attempted murder (pen. code  187, subd. (a) & 664),1 and (2) assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). as to the attempted murder count, the people alleged that defendant intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury. ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1).) as to the assault with a deadly weapon, the people alleged that defendant personally used a firearm ( 12022.5, subd. (a)) and personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). the people also alleged that both crimes were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) the people further aw ( 667, subds. (b)-(j) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), was a prior serious or violent felony ( 667, subds. (a)(1) & (d)), and had resulted in a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 b. voir dire during voir dire, prospective juror no. 15 mentioned while being questioned in camera that defendant g she mentioned that two other prospective jurors had told her they had the same concern. because that juror indicated she could not set aside her feelings, the court excused her. minutes later, the court questioned prospective juror no. 7 in camera, and that juror indicated that prospective juror nos. her, but that she had not witnessed it herself an at sidebar, defendant moved for a mistrial because the jurors were ignoring the trial visage). the court denied the motion. the court observed that the some kind that is somewhat swapping one group of prospective jurors for re be the to address the issue, the trial court spoke to all of the prospective jurors, who at that time consisted of the 18 people seated in the jury box as well as others seated in the defendant from earlier proceedings in this case; that defe defendant is not actually trying to intimidate anyone and that his expression is . . . against the court then asked the entire venire two questions and asked for a positive response by a show of hands: (1) expression . . ; and (2) whether any of them witnessed or tside of the courtroom regarding this issue about 4 four jurorsprospective juror nos. 3, 5 and 6 (in the jury box) and prospective juror no. 10472 (in the gallery)raised their hands in response to the first question.3 the court then instructed all of the jurors who had not raised their hands that they should not form an improper opinion or conclusion that [defendant] is trying to is natural facial expression. prospective juror no. 1678 raised his hand in response to the second question, indicating that he had overheard someone make a comment about intimidating stares when there were 20 jurors nearby. something nefarious has occurred that is designed the court next asked each of the 18 jurors seated in the jury box whether he or she could . . . d each of the 18 jurorsexcept prospective juror nos. 3, 5 and 6 (who had raised their hands earlier)said they could. in the midst of this questioning, defendant again moved for a mistrial, and the court again denied that motion. the court then excused prospective juror nos. 3, 5, 6 and 1047. the next day, the court called for 36 additional jurors. none of them had been further mention of that issue in front of those jurors or during the trial. c. jury instructions the court instructed the jury not only on the charged crimes of attempted murder and assault with a firearm, but also on the crimes of (1) attempted voluntary manslaughter ( 192 & 664), as a lesser-included offense to attempted murder as a result 2 at times during these proceedings, the trial judge mistakenly referred to prospective juror no. 1047 as prospective juror no. 1042. 3 a fifth juror raised her hand to express a language issue. 5 of imperfect self-defense, and (2) simple assault ( 240), as a lesser-included offense to assault with a firearm. the court also instructed the jury on self-defense. d. verdicts the jury convicted defendant of attempted voluntary manslaughter and assault with a firearm, and found true the personal use of a firearm and personal infliction of great bodily injury allegations on the latter count. the jury acquitted defendant of attempted murder and found the gang allegation not true. defendant waived his right to a jury trial on his prior 2009 conviction, and the trial court found it to be true. e. sentencing the trial court imposed a 26-year prison sentence. specifically, the court imposed a sentence of eight years on the assault with a firearm count (a high-end term of four years, personally used a firearm ( 12022.5, subd. (a)), three years because he inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)), and five years because his 2009 conviction felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the court imposed a sentence of five and one-half years on the attempted voluntary manslaughter count, but stayed that sentence under section 654. f. appeal defendant timely appealed. discusssion both the united states and california constitutions guarantee criminal defendants u.s. const., 6th amend. n all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury; cal. const., art. i,  16 rial by jury is an inviolate right and shall be secured to all]; people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 95 (merriman)impartial jury is one in which no member has been improperly influenced. (people v. hensley (2014) 59 cal.4th 788, 824.) juror misconduct is an improper influence. (ibid.) among other things, juror misconduct trial 6 (s). (people v. lavender (2014) 60 cal.4th 679, 686-687 (lavender); in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, 305 (hamiltonpresumption of prejudice[, but] that [presumption] may be rebutted by proof that no prejudice actually resupeople v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 437, quoting people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 771, 835)there is no (hensley, at p. 825, quoting in re boyette (2013) 56 cal.4th 866, 892). the prospective jurors in this case engaged in misconduct because, at a minimum, they ignored the trial in this courtroom. consequently, the sole question before us is whether the people rebutted the presumption of prejudice by showing that there is no substantial likelihood that ruling on a people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 802; people v. medina whether lavender, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 687; merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 95-96). a trial court can attempt to eliminate the prejudice that presumptively arises from juror misconduct (1) by questioning the jurors about the effect of the misconduct on their ability to remain impartial (people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1342-1343; people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1309; see also people v. debose (2014) 59 cal.4th 177, [v]oir dire plays a critical function in assuring the criminal defendant that his sixth amendment right to an impartial jury will be honored]), or (2) by instructing the jurors to ignore or otherwise not be influenced by the juror misconduct they committed or witnessed (lavender, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 688, 691; people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 857). we generally presume jurors heed those instructions in the absence of evidence to the contrary. (people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 853.) the trial court in 7 facial expression to be intimidating, or (b) overheard any conversation among jurors on that issue, (2) by excusing any juror who found his expression to be intimidating or who had participated in a prohibited conversation, (3) by further asking the other jurors in the ostensibly, be fair to the defendant), and (4) by instructing the jury no fewer than three not meant to be intimidating and was not to be oodlet alone a substantial likelihoodthat any juror was improperly influenced by the concerns s. defendant raises five arguments in response. first, he asserts that the people forfeited their right to contest the issue of prejudice because they did not discuss that brief discussed the factors relevant to prejudice. it is legally incorrect as well because, even if the people had not addressed the issue, we are still tasked with deciding it on the basis of the record and the arguments in the opening brief. (e.g., lane v. valverde (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 71, 74, fn. 1.) second, defendant contends that the trial instructions only served to exacerbate, not lessen, facial expression. court commented, that expression was not going to change, calling for a new venire would not solve the problem and would likely result in the same issues arising again. the only viable option was to confront the issue head on with the current jury, and that is what the court did. if, as defendant seems to suggest, mistrial is expression, we would be granting a defendant the power to force a mistrial and indefinitely postpone trial just by casting menacing glares at the venire. this is not, and should not be, the law. (people v. harris [o]ur system of justice has not delegated to every [defendant] the power to effect a mistrialpeople 8 v. hendricks (1988) 44 cal.3d 635, 643 [defendant cannot seek mistrial based on prejudice created by third, defendant asserts that the trial insufficient because the court asked only some of the jurors (those jurors seated in the jury box), but not all jurors (those jurors seated in the gallery) its last question as to all the prospective jurors was of no consequence. that is because the directed to jurors in the jury box who had already told the court they were unconcerned discussed it with other jurors; at most, this last question was designed to give the court further assurance that those jurors were e jurors seated in the gallery were tainted. fourth, defendant argues that it is unclear whether the persons seated as prospective juror nos. ultimately seated on his jury. because, as we have explained above, the court asked everyone in the venire that reported the misconduct whether they had disobeyed its instructions and thereafter excused anyone who had, it does not matter whether prospective juror nos. 2 and 4 stayed on the jury. they had been cleared of any taint. indeed, those two jurors were in the group to whom the court addressed its last question and who specifically assured the court they could proceed fairly. effect of the misconduct because the jury did not acquit him of all charges. this argument ignores that the jury did the next best thing: it acquitted him of attempted murder and instead convicted him of the lesser-included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter, and it found the gang allegation not true. because defendant admitted to shooting his victim, the jury necessarily found that defendant had engaged in imperfect self-defense. this internally consistent verdict indicates, if anything, that the jury carefully 9 that there was no further mention of expression during the proceedings only confirms that the trial juror misconduct during voir dire. in sum, the people rebutted the presumption of prejudice and the trial court accordingly did not abuse its discretion in denying disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: ________________________, acting p.j. ashmann-gerst ________________________, j. chavez 