filed 8/4/16 p. v. toms ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. shawn toms, defendant and appellant. b262124 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka105561) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas c. falls, judge. affirmed. correen ferrentino, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury found defendant and appellant shawn toms guilty of, among others, assault with a deadly weapon, a car. during trial, juror no. 8 disclosed she knew the victim. after an inquiry, the trial court refused to discharge the juror. toms contends that the failure to discharge the juror violated his state and federal constitutional rights. we disagree and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. factual background. olga guerra owned a gold mercedes. on april 18, 2014, it was stolen. a few days later, on april 21, anthony and cristina anguiano were home.1 upon investigating a noise from the garage, they saw a man in their car. cristina yelled. the man ran to a brown or gold mercedes with penske plates, driven by a second man, who cristina identified at trial and from a photographic six pack as toms.2 cristina was in front of the mercedes when toms stepped on the gas. the car to push myself after the car struck forearm, the car stopped and the second man got in. again. cristina toms was arrested later that day about four miles away. he was next to a gold mercedes with penske plates, which guerra later identified as her car. fingerprints were on the car. ii. procedural background. on august 28, 2014, a jury found toms guilty of: count 1, first degree burglary (pen. code,  459),3 and of count 2, assault with a deadly weapon, a vehicle ( 245, 1 for clarity, we refer to the anguianos by their first names. 2 anthony could not identify either man. 3 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 subd. (a)(1)). as to count 1, the jury found true the allegation that in the commission of the crime, another person other than a second participant, was present in the inhabited dwelling house. the jury found toms not guilty of count 3, unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)). on january 30, 2015, the trial court sentenced toms, on count 1, to four years, doubled to eight years based on a prior strike which toms had admitted, and on count 2, to a consecutive two years. the court imposed a consecutive five-year term under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). his total term was 15 years in prison. discussion i. the trial court did not err by refusing to discharge juror no. 8. a. additional background. after prospective jurors were sworn in, the prosecutor identified witnesses, including cristina. when the court asked if the prospective jurors knew the witnesses, no hands were raised. when juror no. 8 was placed on the voir dire panel, the court asked her a juror no. 8 said she understood everything and agreed with the principles of law controlling the court. juror no. 8 single, she juror no. 8 nor her close family members or friends had been a crime victim. relatives the friends were police officers, and nothing about her relationships with them would affect her ability to evaluate law enforcement witnesses. the juror had no feelings about sitting in judgment of another. it is undisputed that this prospective juror became juror no. 8. dtold the court she knew cristina anguiano, ne martinez.4 juror no. 8 went to elementary, junior high, and high school with cristina. the juror had been went to her house for birthday 4 although it is unclear, it appears that juror no. 8 did not state during voir dire that 4 parties. they lost contact after high school, although [t]o this day, i actually have her on the juror, however, would look at cristinposted a few months ago. the posts were not about this case. they last saw or spoke with each other six years ago, on facebook, when cristina sent a message her brother had died. the juror denied it would be a problem if cristina testified, and the juror would not automatically believe cristina. our and give both sides a fair trial. defense counsel then told the juror that he would cross-examine cristina. he asked, are you comfortable doing? . t what she thought what she saw or maybe lying about this. this is what a trial is all about. you throw everything in the pot, and you figure out what cooks from there. [] will you be t of tough [] . . . [] o. 8: no, i understand. i know. i will be okay with that. like, i can put the court ordered juror no. 8 not to tell other jurors that she knew cristina and to stay off facebook, pinterest, instagram, and all social media during trial. 5 the defense asked the court to dismiss the juror, but the court deferred its ruling for further briefing. after the parties rested, the court allowed additional argument about juror no. 8. particularly defense counsel to have an opinion as to whether, for example, cristina was the type of person who would jump onto the hood of a car. the trial court found there was no showing the juror had misled the parties and the b. [citations.] an impartial jury is one in which no member has been improperly influenced [citations] c (in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, 293-294; see also people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466, 476;  1120.) at any time, whether before or after the final submission of the case to the jury, upon good cause, it is shown that a juror is unable to perform his or her duty, the court may order the juror to be discharged. ( 1089; see also people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 140-141.) actually biased is unable to perform the duty to fairly deliberate and thus is subject to (people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1051.) the standard of review applicable to removing a sitting juror requires the jurors (people v. farnam, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 141; people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 711; people v. barnwell, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 1052.) stronger evidentiary showing than mere substantial evidence is required to support a trial (barnwell, at p. 1052.) he reviewing court must be confident that the trial courts conclusion is manifestly supported 6 (id. at p. 1053; see also fuiava, at p. 712.) the record does not show that juror no. 8relationship with cristina biased the although juror no. 8 in school, they had not spoken in six yearsand then their communication was through facebook. juror no. 8 repeatedly affirmed she could be fair and impartial: she could put also, that the juror voluntarily informed the court she knew cristina indicated her desire to perform her duties fairly and impartially and in good faith. (see, e.g., people v. ray (1996) 13 cal.4th 313, 344; see also people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 823 [where a juror ,constitute good cause for discharge].) indeed, the court made an express finding that the trial court was in the best position to observe substantial evidence supports it. (people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1305.) the record tno. 8 was not a demonstrable reality. (see generally people v. cochran (1998) 62 cal.app.4th 826, 831 they could set aside this knowledge and fairly and impartially judge case must be taken at ; people v. mcpeters (1992) 2 cal.4th 1148, 1174-1175 [trial court did not err by refusing to dismiss juror who knew and ], superseded by statute on another ground as stated in verdin v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1096, 1116.) to the extent toms suggests that it was unreasonable to expect juror no. 8 to be ny, we disagree. true, cristina was the only witness who identified toms as the getaway driver. but other evidence tended to establish that fact: he was arrested the same day, four miles away, standing next to a car that matched the description of the shis fingerprints on it. also, defense counsel suggested, through his cross-examination of 7 cristina and in closing argument, that cristina was not being truthful about the assault with a deadly weapon. arguing that cristina jumped on the , he anthony . therefore, the case was not solely dependent on whether juror no. 8 believed cristina. in any event, as we have said, nothing in the record demonstrates that juror no. 8 could not evaluate this evidence fairly and impartially. toms federal and state constitutional rights were not violated. ii. uate. toms also contends that the trial court failed to conduct an adequate inquiry into whether juror no. 8 should be discharged. we disagree. once a trial court is put on notice that good cause to discharge a juror may exist, the court has a duty to make whatever inquiry is reasonably necessary to determine whether the juror should be discharged. (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 505-506; people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 941-942.) whether to investigate the possibility of juror bias, incompetence, or misconduct and the scope of any such investigation rests within the sound discretion, and the court does not abuse its discretion simply because it fails to investigate any and all new information obtained about a juror during trial. (people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1284; cowan, at p. 506.) our description of the proceedings belies that characterization; namely, the court questioned juror no. 8 extensively about her relationship with cristina while in school and on social media. defense counsel also questioned the juror. toms, however, describes questionas inadequate to establ. but the juror unequivocally responded to that question in the affirmative, i.e., she could be fair and impartial. moreover, what it meant to be fair and impartial was clear, both as a matter of common sense and from voir dire. nothing more was required of the trial court. (see, e.g., people v. ray, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 343-344 [no further inquiry into possible juror bias or misconduct necessary where 8 record contained no evidence of juror bias]; compare people v. mcneal (1979) 90 cal.app.3d 830 [inadequate where it failed to ask juror about her knowledge of facts apparently learned from a source other than evidence at trial].) nor do we agree the trial court implied that the only issue was whether the juror would harbor ill will towards defense counsel rather, defense counsel told the juror he would cross-question her credib the the court then explained that defense counsel might suggest what the juror said this would not bother her. . i will be okay with that. like, i can put my personal and coinquiry thus established that the juror could fairly and impartially evaluate and not hold any suggestion that cristina was unbelievable against defense counsel. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. hogue, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 