filed 5/19/16 p. v. mascorro ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jerry raymond mascorro et al., defendants and appellants. b262793 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba425891) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen kennedy, judge. affirmed with modification. heather j. manolakas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jerry raymond mascorro. james m. crawford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant edward lopez jr. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 defendants jerry mascorro (mascorro) and edward lopez jr. (lopez jr.) (collectively, defendants) appeal their convictions for two counts of second-degree robbery. both defendants argue that the trial court erred in giving the standard instruction on flight; lopez jr. contends that the court should have instructed on the lesser-included offense of grand theft; mascorro asserts that the court impermissibly barred the third co1 expert on eyewitness testimony from answering any hypothetical questions. we conclude there was no prejudicial error. however, we direct factual and procedural background i. facts joseph villareal and patrick d., a minor, are cousins.2 one sunny afternoon in early june 2015, they decide to ride their bikes through grant rea park in montebello. at one point, they walked their bikes. as they did, a man walked up to them, blocked their path, and pointed a black pistol at joseph. this first robber told joseph and patrick to empty their pockets, and shoved joseph to his knees. two other men walked is back. the third robber punched patrick in the ribs, and the second robber went th and his bike. the first and second robbers rode off on jo the third robber shooed the cousins out of the park, pushing them from behind and telling them to the third robber got into a truck and drove away. joseph remembered the license plate number. 1 he was tried with his son and mascorro, and also convicted of two counts of robbery. his appeal is pending before us separately. (see b265350.) 2 because patrick d. is a minor, we refer to him by first name and, for consistency, to joseph by first name as well. we mean no disrespect. 3 after the third robber left, joseph borrowed a phone and called 911. on that call, joseph described the first robber as tall, thin and bald; as being around 28 years old; and as having a tattoo of some kind of writing on his chin. the next day, police interviewed joseph and patrick. both described the first robber as being a bald, thin hispanic man in his late 20s with tattoos on his arms as well as one covering his chin. both described the second robber as an hispanic man with a moustache wearing plaid shorts and a baseball ca police showed joseph several six-not identify mascorro as being involved. police also showed patrick the photospreads; patrick identified mascorro as the first robber, but did not identify lopez jr. as being involved. later that day, police went to the apartment registered. as they approached, the police saw a green iphone, later identified as t, and a pair of plaid shorts. police transported patrick to the scene of the arrest, and he identified lopez jr. as the second robber. the next day, police arrested mascorro as he stowed a black pistol matching the general appearance of the one used in the robbery. mascorro hagalaxy iphone in his pocket and jose police thereafter presented joseph with a second six-photo photospread joseph identified him as the first robber. ii. procedural history the people charged mascorro and lopez jr. with (1) the second-degree robbery (pen. code,  211)3 of patrick, and (2) the second-degree robbery ( 211) of joseph.4 as 3 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 4 to both crimes, the people further alleged that mascorro personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and that a principal was armed during the robberies ( 12022, subd. n terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). at the preliminary hearing on these charges, both joseph and patrick identified mascorro as the first robber and lopez jr. as the second robber. at trial, joseph and patrick again identified mascorro as the first robber and lopez jr. as the second robber. the jury convicted both defendants of the robberies and found true the firearm enhancements. on mascorro, the trial court imposed a 13-year prison sentence, comprised of three years for the first robbery plus ten years for personal use of a handgun; the court imposed a concurrent 13-year sentence on the second robbery. on lopez jr., the court imposed a five-year prison sentence, comprised of five years on the first robbery and a concurrent five-year sentence on the second robbery; the court struck the firearm enhancement and prior prison term enhancements. defendants timely appealed. discussion i. jury instructions defendants raise two instructional errors: (1) both defendants argue that the trial court erred in instructing the jury on flight because there was insufficient evidence that either of them fled; (2) lopez jr. contends that the trial court erred in denying his request to instruct the jury on the crime of grand theft as a lesser-included offense to robbery. we review instructional errors de novo. (people v. quiroz (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 65, 73.) 4 the people also charged mascorro with two counts of possessing stolen property ( 496) and possessing a concealed firearm ( 25400, subd. (a)(2)), and charged lopez jr. with possessing stolen property ( 496). the people dismissed the stolen property counts against both defendants prior to trial, and the jury acquitted mascorro of the concealed firearm count. 5 a. instruction on flight that [a] defendant departed the crime scene under circumstances suggesting that his people v. cage (2015) 62 cal.4th 256, 285, quoting people v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 1055;  1127c.) here, the defendant[s] fled immediately after the crime was committed, that conduct may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant[s] fled, it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that conduct. however, evidence that the defendant[s] fled can (calcrim no. 372, italics added.) defendants argue that burden of proof, and (2) the factual predicate for giving this instruction is lacking because their departure on the cousins bikes was not a circumstance indicating consciousness of guilt. people v. carrasco people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 710.) flight instruction, even if unwarranted, was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt because the instruction by its very terms only applies, as the italicized passage above indicates, that the instruction was to that extent inapplicable. the superfluous reference to flight . . . caused people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 584; people v. visciotti (1992) 2 cal.4th 1, 61 [finding erroneously giving a flight instruction instruction did not assume that flight was established, leaving that 6 b. instruction on grand theft a trial court is required to instruct the jury on all lesser-included offenses to a charged defendant was in fact guilty only of the lesser offense[s]people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1225, quoting people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, 348-349.) grand theft is a lesser-included offense to robbery; what differentiates them is that robbery requires that the taking of property be effected by force or fear. (people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 50-51.) lopez jr. argues that there was substantial evidence that he was guilty only of mascorro who was holding joseph and patrick at gunpoint. thus, lopez jr. reasons, he did not use any force or fear and could have been viably convicted of grand theft. we disagree. mascorro undoubtedly used force or fear (e.g., people v. burney i]), and lopez jr. was one of the trio of robbers who operated in a coordinated fashion to force the cousins submission by having mascorro hold them at gunpoint while the others searched their pockets and belongings and took anything of value. indeed, the jury was instructed on the concept of aiding and abetting as to the robberies. on these facts, there was not substantial evidence to support an instruction on the crime of grand theft. ii. expert witness testimony ly beyond common experience that [th 801, subd. id.,  805.) parties may pose hypothetical questions to experts, but only if thoce of the case being tried.people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1045 (vang).) (people v. stoll (1989) 49 cal.3d 1136, 1159 fn. 20abuse of discretion (people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 618), and focus on 7 the propriety of its ruling rather than the rationale for it (people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1295, fn. 12). in this case, the third codefendant (lopez sr.) called an eyewitness expert. this expert testified at length about how people perceive, remember, and recall events in their lives. he explained how perception is limited by a p by his by the trauma or stress he is under, and by human beingschanges in the environment). the expert also opined person will fill in missing details and even alter the details he does remember when confronted with new, seemingly credible information. as a result of these phenomena, the expercontaminated by the procedures used to document that event (such as the procedures used to collect eyewitness testimony) and by the tendency of the human mind to or where details came from. thus, the expert went on to state, eyewitness identifications can sometimes be inaccurate betough, because eyewitnesses will sometimes choose the face most similar tread, and because become familiar due to seeing it in repeated photospreads. fresher identifications are better, he stated, because they are less likely to be contaminated. the expert provided numerous everyday examples to illustrate these various concepts. five hypothetical questions. all of the questions were directed at attacking identification of lopez sr. as the third robber from the first photospread because in that photospread lopez sr.photograph was from when he was , whereas at the time of the robbery lopez sr. . the second and fourth questions asked the expert to assume the existence of a fourth robber. the second and third questions asked the expert to assume outdated photo as a 30-year-old man in a photospread. the first and fifth questions asked the exp description of the third robber right after the crime or at the preliminary hearing was 8 likely to be more reliable. the trial court sustained objections to each of them as the court further explained that the questions involving a fourth robber did not reflect (1) improperly effecteof the accuracy of patrick, and concepts he was discussing and their practical application. we disagree. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in sustaining objections to these did not purport to issue an all-purpose ruling; instead, it sustained five objections. indeed, the court later overruled an objection to a hypothetical question asked of this witness. on the merits. there was no evidence suggesting the involvement of a fourth robber and no evidence ce of the case being tried.(vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1046.) and the remaining two questions were nearly descriptions soon after an event are more reliable. because these rulings are sound on these groopinions encompassing the ultimate fact as an alternative ground is correct. we also conclude that practice because the expert testified in plain english and gave numerous real-life examples to illustrate his points. any error in not allowing these five questions to be answered was also harmless as to mascorro. all five questions were aimed at casting doubt on patricklopez sr.; they did not mention mascorro at all. the expert also noted that people are generally pretty good at remembering key characteristics like race, length of their hair, 9 here, joseph and patrick consistently referred to the first robber as bald and having a tattoo on his chin, both of which accurately describe mascorro. more to the point, the involvement in the robberies was overwhelming: even apart from the identifications, he e; and, two days after the robbery, police watched him stow a black pistol like the one used in the robbery.5 iii. custody credits and sentencing a. the people note that there is a discrepancy between the number of days of good conduct custody credits the trial court said mascorro would receive during sentencing (40 days) and the number of days reflected in the minute order and abstract of judgment (41 days). people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 89 (jones)), it does not do so where, as here, the oral pronouncement rests on an arithmetic error (see people v. duran (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 267, 270 [appellate courts may correct errors in calculation]). because mascorro is entitled to a number of days of good conduct custody credits equal to 15 percent of his actual custody days ( 4019, 2900.5 & 2933.1), and because 15 percent of 279 (the award of 41 days of custody credit. b. lopez jrs sentence the trial court pronounced that lopez -year sentence for the second robbery was to run concurrently with the five-year sentence for the first robbery, but the lopez jr. argues that the abstract should be corrected; the people agree, and so do we. because the 5 s lack merit, we have no need to address his argument that his convictions are infected by cumulative error. 10 oral pronouncement controls, the abstract must be corrected. (jones, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 89.) disposition the abstract of judgment is ordered amended to reflect that lopez jr. was sentenced to five years each on two counts of second-degree robbery, to be served concurrently. the superior court is ordered to forward the amended abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ________________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p.j. boren _________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 