filed 9/12/16 p. v. estrada ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose raul estrada, defendant and appellant. b262904 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga093874) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, cathryn f. brougham, judge. affirmed as modified. lori nakaoka, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and nathan guttman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 jose raul estrada appeals from a judgment entered after he pleaded no contest to receiving stolen property (pen. code,  496, subd. (a))1 and possession of methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)), and a jury found him guilty of second degree robbery ( 211) and also found he used a handgun during the robbery ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). after finding a prior prison term enhancement allegation to be true ( 667.5, subd. (b)), the trial court sentenced him to eight years and eight months in prison. estrada contends the trial court erred (1) in admitting into evidence his mugshot photograph from his current w enforcement identified him as a suspect and (2) in ruling he could impeach the robbery victim with only one of her prior convictions involving moral turpitude. he also contends the evidence supporting the firearm enhancement was insufficient. we reject his contentions and affirm the judgment as modified to reflect his sentence on the drug possession count. background an information charged estrada with second degree robbery (count 1), receiving stolen property (count 2), and possession of methamphetamine (count 3). before trial on the robbery count and the firearm use enhancement alleged in the information, estrada pleaded no contest to counts 2 and 3. the trial court continued sentencing on counts 2 and 3 until after the trial. evidence and trial the robbery victim, octavia clemons, testified she was waiting at a bus stop in pasadena about 6:30 a.m. on may 18, 2014, when a man (later identified as estrada) stole her cell phone. clemons identified estrada in court at trial as the man who robbed her. she was not acquainted with estrada prior to the robbery. clemons was using her cell phone when estrada approached the bus stop on a bicycle. he stood face-to-face with her, straddling his bicycle, and asked to borrow her 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 cell phone. she agreed, and he started providing a phone number for her to dial. after to be the black handle of a nine-millimeter handgun tucked into his waistband. clemons had seen nine-millimeter handguns on other occasions prior to the date of this robbery. she felt afraid, believing estrada would fire the gun. estrada snatched the cell phone t fucking turn around or i am gonna fucking blast you, left on his bicycle. clemons rode the bus for about five minutes to the next stop, then walked the half-mile to her home. she dialed 911 and provided a description of the man who had robbed her. the jury heard an audio recording of the 911 call. officers responded to her home and interviewed her. later that day, clemons requested that her wireless provider disconnect the service to the cell phone estrada stole. she purchased a new cell phone and activated it, using the same phone number. nickname). clemons photographed the incoming call log on her new cell phone and provided the photos to the police. in the evening after the robbery, clemons accessed the social media web site facebook and was reviewing user profiles, when she observed a photograph of the man who had robbed her. them to the police. detective david duran, the investigating officer on this case from the pasadena jose and the birth date associated with the facebook profile clemons provided. the results of his search included photographs depicting the same person pictured in the july 7, 2014. 4 detective duran interviewed estrada on the day of his arrest, after estrada waived his miranda2 rights. asked if estrada when he was arrested. estrada presented an alibi defense through testimony from his former girlfriend/ mother of his son. she stated estrada was sleeping in the room he rented in highland park around 6:30 a.m. on may 19, 2014 (the same time as the robbery), when she arrived to bring him food. verdict and sentencing prior to reaching a verdict, the jury submitted a question to the trial court, stating, 3 verdict/decision on the charge and allegation. do not be concerned with the procedure or cross--back -examination and informed the jury it would not hear a read-back of argument because that is not evidence. the jury found estrada guilty of second degree robbery and found true the enhancement allegation that estrada personally used a handgun in the commission of the robbery ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). estrada waived his right to jury trial on the prior prison term enhancement allegation set forth in the information, and the trial court found true that he had served a prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 3 because only one count, the robbery count, was tried to the jury, we presume the use enhancement allegation. 5 sentenced estrada to eight years and eight months in prison: the midterm of three years for robbery (count 1), plus a consecutive four-year term for the firearm use enhancement and a consecutive one-year term for the prior prison term enhancement; and a consecutive term of eight months (one-third the midterm) for receiving stolen property (count 2) after the pretrial no contest plea. on count 3 for possession of methamphetamine, to which estrada also pleaded no contest, the court imposed a one-year concurrent term.4 discussion admission of mugshot photograph 5 objection, the trial court allowed the mugshotoking photograph for purposes of apparently his hair was longer by the time of trial, a point he conceded in making his objection. estrada argued the (1) (2) he appeared to in the photograph,6 and (3) his overall appearance had not changed sufficiently by the time of trial the court er admitted the photograph into evidence), finding the evidence was more probative than prejudicial. during direct examination, detective the photograph accurately depicted e 4 the abstract of judgment does not reflect the sentence the trial court imposed on count 3. as set forth below in the disposition, we modify the judgment to correct that omission. 5 the court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury 6 demeanor that would prejudice him in front of a jury. we find it unremarkable that he was not smiling and did not appear cheerful about his arrest in the photograph. 6 case. people v. johnson estrada contends the trial court abused its discretion in admitting the mugshot photograph into evidence because (1) it revealed he had a prior criminal record, (2) it removed the question of identity from the jury, (3) it was not relevant to any material issue at trial, and (4) it was cumulative because clemons, the victim, already had identified estrada as the robber before the prosecution introduced the photograph. we reject each of these arguments. the mugshot is the booking photo from this case. i mean, they [the jurors] know he was arrested. he is here in court. he was arrested and ch(compare people v. cook (1967) 252 cal.app.2d 25, 29 [error to admit mugshot taken seven years before trial, indicating the defendant had a prior criminal record].)7 estrada notes there are three different identification numbers on the photograph but he does not explain how these numbers would have revealed his prior criminal record to the jury. the fact the mugshot photograph identified estrada by name does not mean it the mugshot, for the robbery of clemons. it was for the jury to decide if estrada, in fact, was the man who had committed the robbery. the mugshot photograph was relevant to the material issue of identity. clemons provided the police with copies of photographs she had obtained from facebook, 7 we do not believe the use of the word prejudicial to estrada because the photograph relates to his arrest in this case and does not imply he has a prior criminal history. 7 depicting the man she claimed had robbed her. the purpose of the mugshot was to show appearance with that of the man in the facebook photographs. was longer at the time of trial, the mugshot presented a more accurate comparison. (see people v. peralez (1971) 14 cal.app.3d 368, 377 [police photograph of the defendant the change in his a estrada asserts the mugshot photograph constituted cumulative evidence because the prosecution introduced the facebook photographs and clemons identified estrada as the robber in court, before the prosecution introduced the mugshot. we disagree. the his arrestless than two months after the crimethat the jury could compare to the facebook photographs clemons obtained the same day as the crime, and which she claimed depicted the robber. the trial occurred more than nine months after the crime, the trial court acted within the bounds of its discretion in admitting into evidence the mugshot photograph. the probative value of the photographcloser in time to the crimewas not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission [would] (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jurycode,  352.) regardless of whether the trial court erred, we would not reverse conviction because it is not reasonably probable the jury would have reached a result more favorable to him absent the mugshot photograph. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1170-watson standard, the erroneous admission of a photograph warrants reversal of a conviction only if the appellate court concludes that it is reasonably probable the jury clemons unequivocally identified estrada in court as the man who robbed her. other substantial 8 evidence corroborated her identification (e.g., the fact a woman who was present with clemons reported her cell phone stolen). we have no reason to believe the jury based its true finding on the firearm use enhancement on its response to the mugshot rather than , as estrada suggests. when the prosecutor questioned detective duran about the steps he took to identify estrada as a suspect after clemons provided the facebook photographs, estrada declined to object to the line of questioning. now, on appeal, he contends the trial court erred in admitting what he characterizes as detective du identification testimony, [and] deprived mr. estrada of his constitutional right to be pre [clemons] provided was under the name of jose rodriguez and a date of birth listed on the account was september 20 of 1985. [] i conducted a records check of that name with that date of birth and did not locate a match. [] so, then, i adjusted my search, removing the last name and used the name jose with the same birthday and then obtained duran believed the man pictured in these photograp8 on july 7, 2014, officers arrested estrada at that address. duran identified estrada in court as the person taken into custody on july 7, 2014. the prosecutor showed duran the accurately depicting his appearance on july 7, 2014, the date of his arrest. 8 the prosecution did not introduce into evidence the photographs detective 9 estrada forfeited this claim by failing to object below to the admission of this testimony. cogni(people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 433-434.) estrada asserts his pretrial objection to the introduction of the mugshot photograph preserved this issue for appeal. we disagree. he is challenging testimony unrelated to the mugshot photographtestimony about the steps detective duran took to identify estrada as a suspect. in a footnote, estrada raises an ineffective assistance of counsel claim based on his h representation was deficient in falling below an objective standard of reasonableness jected reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561.) estrada fails to provide any analysis supporting his ineffective assistance of counsel claim. we agree with estrada that testimony regarding the steps detective duran took to identify estrada as a suspect is not relevant to any material issue in this case. but we rendered deficient representation in failing to object to this testimony because estrada cannot demonstrate prejudice. it is not reasonably probable an objection would have resulted in a more favorable outcome. as discussed above, the strength of the evidence against estrada belies any notion that rmined the through the facebook photographs and during trial through her in-court identification. a woman associated with estrada attempted to contact him by dialing 10 phone. waistband and his accompanying threats to shoot her support the jurthe firearm use enhancement. impeachment of clemons with her criminal convictions estrada contends the trial court erred in ruling he could impeach clemons with only one of her prior convictions involving moral turpitude. before trial, the prosecuconvictions. at the hearing on the motion, the prosecutor informed the court clemons had a 2001 felony conviction for burglary ( 459) and a 2003 felony conviction for burglary and forgery ( 470, subd. (d)),9 both of which the court had dismissed in 2008 pursuant to section 1203.4 after fulfillment of the conditions of, or discharge from, probation. estcounsel inquirthe prosecutor pr convictions in, the most recent 459, just to call it a second degree burglary and just ask her that. [] and the reason for that is, even though i do believe it is remote, and i weighed it under [evidence code section] 352, she does have a lot of theft convictions and those theft convictions go back all the way to 2001 and there [are] several. and she court took the matter under submission, and ultimately ruled estrada could impeach clemons with the 2003 conviction, which the court and the parties agreed to refer to as a felony forgery conviction. s counsel did not indicate she was dissatisfied with the trial couruling or state she wanted to use additional convictions or acts of moral turpitude to impeach 9 apparently there is only one 2003 conviction, although the parties refer to it as both a burglary and a forgery conviction. 11 clemons. during cross-felony forgery conviction. the jury did not hear that the conviction was dismissed. estrada notes, in addition to the 2003 forgery conviction the trial court admitted, clemons had the 2001 felony burglary conviction the prosecutor disclosed. estrada rap sheet that she had a 2011 burglary contact (not conviction) and multiple theft convictions. although estrada mentions this criminal history, he neglects to analyze the admissibility of any of these other convictions or acts of moral turpitude. for example, he fails to discuss the issue of remoteness with respect to the 2001 burglary conviction, an issue the trial court highlighted in making its ruling during this 2014 trial. (see people v. almarez (1985) 168 cal.app.3d 262, 268 [recognizing that the trial court, in the dered the 13-year-old forgery [conviction] too he fails to provide dates of the other theft convictions and whether they were misdemeanors or felonies, or provide details about the 2011 burglary contact. (see people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 443 problems of proof, unfair surprise, and moral turpitude evaluation which felony convictions do not present. hence, [under evidence code section 352,] courts may and should consider with particular care whether the admission of such evidence might involve undue time, confusion, or prejudice which outweighs its probative value given the vague record acquiescence in the ruling, of any of the other convictions or acts of moral turpitude, estrada has not demonstrated the trial court abused its discretion. 12 sufficiency of the evidence supporting the firearm use enhancement estrada contends there is insufficient evidence supporting the juron the enhancement allegation that he personally used a handgun in the commission of the robbery. ( 12022.5, subd. (a).)10 review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial evidence. findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) the jurallegation that estrada personally used a handgun in the commission of the robbery is supported by sufficient evidence. according to not hand him her cell phone. immediately after making this statement, estrada lifted his shirt, revealing what clemons described as the black handle of a nine-millimeter handgun. clemons had observed nine-millimeter handguns prior to being the victim of this robbery. after 10 any person who personally uses a firearm in the commission of a felony or attempted felony shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for 3, 4, or 10 years, unless use of a firearm is an element of that offense 13 clemons, as he ordered her not to turn in his direction while , which he revealed to her while tconstitutes substantial evidence that estrada personally used a handgun in the commission of the robbery. (see people v. monjaras (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1432, 1437 as here a defendant commits a robbery by displaying an object that looks like a gun, the objects appearance and the defendants conduct and words in using it may constitute sufficient circumstantial evidence to support a finding that it was a firearm within the meaning of sec11 request for a read-back of her cross-examination and the question indicating the jury might be having difficulty making a finding on the firearm use allegation. the credibility of witnesses and the weight accorded the evidence are matters within the province of the trier of fact, not the appellate court. (people v. ramos (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 1194, 1207.) the jury found estrada personally used a handgun in the commission of the robbery and substantial evidence supports the finding. 11 estrada challenges the sufficiency of the evidence establishing he had a gun in his waistband. to the extent there was sufficient evidence demonstrating the item in his waistband was a gunand we have found the evidence sufficienthe does not challenge section 12022.5, subdivision (a). 14 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect the sentence the trial court imposed on count 3, possession of methamphetamine, a violation of health and safety code section 11377, subdivision (a): a one-year concurrent term. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. 