filed 9/8/16 p. v. zambrano ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. julio zambrano et al., defendants and appellants. b262756 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba369032) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. matthew d. alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant julio zambrano. marcia levine, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant abraham khan. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 sergio trejo hernandez was using a pay phone near a busy los angeles intersection when he was killed by a single gunshot to the head. a jury convicted defendants julio zambrano and abraham khan of committing the murder. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)1 the jury also found true various gang and firearm allegations as to both defendants. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c), 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d), & (e)(1).) both defendants appeal from the judgments entered against them. they contend that the trial court deprived them of a fair trial by excluding their proffered evidence of third party culpability. defendants also argue that the prosecutor improperly relied upon hearsay and facts not in evidence during her rebuttal argument, errors zambrano further trial. we conclude the trial court properly excluded the evidence of third party culpability. we further conclude that the prosecutor did not improperly rely upon hearsay or facts not in evidence, and that even if she did, defendants were not prejudiced. we accordingly affirm. procedural history in an information dated september 1, 2010, the district attorney of los angeles county charged defendants with one count of murder ( 187, subd. (a)). the information further alleged that defendant khan personally used ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) and intentionally discharged a firearm and caused great bodily injury and death to hernandez ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (d)), and that a principal personally used ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)) and intentionally discharged a firearm and caused great bodily injury and death to hernandez ( 12022.53, subds. (c), (d) & (e)(1)). the information also alleged that defendants committed the murder for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). defendants pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 after two mistrials, the second of which was occasioned by a deadlocked jury, a third jury found both defendants guilty and found true all of the gang and firearm allegations. the court sentenced each defendant to a total of 50 years to life in state prison, consisting of 25 years to life on the murder count and an additional 25 years to life for the most serious firearm allegation found true as to each of them, section 12022.53, subdivision (d) for khan, and section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1) for zambrano. pursuant to section 654, the court imposed and stayed additional sentences for the remaining firearm allegations. it also struck the gang enhancements because they defendants timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution case a. events before the shooting on the evening of march 3, 2010, 21-year-old james rios visited his father john 2 house on telfair avenue in the san fernando valley. john was associated with the mid city stoners street gang. james, who first met his father in 2009, claimed he did not have any gang affiliation. he admitted, however, to having a criminal record, and he testified at trial while in custody and under a grant of immunity. james and john stood outside the house and talked. james heard music and voices coming from the unattached garage, which he had never entered. khan exited the garage, and john introduced him to james as abraham. james described khan as heavy, with a a second male, whom james identified in court as zambrano, also exited the garage. john james and john remained outside talking, and khan and zambrano went back into eventually john decided to go inside the house with his girlfriend, jennifer collins, at which point zambrano and khan 2 we refer to james and john by their first names to avoid confusion. 4 invited james into the garage. james accepted the invitation and stayed in the garage with zambrano, khan, and the two women for about an hour, listening to music, talking, and drinking beer. the two women left, and john joined james, khan, and zambrano in the garage. during the ensuing conversation, james learned that zambrano and khan were members james also learned that zambrano and khan lived in or at least were staying in the garage, which james testified had been converted into a bedroom and small bathroom. the topic of conversation eventually shifted to guns. john retrieved a rolled-up blanket from the house. someone unrolled the blanket onto the floor, revealing approximately five guns. khan also lockbox that contained -millimeter beretta. james did not see anything else in the lockbox. at the end of the evening, john took the blanket of guns back into the house and khan returned the beretta to the lockbox. khan also asked james if he wanted to do some construction work with him and zambrano the next day. the construction site was james knew at the time that ms was a gang. james also understoocomment about the ms neighborhood, that ms was probably a rival of the playboys. john gave his permission for james to go to b. the shooting and immediate aftermath 1. jam the next morning, march 4, 2010, james, zambrano, and khan drove to the los angeles construction site in car, a cts with a black leather interior. khan drove, zambrano sat in the front passenger seat, and james sat in the back seat behind zambrano. james noticed the lockbox from the night before lying on the front passenger 5 floorboard . as they traveled, khan and zambrano pointed out their gang territory, which james noticed was marked by a lot of graffiti. james testified that he, khan, and zambrano stayed at the worksite until sometime around 5:00 or 6:00 p.m. they left in the black cadillac. khan was driving, zambrano was in the front passenger seat, and james was in the back passenger seat. less than five minutes into their trip, james saw a hispanic man talking on a pay phone. james testified that khan drove the cadillac a short distance past the man on the pay phone, then pulled the car over and parallel parked it. they did not stop to engage in any conversation with anyone outside the car. nothing was said as to why we were stopping, just the pulling over, the him getting out, us not knowing why - - according to james, khan got out of the car and looked around. james saw that khan had a his left arm. james also testified that khan was wearing eyeglasses and a hat. khan closed the door and told zambrano to seat. as khan walked away toward the rear of the car, zambrano jumped over the center console and gojames asked zambrano what was going on, but zambrano was texting and then james heard a pop like a firecracker from behind the car. he began to wonder why the car had pulled over and why they had been sitting there with the engine off. he then saw khan walking up alongside the passenger side of the car. khan got in the front passenger seat zambrano started the car and pulled away. james testified that khan was according to james, khan gave zambrano directions on where to drive. james testified that zambrano initially made a left turn. as the car was turning, james saw a police car sitting at a traffic light. james testified that the police car had several people in the back seat. the officer behind the wheel of the police car looked at the black cadillac as it was turning. 6 the officer did not pull over or follow the cadillac. khan directed zambrano to a tattoo shop in an industrial area. the drive took approximately 10 to 15 minutes. zambrano parked behind the tattoo shop and he, khan, and james went inside. and he spent most of the time at the shop texting on his phone. khan, however, out of the bathroom with, like, his hands dripping wet . . . jumping on his phone, talking during an interview with law enforcement, james said that khan was speaking spanish on the phone. james testified that khan seemed to know the people at the shop and asked for a particular artist, a man by the name of cartoon. cartoon was not around. james, zambrano, and khan waited around the tattoo shop for cartoon because khan wanted to get tattooed by cartoon and no one else. cartoon never arrived, and james, zambrano, and khan left the shop at around 9:30 or 10:00 p.m. on the way there, james heard zambrano ask what had happened. james also heard khan say that he had shot somebody. james did not believe at that time that khan had shot someone because he did not see it with his own eyes, and because they had been on a busy street in broad daylight. jkhan asked john if he could talk to him about something. zambrano went into the garage, and james waited outside while john and khan spoke inside the house for more than five minutes. when james and john went into the house, and khan and zambrano left in the black cadillac. james zambrano and khan returned the next morning in a gold car that james of looked the same as the black one, but it was a different color and the interior was james described the gold car as james asked them if he could have a ride to his 7 khan drove james and zambrano to canoga park in the gold car. now we king back at stalker and he was just, like, you 2. testimony of other witnesses maria sanchez testified that she was in a long-term relationship with sergio hernandez. hernandez was not a gang member and did not fraternize with gang members. he and sanchez had a child together and lived in los angeles, approximately one block from the intersection of james m. wood boulevard and westmoreland avenue. hernandez took the bus to and from work and typically called sanchez from a pay phone on his way home. on march 4, 2010, hernandez called sanchez and told her he was on his way to meet her. after sanchez hung up, she heard a gunshot. she became worried because she heard ambulances and hernandez had not arrived home yet. she went outside to see what was going on and saw hernandez lying on the ground. jose monterrosa was walking along james m. wood toward westmoreland at around 5:15 p.m. on march 4, 2010. he was listening to music on headphones but could still hear his surroundings. as monterrosa approached the 7-eleven convenience store on the corner of james m. wood and westmoreland, he saw a black cadillac cts with chrome rims as the car passed, he heard the front passenger in monterrosa described the front passenger as an hispanic male wearing a blue dodgers hat, a black shirt, and sunglasses. he could not see the driver and could not see into the back seat of the car. monterrosa turned around and began walking in the other direction, toward hoover street. he then ran down a driveway and hid behind a tree because he was afraid for his life. from his vantage point behind the tree, monterrosa saw the black cadillac make a u-turn and park in front of a driveway. monterrosa was able to see that the driver was a skinny hispanic male. he could not see into the back seat because the tinted windows were up. monterrosa saw the front 8 passengerthe same person who had asked where he was fromget out of the car. his hand. therthe corner diagonally across or catty-corner from the 7-eleven. he noticed that the driver of the car mirror, ew something was going to happen, on james m. wood with the intention of going inside. shortly thereafter, monterrosa heard a gunshot. he ran faster and went inside house. once inside, he saw the passenger run back to the black cadillac and get in the front passenger seat. the car drove off toward hoover street at a normal rate of speed. as it drove away, monterrosa took a of the car. at trial, he recalled seeing a -door monterrosa also recalled that one of the people in the car had a facial tattoo beneath his eyelid, but could not remember whether it was the passenger or driver. another witness, jacquelyn contreras, lived in a second-floor apartment on james m. wood boulevard. around 5:15 p.m. on march 4, 2010, she was watching television with her mother. she heard a gunshot outside and walked to the window. the first thing that caught her eye was a car parked in front of a driveway across the street. the car was black, with tinted windows and shiny silver rims. she saw hands on the steering wheel but could not see t contreras also saw a the direction of westmoreland. the man, whom he was wearing a hoodie and carrying a gun, which he stuffed into his waistband. contreras saw him get into the front passenger seat of the black car. the car drove away toward hoover street. los angeles police department (lapd) officer allan corrales testified that he was transporting three witnesses from court to the olympic division police station in the back of his police cruiser on the evening of march 4, 2010. he was driving south on 9 hoover, through ms-13 gang territory, when he stopped at a red light at the intersection of hoover and james m. wood. while corrales was waiting at the traffic light, a black vehicle with shiny chrome rims caught his attention. corrales watched the vehicle as it made a left turn from james m. wood onto northbound hoover. corrales made eye contact with the driver as the vehicle passed within 12-14 feet of him. he described the driver as an hispanic male with a teardrop tattoo under his left eye. corrales identified the driver in a photo array and in court as zambrano. corrales could not see the front passenger b he could not see into the back seat because the tinted windows were up. shortly after the car passed, corrales received a radio call reporting a shooting near the intersection of james m. wood and westmoreland. the radio to let the other officers know that [he] had seen a black vehicle traveling but did not document his sighting of the black car in a report or log. after he dropped off his civilian passengers, corrales drove back up hoover to where he had seen the black car. he drove around the area, but did not see the car anywhere. corrales then went to the scene of the shooting to assist the officers who had responded to the radio call. lapd officer josh mcdonald was among those responders. mcdonald testified there was a 7-eleven on the northwest corner, residential buildings on the northeast corner, and small businesses including an ice cream shop and clothing store on the southern corners. the southeast corner also housed a pay phone. mcdonald found a male lying on his back next to the pay phone. based on the blood wollen temple, mcdonald concluded that the victim had suffered some sort of head wound. mcdonald did not . he saw a spent casing from a gun lying on the ground near him. lapd detective george lee took control of the investigation when he arrived on the scene. he marked the single bullet casing as evidence. lee testified at trial that the 10 casing came from a nine-millimeter semiautomatic weapon. lee further testified that he spoke to jose monterrosa on the night of march 4, 2010. during that interview, lee received a call that police had located a car that matched the description of the one seen fleeing the murder scene. lee drove monterrosa and his parents to the location of that car, approximately a mile or two from the crime scene. monterrosa told lee the car was very similar to the one he had seen; according to monterrosa, it was the same color and same model as the car he had seen, and had black tinted windows and chrome rims. further investigation revealed that the car was not the one used during the crime. deputy medical examiner dr. juan carrillo performed an autopsy on hernandez on march 5, 2010. that was carrillo testified that the stippling indicated that hernandez was shot at a close range of about two to three feet. inside copper fragments consistent with a bullet. carrillo concluded that hernandez died instantly from a single gunshot to the head. carrillo testified that the manner of death was homicide. c. investigation on march 5, 2010, the day after the shooting, deteabout it to the entire lapd. according to lee, crime bulletins apprise other officers of information such as a suspect or vehicle, officers in the hollywood division of the lapd happened to be conducting an unrelated investigation of khan and zambrano. one of those officers, detective lance th residents of a garage on telfair avenuejohn on march 9, 2010, one of the officers surveilling the home informed jurado that two men had arrived in a gold cadillac and gone inside the garage. jurado knew that khan was connected to a gold cadillac, so he deployed his team to execute the search warrant. 11 the search team, including detective fruit,3 knocked on the door of the main , and demanded entry. john rios and jennifer collins came out of the house and were detained.4 khan and zambrano were found hiding in the bathroom of the garage. officers did not find any guns in the ammunition in it, and some items identifying people who liv police also found approximately 24 nine-millimeter bullets in the garage. they seized five guns from the main house. those guns were not wrapped in a blanket or contained in a lockbox, and none of them was a nine-millimeter beretta. on or about march 10, 2010, detective fruit from the telfair avenue search team informed detective who was driving a similar vehicle to that of the vehicle that [he lee did -name. division station and spoke to officers involved with the khan and zambrano narcotics and firearms investigation. he obtained photographs of khan, zambrano, and john and put them into six-pack photo arrays. because he was concerned that khan, zambrano, and john might post bailwhich khan and john in fact didignacio immediately took the photo arrays to monterrosa and contreras. both monterrosa and contreras circled the photograph of khan, which monterrosa said resembled the passenger in the black car he had seen and 3 4 james testified that he subsequently received numerous phone calls from collins. she said she was at the police station, that they arrested my dad and that they were asking her a bunch of james testified james later told john without speaking to the police. law enforcement personnel, including the prosecutor, traveled to oregon and spoke to james for the first time in june 2013. james, who was in custody, agreed to speak to them only after they transported him to los angeles and let him speak to john. james identified khan and zambrano in photo arrays. 12 contreras said resembled the person she had seen outside of the car. monterrosa was not able to identify khan in court. at trial than he did at the time of his arrest: tial amount of weight, after obtaining positive identifications of khan, ignacio sent surveillance teams to at which the gold cadillac was registered. lanco, lived at the monrovia address. blanco testified at trial -cadillac. according to blanco, he loaned the gold cadillac to khan on march 8, 2010, and khan left the black cadillac at the monrovia residence. monrovia residence. monrovia residence. both warrants were executed on march 11, 2010. ignacio participated in the monrovia search and impounded the black cadillac. the vehicle was searched for evidentiary items but none was found. no usable fingerprints were recovered from the vehicle. on march 12, 2010, lee interviewed blanco. that same day, lee received lee stopped the vehicle. another detective searched the car and fignacio testified that unspecified belonging to khan found as well. lee took the occupants of the car, jose villa and patricia valle, to the olympic division police station. lee learned that villa an lee obtained a telephone number associated with khan and discovered that the number was connected to a residence in orange county. lee and ignacio obtained a search warrant for the orange county residence, which . on march 13, 2010, he and other officers executed the search warrant and arrested khan, who had posted bail and was present. officers also recovered a computer bag containing a laptop, a cell phone, and some thumb drives, all of 13 which were found the officers booked those items into evidence. lapd computer crimes officer maurice kwon analyzed the computer, cell phone, and thumb drives. password-protected user kwon found 702 internet searches relating to the playboys gang on that account. the searches were conducted between january 22, 2010 and february 6, 2010. he in addition, kwon recovered approximately 160 to 170 images gang members the undated article, which was last accessed on january 18, 2010, contained a sentence concerning a deceased playboys member named lucky: ucky, one of the dead playboys, who was shot and killed on a street corner last summer while talking from one of the thumb drives, kwon recovered a folder called [h]that contained gang photographs and other images that had been deleted on march 5, 2010 or shortly thereafter. d. relevant gang evidence lapd officer juan del rio testified as a gang expert. he was familiar with the - both the playboys and ms had territories within the olympic division in avenue to the east, venice boulevard to the south, and normandie avenue to the west. this territory bordered territory claimed by ms, which included the intersection of james m. wood and westmoreland. del rio opined that the playboys was a criminal street gang whose primary activities included graffiti, grand theft auto, carjacking, possessing firearms and narcotics, and committing assaults, batteries, and shootings. the playboys gang had approximately 80 documented members in 2010. members commonly wore clothing with the letter p or 14 bunnies on it. del rio also testified and used a hand signal that evoked the shape of the playboy bunny logo. del rio testified that it was common for playboys members to paint graffiti both inside and outside their territory. the court admitted an exhibit depicting some playboys graffiti. sic] playboys behind the two individuals that are depicted in the photograph. del rio was not dtheir monikers. del rio playboys . . . it says muerto. according to del rio, it is common for gang members to get tattoos declaring their allegiance to their gang or incidents of criminal behavior. khan had numerous tattoos related to the playboys gang, and admitted his gang membership to officers when he was arrested in 2000 and 2001. zambrano admitted his playboys membership during previous arrests dating back to 2000 and had numerous playboys- zambrano also had teardrop tattoos under his left eye. del rio opined that khan and zambrano were members of the playboys gang in 2010. del rio del rio testified that it is common for gang members to commit crimes with fellow gang members. he explained that there were several reasons why gang members tend to commit crimes in groups: validate their work so they can go back to their fellow gang members and . . . . [h]ave one of the activities common to predominantly if you have a gang member from playboys that tells even if the gang 15 member does not get a resp del rio noted that individuals who are not gang members sometimes get caught up in the violence. according to del rio, sic] territories begin. so when xposing themselves to be, one, victimized by the rival gang, rival gang members when they are feuding with a particular gang. he opined that a playboys gang member would gain elevated status within the gang if he went into rival ms territory and committed a shooting. when given a hypothetical mirroring the evidence presented at trial, del rio opined that the shooting would have been committed ii. defense case khan called several witnesses to testify in his defense. zambrano did not call any witnesses. jayme licuanan, a retired federal narcotics agent and police officer, testified that he was driving west on james m. wood near westmoreland around 5:15 p.m. on march 4, 2010. while he was stopped at a red traffic light, licuanan looked around and noticed a young man on a pay phone, which he tof cell phones. he then saw a laticar. he had a jacket hanging on his left hand. licuanan testified that the man with the jacket approached the man on the pay phone and stopped about eight to 10 inches away. licuanan looked away. he then heard a gunshot and saw the man on the pay phone fall to the ground. the man with the jacket walked away briskly and got into a black car. licuanan described the bla he also was unable to identify a suspect when a detective showed him a six-pack photo array. 16 doris chaney, the tutorial coordinator at california state university, northridge, testified that she met khan when he started attending school on an engineering scholarship in 2006 and hired him as a tutor in 2009. khan tutored at-risk students for 20 hours per week. he also served as secretary of the engineering honor society and helped mentor students who were struggling with addiction. peaceful and nonviolent. she conceded on cross-examination that khan had gang-related tattoos, but testifie retired lapd officer steven strong appeared as a gang expert for the defense. he testified that the number of gang tattoos a person has is not necessarily correlated with the level of violence in which that person engages. strong also testified that he has seen teardrop tattoos on people who are not gang members. strong further testified that a person may have a gang tattoo but may no longer be associated with a gang. strong opined that a gang member who has not been identified on a field identification card for eight years and has been attending college during much of that time is probably no longer an active gang member. hn blanco in monrovia. barrera testified that khan stayed at their home on march 7, 2010. his black car was not there before march 7, 2010. private investigator lawrence delosh took photograp those photographs were admitted into evidence. -handed. she had never heard him speak spanish. discussion khan and zambrano advanced competing theories at trialkhandefense was one of mistaken identity, while zambrano s was that he was merely present and did not know that khan intended to murder hernandez. on appeal, however, defendants raise essentially the same claims: they contend the court erroneously refused to admit evidence 17 of third party culpability, and the prosecutor committed prejudicial error by making improper arguments. we consider these contentions in turn. i. third party culpability a. background prior to trial, cabral as a witness. counsel told the trial court, about committing this murder to another individual, not directly speakinthe court stated that the court further explain ed the court with a transcript of testimony cabral gave in an unrelated murder case that was tried in 2012, people v. martinez, no. ba361721-01. according to that transcript, which was included in the record on appeal, cabral was a member of the villa boys gang who was serving a sentence for burglary. he prevsentenced to probation and released after providing information regarding martinez. specifically, cabral testified that martinez was his friend and dropped somebody on sixth and - - i think 6th and berendo, or within ms gang territory . according to cabral, martinez often wore hats and shaved his mustache after the murder. cabral testified that he subsequently was arrested in march 2010 and held in for second degree burglary. he testified that he was released not the one martinez allegedly 18 committed at sixth and berendo. 5 other guy told me about another murder,-e cabral could not remember name on direct examination, even when the prosecutor mentioned the name roberto ceron, but remembered that the shooter belonged to ms. on cross-examination, however, cabral sictold someone else about the murder. his efforts to elicit a taped confession proved fruitless, however, because the the police released cabral after this attempt, but rearrested him in november 2010. he ultimately was sentenced to four years for the burglary and was serving that sentence at the time of the martinez trial. the trial court reviewed the transcript and accurately summarized it as follows: subsequently arrested and released shortly after his arrest in march of 2010 and he claims that somebody told - - and the reason he was released because was [sic] he got information on a second murder. so he got a deal on the first case, got picked up on a second case, and got released on that case in march, put on a wire to go talk to this guy to get back to - - to see if they could confirm any of the information that he had given him on this supposedly secon a paucity of facts relating to that particular incident and nothing that would connect it to 5 the parties conflate the two murders about which cabral testified. zambrano (whose argument khan joins) someone named roberto ceron, aka raul martinez, had claimed responsibility for the ms gang member, say that he shot someone in the back of the head in march 2010, at a 7- respondent similarly refers to the these assertions are not supported by thas an alias and refers to two distinct murders: one allegedly committed by martinez in august 2009, and another allegedly committed by a person named ceron, sometime prior to cabra 19 the court ruled that this evidence did not directly or circumstantially link the third party to the crime and that the procould cause by introducing this evidence. b. legal principles including evidence tending to show that a party other than the defendant committed the (people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, 829 (hall).) that the third person committed the act; it need only be capable of raising a reasonable (id. at p. 833.) (ibid.) mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime in another person, there must be direct or circumstantial evidence linking the third person to the actual perpetration of (ibid.) (people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 43.) the proper inquiry for trial courts to make when considering the admissibility of (hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 833.) -party culpability evidence like any other evidence: if relevant it is admissible ([evid. code,]  350) unless its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of undue delay, prejudice, (id. at p. 834.) courts should not reject proffered evidence of (ibid.) y culpability evidence is reviewed for (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 581.) likewise, we 20 evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 577; people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 373.) c. analysis defendants credibility, by ce to connect potential for confusion outweighed the probative value of his testimony. defendants also claim that the exclusion of the evidence violated their right to a fair trial. none of these contentions is persuasive. first, nothing in the record indicates that the court evaluated the credibility of defendants assert that alleged perpetrator when he wore the wire. we disagree. that statement plainly was proffered evidence. the trial court did not suggest that cabralwas incredible because he could not elicit a confirmatory confession from the alleged perpetrator; it simply noted the sequence of pertinent events documented in the transcript. we note further that the court criminal record, the lapse of time between the murders and his testimony, or his inability to recall names and details. particular incident and nothing that would connect it to the shooting that took place on the corner of jaone. - this testimony at best describes events vaguely similar to those at issue in this case; it does little to link a third person to the actual perpetration of the hernandez murder. testimony described a victim who was shot nd the headceron - cabral offered no further details, such as the number of shots 21 fired, the type of weapon used, the approximate date, or the gang territory or general location in which the shooting occurred that would suggest the second murder he had heard about was the murder at issue in this case.6 in the murder of hernandez at a pay phone catty-corner from a 7-eleven. the trial court accordingly did not abuse its discretion in excluding the evidence on this basis. finally, the court reasonably concluded that the potential for confusion substantially outweighed any probative value ccircular suggestion is not persuasive. many aspecpotentially confusing. cabral had difficulty recalling the name of the alleged shooter and said nothing about the date or general location of the shooting. he said only that the sho- the shooting in this case was diagonally across the street from a convenience store. testimony have conflated his description of two distinct murders into a single murder afterward. it was not an abuse of discretion for the court to conclude that a jury composed of laypeople similarly might have become confused. in light of our conclusion that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining that the proffered evidence was inadmissible under evidence code section 352, it necessarily follows that the court did not violate defendants constitutional rights by excluding the evidence. es of evidence do not 6 we reiterate that cabral explicitly described two separate murders. one of those murders, the one allegedly committed by martinez in 2009, occurred at or near the intersection of sixth and berendo and was followed by a change appearance. the second murder, the one allegedly committed by roberto ceron, a - 22 (hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 834.) ii. prosecutorial misconduct defendants contend the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during her rebuttal argument, and the trial court erred in failing to grant a mistrial or new trial to rectify the prejudice. a. legal principles prosecutors are afforded wide latitude to draw inferences from the evidence presented at trial. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823.) likewise, they are vigorously argue that reasonable inferences or deductions should be drawn therefrom. (people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 957.) prosecutors also may state matters that are common knowledge or are drawn from common experience, history, or literature (people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 567), and are permitted to fairly respond in rebuttal to arguments made by defense counsel (people v. reyes (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 62, 74). however, these allowances do not excuse misstatements of fact, whether deliberate or mistaken. (hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 823.) it is equally impermissible for prosecutors to mischaracterize evidence (ibid.), to elicit evidence in violation of a ruling by the trial court, or to refer during opening statement or closing argument to evidence the trial court has deemed inadmissible (people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 839). s conduct violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the trial court or [citation.] when a claim of misconduct is based on the prosecutors comments before the jury, as all of defendant[there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remark (people v. gonzales (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 23 305.) because we consider the effect of the prosecutors action on the defendant, a determination of bad faith or wrongful intent by the prosecutor is not required for a finding of prosecutorial misconduct. (people v. crew, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 839.) be reversed for prosecutorial misconduct, however, unless it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the defendant would have been (ibid.) or abuse of discretion. (people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 792-793 (peoples).) we also ns for mistrial and new trial. (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 283 [mistrial]; people v. ault (2004) 33 cal.4th 1250, 1260 [new trial].) a trial judge is in a better position than is an appellate court to determine the probable effect of [the prosecutor] and his [or her] conclusion on that question will not be disturbed by an appellate court unless in the circumstances it is (people v. sarazzawski (1945) 27 cal.2d 7, 15, overruled on another ground by people v. braxton (2004) 34 cal.4th 798, 817.) b. timeliness of objections respondent contends defendants have failed to preserve their claims of prosecutorial misconduct rebuttal argument during the argument. by holding any objection until the conclusion of lunch, respondent contends, defendants waited too long. we disagree. make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the imprope (people v. gonzales, supra, 52 cal.4th at 305.) as a general rule, a defendant alleging prosecutorial misconduct must object specifically and contemporaneously. (see peoples, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 801.) the reason for this rule is to give the trial court an opportunity to correct any errors by admonishing the jury. (ibid.) thus, a post-verdict motion for a new trial is not sufficient to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for statements made during closing arguments (ibid., citing 24 people v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 577), but an objection made after an extended colloquy may be (ibid., citing people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 225). a claim of prosecutorial misconduct during closing argument also may be preserved if presented in a motion for mistrial made while proceedings were still ongoing. (peoples, supra, 62 cal.4th at pp. 800-801.) here, defendants while the jury was at lunch and before it began deliberating. the timing of their objectionspeoples, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 801.) objections were specific enough for the trial ibid.mistrial preserved his claim of misconduct in peoples, objections at the conclusion of rebuttal argument walleged in time for the court to instruct the jury ibid.) the purpose of the rule was served and we therefore conclude the objections were timely. c. packed suitcases 1. background during her initial closing argument, the prosecutor suggested that khan attempted to evade capture after murdering hernandez. in support of this argument, she pointed to evidence that villa and valle were apprehended after leaving the telfair avenue further argued that the prosecutor also noted that khan changed his appearance by shaving his facial hair. khan responded to this argument during his closing argument. while suggesting to the jury that there was no evidence of flight, counsel stated: about a passport and then you heard one of the detectives saying that, oh, well, we were afraid he was going to leave the country. . . . [i]s anybody going to leave a passport in a place that you have vacated? 25 or believing that that is flight? and questions by -examination at one point in time, there was no packed suitcases. no toothbrushes. no stashes of money. zambrano also called into question the during his argument. he was fleeing the country. we heard that from two witnesses. right? sounds bad. someone fleeing the country. they pack up their suitcase. they put their extra glasses in, for prescription glasses. they put their toothbrush in. they put their when i say toothbrush, you gentlemen? you heard it twice. and they back-peddled [sicfudging this case. . . . where is that evidence? where is any evidence that there was a box, there was clothes? nothing, ladies and gentlemen. again, they got caught on that because it sounded good. oh, he was going to flee the country. sounds great. right? come on. she asked the j the two bags that are packed in his bedroom. okay? there really trying to get all of you to believe that this guy is not going to flee. the luggage? where are his bags being packed well, counsel, if you had looked at the evidence, . okay? along with his computer, (emphases added) exhibit 49, to which the prosecutor was alluding, is a photograph of a bedrooms laptop and thumb drives were obtained. in the foreground of the photograph, there are two soft-sided suitcases. the suitcases are upright and closed. khan objected to and moved for a mistrial and new trial based on the comments at the conclusion of her rebuttal argument. he contended her argument was 26 never testified to [sic] about to lay any particular foundation that they belonged to mr. khan or that anything else in that room belonged to mr zambrano did not join the objection or motion for mistrial on these groundsmotion to continue sentencing to enable defense counsel to obtain further information about the suitcases.7 the trial court overruled the objection and denied the posttrial motions. when considering the objection, the cs in discussing the posttrial motcomment it went to the question of whether there was evidence of flight . . . . i think it was a comment, even if it was improper, in light of all - - it was tangential at new trial even if it had been. 2. analysis khan argues that the prosecutor argued facts not in evidence when she asserted that the suitcases depicted in exhibit 49 belonged to khan and were packed. he claims he further argues that the these arguments are not persuasive on the record before us. during trial, the jury khan used the room in which the suitcases were found. neither khan nor zambrano the jury also heard 7 we accordingly consider this claim of misconduct only as to khan. 27 evidence that the laptop computer recovered from the same room had a single user the prosecutor reasonably could infer from this evidence both that the room was used by khan and that other items found in it also belonged to him. the fact that the room was not within rendered even more reasonable the inference that he usecounty. reasonable. the suitcases permanently lived in. they were found roughly contemporaneously with other evidence suggestive of flight, namely use of a car associated with khan, possession of his passport, and removal of unspecified property from the telfair avenue home. this evidence supported the inferences that khan intended to flee and had packed suitcases as part of that endeavor. moreover, both defendants explicitly . the prosecutor was entitled to respond to these claims, and her response was a fair one grounded in the evidence. even if the comments were improper, we agree with the trial court that they were not prejudicial. strong. multiple eyewitnesses placed him and his distinctive car at the murder scene, which was in rival gang territory. james testified that khan had a nine-millimeter gun that he kept in a lockbox, and that he saw the lockbox in the car on the day of the shooting. he further testified that khan was acting slightly frantic, sought to get a tattoo immediately following the incident, and threatened him the following day. evidence suggestive of flight reinforced rather than 28 the trial court properly overruled kmistrial and new trial to the extent they relied upon the suitcase evidence. d. lucky article 1. background one of the items officer regarding los angeles gangs. the article began with an anecdote about a 13-year-old in her bedroom. it also purported to quote a member of the playboys gang named chino, last summer while talking on a pay phone8 the article further quoted chino as saying, nobody was there to watch his back, so this guy could just walk up to him from behind kwon did not discuss the contents of the article during his testimony, and neither did any other witness. zambrano objected to the admission of the article, exhibit 67, at the close of the the unrelated murder of an innocent victim. he further claimed that it lacked probative value. khan joined in these objections. the court overruled the objections on the ground that the article was probative the conclusion could be that article i the court offered this is kind of problematic. going to highlight it. i will if you want me to. 8 it is unclear when the article was written. file data reported on the top of the document indicate only that it was last accessed on january 18, 2010. 29 t admitted for the truth of the matter asserted. after telling the jury because most [sic] she made the following argument: and in it there is some talk about a gang member by the name of lucky. why am i even bringing this up? street corner on a pay phone when he was murdered in cold blood, this playboy gang member. and when he was murdered in cold blood, the other playboy gang members were very upset because no one was out protecting one of their own. their homeboy. okay? ar a story that was raised, comes in through the evidence taken of because lucky is very important to them. lucky is tattooed on detective [sicshow you later some photographs of this lucky bird. but the fact that one of their own was murdered violently at a street corner on a pay phone meant when khan and zambrano drove by that pay phone that day, they seized an opportunity. okay? and the reason why it would be a trophy tattoo is because khan and zambrano can then go back and say in the name of lucky. we got one too. they got one of ours at a street corner on a pay phone; we got one also. when it comes to these gangs. zambrano objected after the argument but before the jury commenced deliberations. he argued that it was improper for the prosecutor to refer to the article for its truth. person were not supported by the evidence. [is] an additional motive being argued that once either khan and/or zambrano sees 30 which would impute knowledge as to mr. za he contended that such an or grant a mistrial. khan joined in zamb the court explained: important as whether or not the defendants believed he was shot. but the article came in as basically part of the series of - - the activity that occurred shortly after the shooting. - - i think that in terms of the inferences that [the prosecutor] is asking the jury as you argued several things that you believed could be inferred from the evidence. - - e for the shooting. member. clear that these two are enemies. and that, in fact, when they confront one another, it often results in violence and sometimes it escalates into somebody dying. so this is relevant in terms of what - - going to motive. whether or not it actually was a ms - - somebody - - an ms gang member who shot him or not. the question is whether or not the defendant believed that was the case. strial, but your objection and motion are zambrano later moved for new trial on the ground that the prosecutor committed he further argued that the article only should have been admitted as to khan, and that the prosecutor used the article to fill a gap in the case, namely that zambrano 31 the court denied the motion. the other evidence that came as motive relating to the active participation of both mr. zambrano an it was more a the 2. analysis when the court had not admitted it for that pur they point specifically to the murddiscussion. information contained in the article was tr assuming these arguments properly are before us, we disagree.9 ost a few sentences, to demonstrate misconduct, we must view the statements in the context of the argument as a (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522.) the trial court concluded that the overarching thrust of the argument was that defendants had a motive to murder hernandez. this was not an abuse of discretion. whether the statements in the article supported the inference that khan was familiar with its contents and accordingly killed hernandez in pursuit of vengeance. indeed, the prosecutor returned to this theme toward the conclusion of her rebuttal argument: 9 respondent suggests zambrano is precluded from presenting these issues on we do not event. 32 gun into rival territory. he chose to pull that car around because he saw a man on a pay phone who was young and who was of an ethnic race that matched the description of the rivals, the ms. and he saw the fact that that guy was on a pay phone was now her comments about the article may have been close to the line, the prosecutor did not introduce the article to prove its truth. she did not ask the jury to do anything more than consider the article as one piece of a much bigger picturea picture that in any event included other evidence from which it could be inferred that there was a member of the relatively small playboys gang named lucky bird, with whom zambrano was familiar to the point of tattooing the words . zambrann admitted only as to mr. khan,this argument is misplaced. the trial court admitted it appears that zambrano actually aims to challenge stions that he and khan shared the same retributive motive on the day of the murder. his claim that there was no evidence he was aware of the article is true in a strict sense, but there was certainly evidence from which the jury could infer his awareness. he and khan lived together in the cramped quarters of a garage. they belonged to the same gang for almost a decade. the gang had only 80 members. even if there was an improper suggestion that zambrano was aware of the conclude [zambrano] was aware of how lucky was murdered and therefore knew that khan was going to kill hernandez and therefore found him guilty on impermissible grounds. question for the jury; motive is not an element of murder. the question was whether zambrano knew khan was going to commit an act of murder and knowingly took steps 33 intended to assist or encourage him in it. (see people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 166-167 [describing elements of aiding and abetting first degree murder].) ample evidence in the record supports an inference that he did. del rio testified that gang members are keenly aware of the boundaries of territories claimed by their gang and its rivals, and multiple witnesses testified that the intersection of james m. wood and westmoreland was within ms territory. del rio testified that the playboys were feuding with ms, and that playboys members frequently go into rival gang areas and shoot rival gang members when they are feuding with a particular gang. monterrosa testified that the people in the cadillac asked him where he was from, and del rio testified that there ,even if that person does not answer the query. james testified that a lockbox he knew housed a beretta in the car, and multiple witnesses described the unusual when he exited the car mere feet from zambrano. even though there was no evidence that khan and zambrano explicitly discussed their intentions, zambrwithout question, and kept watch in the rearview mirror in what monterrosa described as a nervous and abnormal fashion. even monterrosa, who was not in a gang, discerned from the circumstances he observed the article, improperly construed or not, was not the sine qua non of the case against zambrano, and it is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to him would have been reached had the prosecutor not made the arguments she did. for all of these reasons, the court did not abuse its discretion in finding there was 34 disposition the judgments of the trial court are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 