 filed 5/17/17 p. v. guzman ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando adriel guzman, defendant and appellant. b263956 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa080401) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, ann i. jones, judge. affirmed. kenneth j. sargoy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris and xavier becerra, attorneys general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 fernando adriel guzman petitioned under proposition 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act (pen. code,  1170.18),1 to recall his felony conviction sentence and to resentence him to a misdemeanor. the trial court denied the petition on the ground from a felony to a misdemeanor would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety, which is a statutory basis for denying proposition 47 petitions. in making its finding of future dangerousness, the trial court relied heavily prepared after guzman was charged in this case, but that was not part of his record of conviction and that contains hearsay. we believe that the evidence in the probation report was lfuture dangerousness. however, guzman forfeited any challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence because he did not properly raise it on appeal. the only argument that guzman properly raised is the meritless claim th the s report constituted legal error. according to guzman, proposition 47 bars consideration of any evidence outside the pe, as well as the consideration of hearsay. proposition 47 imposes no such limitations. the trial court thus did not commit legal error in considering we affirm the order 1 unless otherwise specified, all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 factual and procedural background a. the charges against guzman on april 22, 2014, the people filed a three-count information against guzman, charging him with second degree robbery ( 211; count 1), false imprisonment by violence ( 236; count 2), and assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 3). as to the robbery and false imprisonment counts, the information alleged that guzman personally used a knife in the commission of the crimes ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). guzman pleaded not guilty to all three counts. according to a probation officeron may 27, 2014, guzman and the victim of his alleged offenses, a female, had been friends. guzman became angry with the victim because he believed a friend of hers had stolen money from him. when the victim denied knowing anything about this, guzman pulled out a knife, pointed it at her, and screamed at her. then guzman put the knife away, took out his cell phone, crushed it to intimidate her and told her she would not get away with it. he lunged forward, grabbed her cell phone from her hand and put it in his pocket. the victim then told guzman she force her into his car, and when she resisted and began walking away, he walked with her. as he did so, he pressed a sharp object, which the victim believed was the knife, against her stomach. when the victim father and walked away. the victim called the police from her ound in cell phone, a knife, a glass pipe, and a small bag of methamphetamine. 4 member of the brown pride gang. it further stated that while the victim suffered no physical injuries or financial loss, she was frightened the family was moving out of their neighborhood, which was the neighborhood in which guzman resided. on june 19, 2014, the people filed an amended information, which added a fourth count charging guzman with possession of a controlled substance, methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a); count 4). guzman again pleaded not guilty. b. the plea agreement on october 9, 2014, guzman and the people entered into a plea agreement. under the agreement, guzman pleaded no contest to a new, fifth count that charged him with felony grand theft cell phone ( 487, subd. (a)). the trial court convicted guzman on that count and sentenced him to a two-year state prison term, which he was to serve in county jail. in 5, the people moved to dismiss the remaining counts; the trial court granted that motion. c. n 47 petition on march 23, 2015, guzman filed a petition under proposition 47, which the voters of california enacted in conviction. in his petition, guzman asserted that proposition 47 reclassified as a 5 misdemeanor the felony grand theft offense for which he was convicted and sentenced, and, therefore, his sentence should be recalled and reduced to a misdemeanor. at an april 10, 2105 hearing, the people objected to petition on the grounds that a reduction in his sentence from a felony to a misdemeanor obtained in the plea agreement. in elaborating on this objection, the deputy district attorney of the first three felony counts against him. she stated that a conviction on any of those counts would have qualified as l proceeding against guzman. she further stated that, nthe people agreed to dismiss those counts in exchange for to the nonstrike felony count of grand theft. a reduction of the felony sentence to a misdemeanor, she claimed, would give guzman a better deal than the one he received in the plea agreement, while upsetting the expectations of the people. the trial court objectis an argument that the proposition 47 relief. the court rejected that argument, stating that proposition 47 can have retroactive effect on pre-proposition 47 plea agreements; therefore, guzman was eligible for proposition 47 relief, notwithstanding his plea agreement.2 2 the california supreme court subsequently rejected the not entitled to have pre-proposition 47 plea agreements set aside whenever a defendant petitions under proposition 47 for a recall 6 lity for proposition 47 relief to whether he posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. citing thfuture dangerousness, the trial court noted that guzman had admitted to membership in the brown pride gang; he had used a knife during the incident with the victim; and was carrying methamphetamine in his back pack. the court asked the parties whether methamphetamine in which to ingest on his person, who has knives and who is in the business of intimidating folks might, in fact, some day step over the line and attempt to murder or thus ought not to be entitled to a misdemeanor . . . the deputy district attorney answered that guzman was a danger to society for the reasons the trial court just had articulated. in her answer, s report. that history showed that guzman had suffered misdemeanor convictions in 2006 for a hit and run and driving , but that he had no record of using asserted that if guzman were a gang member, the people presumably would have alleged that in the information. the trial court expressed concern combination of drugs, weapons, affiliating with problematic information. of his plea-bargained-for sentence. (harris v. superior court (2016) 1 cal.5th 984, 992.) 7 gwthat [guzman] has be evidence to believe that guzman posed a future danger to society. the trial court then announced its decision, stating that it , but i am actually going to deny the petition on the grounds of dangerousness, here are my reasons why: i allowed to prognosticate and whether or not this particular defendant has been previously convicted of more violent crimes, this one was a doozy, and for whatever reason, it was pled to an eligible offense, but it was so serious and so violent, combined with both of the factors of drugs and gang that i am very comfortable predicting his future may be much more serious than what he has done so far, because [proposition 47] was intended to be directed at low level offenders who were likely not to pose any danger to the community at all . . . . [guzman] falls outside of that purview. for that reas discussion a. resentencing under proposition 47 proposition 47 reclassified as misdemeanors certain drug felonies or wobblers (crimes that can be punished as either people v. rivera (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1085, 1091.)3 proposition 47 effectuated this 3 the offense remains a felony or wobbler if it was people v. rivera, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 1091.) 8 reclassification by adding several criminal statutes and amending others. (ibid.) as relevant to the felony grand theft charge against guzman, one of the statutes that proposition 47 added was section 490.2, subdivision (a). (people v. hall (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1255, 1261 (hall).) it provides that, section 487 or any other provision of law defining grand theft, obtaining any property by the theft where the value of the money, labor, real or personal property taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950) shall be considered petty theft and shall be punished as a misdemeanor . . . 490.2, subd. (a).) proposition 47 also established a resentencing procedure, codified in section 1170.18, for persons seeking to reduce felony sentences they currently are serving to misdemeanors. (hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1261.) under this procedure, such persons may, under subdivision (a) of section 1170.18, petition for a recall of [their] sentence and request resentencing in accordance with the statutes that were added or (ibid.) to be eligible for resentencing under section 1170.18, subdivision (a), the is currently serving a felony sentence for a crime that would have been a misdemeanor had proposition 47 been in effect at the time the crime was committed. (people v. rivas-colon (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 444, 449.) subdivision (b) of section 1170.18 provides that a petitioner who is eligible for resentencing under the statutes that proposition 47 added or amended shall have his or her sentence recalled and be resentenced to a misdemeanor . . . unless the court, in its discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public 9 safety. [citation.]hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1261.) section 1170.18 thus creates a two-step process for first, the trial court must determine if the petitioner is eligible for resentencing . . . .[citation.] (hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1261.) second, if the petitioner is eligible for resentencing, the trial court then must determine the factual issue of whether the petitioner presents an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety if resentenced.ibid.) in determining whether the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety, the trial court consider all of the following: the type of crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the remoteness of the crimes. rehabilitation while incarcerated. determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence ( 1170.18, subd. (b).) the term unreasonable risk of danger to public safetydefined in section 1170.18, subdivision (c), an unreasonable risk that the petitioner will commit a new violent felony within the meaning of [section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv)].hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1262, fn. omitted.) in turn, section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv), sets forth a list of those 10 violent felonies, super strikes.hall, supra, at p. 1262, fn. 6.)4 the petitioner bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he or she is eligible for resentencing under proposition 47. (people v. perkins (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 129, 136.) the people bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that resentencing an eligible proposition 47 petitioner to a misdemeanor would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. (people v. jefferson (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 235, 241.) we review a that the petitioner poses such a danger for abuse of discretion. 4 the super strike felonies listed in that provision are as follows: subdivision (b) of section 6600 of the welfare and institutions code. [] (ii) oral copulation with a child who is under 14 years of age, and who is more than 10 years younger than he or she as defined by section 288a, sodomy with another person who is under 14 years of age and more than 10 years younger than he or she as defined by section 286, or sexual penetration with another person who is under 14 years of age, and who is more than 10 years younger than he or she, as defined by section 289. [] (iii) a lewd or lascivious act involving a child under 14 years of age, in violation of section 288. [] (iv) any homicide offense, including any attempted homicide offense, defined in sections 187 to 191.5, inclusive. [] (v) solicitation to commit murder as defined in section 653f. [] (vi) assault with a machine gun on a peace officer or firefighter, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (d) of section 245. [] (vii) possession of a weapon of mass destruction, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of section 11418. [] (viii) any serious and/or violent felony ( 667, subd. (e)(2)(c)(iv).) 11 (id. at pp. 242-243.) under the abuse of discretion standard, a evidence to support to them. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 650.) b. guzman forfeited any challenge to the sufficiency of the future dangerousness finding after objection s petition and finding that guzman was eligible for resentencing,5 the trial court found that resentencing guzman to a misdemeanor would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety; therefore, the court denied the petition. we have serious doubts whether there was sufficient future dangerousness finding. that finding rested on references in the probation the victim in the incident that led to his conviction, his use of a knife in the incident, and his carrying of methamphetamine in a backpack. as the trial court acknowledged, however, guzman 5 the trial court did not specify the basis for its eligibility finding. but the record supports that finding. guzman was convicted of felony grand theft ( 487, subd. (a)). proposition 47 converted that offense to a misdemeanor when the value of personal property taken does not exceed $950. ( 490.2.) guzman claimed that the value of the property he took from the victim, a cell phone, was less than $950, and the people do not argue for certain grand thefts thus made guzman eligible for resentencing. 12 had no prior record of committing violent crimes, he pled only to grand theft, not to the charges of violent crimes that the people dismissed, and there is very narrow bandwidthoffenses that qualify as super strikes under section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv), that any defendant might be predicted to commit in the future. nevertheless, the court stated that it felt s] future may be much more serious than what he has done so far . . . we do not share . on the record that was before the trial court, it seems highly speculative conviction to a misdemeanor would pose an unreasonable risk of commission of a felony that qualifies as a super strike. appeal briefs did not, however, properly raise a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence underlying the trial future dangerousness finding. frames the issue on appeal not as whether the evidence was sufficient to support that finding, but ratprobation report satisfied the evidentiary requirements for denial does not state that the standard of review in this case is abuse of discretion; rather, it states, raises a question of law, this [c]ourt should review denial of the consistent with the statement of the issue and standard of review, the main states, lower court erred when it considered evidence outside of the record of conviction . . . the first substantive subheading of conviction in 13 determining elig guzman then devotes four pages to arguing that proposition 47 forbids the conviction and therefore the trial court erred as a matter of law in which was not part of the record of conviction. the second inadmissible hearsay in the probation report, a document not part of the record of conviction. . . guzman then devotes four pages to arguing that proposition 47 forbids the consideration of hearsay evidence and therefore the trial court erred as a matter of law because the probation officsay. towards the eon second-to-last page, guzman musters a single paragraph that mentions the sufficiency of the evidence to support the trial finding of future dangerousness. this reference has no connection to the statement of the issue and standard of review, however. it also is not set off with its own separate section heading or subheading. and coming on the heels of pages of argument that the trial court erred as a matter of law by relyin, it appears in the brief as an after-thought. reply brief referred to the evidence dangerousness. but the thrust of the reply brief was that the trial court erred in considering this evidence because it was hearsay. we asked the parties to submit supplemental briefs on whether guzman properly raised a sufficiency of the evidence challenge, and, if so, whether sufficient evidence supported the t 14 did raise the issue. but in our view, it confirms that he did not. the supplemental brief does not address the disconnect between the lone paragraph on the sufficiency of the evidence in the opening brief and everything else in that brief. it was this disconnect that prompted us to call for supplemental briefing in the first place. instead of confronting the problem head on, assertion that the paragraph in question sufficed with a rehashing of the argument from his briefs that the trial court erred as a matter of law by considering evidence outside his record of conviction, including hearsay evidence, plus a lengthy discussion of a recent decision addressing those legal issues. the opening brief urged us to review the ruling de novo. all told, we conclude that guzman raised the sufficiency of the evidence in such a perfunctory fashion in his briefs that he forfeited the issue for purposes of appeal. (see people v. harper (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 1413, 1419, fn. 4 [the equal the discussion in [his] opening brief [in] a single paragraph, and not set out under a separate heading, was [a] perfunctory fashion [that it was] waived]; see also people v. turner (1994) 8 cal.4th 137, 214, fn. 19 [to the extent [the] defendant perfunctorily asserts other claims, without development and, indeed, without a clear indication that they are intended to be discrete contentions, th; cal. rules of cour: [] . . . [] 15 [s]tate each point under a separate heading or subheading summarizing the point . . .].) c. proposition 47 does not preclude the consideration of guzman argues that proposition 47 precludes the consideration of any record of conviction, and thus the trial courte report constituted legal error.6 proposition 47 does not erect the bounds that guzman claims were exceeded here. in reviewing a proposition 47 petition, trial courts may consider evidence outside the thus was fair game in the the trial court did not err in considering it.7 our holding is rooted in the statutory text governing section 1170.18, 6 of conviction. (see, e.g., people v. burnes (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1452, 1458.) 7 guzman did not object below when the people, and then the trial court itself, referred to the probation report as a basis for concluding that guzman posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. therefore, guzman arguably has forfeited his claim that proposition 47 forbids consideration of any evidence outside the record of conviction. the people do not, however, ground that he forfeited it. accordingly, we are deciding this appeal on the merits. (people v. hronchak (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 884, 892, fn. 5.) 16 subdivision (b), provides that, in addition [t]dangerousness determination on two other factors: t]he incarcerate[a]ny other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an unreasonable risk of danger to public ( 1170.18, subd. (b).) ecord and record of rehabare not part of the record of conviction: these records necessarily post-date the conviction. and the [a]ny other evidence the court, restrict trial courts to relevant evidence in the record of conviction. it means what it says: any evidence the court deems relevant, no matter the source, may be considered. proposition 47 prohibits the consideration of evidence outside the record of conviction is thus directly contrary to the text of section 1170.18, subdivision (b). construing section 1170.18, subdivision (b), to allow the consideration of matters outside the record of conviction in making proposition 47 dangerousness determinations is consistent with the broad evidentiary leeway afforded to trial courts in sentencing proceedings. at sentencing, trial courts may consider a wide range of dangerousness, including information outside the record of conviction contained in probation officer reports. (people v. towne (2008) 44 cal.4th 63, 85; people v. otto (2001) 26 cal.4th 200, 212-213; people v. arbuckle (1978) 22 cal.3d 749, 754; people v. sledge (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 1089, 1095.) resentencing under proposition 47 is a type of sentencing proceeding. nothing in 17 proposition 47 suggests the applicable rules of evidence are any different than those which apply to other types of sentencing sledge, supra, at p. 1095.) guzman relies heavily on people v. bradford (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1322 (bradford), which involved a petition for resentencing under proposition 36, the three strikes reform act of 2012. that measure authorizes certain eligible persons serving indeterminate prison sentences under the three strikes law to petition the trial court for the recall of their sentences and to seek resentencing. ( 1170.126, subd. (b).) if the petitioner is eligible, then, as with proposition 47, the court must determine whether resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable 1170.126, subd. (f).) the factors informing the future dangerousness inquiry under proposition 36 are the same as under proposition 47.8 notwithstanding the parallels between proposition 36 and proposition 47, bradford is inapposite. the third district in that case held only that proposition 36 eligibility determinations trial court there thus committed legal error by considering evidence outside that record in finding the petitioner ineligible 8 the type of crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the remoteness of the crimes; [] (rd of rehabilitation while incarcerated; and [] (3) any other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an 1170.126, subd. (g).) 18 for resentencing. (bradford, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at pp. 1337-1338.) the third district did not, however, hold that the proposition 36 dangerousness inquiry should be limited to the indeed, if anything, the third district recognized that it should not be. in particular, it noted that once the determination is made that the proposition 36 petitioner is eligible for resentencing, both before and after the crime a new sentence would result in an unreasonable risk of danger to (bradford, supra, at p. 1337, italics added.) the third district did not reach the dangerousness issue because the trial court had stopped at the first step, eligibility, and concluded that the petitioner was ineligible. by contrast, the trial court here found guzman eligible for sentencing under proposition 47. it thus proceeded to the next step and denied petition on the grounds of future dangerousness, relying on evidence outside the record of conviction. bradford imposes no impediment to the consideration of such evidence in evaluating future dangerousness.9 unlike bradford, people v. franco (2014) 232 cal.app.4th 831, which guzman overlooked, is a proposition 36 case that 9 people v. manning (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 1133, another proposition 36 case on which guzman relies, is inapposite. like bradford, it involved a proposition 36 eligibility determination, not a dangerous determination. the remand in manning directing deciding that the petitioner was ineligible (id. at p. 1144) thus has no bearing here. 19 reached the future dangerousness issue. franco held that trial making future dangerousness determinations under proposition 36. (franco, supra, at p. 834.) in short, franco, not bradford is the proposition 36 case that is germane here. and it is consistent with our holding that the trial court did not err by considering petition.10 10 have distinguished bradford and declined to impose a record of conviction limitation. that is because, notwithstanding the parallels between the two measures, the proposition 47 eligibility determination typically requires consideration of matters outside the record of conviction, whereas the proposition 36 eligibility determination does not. (people v. johnson (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 953, 966-967 [nder proposition 36, in order to determine eligibility (whether initially or otherwise), the resentencing court need consider only the petitioning defendexisting prior convictions. . . . [] in contrast, under proposition 47 the relevant inquiry for purposes of establishing a petitioning ( 1170.18, subd. (a))which often cannot be established merely from the record of conviction of the felony . . . . [] . . . as such, the trial court is not limited to the record of conviction in its consideration of the evidence to adjudicate eligibility for people v. salmorin (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 738, 744 [proposition 36 eligibility determination whether an offender is serving a sentence on a conviction for nonserious, nonviolent offenses and whether he or she has prior disqualifying convictions for certain defined offenses. . . . by contrast, under proposition 47, eligibility often turns on the simple factual question of the value of the stolen property. in most such cases, 20 d. proposition 47 does not preclude the consideration of hearsay evidence guzman argues that section 1170.18, subdivision (b), should be read to impose evidence, i.e., non-hearsay evidence, be considered in resolving proposition 47 petitions. such a limitation would preclude it contained hearsay evidence. the problem for guzman is that it has long been the rule that trial courts may consider hearsay in sentencing proceedings, so long as the hearsay is reliable. (people v. arbuckle, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 754, fn. 2; people v. sledge, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at p. 1095; people v. lamb (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 664, 683.) guzman failed, however, to challenge the reliability of the hearsay in the 11 the value of the property was not important at the time of conviction, so the record may not contain sufficient evidence to determine its value. . . . [w]e do not believe the bradford reasons for limiting evidence to the record of conviction are ], quoting people v. perkins, supra, 244 cal.app.4th at p. 140, fn. 5.) 11 guzman did not address the reliability of the probation one-sentence statement, without any substantiation, that the report is unreliable. contention because he raised it for the first time on reply. (see mansur v. ford motor co. (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 1365, 1387-n a reply brief, because it deprives [the respondents] of the .) 21 people v. reed (1996) 13 cal.4th 217 as support for his [c]requirement is misplaced. in reed, the california supreme court disapproved hearsay evidence in a probation at the second phase of a bifurcated jury trial to prove the truth of an allegation that the defendant previously had committed a serious felony. (id. at pp. 220-221, 228.) reed did not, however, question the propriety of introducing at sentencing hearsay evidence in probation officers reports. in sum, the trial court committed no legal error in denying hearsay evidence of his dangerousness contained in the probat disposition the order is affirmed. small, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 