filed 7/28/16 p. v. thomas ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeremy dewayne thomas, defendant and appellant. b263424 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya091688) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. scott t. millington, judge. affirmed. ______ paul r. kraus, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi, and amanda v. lopez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 a jury convicted appellant jeremy thomas of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211) and misdemeanor possession of methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11377). the jury found true an allegation that thomas used a dangerous and deadly weapon in the commission of the robbery (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), making the offense a serious felony within the meaning of penal code section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(23). the court sentenced him to three years in prison on the robbery count, plus one year for the weapon enhancement. his 135-day sentence for the methamphetamine count had been satisfied by his time served. during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor made three statements that thomas argues were comments on his failure to testify, thereby violating his constitutional rights under griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609. although thomas failed to object to the feited his griffin error claim on appeal because any objection would have been futile and the harm caused by the comments was incurable. thomas further contends that if his counsel forfeited the griffin argument by failing to object, he has been deprived of his right to the effective assistance of counsel. we hold that the futility exception to the forfeiture rule does not apply to the facts of this case and, therefore, thomas has not preserved the griffin error claim on appeal. nevertheless, we exercise our discretion to address the griffin error claim, and hold that although two statements by the prosecutor amounted to impermissible comment on claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural summary on the night of december 10, 2014, donald cotterell was walking home from his knife to his throat, and began rifling through his pockets. cotterell attempted to talk thomas do you want to die over this? lars.~(rt 349)~ 3 thomas then crossed the street and entered an abandoned building. cotterell followed him to retrieve his belongings. thomas took a $50 bill out then returned the wallet to him. cotterell attempted to retrieve his money, but thomas told cotterell to leave. cotterell then called the police and began following thomas, intent on getting his money back. detectives responding to the call found thomas riding a bicycle and cotterell following him about 15 feet behind, waving his arms. the detectives stopped thomas and found a five- to six-inch knife and a $50 bill in his possession, as well as methamphetamine in his sock. at trial, thomas exercised his right to not testify. during closing arguments, defense counsel empreasonable doubt and attempted to instill such doubt by citing some of the peculiarities of the incident and the lack of any independent corrobor during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor made three statements that are the focus of this appeal. first, the prosecutor argued: what happened. you the definition of reasonable doubt, he specifically told you that everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. you can imagine what might have happened, but you have zero evidence that anything happened besides what you heard in this courtroom. you have no evidence that anything else happened besides the defendant robbing mr. cfact. if you have any questionpoint, defense counsel objected on the grounds of vouching, which the court overruled. second, the prosecutor argued: the defense was their theory of the case. you heard over and over something happened, in this case. 4 witness [the defense] can call is the defendant. . . the court cautioned that the prosecutor the prosecutor continued with rebuttal argument and made the third statement: was what the theory of the case was. they kept saying over and again, we do know what happened because we heard from mr. cotterell. mr. cotterell is wrong because thdefense counsel did not object. discussion constitute improper comments on his refusal to testify in violation of the fifth amendment under griffin and its progeny. the attorney general contends that defendant failed to preserve this argument for appeal because he failed to object on that ground and request a jury admonition, and there is nothing in the record to indicate such an objection would have been futile or that an admonition would have failed to cure any harm. we agree with the attorney general. in order to preserve a claim of griffin error on appeal, a defendant must have made a timely objection on that ground and requested a jury admonition to cure any erroneous statement by the prosecutor. (people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1262.) there are two exceptions to this requirement. if an objection would have been futile or an admonition would have been unable to cure the harm, the failure to object is not fatal to raising the claim on appeal. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820 (hill).) the misconduct will support a conclusion that an objection would have been futile or that an admonition would have been unable to cure the harm. (see id. at p. 821; people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 775 & fn. 8 (dykes).) 5 here, thomas did not object on griffin error grounds to any of the three 1 on appeal, he argues that objecting to the second statement would have been futile because the trial court expressly stated that what the prosecutor said only came close to griffin error; and objecting to the third statement would have been futile because it was substantively the same as the second statement, which the court had moments before failed to recognize as griffin error. thomas further argues that, in any case, it was futile to object to any of the apparent, the harm was incurable. we disagree. in hill, our supreme court excused the defendant from objecting to every instance of prosecutorfalsehoods. (hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 821.) the trial court not only failed to temper the prosecutor but also accused defense counsel of being an obstructionist by subjecting the court to meritless objections. (ibid.) in those circumstances, the supreme court and counterproductive. (ibid.) hillpeople v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1212), and courts have continued to require a defendant to object where there was neither a constant barrage of misconduct by the prosecutor nor hostility by the trial court. (see dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 775; people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 728 [objecting would not have been futile where the record indicates that patience and 1 defense counsel objected to the first statement vouching,which was overruled. in opening brief, he asserts that the prosecutor committed griffin error by improperly vouching for the credibility of the victim . . . (capitalization & fn. omitted.) because the argument was not developed in the body of his brief or supported by citation to authority, we do not address it. (see people v. dougherty (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 278, 282 [point raised without argument or citation to authority is deemed to be without foundation and requires no discussion .) 6 objecting would not have been futile in this case. the record reveals that the trial court was patient and fair in responding to objections from both sides and took steps to rein in possible misconduct. in regards to the pros second statement, even though the trial court preemptively indicated that the prosecutor was close to committing, but did not yet commit, a griffin error, the sidebar presented a meaningful opportunity for thomas to assert his objection and request a jury admonition. regarding the third griffin error indicated that the court would have been sympathetic to a meritorious objection by thomas on griffin error grounds. in adas not pervasive. there was no constant barrage, as in hillas with an immediate and unequivocal admonition by the trial court to ignore the prosecuoffending comments. (see, e.g., people v. brasure (2008) 42 cal.4th 1037, 1061.) an objection, we conclude, would not have been futile, and thomas has therefore failed to preserve his griffin error claim on appeal. appellate courts retain discretion to review claims affecting the substantial rights of defendants despite the failure to object at trial. (in re sheena k. (2007) 40 cal.4th 875, 887 fn. 7.) this court has exercised such discretion to review claims of griffin error. (people v. denard (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1012, 1019-1020.) we do the same here. thomas argues that the challenged statements are impermissible indirect comments on his failure to testify because, in each instance, the prosecutor pointed to a who could have supplied such evidence. the attorney general contends that the first statement should be interpreted as a reminder to the jury only to focus on the evidence presented to them and not to speculate. the attorney general further contends that the 7 second and third statements cannot be fairly construed as referring to failure to testify because thomas could have introduced additional evidence or called third-party witnesses to corroborate the theory that this was a dispute and not a robbery, and the prosecutor was merely commenting on failure to do so. we agree with the attorney general as to first statement and disagree as to the second and third statements. griffin forbids both direct and indirect comment on a (people v. hovey (1988) 44 cal.3d 543, 572.) a griffin error is committed where there is a reasonable likelihood that a jury could construe a comments within its context to refer to a (people v. clair (1992) 2 cal.4th 629, 662.) a prosecutor is generally allowed to comment on the state of the evidence, or the failure of the defendant to introduce material evidence available to him or to call anticipated witnesses, without committing a griffin error. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1339 (bradford).) but if a prosecutor describes evidence as uncontradicted and the defendant is the only person who could contradict or deny that evidence, the prosecutor has committed an indirect griffin error. (people v. johnson (1992) 3 cal.4th 1183, 1229 (johnson).) both thomas and the attorney general rely on the same three cases that examined potential griffin s and found none: bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th 1229; johnson, supra, 3 cal.4th 1183; and people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908 (thomas). in bradford, the prosecutor did not commit griffin error during closing arguments because he referred only to the lack of physical evidence or testimony, which defendant could have presented. (bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 1339-1340.) similarly, in thomas, the prosecutor did not commit griffin error because he explicitly -party witness who could have provided an alibi for the defendant. (thomas, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 945.) finally, in johnson, the prosecutor did not commit griffin error in closing arguments uncontradicted the crime 8 despite providing no evidence to the contrary, such as an alibi witness. (johnson, supra, 3 cal.4th at pp. 1228-1229.) like the comment on the lack of evidence in bradford, the statement in this caseyou have zero evidence that anything happened besides what you heard in this courtroom. you have no evidence that anything else happened besides the defendant robbing mr. cotterell with a knifeis a permissible comment on the state of the evidence as a whole, and not a comment on re to testify. when viewed in its context as a response to defense as telling the jury to focus on the evidence presented and not speculate on what might have happened. there is no reasonable likelihood a jury would cofailure to testify. we agree with thomas that the efense] ha[s] no responsibility to call witnesses at is an impermissible indirect comment on his failure to testify. like the first statement, this statement was a nothe only uncalled witness who, based on the record, could have known what happened. there is, therefore, a reasonable likelihood that jurors would construe the second johnson and thomas, ed the absence of a known third-party alibi witness, here thomas did not present an alibi defense nor did any evidence reveal that others witnessed the incident. therefore, there is a reasonable likelihood jurors would than as a failure to provide other witnesses. the third statemente do know what happened because we heard from mr. cotterell. se this is what really is also an impermissible indirect comment on failure to testify. the evidence did not reveal that anyone other than thomas and cottrell witnessed 9 the failure to testify. although the second and third statements constituted griffin errors, the errors were not prejudicial. under the standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 22, griffin error does not require reversal if it is proven harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (united states v. hasting (1983) 461 u.s. 499, 508-509.) indirect, jury draw an inference of guilt therefrom, are uniformly held to constitute harmless error. (people v. hovey, supra, 44 cal.3d at p. 572.) the second and third statements were indirect, brief, and mild. moreover, the prosecutor never suggested that failure to testify should be taken as a sign of his guilt. accordingly, the griffin errors were harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.2 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. lui, j. 2 failure to object fell below the objective standard of reasonableness required to establish constitutionally deficient representation, there is not a reasonable probability that the result of the proceeding would have been different if he had objected. (see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 693-694; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 218.) 