filed 11/29/16 p. v. avila ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ricardo avila, defendant and appellant. b263496 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba423043) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lisa b. lench, judge. judgment affirmed and remanded for resentencing. maxine weksler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and andrew s. pruitt, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 ricardo avila appeals his conviction for felony battery and assault, and challenges his sentence. he contends that substantial evidence does not support his conviction and that the trial court erred when it imposed a three-year enhancement on the battery sentence. we disagree with the former and agree with the latter. facts and proceedings below a. information an information filed by the los angeles county district th the following felony offenses: (1) discharge of a firearm with gross negligence, in violation of penal code1 section 246.3, subdivision (a) (count 1); (2) dissuading a witness, in violation of section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1) (count 2); (3) two counts of possession of an assault weapon (an ak-47), in violation of section 30605, subdivision (a) (counts 3 and 6); (4) two counts of battery with serious bodily injury, in violation of section 243, subdivision (d) (count 4 [against officer jessica martinez] and count 5 [against officer jose vazquez]); and (5) two counts of assault upon a peace officer by means likely to produce great bodily injury, in violation of section 245, subdivision (c) (count 9 [officer martinez] and count 10 [officer vazquez]). the information further alleged: (1) as to count 4, avila personally inflicted great bodily injury, pursuant to section 12022.7, subdivision (a); (2) as to counts 2, 4, and 5, that avila committed the offenses for the benefit of a criminal street gang, pursuant to section 186.22, subdivisions (b)(1)(a) and (b)(4); (3) as to all counts, avila suffered a prior serious felony conviction and one prior prison term, constituting a strike 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 three strikesaw, in violation of sections 667, subdivisions (a)-(j), 1170.12, subdivisions (a)-(d) and 667.5, subdivision (a). avila pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. the case proceeded to trial by jury. b. prosecution evidence 1. avila shoots corona with an ak-47 assault rifle ashley corona testified that on march 26, 2014, she and -workers, went to avilaheights. avila and bacerra were drinking beer and talking while corona listened. avila then suggested that they go outside. before leaving the house, avila grabbed an ak-47 assault rifle and said he the three went outside, and avila and becerra continued talking while corona sat on the ground. at one point, corona said holding the gun in his right hand, and as they were arguing, he shot avila returned to the house, and bacerra carried corona across the sthen got into the car, apologized to corona for shooting her, and drove to the hospital. when they arrived at the entrance of the emergency room, becerra carried corona out of the car into the hospital, and aunderwent surgery, followed by physical therapy. while corona was in the hospital, she was contacted by police officers. although initially uncooperative, she began to talk and identified avila from a six-pack photographic lineup as the person who shot her. she told police officers that on the night she was shot, she had been drinking alcohol and argued with avila, who shot her and then apologized. 4 2. t and altercation with officers vazquez and martinez. on the evening of march 27, 2014, at the beginning of their shift, los angeles police department (lapd) officers vazquez and martinez were briefed on the shooting of corona by avila the previous day. officer vazquez was familiar with avila from the approximately 20 contacts he had with appellant in his capacity as an officer previously assigned to monitoring the criminal street gang, varrio neuvo estrada (vne), which operated in east los angeles from boyle heights to montebello.2 at approximately 4:30 a.m., while they were on patrol, officers vazquez and martinez drove by the estrada courts projects and saw avila and his mother standing outside a parked vehicle. the officers immediately initiated a felony stop. they requested backup and exited the patrol car. avila and his mother were standing behind a vehicle that was parked along the street, and officer officer martinez moved to get a better line of si officers vazquez and martinez drew their weapons and commanded avila to stop, show his hands and step away from the vehicle. avila did not comply, and both officers testified that he attempted to open the door to the vehicle next to him. after avila failed to open the car door, he moved away from the vehicle and toward officer martinez with his fists clenched. stepped in front of avila and yelled at the officers to leave avila alone. officer vazquez again commanded avila to raise his hands, but avila did not comply. instead, avila respondedhat the 2 because the jury was hung on the gang allegations, and that issue is not relevant to this appeal, we omit the testimony related to ang membership or affiliation. 5 fuck you want, nd he told the p aside, but she did not. as officer martinez began to holster her gun and engage the retention strap, avila moved rapidly toward her. mother also moved towards the officers, and officer martinez moved backward, holding her hand out in an attempt to hold the mother away. launched er, punching officer martinez in the temple with his right fist. officer the pavement and she lost consciousness. officer vazquez testified that when his partner hit the ground, he holstered his weapon; avila jumped on officer vazquez and started punching the officer. officer vazquez grabbed avila by his torso, wrestled avila to the ground and straddled avila. mother grabbed officer vazquez by the back and tried to pull him off her son. officer vazquez pushed the mother away or punched her, he could not recall which, and as he turned back around to continue his fight to subdue avila, avila punched officer vazquez in the left eye. officer vazquez testified that he commanded avila to stop uck you, vazquez. you cannot stop officer martinez got up from the ground but was stumbling and disoriented. and officer vazquez ground. officer martinez testified that avila and officer vazquez were throwing punches at each other, directly behind officer vazquez, trying to pull him off avila. officer vazquez testified that he told officer martinez several times to make another call for backup because officer martinez did not appear to understand or realize where she was. 6 officer martinez did not know how long she was unconscious, but after seeing avila and officer vazquez fighting on the ground, she used her walkie-talkie to call for back mother away from officer vazquez and told the mother to stay back. officer martinez testified that in order to get avila to stop fighting and take him into custody, she began punching him in the face. officer vazquez testified that he was unsure whether officer martinez called for backup so he removed his walkie-talkie and radioed for help. officer vazquez then felt avila reach for his gun so he struck him several times in the face with his walkie-talkie. officer officer vazquezholster was undone or whether the safety lock on the gun was in place. officer martinez stated that she was afraid going to kill my partner and myself [sic if she did not stop him. officer martinez, therefore, kicked avila in the face and the head, hit him with her walkie-talkie and used a collapsible baton, or bully stick, to officer martinez testified that the fight seemed to go on for so long that she did not believe help was coming. she further testified that during training, officers are taught that these kinds of fights e believed she was fighting for her life. although officer vazquez later learned, based on the timing of the initial backup call and the appearance of backup at the scene, that the altercation only lasted five minutes, at the time he officers vazquez and martinez testified that avila continued to punch officer vazquez throughout the entire incident. according to both officers, they were never able to handcuff avila, and he never complied with their commands to cease fighting. the altercation ended only after the backup officers arrived and took avila into custody. 7 after the incident, officer martinez was transported to the hospital where she received stitches on her elbow and treatment for a concussion. at the time of trial, almost a year after the altercation, officer martinez still suffered headaches and dizziness from the concussion. officer vazquez suffered bruising throughout his face, an abrasion on his left temple and a cut under his left eye that required surgical glue to close. officer vazquez testified that in the days following the fight, his eye swelled almost completely shut. 3. other prosecution evidence presented at trial on march 28, 2014, lapd detective tyler lee searched the vehicle that avila tried to enter when officers vazquez and martinez first initiated the felony stop. he found a handgun on the floorboard behind the front passenger seat, and an ak-47 rifle on the rear seat inside a soft guitar case. the handgun was loaded with a magazine containing 12 bullets, and the ak-47 was loaded with a magazine containing 29 bullets, plus one bullet in the chamber. lee did not see any luggage, boxes or bags inside the vehicle or the trunk. he also searchhe observed a firing range target marked with multiple holes. the parties stipulated that detective james kwon, a firearms expert, would testify that the ak-47 was operable and any the parties also stipulated that avila had previously been convicted of a felony under section 422. c. defense evidence ricardo chanocua met avila through work, and in 2013 he went with avila to a shooting range. according to chanocua, while -d not shoot. chanocua took the ak-47 into the shop at the shooting range, and when he came out he told avila it needed to be cleaned. afterward, they were able to continue shooting the ak-47. 8 avila testified in his own defense. he was 26 years old in march of 2014, and had lived in estrada courts most of his life. he admitted that he became a member of the vne gang at age 16, and that he was convicted of two felonies in 2009 that he committed while he was a member. he also testified that he got two vne tattoos when he was 20 years old, one on his leg and one on his head, although at that time stopped hanging out withvne. avila further admitted that in december 2013 he purchased an ak-47 and in march 2014 he purchased a handgun. he stated that he was aware that he was prohibited by law from owning firearms based on his previous felony convictions, but he did not believe unlawfully owning a firearm or -47 was according to avila, he purchased the ak-47 so that he could shoot it recreationally. in january 2014, the ak-while chanocua was attempting to fire it at a shooting range. the next time avila used the ak-47 was on march 26, 2014. according to avila, becerra and corona had been drinking, taking pills and smoking methamphetamine that night before they met him. after meeting becerra and corona, home, and all three of them drank beer and smoked methamphetamine. at one point in the evening, becerra asked to see the ak-47, so avila retrieved it and the three went outside. avila denied saying he had to and denied getting into an argument with corona. according to avila, he wanted to unload the gun, since there was a live round of ammunition in the chamber, so he removed the clip. as he was trying to release the round from the chamber, the gun went off. when the gun discharged, it was pointed towards the ground. corona, who was walking towards avila, was struck and fell. 9 avila delittle bitch, ypriority after he shot corona was getting her to the hospital. he picked her up and carried her over his shoulder to his car. avila eg, told her she then drove her to the hospital. as for his arrest on march 28, 2014, avila explained that, around 4:30 a.m., he and his mother began loading his belongings into his car in preparation to move to la puente. he testified that he placed his ak-47 in the back of his car when he saw a police car approaching him. he dropped his handgun onto the floorboard, closed and locked the car door and then walked towards his mother. the police car stopped in front of avila and his mother, and officers vazquez and martinez got out. avila testified that he did not know officer martinez, but he knew officer vazquez and believed he according to avila, officer vazquez stant[ly] harass[] avila, and on one occasion officer vazquez grabbed avila by the neck and start[ed] slamming [him] into [a] door. avila testified that when officers vazquez and martinez exited their vehicles the morning of march 28, 2014 at 4:30 a.m., they drew their weapons, pointed them at avila and his mother and [ing]officer ly three feet ,punched officer martinez. avila testified that he hit officer [he] ] or she could probably shoot 10 fter he hit officer martinez and she fell to the ground unconscious, officer vazquez ckled [him], fell to the ground. avila testified that officer vazquez and avila denied trying to fight officer vazquez and instead said that he screaming and saw officer vazquez reach back and punch the mother in the face. officer martinez slamm[ed]his mother into a van. avila testified that both he and his mother were begging the officers to stop. he further testified that while he [sic] est, officer officers vazquez and officer martinez kicked avila in the face and hit him in the head with a baton, and the [avila] was trying to do officer vazquez never told avila he was under arrest and never told avila to stop. him back, so he punched officer vazquez once. avila did not know how long the altercation lasted, but eventually more police officers arrived. according to avila, these officers handcuffed him and then to kick [avila] alsoexactly wh down on the [sic] officer vazquez omped on the back of [his] head, face into the pavement. later, after avila moved into the back of a police vehicle, officer vazquez opened [aed shut, another officer that avila could not see opened the door and also avila heard his mother d, 11 please. y officers told avila to get out of the ground. officers put him on a stretcher and transported him to the hospital. avila testified that his injuries included a fractured nose, a cracked tooth, multiple lacerations and swelling and bruising all over his body. christel perez testified on behalf of avila, stating that she was living in the estrada courts housing on march 28, 2014. that morning, at approximately 4:15 a.m., she was woken up by screams. she looked outside her window and saw a femaand beating someone. after of kicking, an ambulance and police officers arrived. perez never saw avila strike any police officer, but she acknowledged on cross examination that her view was obscured and she could only see the female officer from her window and could not tshe did not see avila or officer vazquez. another neighbor, reina estrada, testified on behalf of defendant. street yelling for help. estrada came outside and saw numerous officers, a puddle of blood ther, who was near the fence crying and screaming that officers had killed her son. several officers were telling the mother to be quiet. estrada did not witness any of the altercation between avila and officers vazquez and martinez or the backup officers who arrived on the scene later. d. conviction and sentencing on january 30, 2014, a jury found avila guilty of all counts charged except counts 2 and 5. it hung as to count 2 (dissuading a witness, specifically gerardo becerra) and found avila guilty of simple battery upon officer vazquez (in violation of  242 and 243), a misdemeanor and lesser included offense to that charged in 12 count 5. the jury also hung on the gang enhancement. avila admitted his prior serious felony conviction. on march 30, 2015, the court sentenced avila to a prison term of 18 years. for the base term in count 4 (battery with great bodily injury against officer martinez), the trial court imposed the middle term of three years, doubled pursuant to section 1170.12, subdivision (c)(1) (prior felony conviction enhancement), plus three years pursuant to section 12022.7 (the great bodily harm enhancement) and five years pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (a) (violent felony enhancement). as consecutive subordinate terms, the trial court imposed 1 year 4 months in count 1 (discharging a firearm with gross negligence) and 2 years 8 months on count 10 (assault upon a peace officer). the trial court imposed concurrent terms of two years each for counts 3, 6 and 7. pursuant to section 654 the court stayed sentence on counts 5 and 9. the court granted the pount 2 and the gang allegation. avila received 422 days of custody credit, calculated as 367 days of actual custody credit and 55 days good time/work time conduct credit. additionally, the court ordered avila to pay various fines and fees. avila filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. substantial a. appellate review of sufficiency of evidence in evaluating an insufficient evidence challenge, we do not examine the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilt(people v. kraft (2000) 13 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the ibid.) weaknesses, inconsistencies or contradictions reversal. (people v. allen (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 616, 623.) on appeal, we must accept that part of the testimony which supports the judgment. (in re daniel g. (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 824, 830.) b. against officer vazquez was committed by means likely to produce great bodily harm avila argues that there was insufficient evidence that he had the ability to or did apply force to officer vazquez likely to produce great bodily injury because fist, but without using any weapon or object, was not reasonably lik we disagree. abodily injury upon the person of a peace officer . . . and who knows or reasonably should know that the victim is a peace officer . . . engaged in the performance of his or her violates section 245, subdivision (c). the crime does not require that the f actually results in any injury. people v. white (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 881, 884.) evidence of injuries that the force used was likely to produce great bodily injury. (people v. pullins (1950) 95 cal.app.2d 902, 904.) avila cites no authority, and we found no authority, supporting his contention that punching alone, without any weapon or object, cannot, as a matter of law, whether a punch is likely to produce great bodily injury depends on the facts. here, the facts are sufficient to support that element. 14 avila contrasts the single blow to officer martinez with the facts surrounding the altercation with officer vazquez, arguing that (1) the latter was not likely to produce great bodily injury because officer vazquez was bigger than avila; (2) officer vazquez only sustained minor injuries; and (3) officer vazquez was straddling abi we reject these arguments. that avila did not succeed in knocking officer vazquez unconscious with a single punch, as he did officer martinez, did not make his multiple punches to avila less likely to result in great bodily injury. that avila was smaller than officer vazquez does not undercut his ability to cause such injury. although he was smaller, he was decades younger than officer vazquez and, based on his punch to officer martinez, capable of landing a single knock-out blow. nor did officer on straddling avila render his punches weakbetween the two lasted for several minutes, and officer vazquez was encounter with the officers demonstrated that he was not going to submit to arrest and he would use all his force to resist it. finally, although avila attempts to minimize officer officer vazquez sustained great bodily injurybruising throughout his face, an abrasion on his temple, a cut under his left eye that required surgical glue to close and an eye that swelled almost completely shut a few days after the fight. finding is supported by substantial evidence. 15 c. substantial evidence supports the jury finding that the officers were lawfully performing their duties and avila was not acting in self defense a necessary element of section 245, subdivision (c), officer at the time of the arrest must be engaged in the performance of his [or her] people v. white (1980) 101 cal.app.3d 161, 166.) a trial court, therefore, is required to instruct the jury excessive force, the arrest was unlawful and [it] should find (id. at p. 167.) here, it is undisputed that the trial court properly instructed the jury. avila argues, however, that the officers used excessive force and he acted in self-defense and were either misunderstood or ignored by the jury, since their verdict we disagree. when determining whether an officer used excessive force, a jury must consider the totality of the circumstances including: (1) the severity of the crime at issue, (2) whether the suspect poses an immediate threat to the safety of the officers or others, and (3) whether he is actively resisting arrest or attempting to evade arrest by flight. (graham v. connor (1989) 490 u.s. 386, 396.) the be judged from the perspective of a reasonable officer on the scene, rather than with the 20/20 vision of hindsight. (ibid.) here, all three of the factors outlined in graham favor the reasonableness of the force used by the officers. first, as to the severity of the crime, before the officers approached avila, they were informed that avila was wanted for assault with a deadly weapon and making criminal threats. once officers spotted avila, they commanded him to stop, show his hands and step away from his vehicle. second, rather than complying with their orders, and even after the officers had holstered their guns, avila punched officer 16 martinez, knocking her unconscious, demonstrating he posed an immediate threat to the safety of the officers. third, after avila punched officer martinez, he continued to resist arrest by fighting with officer vazquez and attempting to take his firearm. avila claims that the officers used excessive force in their initial contact by drawing their weapons and yelling at him when they first approached him. avila argues that he was unaware that he was under arrest and it was the initial armed confrontation that caused him to punch officer martinez. whether the officermoment. they were obviously police officers. nor did he deny that he knew they were police officers. indeed, he admitted that he knew one of them in that capacity. (people v. montiel (1993) 5 cal.4th 887, 915-916 [where a person knows or reasonably knows that he is further, the officer nature of the reported prior gang involvement, their inability to see his hands, the hour of the night, and the gang location of the encounter, all justified the drawing of their guns. in any case, before avila punched officer martinez, both officers had returned their guns to their holsters. avila also argues that even if the officers use of force at the beginning of the encounter was reasonable, it escalated to excessive force once he stopped resisting arrest, which justified his use of self-defense. acc he only hit officer vazquez once but, in retaliation for his punching officer martinez, the officers punched, kicked and hit avila with a bully stick and their walkie-talkies when he was already subdued. in support of his version of the events he points out that he suffered severe injuries while officer vazquez suffered only minor ones. 17 the officers, in contrast, testified that they only used the amount of force necessary to subdue avila and stopped using force once he ceased posing a dangerous threat. as to the relative degree of the injuries, that alone does not demonstrate that the police used excessive force. injuries was due to his continued resistance to arrest. in any case, the record shows that officer vazquezwere not trivial ev. thus, because the evidence supporting impossibilityevidence, . (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 41.) ii. the court erred in imposing the great bodily harm enhancement on count 4 the attorney general concedes, and we agree, that the trial sentence in count 4 (battery of officer martinez) with a three-year consecutive term under section 12022.7. the parties disagree, however, regarding the remedy for the impermissible enhancement. avila argues that the enhancement must be stricken as to count 4 and his sentence should, therefore, be reduced by three years. respondent, in contrast, argues that we should remand the case to allow the trial court to resentence avila by imposing the enhancement on count 9 (assault on a peace officer likely to produce great bodily harm) instead. we agree with respondent and remand the case for resentencing. a. relevant procedural history the information charged avila in count 4 with battery with serious bodily injury upon officer martinez ( 243, subd. (d)). the information further charged avila in count 9 with assault on a peace officer by means likely to produce great bodily injury also upon 18 officer martinez ( 245, subd. (c)). both incidents were alleged to the same criminal actpunching officer martinez. the information contained a special allegation that avila personally inflicted great bodily injury upon officer martinez during the commission of count 4 ( 12022.7, sub. (a)). the information did not allege this special allegation as to count 9. nor were other allegations alleged as to count 9, including the prior prison term or the prior strike allegations. the verdict forms submitted to the jury included the special verdict for the great bodily injury enhancement only as to count 4. ultimately, avila was convicted by the jury on counts 4 and 9, and the jury found the great bodily enhancement to be true. the trial court selected the middle term of three years in count 9, which was doubled as a resu added three years for the great bodily injury enhancement. the sentence on count 9 was stayed pursuant to section 654. b. the section 12022.7 enhancement on count 4 must be stricken section 12022.7 requires that a three-year enhancement be added to the term imposed on any felony if the defendant intentionally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim during the commission of the felony. (people v. hawkins (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 1373, 1375 (hawkins).) section 12022.7, subdivision (g), however, provides that, except in cases of domestic violence, a great bodily injury battery is a punishable felony under section 243, subdivision (d) only if the the victim. (hawkins, supra, 15 cal.app.4th at p. 1375.) because 19 substantially the same lement of battery under section 243, subdivision (d). (ibid.) the parties, with serious bodily injury in count 4 may not be enhanced under section 12022.7. (see id. at p. 1376.) c. the case should be remanded for resentencing so the enhancement can be imposed on count 9 avila argues that, because the information only alleged the section 12022.7 enhancement as to count 4, and the jury found the enhancement to be true only to count 4, the enhancement cannot be imposed on any other count. avila further contends that we should modify the judgment to stay execution of the three-year enhancement, without the necessity of remand, and order the trial court to instruct the clerk to amend the abstract of judgment accordingly. respondent, in contrast, argues that we should remand the case to the superior court and instruct it to apply the section 12022.7 enhancount 9 for assault upon a peace officer by means likely to produce great bodily injury. unlike battery with serious bodily injury under section 243, subdivision (d), assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury under section 245 does not require proof that the assault actually resulted in an injury, nor does the penalty for assault (people v. parrish (1985) 170 cal.app.3d 336, 343.) a defendant who is convicted of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury may have his or her sentence enhanced under section 12022.7 if the assault actually results in the infliction of great bodily injury. (id. at p. 344). avila does not contest that as a general matter a section 12022.7 enhancement may properly be imposed on a conviction for 20 assaulting a peace officer by means likely to produce great bodily injury. rather, avila asserts that the enhancement cannot be applied to his sentence on count 9 because the people did not charge a [great bodily injury] enhancement as to [c]avila fails to acknowledge, however, that the section 12022.7 enhancement was charged and pleaded as to count 4, which was predicated upon the exact same criminal act as count 9avila punching officer martinez in the face thereby rendering her unconscious. moreover, the jury made an express finding that the allegation was true. in a similar case, division seven of our court noted that respect to every count on which the prosecution seeks to invoke it, the failure to do so is not fatal so long as the defendant has fair notice of his potential punishment. (people v. riva (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 981, 985 (riva).) in riva, the court concluded that the defendant had been given adequate constitutional notice as to his 25-year-to-life enhancement for discharging a firearm causing great bodily injury, even though the information did not allege the enhancement as to the count on which it was imposed. (id. at pp. 1000-1001.) the defendant fired his gun at the occupants of a vehicle that was stopped at a stoplight, but missed and instead hit an innocent bystander. based on this act, the defendant was charged with attempted voluntary manslaughter, assault with a firearm and discharging a firearm at an occupied vehicle. (id. at p. 986.) the information also alleged an enhancement that the defendant personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury, but only as to the attempted voluntary manslaughter and assault charges. (id. at p. 1000.) although the information did not allege the enhancement as to the charge for shooting at an occupied vehicle, the trial court imposed it upon that count only, staying 21 the sentence as to the other two counts pursuant to section 654. (id. at pp. 1000-1001.) the riva court concluded that because the defendant was given adequate notice that he would have to defend against the allegation as it related to the manslaughter and assault counts, the defendant was not deprived of his due process rights to notice of the charges against him. (id. at pp. 1001-1002.) similarly, constitutional notice of the charges against him because the information expressly alleged that avila caused great bodily injury upon officer martinez by number and description as to some of the counts in the information. (riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 1002.) additionally, avila could not have been confused as to which criminal act caused the serious bodily injury because officer martinez only suffered one injury that was presented to the jury as a great bodily injury, and because the battery in count 4 and the assault in count 9 were expressly act upon officer martinezpunching her in the head. moreover, avila took the position throughout the trial that he did not cause officer martinez to suffer great bodily injury therefore, the record demonstrates that avila was given adequate notice of the charges against him and of the intent to use the allegasection 12022.7, and it demonstrates that avila responded to this notice by actually presenting a defense to the chargethat officer martinez sustained no serious injury. targument and expressly found the allegation to be true. therefore, upon remand, the trial co 12022.7 enhancement on c under section 1170.1, subdivision (a), where a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies and consecutive sentences are 22 imposed, the trial court must select as the principle term greatest term of imprisonment imposed by the court for any of the crimes, including any term imposed for applicable specific enhancements although the high term for count 9 was five years (per section 245, subd. (c)) and the high term for count 4 was four years (per section 243, subd. (d)), the trial court selected count 4 as the principle term under the mistaken belief that the great bodily injury enhancement could be imposed only on count 4. on remand, the trial court may select count 9 as the principle term and exercise anew its discretion on all aspe e.g., people v. kelly (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 842, 846 [aggregate sentences its entirety, 18 years in prison. (people v. hanson (2000) 23 cal.4th 355, 357 hen a defendant successfully appeals a criminal conviction, precludes the imposition of more severe punishment on iii. s sentence on count 5 should be modified to six months in county jail the attorney general concedes, and we agree, that the trial court erred when it imposed a three-year sentence on count 5. avila was charged in count 5 with battery with serious bodily injury on officer vazquez, the middle term for which is three years in prison per section 243, subdivision (d). the jury, however, found avila guilty of the lesser included offense of misdemeanor battery, which is punishable by a term of six months in jail per section 243, subdivision (a). accordingly, upon remand the trial court should resentence avila on count 5 to six months in jail stayed pursuant to section 654. 23 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed, and the matter is remanded to the trial court for resentencing in accordance with this opinion. specifically, the trial court should: (1) strike the section 12022.7 enhancement as to count 4; (2) consider imposing the enhancement instead on count 9; (3) reconsider its discretionary sentencterm may not exceed his original sentencon count 5 should be modified to six months in jail stayed pursuant to section 654. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. lui, j. 