filed 9/1/16 p. v. perez ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. agustin perez, defendant and appellant. b263400 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka104290) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed and remanded for resentencing. maureen l. fox, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, nathan guttman and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 * * * * * * agustin perez (defendant) assaulted a woman who refused to tell him where someone he believed to be a rival gang member was located, vandalized the rival gang -related graffiti, and from jail directed two other people to track down and intimidate both victims. a jury convicted him of charges related to all three incidents, and he was sentenced to prison for 56 years, four months to life. on appeal, defendant raises a number of challenges to his convictions and to his sentence. we affirm his convictions, but vacate his sentence and remand for resentencing. facts and procedural background i. facts a. robbery and assault in december 2013, a woman and a man wearing a mask approached angela rodriguez (rodriguez) and santiago grajeda (grajeda) while they were in the backyard gran which is the name of a local gang; the man also asked whether rodriguez or grajeda had any gang affiliation. not give his real name, and did not admit that he was a member of bassett grandeival gang, the desmadres. both the woman and the masked man left, and grajeda fled into the house. the woman defendant is a bassett grande gang member a few minutes later, the masked man returned to the backyard with defendant. defendant was carrying a semiautomatic gun in his hand. he asked rodriguez where grajeda was. she said she did not know. defendant then demanded her cell phone, and she refused. the masked man kicked her until she fell to the ground, and defendant grabbed her cell phone and proceeded to pistol whip her on the head until she lost consciousness. as a result of this beating, rodriguez had a broken ankle, lacerations to her ear and cheek, and swelling in her head; she suffered temporary hearing loss and permanent damage to her long-term memory. 3 b. vandalism just hours after assaulting parked in the driveway. on the exterior of the car, defendant used a small knife to (the initials for bassett grande), the name moniker with a , and the words itch. defendant also slashed the tires and the interior seats. the damage to the car exceeded $400. c. witness intimidation in january and february 2014, while defendant was in jail, he made 136 calls to jessica yorba (yorba), josephine martinez (martinez) and others. during those calls, defendant directed various people to reports cooperation with police (which would prompt those gang members to retaliate against grajeda). ii. procedural history in the operative, first amended information, the people charged defendant with six felonies. for the assault on rodriguez, the people charged defendant with (1) robbery (pen. code,  211),1 (2) assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)), and (3) assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4)). for d defendant with vandalism ( 594, subd. (a)(4)). and for the jailhouse calls, the people charged defendant with (1) conspiring to attempt to dissuade a witness ( 182, subd. (a)(1)), and (2) attempting to dissuade a witness with malice and in furtherance of a conspiracy ( 136.1, subd. (c)(2)).2 as to the crimes against rodriguez, the people alleged that defendant personally 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 yorba and martinez were also charged in these two counts, as well as for possessing a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11378). 4 used a semiautomatic firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) and that he personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). as to all of the crimes, the people alleged that they were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a 1993 conviction for attempted murder strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and that defendant had served prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)) for the attempted murder conviction, and for each of his 2008 convictions for possessing a firearm (former  12021, subd. (a)(1)) and possessing methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)). a jury convicted defendant of all six counts, and found all offense-related allegations true. in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found true the allegations regarding d the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for a term of 56 years, four months to life. as to the assault on rodriguez, the court imposed a prison sentence of 40 years on the assault with a semiautomatic firearm count, comprised of a 12-year base sentence (six , plus 20 years (10 years each, for the personal use of the firearm and gang enhancements), plus five years for his prior , plus three years because defendant inflicted great bodily injury. the court imposed but stayed, under section 654, a 34-year prison sentence on the robbery count and a 34-year prison sentence on the assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury count. for the vandalism to consecutive prison sentence of two years and four months, comprised of 16 months for the vandalism (which was one-third of the two-year, mid-term sentence, doubled because of the three-year, mid-term sentence). for the witness intimidation crimes, the court imposed a consecutive prison sentence of 14 years to life on the conspiracy count, using a base term of seven years to life under the gang enhancement for a crime involving 5 ike. the court imposed but stayed under section 654, a 14-year-to-life prison sentence on the attempted dissuasion count. defendant timely appeals. discussion i. evidentiary issues a. witness intimidation counts the people alleged 10 overt acts in the conspiracy to attempt to dissuade a witness count. the related, attempted dissuasion count seemingly relies on the same overt acts. eight of the 10 overt acts are based on specific telephone calls between defendant and his alleged coconspirators. at trial, the people did not introduce the tapes or transcripts of the conversations. instead, for the overt acts involving telephone calls, the prosecutor called the investigating officer, detective liliana jara (detective jara), as a witness; asked her to quote verbatim, paraphrase or summarize the relevant calls; and, for certain calls, asked her either to interpret the coded language defendant and his coconspirators were using or to explain the meaning of the calls using her expertise or her knowledge pertaining to her investigation. the following table sets forth the 10 alleged overt acts, how detective jara presented the content of the calls, and any additional testimony she offered with respect to each call. no. alleged overt act y detective testimony 1 telephone call: defendant tells yorba where grajeda lives and instructs yorba to have who knows rodriguez. (1) defendant tells yorba to on selena, this in code . . . the homie dopey, where he used to live, the homeboy that lives on that street might be . . . dude might -girlfriend, and detective jara knows this (i) because yorba explained on another call ed that selena knew where rodriguez lived (overt act 2), and (ii) because of her investigation. (1b) based on the prior relationship between selena and rodriguez, 6 no. alleged overt act y detective testimony be saying something. go talk to him. um, and to have ernie go defendant wants yorba to have junior talk to rodriguez. (2that defendant wants ernie to talk to is grajeda, and detective jara believes this is so because grajeda is the only male victim in the case. 2 telephone call: yorba tells defendant that she will locate rodriguez. her. she used to call herself my brother3 . . . i know her really good. she used to be with selene [sic] . . selena. look at, well, look, look, get ahold of her. tell junior to get ahold of her. and in , reflects yorba agreeing to locate rodriguez. 3 telephone call: yorba tells defendant that junior has made contact with a witness. defendant is concerned that things are not working out and went to go to what you told him to do. . . . he went to where you none. 4 telephone call: yorba tells defendant that she has received the names of witnesses from rmer defense attorney and is talked to jose . . . has he read want a copy of the report. the former attorney. (2) yorba knows rodriguez, and detective jara knows this because yorba admitted to that fact during a post- 3 7 no. alleged overt act y detective testimony trying to find the witnesses. whole report people on the report . . . [a]nd he already gave me the names, and out. but, um, your friend is the one that worrie rodriguez, and detective jara believes this because the charges involving rodriguez (assault and robbery) carry the heaviest penalty. 5 telephone call: tells defendant that he received information that rodriguez was at a certain location, and that he went there, but did not find her. (1) d that rodriguez was at a party, (2) he rushed over to the party, but the lady was not rodriguez. is robert alvarez, a bassett grande gang member, which detective jara knows because of her investigation. 6 on january 16, 2014, yorba received copies of police reports from defendanattorney. yorba tells defendant on a january 17, 2014 telephone call that she obtained the reports. none. 7 telephone call: defendant tells yorba to have salvador andrade contact two witnesses and to provide a copy of the gang associates. defendant tells yorba (1) to daughter destiny and (2) to to (1) salvador andrade is one of de (2) showing police reports indicating that grajeda avoided a gang gang members will prompt them to discipline grajeda for his cowardice. 8 telephone call: martinez tells defendant she has obtained contact call is summarized as martinez informing defendant that she sent the items defendant none. 8 no. alleged overt act y detective testimony information for witnesses and given it to defendanformer attorney. requested to the attorney, including addresses, and is waiting on finding the last person. 9 on february 4, 2014, martinez and yorba were in possession of a notebook containing the name and address of rodriguez. detective jara testified to the seizure of items from a motel room rented by yorba, and where yorba, martinez, salvadaor andrade and others were present. n/a 10 on february 4, 2014, martinez and yorba were in possession of police reports regarding the assault on rodriguez. detective jara testified to the seizure of items from a motel room rented by yorba, and where yorba, martinez, salvadore andrade and others were present. n/a defendant raises five objections to this evidence. 1. method of introducing evidence regarding telephone calls defendant argues that the trial court erred in allowing the people to admit summarizing the calls, rather than by playing the calls themselves while the jury followed along with written transcripts. specmethodology (1) violated california rules of court, rule 2.1040(a), (2) violated due process, and (3) violated the secondary evidence rule (evid. code,  1520 et seq.) the first two issues entail questions of law we review de novo (sino century development limited v. farley (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 688, 693; in re j.h. (2007) 158 cal.app.4th 174, 183), while the third involves the admission of evidence that we review for an abuse of discretion (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1013 (hovarter)). 9 a. california rules of court, rule 2.1040(a) california rules of court, rule 2.1040(a)(1) provides, in pertinent part, that -and-video recording of deposition or other prior testimony, the party must lodge a transcript of the deposition or prior testimony wit the people did not violate this rule b. due process guarantees that the people must prove every element of any crime beyond a reasonable doubt (in re winship (1970) 397 u.s. 358, 363), and prohibits a court from shifting that burden onto the defendant (e.g., sandstrom v. montana (1979) 442 u.s. 510, 524). defendant contends that the people impermissibly shifted the burden of proving the conspiracy and attempted dissuasion counts onto him by (1) not introducing the jailhouse calls themselves, thereby requiring defendant to do so if he wished to impeach detective araphrasing or summary of those calls, and (2) eliciting from detective of the jailhouse calls and could have played them for the jury. neither of defecontentions has merit. as to defendanthe trial court instructed the jury that the people had to prove every element of the conspiracy and attempted dissuasion counts beyond a reasonable doubt, and the people introduced testimony to prove those crimes rather than playing all or some of the 136 jailhouse calls. what is more, the people disclosed the recordings of all 136 calls to the defense, along with reports containing transcriptions for five of the eight calls alleged as overt acts. because defendant has offered no authority for the proposition that due process compels the people to prove their allegations with any particular evidence or in any particular g the 10 tapes did not offend due process. the people elicited testimony regarding defense counselthe jury if he so chose. this did not violate due process. prosecutors may . . . upon the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call people v. bradford commentary does not ordinarily . . . imply that the (people v. lewis (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 246, 257). further, the testimony defendant now attacks as improper was elicited only after defendant questioned detective jara about why she did not fully transcribe all of the calls in her reports. c. secondary evidence rule a other means of recording . . . any form of communication . . . , including . . . soundsevid. codequoting, paraphrasing or summarizing of the jailhouse calls offends this rule. defendant has forfeited this argument because he did not object to the tapes on this basis before the trial court (evid. code,  353), and did not raise this argument on appeal until his reply brief (people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1218-first time in a reply brief will not be entertained because of the unfairness to the other that cannot be examined in court without great loss of time, and the evidence sought from prosecutor informed the trial court that playing each of the jailhouse tapes would add days to the length of the trial, and and attempted dissuasion counts turned on the totality of his conduct and not any individual call. moreover, btive explaining the jailhouse calls rather than challenges to the accuracy of 11 her testimony quoting, paraphrasing or summarizing the calls, he has made no showing that a different result is reasonably probable had the tapes themselves been played for the jury. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836-837.) 2. defendant next asserts that the trial court erred in allowing detective jara to offer her opinion on the meaning of jailhouse calls and on the conduct of gang members generally because she was not an expert witness and because her testimony was in any about the calls. we review challenges to expert testimony for an abuse of discretion. (people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4th 809, 861.) did not testify in part as an expert witness. although at times she testified as a lay witness to matters she personally perceived (evid. code,  800), she also offered opinions on matters not personally perceived by her on a variety of topics, including how and why gang members declare their gang affiliation, how gangs do not allow non-members to claim gang membership or permit their members to have the same moniker, how gang members are confront members of a rival gang, how gangs will beat up their own members who cooperate with policeo police reports and the like, and that various terms used on the jailhouse calls had certain meanings. these are topics reserved for expert witnesses. (e.g., people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 945-946 [gang expert testimony on gang culture].) indeed, defendant also treated detective jara as an expert, asking her to explain gang culture and define gang terminology, and once going so far as to ask her a hypothetical question. further, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that detective a expert may offer her opinion if: qualify [her] as an expert on the subject to which [her] testimony relate 720, subd. (a)); (2) her opinion is 12 (evid. code,  801, subd. (a)); and (3) her opinion is ter . . . perceived by or personally known to the witness or made known to him at or before the hearing, whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to which [her] testid., subd. (b)). detective jara testified that she spent years investigating gang crimes, and this experience qualified her to offer testimony on gang culture. courts have repeatedly held that the elements of gang culture, including the slang they use, are beyond the ken of most jurors and thus an appropriate topic for expert testimony. (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 46-47 [gang terminology]; people v. champion (1995) 9 cal.4th 879, 924-925 [same]; see generally people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60-64, 68 [gang culture generally].) indeed, defendant himself seems to acknowledge the need for 3. hearsay and confrontation clause calls as well as her additional testimony interpreting or explaining those calls violated the hearsay rule or the confrontation clause. as noted above, we review evidentiary questions for an abuse of discretion (hovarter, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1013); we independently review the application of the confrontation clause to the facts in a particular case (people v. giron-chamul (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 932, 964). the hearsay rule declares inadmissible any statement made out-of-court if that statement is offered for its truth. (evid. code,  1200, subds. (a) & (b).) since crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 68-69 (2004) (crawford), the confrontation clause has rendered inadmissible any out-of-court statement that is within the meaning of crawford unless the person who made that statement is available for cross-examination at trial or was available for cross-examination at a prior proceeding. a. jailhouse calls defendant argues that the trial court violated the hearsay rule in allowing detective jara to testify about the content of the jailhouse calls because the statements of 13 defendant, yorba, martinez and others contained on those tapes do not fit within the coconspirator exception to the hearsay rule. the coconspirator exception empowers a court to admit an out-of-court statement for its truth ifhe statement was made . . . while participating in a conspiracy to commit a crime . . . and in furtherance of the objectihe statement was made prior to or during the onspiracy aside from the out-of-court statement itself. (evid. code,  1223; in re hardy (2007) 41 cal.4th 977, 995-996.) these requirements are met here. all of the statements on the jailhouse calls are between charged and uncharged coconspirators, and earlier crimes; the statements all occurred while the conspiracy was ongoing; and the when he introduced evidence that yorba, martinez and salvador andrade (whom the calls indicate was enlisted in the effort to dissuade witnesses) were arrested in a hotel address, and multiple firearms. b. defendant next argues that detecticontained in the far right column of the table (ante, at pp. 6-9), is both inadmissible hearsay and is based upon inadmissible, crawford. until recently, an expert could testify about out-of-court statements that formed the basis for her opinion, even if the statements would have otherwise been inadmissible under the hearsay rule. (e.g., people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 618-620.) these earlier cases rested on the notion that the out-of-court statements were not being admitted for their truth, but instead for their effect on the hearer (namely, the expert). (people v. montiel (1993) 5 cal.4only to the basis of his opinion and should not be c however, in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 678 (sanchez), our supreme court overruled this earlier precedent and reinstituted a distinction earlier cases 14 under sanchez expertise, or premises are based on what the expert has learned from out-of-court statements. (id. at p. 685; see also id. at pp. 676, 684-specific out-of-court statements to explain the bases for [herthe court reasoned, so id. at pp. 684, 686.) of crawford if it is admitted for its truth (crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 59, fn. 9), sanchezs new rule means that courts must also relayin-specific out-of-to assess its compliance with both the hearsay rule and with crawford. (sanchez, at pp. 686-687.) the additional testimony detective jara offered in interpreting or explaining the jailhouse calls falls into four general categories, and we will assess the propriety of each separately. sanchezs rule and which is still not deemed to be admitted for its truth. this testimony consequently presents no hearsay or crawford issues. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676cooperation second, detective jara offered testimony that constitutes her opinion as to the meaning of certain statements. sanchez . . . allowed to give an opinion about what [case- in ord as long as those facts are properly admitted through other evidence. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676.) thus, sanchez does not bar detective jara from was grajeda, 15 with rodriguez in overt act 1, her opinion that yorba in the call underlying overt act 2 was agreeiworried about in overt act 4 was rodriguez. that is because those opinions were based upon the language in the calls themselves, her personal knowledge about the investigation, and/or her opinion. (sanchez, those opinions were not based on and did not relay any case-specific, out-of-court statements made by others, and thus present no hearsay or crawford issues. further, the trial court instructed the jury that it could accept third, detective jara on a few occasions testified to facts based on case-specific, out-of-court statements, but those statements were properly admitted elsewhere. -girlfriend and that yorba and rodriguez knew each other, but yorba admitted both of these facts in the call underlying overt act 2. because overt act 2 involved a call between costatements on that call fall within the coconspirator exception to the hearsay rule and are crawford. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 816-817 [out-of-court statements to -of- -arrest statement accordingly is of no consequence. lastly, detective jara testified to several case-specific facts that may have been based on her personal knowledge or based on case-specific, out-of-court statementsbassett grande gang member robert alvarez (in overt act 5), that salvador andrade is a bassett grande gang member (in overt act 7), that statements on jailhouse calls not alleged as overt acts had particular meanings, and that grajeda belonged to the rival desmadres gang. we need not decide whether introduction of this additional testimony violated the hearsay rule or crawford because any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. trujeque (2015) 61 cal.4th 227, 275 [crawford error 16 assessed to see whether it is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt]; people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1308 [error under hearsay rule assessed to see whether there is a reasonable probability of a different result].) the admission of evidence regarding the harmless beyond a reasonable doubt because what matters to the charged offenses was real names or affiliations of the people he used to do it. the interpretations of statements made on other calls are harmless for the same reason; those calls were not charged as overt acts and were not necessary to explain the charged overt acts. charged offenses is whether defendant believed grajeda belonged to a rival gang, and his overwhelmingly 4. deadditiona[] people v. lowe (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 678, 684). if they do the latter, they have impermissibly ibid.testimony did not cross this line. defendant focuses on that portion of detestimony where she provided her opinion as to what she believed participants on three of the calls really meant when they intentionally used coded language. but her opinion did she provided her opinion as to what the parties to the call meant when their words were placed in the broader context of what she had learned from her investigation. contrary to what defendant asserts in his brief, defendant could have proffered a contrary explanation either by choosing to testify himself or by calling an expert witness of his own. 17 defendant cites two federal second circuit cases barring expert witnesses from testifying ond the interpretation of code words[citation.]united states v. mejia (2d cir. 2008) 545 f.3d 179, 192-193; united states v. dukagjini (2d cir. 2002) 326 f.3d 45, 54.) these cases are irrelevant because give an opinion about what [case-specific] facts may mean. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676.) 5. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends that the conspiracy and attempted dissuasion convictions are not supported by substantial evidence if the jailhouse ctestimony regarding those calls are excluded. because we have concluded that both the either properly admitted or that their erroneous admission was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, we necessarily reject -of-the-evidence challenge. b. gang enhancement as part of their case-in-chief, the people called a gang expert who testified that attempts to dissuade rodriguez and grajeda from testifying were for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with the bassett grande gang. defendant called his own gang expert, who testified that an assa in rebuttal, the people called a los angeles county prosecutor who testified that he had eory was that gang members had murdered a woman to benefit the gang. cases during his direct testimony, but he testified to the resulting guilty verdicts during cross-examination. defendant argues that the trial court erred in allowing the prosecutor to testify (1) under evidence code section 352, and (2) under crawford, supra, 541 u.s. 36. as noted above, we review the first question for an abuse of discretion and the second de novo. 18 we agree with defendant that the trial court may have erred in admitting the testimony. on direct examination, the prosecutor testified solely about his prosecutorial theory in the two prior cases. in so doing, he was testifying as a lay witness to that theory based on his personal knowledge, and in that respect, did not run afoul of crawford as recently interpreted in sanchez, because he was not testifying to -specific, out-of-prior cases were alleged expert witness that gang members do not harm women testimony is rebutted only if the allegations in the prior cases are true and only if those gang members did, in fact, murder women to benefit their gangs. because the allegations themselves had little or no probative value, the court likely abused its discretion in vid. code,  352 [requiring probability that its admission will . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of ].) on direct examination became relevant once the prosecutor, during cross-examination, testified that the juries in those two cases returned guilty verdicts; those verdicts established the truth of the allegations in the prior cases that gang members had assaulted women. the verdicts themselves are ostensibly the case-specific, out-of-court statements of the juries. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 684.) however, we need not decide whether the elicitation of the jucross-examination violated sanchez or if their elicitation in response to questions from defense counsel amounts to ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 235.) that is because the admission of doubt. the evidence that the assault on rodriguez was gang related is overwhelming: and asked for her gang affiliation; the woman with him told her defendant was coming and referred to him by his 19 gang moniker; defendant arrived a few minutes later and did not beat rodriguez until she t etched gang-related graffiti on deficient performance, it is not reasonably probable that admission of this evidence would have lead to a different outcome and any claim of ineffective assistance is without merit. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) ii. instructional errors we review jury instructions de novo. (people v. vega (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 484, 495.) a. attempted dissuasion jury instructions ly attempts to prevent or dissuade a witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any trial, proceeding, or inquiry felony. (id., subd. (c)(2).) to be convicted of this felony, the people must prove that (1) the defendant tried to prevent or discourage a victim or witness from attending or giving testimony at a trial, proceeding, or inquiry, (2) the defendant acted maliciously, and (3) the defendant acted with the intent to assist a conspiracy to intimidate the victim or witness. (calcrim nos. 2622, 2623; accord, harris v. garcia (n.d.cal. 2010) 734 f.supp.s jury instructions on this offense suffer from two defects.4 first, defendant asserts that the trial court erred in not giving a unanimity instruction. where a defendant commits several acts, each of which might constitute a discrete crime, a trial court is required to instruct the jury that it must unanimously agree a unanimity instruction is not requested. (people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 569.) however, this 4 defendant also argues that the trial court incorrectly referred to the attempted verdict, and thus provides no basis for disturbing its verdict. 20 requirement of jury unanimity does not apply to the legal basis or theory upon which the defendant is found guilty. (people v. morelos (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 758, 765-766; people v. griffin unanimously agree upon the mode .) thus, whether some jurors thought , is of no consequence. the unanimity requirement also does not se of conduct of a series of acts people v. thompson (1984) 160 cal.app.3d 220, 224.) section 136.1 is just such a crime because, as the court of appeal held in people v. salvato (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 872, 883, cumulative ou defendant nonetheless contends that the jury should have been instructed to agree unanimously upon which victimrodriguez or grajedahe attempted to dissuade as part of a conspiracy. we disagree. if a jury need not unanimously agree on which specific acts the defendant commits, it need not unanimously agree against whom those specific acts were committed. this is particularly poignant for the crime of attempted dissuasion, where what matters efforts rather than his success as to any particular victim. second, defendant argues that attempted dissuascrime and that the trial court was accordingly obligated to instruct the jury on the general an act that [went] beyond mere preparation.people v. foster (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 331, 335; [a]n attempt to commit a crime consists of two elements: a specific intent to commit the crime, and a direct but ineffectual act done toward its commission.) a court is required to instruct a jury on general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. (people v. townsel (2016) 63 cal.4th 25, 58 (townsel).) here, the court instructed the jury that it must fvictim or witness from testifying, but did not explicitly state that whatever the defendant 21 calcrim no. 2622 instruction is defective because the omission of this additional explication is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see neder v. united states (1999) 527 u.s. 1, 15-18 [omission of an element of a crime is not structural error, and may be harmless beyond a reasonable doubt].) in this case, the jury unanimously found that defendant committed at least one overt act in support of the conspiracy to dissuade a witness; because each overt act alleged in the conspiracy count some appreciable fragment of the crimefoster, at doubt any instructional error on the attempted dissuasion count. b. instruction on the requirements of the criminal discovery act that she seized police reports containing the prosecutor asked the trial court to take judicial notice of section 1054.2. that section is part of the criminal discovery act ( 1054 et seq.), and specifies who may possess prosecution under section 1054.1. the court subsequently informed the jury that section o one else is allowed to the . the court then read subdivision (a)(1) of section 1054.2 to the jury. after detective jara testified that no onenot even a defense attorneymay addresses, the court instructed the [] earlier and ultimately admitted a copy of the entire statute as an exhibit. the court did not instruct the jury on the meaning of section 1054.2. to admit the statute as an exhibit rather than instruct the jury on duties to instruct on general legal principles (townsel, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 58) and to decide all questions of law arising during trial ( 1124). treatment of the issue was correct because the issue presented by the statutethat is, 22 whether it was lawful or unlawful for yorba, martinez and the others to possess the unredacted police reportsis irrelevant. their possession of the police report is pertinent to this case only because it is charged as overt act 10. because an overt act need not involve unlawful or illegal conduct (people v. marquez (1994) 28 cal.app.4th 1315, 1325-need not be criminal in itself1054.2 renders possession of the police report a crime has no impact on this case, and any error is by definition harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. iii. sentencing errors a. duplicative offenses defendant argues that he cannot stand convicted of both conspiracy to attempt to dissuade a witness and attempted dissuasion of a witness. this is a question of law, and thus one we review de novo. (people v. walker (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 1270, 1275.) convict a defendant of people v. sanders (2012) 55 cal.4th 731, 736;  954.)5 the sole exception to this general rule is that a defendant may not stand convicted of both a crime and any of its lesser-included offenses. (ibid.) the rationale for this exception is straight-greater and a lesser included offense are barred because the defendant cannot commit the greater offense without also committing the lesser. conviction on both counts would effectively permit two convictions for the lesser offense. people v. ceja (2010) 49 cal.4th 1, 6.) where two crimes each have an element the other does not, they are not lesser included offenses (e.g., rutledge v. united states (1996) 517 u.s. 292, people v. robinson (2016) 63 cal.4th 200, 207). despite their similarities, conspiracy to attempt to dissuade a witness and 5 section 654 assures that the defendant is not punished multiple times for a single act or course of conduct. 23 attempted dissuasion with malice and as part of a conspiracy are not lesser-included offenses. the crime of conspiracy requires proof of two specific intentsthe specific (people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 123.) the crime of attempted dissuasion that harm, or injure someone else in any way, or . . . to interfere in any way with the orderly and non-overlapping intent requirement, the general rule allowing multiple convictions applies. b. enhancements for personal use of a firearm the trial court added a 10-firearm under section 12022.53, subdivision (b) for both the assault with a semiautomatic firearm count and the assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury count. as the people concede, this was error. the 10-year enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (b) can only be applied to certain, enumerated offenses. robbery is one of them; the two assault crimes of which defendant stands convicted are not. ( 12022.53, subd. (a).) thus, the enhancement as to both assault counts must be vacated. upon resentencing, this may shift the principal count from assault with a semiautomatic firearm to robbery. c. base sentence for conspiracy and attempted dissuasion counts the trial court imposed a base sentence of seven years to life for the conspiracy and attempted dissuasion counts, citing section 186.22, subdivision (bfinding that a gang allegation is true usually results in the imposition of a consecutive sentence of two, three or four years (id., subd. (b)(1)(a)), but the allegation can increase the base sentence to seven years to life if, among other reasons, the underlying felony involves id., subd. result, the court erred in imposing the enhanced base term. 24 d. probation report attempted murder as a conviction for murder. as the people concede, this is a mistake and should be corrected on remand. (in re candelario (1970) 3 cal.3d 702, 705.)6 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court for resentencing consistent with this opinion. the trial court is also directed to correct the probation report to reflect that defendant suffered a 1993 attempted murder conviction in case number ka014509. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _______________________, p. j. boren _______________________, j. chavez 6 ir merits or determine any his trial counsel was constitutionally ineffective for not preserving the claims he raises on appeal. 