filed 4/7/16 p. v. burciaga ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael burciaga, defendant and appellant. b263517 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka105904) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, mike camacho, jr., judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, modified, and remanded. christopher nalls, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, david a. wildman, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 following a jury trial, defendant and appellant michael burciaga was convicted of two counts of premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a);1 counts 1 & 2), shooting at an occupied vehicle ( 246; count 3), and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 4). the jury also found defendant intentionally discharged a firearm in the commission of the offenses charged in counts 1 through 3, and that those offenses were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang in violation of section 186.22, subdivision (b). it was further determined that defendant had three prior convictions within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant was sentenced to consecutive 40-year-to-life terms on counts 1 and 2, plus one year for each prior conviction. the trial court stayed imposition of sentence on counts 3 and 4 pursuant to section 654. defendant contends there was insufficient evidence (a) the attempted murders were premeditated, and (b) he had the required intent, i.e., to benefit criminal conduct by gang members, necessary for the gang enhancement. he also maintains the trial court shoucustody credit. we reverse the portion of the judgment concerning the gang enhancement on the conviction for attempted murder of edward campbell (count 1). we also accept the presentence custody credit and remand the case for the court to modify the judgment to reflect those additional days. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 facts the puente trece gang had numerous cliques. the blackwood clique wanted to separate from the gang to form its own gang, and this caused internal puente trece gang turmoil, including several shootings. on may 19, 2013, a member of its perth street clique, drove a vehicle in la puente, and picked up adrian torres, another member of that gang and a member of the ballista clique.2 campbell offered to give torres a ride home, but told torres that campbell first had to go to the house of matthew burciaga,3 to obtain been shot the night before. ll and matthew. outside, in front of a garage: defendant, robert valdivia,4 and matthew. defendant and valdivia were members of the puente trece gang. matthew was in a wheelchair; he had been a member of the puente trece gang, perth street clique, until he was shot when he was about 17 years old. before getting out of the vehicle, campbell handed torres a gun, which torres placed in the center console. campbell then told the men who were in front of the i just need to ask some campbell exited the vehicle and walked toward matthew, valdivia, and defendant. torres remained in the vehicle. defendant approached campbell; matthew and valdivia remained near the garage. ne another and 2 3 because matthew burciaga and defendant share the same surname, we refer to matthew burciaga as matthew. matthew is sometimes referred to in the record as porky. 4 valdivia was also charged in the underlying case, but he is not a party to this appeal. 4 spoke. the conversation led to an argument. then, torres heard four or five gunshots, and saw defendant shoot campbell. campbell backed up, holding his stomach. matthew and valdivia were still near the garage. campbell walked toward the vehicle; he was crouched over and holding his stomach. torres moved from the passenger seat of the vehicle to th campbell, whose shirt was bloody, entered the passenger seat of the vehicle and asked torres to take him to a hospital. while the vehicle was still parked, torres then heard 5 d in response, torres used the gun campbell gave him to fire one shot at defendant; t torres drove off, and while en route to the hospital, tomach, trying to hold from photographic lineups, torres identified defendant as the person who shot campbell, detective carlos gutierrez, the members, and was divided into 16 different cliques. primary activities included drug sales and shootings (drive-by shootings, walk-up shootings, murders, and assaults with deadly weapons). in 2012, two puente trece gang members were convicted of assault with a firearm. detective gutierrez opined the shootings were for the benefit of and in association itting from [] this is that, by having shot at this other individual, a member of their own clique, they are promoting or within their own clique as well as rival cliques that, hey, if we are willing to kill or attempt to kill our own anybody. [] in addition to that, with that reputation of being violent comes a cloud of fear. people within the 5 torres referred to campbell as his they were not actually related. 5 neighborhood are going to be fearful to report this to police, because if they are willing to discussion a. substantial evidence regarding premeditation 1. standard of review when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we determine whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the c[citation.] presumes in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reason(people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715.) circumstantial evidence and reasonable inferences are included in determining whether there is substantial evidence. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357-358; people v. ugalino (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 1060, 1064.) in determining whether substantial ewe do not reweigh the evidence, resolve conflicts in the evidence, draw inferences contrary to the verdict, or reevaluate the cr (people v. little (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 766, 771, citing people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314.) 2. applicable law attempted murder requires (1) a specific intent to kill and (2) a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. [citation.] unlike murder, an 6 attempted murder therefore requires express malice and cannot be proved based upon a showing of implied malice. [citation.] also, unlike murder, attempted murder is not divided into degrees. the prosecution, though, can seek a special finding that the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated, for purposes of a sentencing enhancement. people v. mejia (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 586, 605.) remeditation means thought the process of premeditation . . . does not require any extended period of time. the true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. 6 (people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1286.) he requisite reflection need not span a specific or extended period of time. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity, and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 213.) in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, the court identified three categories of evidence typically considered when determining if a defendant acted with premeditation and deliberation: planning activity, motive, and the manner of killing. (id. at pp. 26-27.) anderson does not require that these factors be present in some special combination or that they be accorded a particular weight, nor is the list exhaustive. anderson was simply intended to gs assessment whether the evidence supports an inference that the killing occurred as the result of preexisting reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse. people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 247.) 3. analysis here, there is evidence of all three anderson factors. relevant to planning, defendant, while in possession of a gun, approached campbell, an original member of the puente trece gang. after an argument ensued between the two of them, defendant shot 6 for purposes of determining whether sufficient evidence of premeditation exists, there is no distinction between attempted murder and completed murder. (people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1462-1463, fn. 8, overruled on other grounds in people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 199.) 7 at campbell. this supports an inference that defendant planned to attack campbell if progress in a manner defendant considered satisfactory.7 there was evidence defendant had a motivehere, a gang related motivefor attempting to kill campbell and torres. there was a dispute within the puente trece gang over the effort of the blackwood clique to separate from the puente trece gang. this caused violent shootings. the jury could reasonably infer this dispute within the gang resulted in the death of one of its gang members the day before the incident, and it appears campbehow that happened. as detective gutierrez opined, reputation for violence and discouraging people in the neighborhood from reporting crimes, particularly since the message here is the gang members are willing to kill their fellow gang members. sometimes support a conclusion that the evidence sufficed for a finding of premeditated, people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 863-864.) campbell visibly disarmed himselfi just need to ask some defendant therefore knew campbell was not a threat. campbell was standing very close to defendant when the two began to argue. defendant fired four or five shots at campbell at point blank range. the shots perforated 7 when evaluating the sufficiency of evidence for premeditation and deliberation, es evidence of planning. (people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 401 (romero).) we recognize there is an who sought out defendant. for purposes of assessing sufficiency of the evidence, however, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict. (people v. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 715.) in this respect, a rational trier of fact could have concluded that defendant parted from his friends and walked toward campbell after making the conscious decision to maintain possession of the gun, thus, coming within the confines of romero. nonetheless, as will be discussed, there was more than enough evidence of the motive and manner of killing to support a finding of premeditation and deliberation notwithstanding the possible infirmities corresponding to the evidence of planning. 8 guts falling out. the jury could reasonably infer dshooting campbell demonstrated a deliberate plan to kill him. (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1082 [firing at a vital area at close range supports finding of premeditation and deliberation].) as to torres, after defendant shot campbell and campbell struggled to return to his car, torres, with campbell, attempted to drive away from the scene of the incident. .defendant then attempted to do just that by shooting at torres. (people v. sanchez shooting even though the time between the sighting of the victim and the actual shooting this evidence of planning, motive, and manner of attempting to kill supports an inference the attempted murders were the result of reflection. there was sufficient evidence for a rational trier of fact to find defendant guilty of premeditated attempted murder. even people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 792-793.) b. substantial evidence regarding gang enhancements 1. applicable law to establish a gang enhancement, the prosecutor must prove two elements: (1) the direction of, or in association with any or assist in any 8 ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) with intended to and did commit the charged felony with known members of a gang, the jury 8 defendant concedes that the first element was satisfied. 9 may fairly infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, further, or assist people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 68, italics added.) 2. analysis the jury found true the gang allegations as to the convictions for attempted murder of campbell (count 1), attempted murder of torres (count 2), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (count 3). there was insufficient murder of campbell was committed with other gang members. matthew and valdivia, the other gang members with defendant, were simply at the scene of the incident.9 there was no evidence matthew or valdivia participated in the attempted murder of campbell.10 there however was substantial evidence defend, and his shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, were committed with at least one other gang member. torres, i.e., a self-described nephew of campbell, was specifically targeted by defendant and his fellow gang membervaldivia. after defendant shot campbell, valdivia yelled defendant complied by at the vehicle as torres sat in the . a rational trier of fact could have concluded it was valdiviaouragement that cause defendant to fire toward torres. there was sufficient evidence defendant committed these offenses with valdivia thereby satisfying the intent component of the enhancement. 9 is not specific in this regard. torres testified, when campbell exited the car, defendant and campbell walked thus, although matthew and valdivia were at the general scene, it appears that they were positioned in a location different from defendant and campbell when campbell was shot. 10 notably, although valdivia was charged in the information with attempted murder of torres and shooting at a vehicle, neither matthew nor valdivia were charged with the attempted murder of campbell. 10 c. 1. standard of review in determining on appeal whether the defendant invoked the right to self-representation, we examine the entire record de novo. (people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 932.) 2. applicable law a defendant in a criminal case possesses two constitutional rights with respect to representation that are mutually exclusive. a defendant has the right to be represented by counsel at all critical stages of a criminal prosecution. [citations.] at the same time, the united states supreme court has held that because the sixth amendment grants to the accused personally the right to present a defense, a defendant possesses the right to represent himself or herself. [citation.](people v. james (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 323, 328-329.) faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta) holds that the sixth amendment grants an accused personally the right to present a defense and thus to represent himself upon a timely and unequivocal request. [citation.] the right to self-representation obtains in capital cases as in other criminal cases [citation], and may be asserted by any defendant competent to stand trials technical legal knowledge, as such, being irrelevant to the question whether he knowingly and voluntarily exercises the right [citations]. the right to representation by counsel persists until a defendant affirmatively waives it, and courts indulge every reasonable inference against such waiver. (people v. dunkle (2005) 36 cal.4th 861, 908-909, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) a request for self-representation must be unequivocal. (people v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 453; people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 22-23, 27 (marshall).) when determining whether a request for self- 11 the cloud of emotion may be marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 21, 23; people v. tena (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 598, 607.) all the facts surr-representation istakable invocation of that right. (people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269, 297, citing marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 21.) 3. background on december 9, 2014, after the november 7, 2014 jury verdicts, the trial court received a letter written by defendant,11 addressed to the trial court. in it, defendant stated he did not receive a fair trial because a witness was improperly coached and another witness testified falsely. defendant complained his trial counsel failed to prove -examination of him and told him to find another lawyer, but defendant did not know how to get another lawyer so defendant allowed his trial counsel to continue to represent him which led to needed help with a [l]awyer to represent me and i still do. [] i would please like to file motions for a [r]etrial with a [s]tate[-a]ppointed [l]awyer so we can look through my case and p on january 8, 2015, the day set for a court trial on the prior conviction allegations and hearings on formal probation and sentencing, defendant and his counsel conferred off the record. . . . before we proceed, [defendant] is indicating to me that he would like the court to read a letter that he addressed to the court. 11 defendant wrote the letter although he was represented by counsel. the record does not contain the original letter. the parties stipulated during record correction proceedings that a reproduction of the original letter accurately reflected its contents. 12 [] is the trial court explained that it had received a handwritten letter purportedly prepared by defendant, but did not read it because it was an improper ex parte communication with the court. inquiry, defendant stated he wanted the trial court to read the letter. your attorney, at least at this time . . . represent yourself although at a late stage of the case. this is for sentence and trial on the prior co defendant certain that you understand still have a right to have counsel represent you at all critical stages of your case, including give up those rights. those are constitutional protections that you have that. evidently, counsel. [] you have to understand the pitfalls that you will certainly experience by representing yourself, and you will receive no assistance by anyone. you will not have co-till your unsel and e to recess for about . . . 15 minutes, to give [defendant] an opportunity to complete the faretta waivers . . . matter to allow [defendant] to complete a faretta waiver advisement, waiver of right to counsel in order for the court to entertain his motion for pro per status and to represent himself from -jury trithe trial court confirmed that 13 defendant signed the completed waiver of rights form. defendant confirmed that he [were] mentioned on [that] was sent [himself] as [his] [of] mentioned earlier that you will receive absolutely no attorney assistance in this matter pertaining to the rules of law, rules of procedurfollow in order to represent yourself from this point on. [] r defenda immediately thereafter, defendant represented himself at the court trial on prior conviction allegations. at the conclusion of the court trial, the trial court found the prior conviction allegations true. the trial court then asked defendant if he still wanted the court to read the letter, and defendant said he did. issues to the court, one of which causes me concern because in the letter you are up your right to have an attorney so i cannot grant that request unless you wish to have an attorney represent you. but . . . you just had the court relieve [your] state-appointed lawyer . . . . so that is no longer an issue. you are on your own so whatever motion for retrial, as [] after a recess, the triacaution in the event [defendant] changes his mind and chooses to exercise his right to have counsel despite his request, which was granted today to represent himself in pro standby counsel was present and accepted the appointment. defendant continued 14 to represent himself in two subsequent hearings and made several motions, including a motion for transcripts, a request for discovery, a motion for additional money for pro per funds, and a motion for a continuance. 4. analysis -representation was unequivocal. at the january 8, 2015, hearing, defendant was present and, after he and his counsel conferred off the record, defendant, through his counsel, requested to represent himself. the trial court confirmed the request directly with defendant. thereafter, the trial court inquired of the trial court asked defendant whether it was still his tdefendant to complete a faretta waiver advisement, waiver of right to counsel in order for the court to entertain his motion for pro per status and to represent himself from this point on . . . defendant initialed and signed the waiver of rights form.12 he confirmed 12 the waiver of rights form is included in the record on appeal and we have reviewed it. it is three pages long and divided into five somewhat self-explanatory sectionsconstitutional rights, personal information, dangers and disadvantages of self-form lists 28 advisements and instructs defendant to initial the box after each advisement all of the above warnings included in this petition and i still want to act as my own attorney. i freely and voluntarily give up my right to have a professional attorney 15 he reviewed [were] mentioned on [the] [himself] as [his] the trial court reiterated for defendant that he consequencesving receive absolutely no attorney required to know and follow in order to represent yourself from this point on.underst[ood] that. defendant also confirmed, having all those consequences in mind, it [was] still [his] desire to waive [his] constitutional right to have counsel represent [hi a request for state-appointed counsel and asked defendant if, despite the letter, he understood he was now on his own. defendant said he understood he was on his own, made no objection to proceeding on his own, and made no request for substitute counsel. choose to exercise his right to have counsel, but there is no indication in the record defendant ever changed his mind and requested the appointment of counsel. defendant continued to represent himself in two subsequent hearings, and the record does not show, at any time after the trial court granted defendantrequest to represent himself, he requested the appointment of counsel. the only request regarding representation defendant made in open court was for self-representation. received about one month before, defendant said he understood h and did not request the appointment of new counsel. indeed, because the trial court in the event defendant changed his mind and choose to exercise his right to have counsel, the trial court was prepared to appoint standby counsel 16 d. a defendant is entitled to credit for all days in custody commencing with the day of arrest (people v. taylor (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 628, 645) and including partial days and the day of sentencing (people v. browning (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 1410, 1412; people v. fugate (1990) 219 cal.app.3d 1408, 1414). the trial court stated defendant was entitled to 787 days of presentence custody credits, consisting of 685 days of actual custody credit and 102 days of conduct credit. defendant however was arrested on may 23, 2013 and was in custody though his sentencing hearing on april 9, 2015totaling 687 days of actual custody, not 685. defendant is also entitled to good conduct credit computed at 15 percent of that actual in subdivision (c) of section 667.5 shall accrue no more than 15 percent of worktime , not 102. thus, the judgment should be modified, and the abstract of judgment must be amended, to reflect defendant is entitled to receive 790 days of presentence custody credits, consisting of 687 days of actual custody credit and 103 days of conduct credit. 17 disposition we reverse the portion of the judgment concerning the gang enhancement on the conviction for attempted murder of campbell (count 1). the matter is remanded for the trial court to modify the judgment and amend the abstract of judgment to reflect defendant is entitled to receive 790 days of presentence custody credits, consisting of 687 days of actual custody credit and 103 days of conduct credit. the trial court is to forward a copy of the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j. we concur: turner, p. j. baker, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 