filed 7/6/16 p. v. wisehart ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel b. wisehart, defendant and appellant. b263074 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa080656) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, monica bachner, judge. affirmed. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, corey j. robins, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant daniel b. wisehart (defendant) was convicted of ten counts of committing lewd acts upon a child (pen. code,  288, subd. (a)1); three counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child by rape ( 269, subd. (a)(1)); two counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child by penetration rape ( 269, subd. (a)(5)); one count of aggravated sexual assault of a child by sodomy ( 269, subd. (a)(3)); and three counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child by oral copulation ( 269, subd. (a)(4)). on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his marsden2 motion because an him and his trial counsel such that inadequate representation was likely to result; the trial court improperly denied his faretta3 motion; the trial court erred in admitting evidence under evidence code section 1108 concerning his molestation of another minor, thus violating his right to due process; his sentence constitutes cruel and unusual punishment under the united states and california constitutions; and he is entitled to reversal because of cumulative error. we affirm the judgment. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806. 3 background a. factual background 1. defendant and analiza roy were married and had a child, p.w., in may 1998. defendant and roy divorced when p.w. was 11 years old, and thereafter defendant and roy shared custody of p.w. in 2010, when p.w. was 12 years old, roy went to germany for the summer. p.w. therefore stayed with defendant in his mobile home. in late june or early july 2010, her. defendant asked p.w. if she trusted him, and after p.w. said she did, he took her . . . defendant and touched her on her genital and chest areas both under and over her clothes. while he did these things to her, he asked p.w., defendant also said trusted defendant and believed it felt defendant implied to her not to talk about the incident. defendant would not talk about it even a couple of days later, defendant tucked p.w. into bed and kissed her good night, but the kiss was more like the way he had kissed her during the first incident. defendant touched p.w. on the chest and genital areas both under and over her clothes, and took off both her and his clothes. defendant opened up legs, got on top of her, and put his felt nervous and scared, but 4 told me to without question. i think if i had tried ave made a defendant told p.w. not to tell anyone what he had done, and people would similar incidents occurred about once a week throughout most of the summer. when school resumed in the fall, week and with roy on weekends. during that time when p.w. stayed with defendant, he continued to assault her during one incident defendant had p.w. perform oral sex on him. he performe on one occasion assaulted p.w. defendant had a consistent routine during each assault. defendant always took off both his and , and spread legs open. most of the time, defendant would make positioned himself behind her, and sometimes he placed her on top of him. on over half sometime r] back into p.w. never consented to any of the sex acts that defendant perpetrated on her. according to . . . defendant instructed p.w. to say she incidents of sexual assault had stopped, and shortly before a physical examination by her doctor, defendant told p.w. to urinate in a cup. she later realized it was for a pregnancy test. in about may 2014, p.w. told roy a roy called the police. 5 2. the pretextual telephone call at the direction of a police detective, p.w. called defendant and spoke to him in a recorded conversation. the recording of that conversation was played for the jury. school and by telling what happened with us back p.w. said she thought the conversation with the counselor was confidential, but she asked defendant what she should do. . . . . . . . probably people that are going to ruin the rest of my life . . . . [] . . . [] do not speak to anybody. . . . [] . . . [] problems, there is no one the following exchange occurred: [defendant:] um, nothing went on . . . . . . . hard for her. she said she ld him defendant said that he had done nothing to p.w., and she needed to not say that if p.w. continued to speak on the telephone instead of listening to him, defendant said p.w. responded, . . . [i]to police [and] put me a 6 defendant asked p.w. if she wanted him to apologize, but she responded that she did not want him to apologize. instead, she wanted to know why he did those things to n. defendant said re[o]kay, you approached me and asked me to teach you things your mom would not teach you. [] . . . [] okay, you asked me for a basic education and i did nothing else but give you what defendant told p.w. to stop talking about their past because otherwise he would something . . . good will come out of y like anything else. they are ther [p.w.]. if you will be quiet and say nothing, they will do nothing. if you speak, my life is over and i explained that to you when you asked me [they were] p.w. said she would not say anything more and asked defendant to promise her that it would never happen again, to her or promise you that nothing like that has ever happened with anybody except what you asked me for and you told me . . . p.w. told defendant she wanted him to be honest with her, and if he would not, she would tell the police everything. she also said she was not a virgin because of 3. child -27 years. until d.g. was six years 7 old, she lived with defendant, and her parents, brother, and grandparents. when d.g. wunder and over her clothing. defendant molested d.g. several times a week for about one year. he always did it in the same way. defendant would always place d.g. on his lap, fondle her both under and over her clothing, and place his fingers inside of her d.g. was scared; she did not know what defendant was doing or why. d.g. and her family moved to oregon. when d.g. was about nine or 10 years old, she visited her grandfather in washington; defendant also visited him. defendant defendant touched d.g. both under and over her ed his finger into her vagina. in one of the bedrooms, defendant would make d.g. lay or sit down on the bed, d.g. hair. at the time) took d.g. to seattle for a one-day trip. defendant discretely fondled d.g. by touching her, caressing her, and putting his arm around her. that was the last time defendant fondled her. any was afraid she might get into trouble. when d.g. was 12 years old, she 4. child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome exual abuse victims often never disclosed the abuse or delayed disclosure. children often endure sexual abuse silently because they feel shame and helpless when the perpetrator had 8 ongoing access and a close relationship to them. there were many different motivating factors for child-abuse victims not to disclose the abuse, even years later. 5. case defendant did not testify and presented no evidence on his behalf. b. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an amended information charging defendant with ten counts of committing lewd acts upon a child in violation of section 288, subdivision (a) (counts 1, and 40-48), three counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child by rape in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(1) (counts 2, 4, and 6), two counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child by penetration rape in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(5) (counts 3 and 5), one count of aggravated sexual assault of a child by sodomy in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(3) (count 26), and three counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child by oral copulation in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(4) (counts 28-30). defendant pleaded not guilty as to all counts. marsden and faretta motions. after the people began presenting their case-in-chief, defendant withdrew his not guilty pleas to counts 40 and 46, and entered guilty pleas, though the jury was not informed of the pleas. following a full trial, the jury found defendant guilty on the remaining counts. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 143 years to life. the trial court awarded defendant 368 days of custody credit consisting of 320 days of actual custody credit and 48 days of conduct credit. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. marsden motion 9 defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion made pursuant to people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. we disagree. 1. standard of review s decision to deny a marsden motion under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 599.) denial is unless the defendant has shown that a failure to replace counsel would substantially impair the defendants right to assistance of counsel. [citation.] (ibid.; people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 431.) 2. applicable law a defendant who believes that his appointed counsel is providing ineffective assistance may seek to have that counsel relieved and substitute counsel appointed through what is commonly called a marsden motion. (people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 604.) to prevail, the defendant must make a substantial showing that denial of his marsden motion is likely to result in constitutionally inadequate representation. (people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 230 (streeter).) our a defendant must make a sufficient showing that denial of substitution would substantially impair his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel [citation], s incompetence or lack of diligence [citations], or because of an irreconcilable conflict [citations]. we require such proof because a s right to appointed counsel does not include the right to demand appointment of more than one counsel, and because the matter is generally within the discretion of the trial court. [citation](people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 980, fn.1.) a trial court does not err in denying a marsden motion based on a defendants cos inadequacy amounting to tactical decisions. (people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 922.) when a defendant chooses to be represented by professional counsel, that counsel is captain of the ship and can make all but a few 10 fundamental decisions for the defendant. [citation.] (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) 3. facts on november 20, 2014, at the preliminary hearing, defendant was represented by deputy public defender michael tanner. on february 5, 2015, at the trial court held a marsden hearing. during ttanner has repeatedly and indeed consistently demonstrated himself to be not only incompetent, but also unprofessional, unwilling to listen, unwilling to challenge the [district attordiscussed, unwilling to put forth any efforts to prepare any defense, [is] untruthful. and defendant stated . . . [is] sufficient . . . is far below reasonable, objective standards. specifically, defendant that tanner visited him on only two brief occasions during nine months of incarceration; tanner was not concerned with civil rights; tanner did not successfully contact a private attorney defendant asked him to contact; despite defrepeated tanner did not fulfill his promises to visit defendant in defendant had five meetings with tanner adequate time with defendant after the court proceedings, as promised; tanner failed to ask questions at the preliminary hearing that defendant wanted asked; tanner ignored defendant; tanner failed to object to certain evidence at the preliminary hearing; in 11 falsely implying, according to defendant, that ; tanner did not listen to defendant; to not interview people who could assist in defense; tanner did not keep defendant apprised of the status of his defense; and tanner was otherwise unprepared and incompetent. tanner stated he attempted to interview numerous witnesses, including those named by defendant, but the witnesses were uncooperative; when he began representing defendant, he met with defendant while incarcerated and explained the charges; as a public defender, he was [d] to talk more than he listen[ed]he had he ; and he believed defendant misunderstood their conversation about what questions tanner would ask at the preliminary hearing and trial. tanner said, ms of preparing, is a very simple case in the sense that there is a single accuser. . . . there is no physical evidence. . . case. . . . [] . . . [] mr. tanner has said, but my marsden motion is denied. i find that mr. tanner is appropriately repre immediately after the in camera hearing, defendant stated that he wanted another marsden defendantmarsden claims. the trial court stated it had provided defendant about 20 minutes to present his reasons for replacing tanner, and denied equest. the trial court stated that defendant could raise the matter in the future if he had new information to present. on march 5, 2015, jury selection began, and the next day, opening statements were made. 4. analysis 12 defendant failed to show that s denial of his marsden motion was an abuse of discretion as he denial of his marsden motion was likely to result in constitutionally inadequate representation. (streeter, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 230.) appropriately representing defendant. ed between him and tanner such that inadequate representation was likely to result. however, defendant did not base his marsden motion on an irreconcilable conflict. indeed, even when the trial court concluded d not object to the finding by stating an irreconcilable conflict existed between him and tanner, or that their relationship had completely broken down, such that inadequate representation was likely to result. he therefore forfeited this claim for appellate review. (streeter, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 230.) b. faretta motion defendant contends that the trial court improperly denied his faretta motion. the trial court properly denied the motion. 1. standard of review and applicable law representation that are mutually exclusive. a defendant has the right to be represented by counsel at all critical stages of a criminal prosecution. [citations.] at the same time, the united states supreme court has held that because the sixth amendment grants to the accused personally the right to present a defense, a defendant possesses the right to (people v. james (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 323, 328-329.) a tris request for self-representation if the defendant unequivocally asserts that right within a reasonable time prior to the commencement of trial, and makes his request voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently. 13 [citations.]people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 721 (lynch)faretta motions must be both timely and unequivocal. otherwise, defendants could plant reversible error people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1002.) a request made pursuant to faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806 is not equivocal merely because a defendant requests that his or her counsel be removed and, if not removed, that the defendant wants to represent himself or herself. (people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 524.) the faretta motion is equivocal, however, if it is made because the defendant wanted to rid himself of appointed counsel. (people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1205 (scott).) our supreme court stated that a faretta defendant has said he or she seeks self-people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 932-id. at p. 933.) furthermore, the california supreme court has long held that a self-representation motion may be denied if untimely. [citation.] (lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 722.) in order to invoke the constitutionally mandated unconditional right of self-representation, a defendant must assert that right within a reasonable time prior to trial. the latter requirement serves to prevent a defendant from misusing the motion to delay unjustifiably the trial or to obstruct the orderly administration of justice. [citation.] if the motion is untimelyi.e., not asserted within a reasonable time prior to trialthe defendant has the burden of justifying the delay. [citation.] (people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, 1110; people v. hill (1983) 148 cal.app.3d 744, 757 [it is now settled that a trial court may deny a request for self-representation made on the very eve of trial, on the ground that granting the motion would involve a continuance for preparation].) although a trial court has no discretion to deny a valid, timely faretta motion (lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 726), a faretta motion that is untimelythat is, not made within a reasonable time prior to trialis addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 827.) 14 2. facts as noted above, immediately after the in-camera hearing on defendantmarsden motion, defendant requested another marsden hearing. the trial court denied derequest. the trial day and asked if trial counsel was ready for trial.4 tanner responded affirmatively. defendant the trial court reminded defendant he was represented by counsel, who was to answer that question. the trial court set the matter for trial for february 24, 2015; day defendant then requested self-representation status, and the following exchange me, your honor. [] the court: are you ready to proceed by the 30 days from now? [] the defendant: i have no preparation yet and, i require time. i have not seen the trial court denied d-at this point, the motion is denied for the following reason: the defense is ready to go within the period. correct? mr. tanner is ready, based on what he said earlier. . . . [] the faretta, oral faretta is denied. timely. and also, it appears to the court it is in response marsden. [] . . . [] [a]defendant said [] the oral motion to proceed pro per is denial of the marsden 3. analysis 4 a criminal defendant has a right to a speedy trial. ( 686.) 15 s request to represent himself was equivocal because the record suggests that he made his faretta motion because he wanted to free himself of his counsel. this is insufficient under scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th 1197. in scott, the court affirmed the trial s denial of the motion for self-representation under faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806 stating the motion was not unequivocal. [the defendant] made his faretta motion immediately after the trial court denied his marsden motion, and [the faretta motion only scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 1205, fn. omitted.) here, it is reasonable to infer that defendant was frustrated having his marsden motion denied. unrelenting, defendant immediately requested another marsden hearing, which the trial court denied. then, after attorney said he was ready for trial, defendant interjected that he was not ready, and made a request for self-representation while acknowledging he was unprepared for trial in 30 days. the trial court properly found faretta request to have been made in response to its denial of his marsden motion. faretta request was untimely. tanner began representing defendant no later than at the november 20, 2014, preliminary hearing. defendant did not make his faretta request until about two and one-half months later, on february 5, 2015day zero of 30 for trial. defendant therefore had ample time in advance to request self-representation status, yet did not do so until the case was within 30 days of trial. defendant explained that he would not be ready for trial in 30 days, and he did not even know what the current charges were against him. tanner advised the trial court that he would be ready for trial. the trial court properly exercised its discretion and denied faretta motion on the basis it was untimely. because faretta request was equivocal, untimely, and would have required an indefinite continuance, the trial court properly denied it. 16 c. admission of evidence defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitted evidence under evidence code section 1108 concerning his molestation of d.g., violating his right to due process. the trial court did not err. 1. standard of review we review for an abuss rulings on the admissibility of evidence. (people v. cordova (2015) 62 cal.4th 104, 132.) 2. applicable law evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a)except as provided in this section and in section[] 1108 . . . evidence of a persons character or a trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a specified occasion.offense, evidence code section 1108 permits the court to admit evidence of the s commission of other sex offenses, thus allowing the jury to learn of the discretion under evidence code section 352 to exclude the evidence . . . (people v. cordova, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 132.) [e]vidence of a prior sexual offense is indisputably relevant in a prosecution for another sexual offense. [citation.] (people v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 282-283.) evidence code section 1108, subdivision (a)in a criminal action in which the defendant is accused of a sexual offense, evidence of the defendants commission of another sexual offense or offenses is not made inadmissible by section 1101, if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to section 352. evidence code its probative value is 17 substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. 3. facts during her opening statement, the prosecutor told the jury they would hear from d.g. about defendantmolestations of her as a child. during defendantstatement, defencounsel conceded defendant had sex with p.w., but asserted that did not mean he was guilty of each count as charged.5 defencounsel then 6 his objection to the prosecutor presenting any testimony by d.g. (regarding pursuant to evidence code section 1108, no . . . for d.g. alleged in the instant case, and made in the opening statement. unduly prejudice my client, take up the prosecutor responded by arguing, inter alia, 5 committing lewd acts upon a child ( 288), but the sexual encounters with p.w. were consensual (i.e., not coerced) and therefore he was not guilty of the aggravated sexual a[case] and prosecutorial overreaching. [] . . . [] [j]ust because you find that one count or two counts or three counts or whatever has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, it overreaching, trying to twist the consensual conduct, if you call it that. [] . . . [] [c]onsent is not a defense to [a section] 288 [offense]. . . . but it is a defense to aggravated sexual 6 the record on appeal does not reflect any proceedings counsel made the original objection. defendant original objection was made in an unreported conference. 18 that it was was code section 1108, and it was the trial court overruled defendantmy ruling has not changed. opening statements are not evidence. and it does appear that based on the opening statements that credibility of the complainant is at issue. and propensity evidence. the confession in the opening statement, that something happened, does not change the that is not evidence. and the people still have the right to present the evidence. and my [evidence code section] 352 weighing has not changed, so the ruling has not changed. later during the trial, after defendant withdrew his not guilty pleas to counts 40 and 46, and entered guilty pleas, defendantunder [ev because it was irrelevant. the trial court ruled that the people could not present evidence of the guilty pleas on counts 40 and 46 to the jury, and thus, its ruling on the d.g. testimony would stand. 4. analysis although admitting that an objection under evidence code section 352 preserves a subsequent due process claim on appeal,7 the attorney general contends that defendant forfeited his claim that the trial couprocess. the attorney general argues that (1) the record discloses that defendant objected to the proposed evidence only on relevance grounds; and (2) even though there 7 people v. perry (2006) 38 cal.4th 302, 317, fn. 6 [although the defendant did not admission of [the evidence] would violate section 352 of the evidence code because the evidence was more prejudicial than probative preserves the constitutional issue whether, people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428defendant may argue [on appeal] an additional legal consequence of the asserted error in overruling the evidence code section 352 objectio 19 was a reference to a prior evidence code section 352 objection by defendant, the record is inadequate because that objection is not in the record. the record is sufficient to show that defendant objected to the proposed evidence under evidence code section 352. as noted above, that section the court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice . . . . counsel for defendant stated in his objection following opening statement that proposed testimony add[s] nothing to the caseprobative ), and the admission of that evidence would take up extra time undue consumption of timeunduly prejudicecreate substantial danger of undue prejudice counsel asked the trial court to [ruling regarding proposed testimony because it was irrelevant. it ioriginal evidence code section 352 this original objectionunreported conference. defendant of that objection, particularly with specific references to the statute, is in the record and serves as an independent bases upon which to complain of trial court error. as defendant concedes, the california supreme court held that evidence code section 1108 does not violate california or federal due process principles. (people v. loy (2011) 52 cal.4th 46, 60-61; people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 797; people v. falsetta (1990) 21 cal.4th 903, 916.) the trial court properly exercised its discretion in admitting evidence of repeated sexual abuse of d.g. to prove propensity to commit such acts, particularly where defendant was advancing a consent defense yet the evidence showed he molested d.g. even though she was scared. the d.g. evidence was highly ly assault children related to him and to 20 whom he had some form of private access, and over whom he was an authority figure, over a lengthy period of years. the evidence showed that defendant molested d.g., his relative, while she was a young child, several times a week for around one year. the circumstances of his abuse of p.w., his biological daughter, were similar, in that both victims were children living with defendant where he was an authority figure. the trial court properly exercised its discretion in finding the evidence relevant under evidence code section 1108 because it demonstrated propensity to commit the crime. admission of the evidence was not unfairly prejudicial. p.w. testified that defendant penetrated her anally and vaginally, made her perform oral sex upon him and he did so upon her. in contrast, defendant d.g. did not appear to involve oral, vaginal, or anal intercourse, but some lesser forms of child molestation. defendant conceded below that the d.g. evidence described sexual crimes that were compared to the crimes alleged in the instant case. the d.g. evidence was damaging to defendant in that it was highly relevant and showed defendantto sexually abuse young children living with him, but it was not unfairly prejudicial. d. cruel and unusual defendant contends that his sentence of 143 years constitutes cruel and unusual punishment under the under the united states and california constitutions. we disagree. 1. applicable law the eighth amendment to the united states constitution prohibits cruel and unusual punishment. the eighth amendment does not require strict proportionality between the crime and sentence; rather, it forbids sentences that are grossly disproportionate to the severity of the crime. (ewing v. california (2003) 538 u.s. 11, 23-24 (ewing); see in re coley (2012) 55 cal.4th 524, 529.) three factors are considered: the gravity of the offense and the harshness of the penalty; sentences imposed on other criminals in the same jurisdiction; and sentences imposed for the same 21 crime in other jurisdictions. (ewing, supra, 538 u.s. at p. 22; in re coley, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 540.) a sentence may be cruel or unusual under the california constitution, article i, section 17. such a sentence though must be so disproportionate to the crime that it shocks the conscience and offends fundamental notions of human dignity. (people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1287-1288; in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424, superseded on other grounds as stated in people v. caddick (1984) 160 cal.app.3d 46, 51, 52.) we analyze three criteria to determine whether a sentence is cruel or unusual under article 1, section 17 of the constitution of california: the nature of the offense and the offender (with particular attention to the degree of danger both present to society); a comparison of the sentence with those for other more serious offenses under california law; and a comparison of the sentence with those in other states for the same offense. people v. retanan (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 1219, 1231 (retanan).) because choosing appropriate criminal penalties is a legislative function, a court must not intervene unless the prescribed punishment is out of proportion to the crime. (ibid.; people v. felix (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 994, 999-1000.) successful challenges to the proportionality of particular sentences have been very rare. (ewing, supra, 538 u.s. l punishment, successful challenges to the rummel v. estelle (1980) 445 u.s. 263, 272 [same]; people v. weddle (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 1190, 1196 disproportionality have occu 2. facts he trial court sentenced defendant on count 1 to the high term of eight years, and to consecutive terms of 15 years to life each of 2 through 6, 26, and 28 through 30i.e., to 143 years to life. punishment on the remaining counts was imposed consecutively, and stayed under section 654. 22 3. analysis in contending his sentence is cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the united states and california constitutions, defendant does not argue the specific factors set forth above referred to in ewing, supra, 538 u.s. at page 22; in re coley, supra, 55 cal.4th at page 540; retanan, supra, 154 cal.app.4th 1219 at page 1231. instead he refers to people v. deloza (1998) 18 cal.4th 585 at pages 600 through 602 (deloza), which argued that a sentence which exceeded the human life span was cruel and unusual. in retanan, supra, 154 cal.app.4th 1219, the defendant was convicted of multiple counts of sexually abusing four different children, and sentenced to 135 years to life. the court of appeal rejected his claim that the sentence was cruel and unusual punishment under the federal and state constitutions on the basis that he cannot possibly serve the imposed sentence.id. at p. 1231.) the court found the defendant implicitly conceded his sentence was not unconstitutional because he made no effort to compare his offense with more serious offenses in california or with punishments in other states for the same offense; and because he relied solely on the concurrence written by justice mosk in deloza, supra, 18 cal.4th 585, (ibiddisproportionate to the crime. (ibid.) ls. e. cumulative impact defendant contends he is entitled to reversal because of cumulative error. we find no prejudicial legal error. s argument that the cumulative effect of all the errors requires reversal. (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 981; people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 746.) 23 24 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports raphael, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. baker, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 