filed 12/13/16 p. v. yoshida ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alexander yoshida et al., defendants and appellants. b263484 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba418391) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, dennis landin, judge. affirmed as to yoshida; reversed as to ramirez. eric r. larson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant alexander yoshida. susan k. shaler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant isaiah jeremiah ramirez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant 2 attorney general, michael r. johnsen and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * defendants alexander yoshida and isaiah jeremiah ramirez appeal from the judgment after their convictions for the first degree murder of andrew stittiams. we affirm the judgment against yoshida, and reverse the conviction of ramirez people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155 (chiu). facts on the afternoon of november 11, 2013, stittiams and his friends james villalobos and nicole r. were walking together along figueroa street s house a few blocks away. a car traveling in the opposite direction passed by, and ittiams and his companions] off and yelled s stittiams took off his shirt and, according to villalobos, threw his arms up. the car made a u-turn and drove back past stittiams and his friends. as the car passed, one of the occupants asked, , which villalobos and nicole r. interpreted as asking what gang they were a part of. stittiams stepped off the curb and replied, 1 the car continued past and turned around again. it pulled up next to stittiams, and the front passenger, a male in his 20s, 1 nicole r. testified that stittiams removed his shirt after this exchange, rather than before the first u-turn. 3 immediately jumped out and started swinging his fists at him. stittiams fought back and gained the upper handvillalobos and saw that the passenger was bleeding from his nose.2 villalobos saw the driver, a male in his 20s, reaching for something inside the car. the driver got out with a knife in his hand and walked towards villalobos. as the driver was approaching villalobos, stittiams, still fighting with the passenger, !started running up the street holding his stomach. villalobos saw blood, and ran after stittiams. the driver yelled at the passenger to get back in the car. the two men drove off. villalobos called 911 and he and nicole r. attempted to help stittiams, who had fallen to the ground, his intestine protruding from his stomach. stittiams died from multiple stab wounds. during the police investigation, villalobos identified appellant yoshida in a photographic lineup as the passenger who had stabbed stittiams.3 appellant ramirez acknowledged in a statement to police that he was the driver of the car and present at the incident. the people offered evidence at trial that yoshida and ramirez were members of the highland park gang. 2 villalobos told the police that stittiams was trained in kung fu. 3 at trial, villalobos asserted that yoshida was not in fact the person who stabbed stittiams. this discrepancy is not relevant to our holding. 4 procedure the amended information charged yoshida and ramirez with the murder of stittiams. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)4 it alleged that the crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4).) further enhancements were alleged against yoshida for use of a deadly or dangerous weapon and for a prior conviction. ( 667, subds. (a)(1), (b)-(j), 667.5, subd. (b), 1170.12, 12022, subd. (b)(1).) the jury found defendants guilty of murder in the first degree and found the gang enhancement to be true. the jury found the weapon allegation to be true as to yoshida. the trial yoshida was sentenced to 56 years to life, and ramirez was sentenced to 25 years to life. the court additionally imposed fines and awarded credits. yoshida and ramirez timely appealed. discussion yoshida and ramirez raise numerous claims of error by the trial court. each is discussed below. 1. failure to instruct on voluntary manslaughter based on sudden quarrel yoshida contends that the trial court erred by not instructing the jury on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel theory. we reject this argument. 4 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 5 a court is required to instruct the jury sua sponte on any and all lesser included offenses supported by the evidence. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 160.) voluntary manslaughter on a theory of sudden quarrel or heat of passion is a lesser included offense of intentional murder. (id. at pp. 153-154.) a lesser included offense is supported by the evidence if there is evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that the lesser offense, but not the greater, was committed. (id. at p. 162.) a defendant cannot rely upon a sudden quarrel theory when he initiates a conflict. as the court of appeal explained in people v. oropeza (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 73 (oropeza), a defendant may not provoke a fight, become the aggressor, and, without first seeking to withdraw from the conflict, kill an adversary and expect to reduce the crime to manslaughter by merely asserting that it was accomplished upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. the claim of provocation cannot be based on events for which the defendant is culpably responsible.(id. at p. 83; accord, people v. johnston (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1299, 1312.) this is so even if the actions of others had some role in instigating the conflict. in oropeza, for example, the conflict began when a vehicle cut off the vehicle in which the defendant was riding. (oropeza, at p. 83.) the defendant encouraged the of speedengage[d] in ibid.) ultimately, someone fired a shot from the and killed a passenger in the other vehicle, a crime for which the defendant was found guilty. (id. at p. 76.) although the court of appeal agreed that the evidence suggested that the defendant 6 had human weakness, it was not of a type such that the law is willing id. at p. 83.) the court acknowledged that a reasonable person might be angered by being cut off, but would not then encourage the subsequent pursuit and aggressive behavior that resulted in a murder. (ibid.) thus, the trial court did not err in declining to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on sudden quarrel or heat of passion. (ibid.) oropeza is analogous to the present case. here, all evidence before the trial court pointed to yoshida as the aggressor. the conflict began when yoshida flipped stittiams and his friends off. even accepting arguendo that stittiams had a role in exacerbating the situation by removing his shirt, throwing his arms in the air, and exchanging heated words, it was ramirez and yoshida who declined the opportunity to drive away and avoid the incident, and instead pulled up to the curb at which point yoshida jumped out and attacked stittiams. yoshida cannot claim provocation any more than the defendant in oropeza could claim that he was less culpable for his actions because his vehicle had been cut off. the cases cited by yoshida are inapposite because all involve evidence that someone other than the defendant provoked the fight. in people v. elmore (1914) 167 cal. 205, the victim instigated the conflict by bullying someone the defendant was trying to protect, challenging the defendant to a fight, then rushing at the defendant and hitting him. (id. at pp. 207-208.) in people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, there was evidence that, inter alia, the victim had been acting belligerently others, that the victim 7 escalated the fight with the defendant, and that the victim had clenched his fists and lunged at the defendant before the defendant had shot him. (id. at pp. 1139-1140.) and in people v. ramirez (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 1483, there was evidence that the victim provoked the defendant by punching him, although the portion of the opinion analyzing the voluntary manslaughter instruction was not published. (id. at p. 1487.) under these circumstances, the trial court properly declined to provide to the jury an instruction on voluntary manslaughter based on a theory of sudden quarrel or heat of passion. 2. failure to instruct on defense of another ramirez argues that substantial evidence supported instructions on both defense of another and imperfect defense of another, and the trial court erred in not providing these instructions. we reject this argument. defense of another, like self-defense, is applicable when a defendant actually and reasonably believes he must defend another person from imminent danger of death or great bodily injury. (see people v. randle (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 994, overruled on other grounds by people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1201.) it is a complete defense to a charge of murder. (id. at p. unreasonable, he may only claim imperfect defense of another. (people v. trujeque (id. at p. 271.) voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect defense of another is a lesser included offense to murder. (ibid.) defense of another, arguing there was evidence that ramirez 8 jumped out of the car with a knife in order to defend yoshida, who was being beaten by stittiams. the court declined to give the instruction, but suggested it might rule differently if ramirez or another witness provided additional testimony. ramirez did not testify, nor did defense counsel call any additional witnesses to testify as to the circumstances of the altercation between yoshida and stittiams. the court did not instruct the jury on defense of another. the trial court did not err. it is well established that a defendant cannot claim self-defense or defense of others, whether (for example, a physical assault or commission of a felony) people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 182.) here, all evidence indicated that after an exchange of heated words and gestures with the victim, ramirez turned his car around and pulled up to the curb so that yoshida could attack stittiams. ramirez could have driven away, but he did not. thus, . under these circumstances, stittiams was legally justified in defending himself by fighting back; the fact that he may have gained the upper hand did not erase that justification. it was not error for the trial court to refuse to give an instruction on defense of another. 3. admission of cod confrontation under bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 (bruton) and people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 (aranda). we reject this argument. 9 the aranda/bruton rule bars the admission of a defendants out-of-court statement incriminating a codefendant, even if the court instructs the jury to consider the statement only against the declarant. (bruton, supra, 391 u.s. at pp. 126, 135-136; aranda, supra, 63 cal.2d at pp. 529-530.) the statement (richardson v. marsh (1987) 481 u.s. 200, 211; see people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 454, overruled on other grounds by people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912, 919-920.) the editing other stechniques are insufficient to disguise the fact that the statement refers to the codefendant. (gray v. maryland (1998) 523 u.s. 185, 192-193.) the jury here statement, and also provided with a transcript redacted to reflect the edits in the video. other than a reference to yoshida ame had been eliminated. ramirez contends that the redactions were insufficient, both because his first name was mentioned once, and because other aspects of the statement confirmed the existence of another perpetrator that could only be ramirez. ramirez figueroa at or arou we note that defense counsel approved the transcript after the prosecution made several requested changes, and raised no objections when the video and transcript were presented to the 10 jury. thus, ramirez has forfeited this claim on appeal. (people v. hill (1992) 3 cal.4th 959, 995, overruled on other grounds by price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) even had defense counsel made a timely objection, we would find no basis to reverse. we need not decide whether the edited video and transcript satisfy aranda and bruton, because simply cumulative of other properly admitted evidence. as that ramirez was in the car with yoshida on figueroa around the time of the homicide. but ramirez himself confirmed as much in his own statement to the police, which was also presented to the jury. ramirez described being in the car when words were exchanged with two men and a woman walking down the street. [and] that he had a knife in his hand when he got out of the car. when the interrogating officer said, hundred percent decisively than anything yoshida said. given this evidence, the affected the outcome of ramir 4. insufficient evidence of gang enhancement yoshida and ramirez argue that there was insufficient evidence that the crime of which they were convicted was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang as defined in section 186.22. specifically, they argue that the prosecution 11 park gang included commission of one or more enumerated felonies, as required under section 186.22, subdivision (f). we reject this argument. favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our evaluation of a witnesss credibility for that of the fact (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66.) this standard applies whether direct or circumstantial evidence is involved. (ibid.) section 186.22, subdivision (f) states, in relevant part: as used in this chapter, criminal street gang means any ongoing organization, association, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the [enumerated] criminal acts . . . .the enumerated acts include, inter alia, robbery; unlawful homicide or manslaughter; sale and manufacture of controlled substances; and burglary. ( 186.22, subd. (e).) s primary activities might consist of evidence that the groups members consistently and repeatedly have committed criminal activity listed in the gang statute. also sufficient might be expert testimony . . . .people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 324.) showing that members of the gang only occasionally commit the enumerated crimes would not be sufficient. (id. at p. 323.) 12 here, los angeles police officer arshavir shaldjian offered testimony regarding the activities of the highland park gang that, in the aggregate, provided sufficient evidence that its members consistently committed enumerated criminal acts. he testified that approximately 50 actually commit crimes on a daily basis. they do anything from vandalism all the way to murder. so you have those guys who actually go out and put in work for the neighborhood, for the its own; when asked why this was important to gangs, he said, turf, area, you control drug sales, control your crimes, burglaries, area to freely go out there to commit crime and represent your 5 asked how a homicide such as the one committed here might benefit a gang, shaldjian said, afraid to call the police every time they do a crime out there, every time they tag a wall, rob somebody, beat somebody, kill because that crime goes unsolved . . . . [] what happens now is you have all these gang members running around committing crimes, and nobody is out to testify against them. . . . they are out freely committing what they need to do, putting in work for 5 territory referred to gangs in general rather than the specific activities of the highland park gang. immediately followed his description of the territory specifically controlled by the highland park gang. in context, the jury would importance of territory applied to the highland park gang. 13 shaldjian also testified regarding four murders for which highland park gang members were convicted. while shaldjian never specifically stated that any of the enumerated acts established that the commission of crimes was a frequent, even daily, activity for highland park gang members, and the bulk of the examples he offered were enumerated criminal acts such as murder, drug sales, burglaries, and robberies. testimony could not reasonably be interpreted as suggesting that those enumerated crimes were only occasional; indeed, he ting in work for the neighborhood, implying that committing those crimes was, in essence, the gang 6 yoshida cites in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605 (alexander l.), in which the court of appeal held that there was insufficient evidence to satisfy the primary activities element. alexander l. is distinguishable. in that case, a deputy sheriff testified as a gang expert regarding the varrio viejo gang. (id. at p. said, i know theyve committed quite a few assaults with a deadly weapon, several assaults. i know theyve been involved in murders. [] i know theyve been involved with auto thefts, auto/vehicle burglaries, felony 6 yoshida argues that the evidence of the four murders was insufficient to prove that gang members consistently and repeatedly committed murder. regardless of whether the evidence of those four murders was in itself sufficient to prove the testimony about the activities of the highland park gang, including the fact that active members commit murder. 14 (ibid.) on cross-examination, the deputy testified that the vast majority of cases he knew of involving varrio viejo were graffiti-related. (id. at p. 612.) the court of appeal noted that the where, when, or how (id. at p. 612.) the court alexander l., supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 612.) defense counsel in fact raised an objection on this basis, which the court of appeal stated should have been sustained. (id. at p. 612, fn. 4.) unlike the deputy in alexander l., shaldjian testified extensively as to his qualifications and experience, thus providing a foundation on which the trial court could assess the reliability of his testimony. among other things, shaldjian testified that he had served for four years on the gang enforcement detail and was specifically assigned to the highland park gang. he had spoken with fellow officers about gangs in northeast los angeles, collaborated with the federal bureau of investigation and the federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms regarding gang [c]onducted numerous probation, parole checks at gang locations, gang hangouts and [would] continuously he testified that he had been involved in over 100 gang-related investigations, and had regular encounters with highland park gang members, sometimes on a daily basis. unlike in alexander l., defense counsel raised no objection to shaldjian, nor were his qualifications challenged on cross-examination. 15 shaldjian also provided much stronger evidence than the deputy in alexander l., who did not speak to the frequency of the crimes of which he testified and admitted that most of the crimes of which he was aware were graffiti-related. (alexander l., supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 611.) in contrast, shaldjian spoke of 50 active gang members committing crimes on a daily basis, and included a list of examples the vast majority of which were enumerated felonies. the weaknesses undercutting the validity of the expert testimony in alexander l. do not exist in this case.7 the record thus establishes that there was sufficient evidence that the primary activities of the highland park gang included enumerated criminal acts under section 186.22. 5. exclusion of ramirez argues that the trial court erred in not admitting evidence that the victim, stittiams, had methamphetamine and marijuana in his blood. we find no error. s exercise of discretion in admitting or excluding evidence is reviewable for abuse . . . and will not be disturbed except on a showing the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner (people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 534, quoting people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-10, citation omitted.) 7 yoshida also cites people v. perez (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 151, in which the court of appeal found that evidence of several shootings over the course of a week, as well as a beating six years earlier, did not establish that a gang consistently and repeatedly committed enumerated criminal acts. (id. at p. 160.) this case is inapplicable here, as shaldjian testified to the daily commission of crimes by the highland park gang. 16 during trial, defense counsel expressed a desire to question dr. juan carillo, a medical examiner, regarding a toxicology report dr. carillo ordered for stittiams. the court stated that the report was irrelevant and hearsay unless dr. carillo relied on the report in determining the cause of death. both the prosecution and defense counsel questioned dr. carillo outside the presence of the jury, and dr. carillo testified that he had not relied on the report in reaching his opinion regarding cause of death. the court therefore prohibited defense counsel from asking dr. carillo about the report in front of the jury. the court ished to call the toxicologist to testify. defense counsel said it was later, during a discussion about jury instructions, the court stated that the toxicology evidence might be relevant if there was evidence of self-defense, but substantial evidence in fact indicated that yoshida provoked the fight. defense counsel argued the toxicology evidence would be relevant to show the victim was [e]nticing, engaging in, egging on and maybe being the guy who challenged for the figh the prosecution responded that in have an expert come and explain how that drug was in the system, how long the drug was in the system and whether or not it even affected the body. ultimately, defense counsel did not call a toxicologist as a witness and the toxicology report was never introduced. on appeal, ramirez argues that evidence that stittiams [as] relevant to explain the whether he instigated the confrontation. 17 nce of s[t] turn inform[] thwhen faced wit ramirez believes the (or yoshida) planned, or had the specific intent to commit murder, or any felony for which murder was a natural and probable consequence, when yoshi we fail to see how the presence or absence of relevance in this case, or undercuts any theory of the prosecution. highly aggressive or why ramirez and yoshida, rather than driving away and avoiding a confrontation, chose to turn their car around and pull up to stittiams, at which point yoshida attacked him. although stittiams purportedly took off his shirt, threw his arms in the air, and exchanged harsh words with the defendants, there is no evidence in the record that he threw the first punch or otherwise forced the defendants to engage him in combat. all evidence points to yoshida and ramirez being the initial aggressors. ramirez offers no explanation as to how he or yoshida would have acted differently based on the level of controlled substances in ton the record before us. to the extent ramirez seeks to argue support a claim of self-defense, defense of another, or provocation, those theories are foreclosed, as discussed above. we also agree with the prosecution that the toxicology evidence could have no relevance without an expert to explain it 18 to the jury. without such expert testimony, the jury would be left to speculate as and how it might have affected his behavior. ramirez argues that the medical examiner was qualified to offer expert testimony human body ag in the record indicates that. the trial court rightly excluded the evidence in the absence of such an expert. but even had the defense called a toxicologist, we continue to be unconvinced that the evidence would have any bearing on this case.8 given the lack of relevance of the toxicology report, the trial court properly exercised its discretion in excluding it. 6. admission of gang-related evidence yoshida and ramirez raise numerous claims that the trial court erred in admitting evidence against them pertaining to their gang membership. rulings, including on gang evidence, for abuse of discretion. (people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1194.) we recognize that evidence of gang membership can be highly inflammatory, and trial courts must take care in admitting it, even when relevant. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 193.) for 8 ramirez argues that defense counsel was entitled to cross-examine the medical examiner as to why he did not rely on the toxicology report in forming his opinion as to cause of death. we disagree. such questions might be fair if defense counsel put forth any reasonable explanation as to why the medical examiner should have relied on the report. in the absence of such explanation, the court was within its discretion to prohibit questions regarding the report. 19 a. gang tattoos yoshida argues that the court improperly admitted evidence of his past crimes through testimony regarding his gang tattoos. during trial, the prosecution called officer juan aguilar, who testified aguiladefense counsel objected on grounds of relevance and evidence code section 352, but was overruled. aguilar responded: no, mean you have die-hard gang members that do not have any tattoos. but the ones that do get them is [sic] because they earn it. they either go out and commit certain crimes, whether robbery, a shooting or gging up a bunch of walls. they have to earn it. they have to show to their gang buddies they are from the gang. so then once they are vouched for, they can go out and get a tattoo on their body. moved for a constituted evidence that yoshida had committed past crimes. the court denied the motion. on appeal, yoshida argues that this testimony was admitted in violation of evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), wof his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her cond yoshida argues that evidence of gang tattoos . . . was irrelevant for any purpose other than for the impermissible purpose of showing his disposition to commit such 20 yoshida also argues that the evidence should have been excluded under evidence code section 352, which permits the trial value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the yoshida asserts that his gang membership was not in dispute, so the probative value of the evidence concerning his tattoos was minimal compared to its prejudice. we disagree. as yoshida acknowledges, evidence code section 1101, subdivision some fact . . . other than his or her disposition to commit such an (see people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. -related case, gang evidence is admissible if relevant to motive or identity, so long as its probative value is not the prosecution alleged that yoshida had direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal n allegation that, if found true, would affect his sentence. (see pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(4).) have been earned through the commission of other crimes, were relevant to prove that yoshida had a motive to commit crimes for the benefit of the gang, as doing so potentially would result in him earning more tattoos and enhancing his reputation. the evidence also tended to show that yoshida was or had been an active member of the gang. thus, the evidence was offered for a 21 crimes. the evidence was also probative, and the trial court was within its discretion in finding that the probative value of the evidence outweighed its prejudicial effect. b. bmurder conviction yoshida and ramirez both claim that the trial court improperly admitted evidence of the murder conviction of the prosecution introduced this evidence as one of the predicate offenses necessary to establish the gang enhancement. a police officer also testified regarding purportedly commemorated the crime. defense counsel timely objected to the introduction of this evidence, but was overruled. yoshida and ramirez argue that the prosecution could have used other crimes to establish the predicate offenses, so there was no need to introduce the brotherhey assert that the effect of introducing evidence of a murder committed by them guilty by association. thus, they claim, the probative value of the murder conviction was outweighed by its prejudicial effect, in violation of evidence code section 352. we disagree. our supreme court has held that it is own past crimes to establish the predicate offenses required for a gang enhancement, even when the predicate offenses may be established by other evidence, so long as the evidence is not unduly prejudicial. (people v. tran (2011) 51 cal.4th 1040, 1048-10predicate offenses committed by other gang members therefore does not require exclusion of evidence of a defendants own 22 ].) given this holding, there is certainly no bar to the admission of evidence of crimes committed by relatives of the defendants, as such evidence would be even less prejudicial than crimes committed by the defendants themselves.9 while it is conceivable that under some circumstances evidence of a exclusion under evidence code section 352, yoshida and ramirez have not explained why this is such a case, and we decline to find that the trial court abused its discretion.10 c. cumulative gang evidence ramirez argues that additional gang-related evidence f six police officers regarding their contacts with yoshida and ramirez during which the defendants asserted their gang that ramirez refused to cooperate in the investigation of a shooting of which ramirez was the vicwhich ramirez characterizes as including, inter alia, information other offenses committed by highland park gang members, and 9 brother is more tenuous than a family relationship: he bases it on the fact that he was dating ramirezher and ramirez. 10 which his brother was a member. 23 the exserved only as propensity evidence that prejudiced ramirez we disagree. as discussed above, the prosecution was seeking a sentence enhancement that required proof that the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. the prosecution was entitled to offer evidence that ramirez was contested at trial. the evidence that ramirez did not cooperate in the investigation of his own shooting was properly offered for this point, as the prosecution could argue that this indicated that intertwined and part of the trial court said. the prosecution was also entitled to offer evidence of prior offenses committed by highland park members, as required to satisfy section 186.22, subdivision (e). the cases discussed by ramirez in which gang evidence was found inadmissible are inapposite. people v. leon (2008) 161 uncharged offense was unduly prejudicial (id. at p. 169); no such evidence was offered against ramirez. in people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, the question before the court of appeal was whether gang evidence was relevant once the trial court had dismissed the gang enhancement allegations. (id. at pp. 222-223.) here, the gang enhancement allegation was not dismissed. people v. borjorquez (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 335 did not involve gang enhancements, but only whether gang evidence was relevant to bias, an issue not present in this case. (id. at pp. 337, 344-345.) people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587 found gang evidence to be cumulative and prejudicial when the 24 prosecution offered arrests, and the trial court was overburdened with evidentiary disputes that the court of appeal likeid. at pp. 610-611.) no such circumstances exist here, as the prosecution offered only four examples of prior offenses (none committed by ramirez) and the record does not indicate an excess of evidentiary disputes. people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104 distinguished williams, supra, 170 cal.app.4th 587 and found no prejudice when the trial court admitted evidence of eight predicate offenses (hill, at pp. 1138-1139); it 7. prosecutorial misconduct ramirez claims three instances of misconduct by the prosecution. we hold that none compels reversal. we discuss each in turn. a. first instance during rebuttal closing argument, the prosecution said: you must consider all the evidence, and you should use common sense. once again, statements of the attorneys are not evidence. the jury instructions said that even the questions asked by counsel are not evidence. it is the answer given by the witness you understand the answer. because during this trial, defense tried very hard to get the witnesses to say something that was not the truth. those are not evidence. (italics added.) defense court overruled the objection. ramirez argues that the italicized portion of the statement [i] 25 isconduct by the prreasonable likelihood that the jury would understand the (people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1302.) accusation of dishonesty. instead, the prosecution was designed to elicit responses helpful to their clients, responses that the prosecution unsurprisingly did not consider to be true. the prosecution was reminding the jury not to regard those questions as evidence, and warning that to do so would mean to accept an untrue version of the facts. . . . misconduct to ask the jury to believe the (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 207 (huggins).) in huggins, the prosecution said of def none of this can be true. please believe me. he has id. at p. 206.) the supreme court concluded this did not constitute in a criminal trial is nothing more than a request, albeit usually lengthy and presented in narrative form, to believe each partys interpretation, proved or logically inferred from the evidence, of the events that led to the trial. it is not misconduct for a party to make explicit what is implicit in every closing argument, and that is essentially what id. at p. 207.) here are far milder than the statements found not to constitute misconduct in huggins, which 26 teeth.(huggins, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 206.) and, similar to hugginsjury to accept defense counsel were attempting to elicit through their questions. it was an isolated comment in a lengthy closing, and was not the central focus of the argument. any prejudice caused to the defense would be minimal and not warrant reversal. (see, e.g., people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 744 [no prejudice when b. second instance -brother, robert astorga, was initially arrested as a suspect in the murder. in closing, defense counsel repeatedly suggested that the police knew that astorga was the true culprit, but the district attorney had made an and ramirez instead. defense counsel claimed that as a result of sup in rebuttal, the prosecution made the following statement: just because somagainst them. prosecution only files charges when they believe robert astorga is 27 astorga is not sitting where these defendants are sitting. you know, somehow we had something against these two, but not that guy. their argument bites them back because if that guy was so violent and so gang member and so felon, why not just have him sit there? evidence against. we have plenty of people committing crimes in l.a. county. (italics added.) ramirez contends that the italicized statements constitute misconduct. defense counsel neither raised an objection to the statement at trial nor requested an admonition to the jury to disregard the purported impropriety. there is no reason to believe that an admonition would have been ineffective. thus, ramirez has forfeited the issue on appeal.11 (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1000-1001.) even had ramirez preserved the issue, there would be no prejudice requiring reversal. as a general matter, it is improper for a prosecutor to suggest that he or she would not have brought the case unless he or she believed the defendant was guilty. (see people v. kirkes (1952) 39 cal.2d 719, 723; see also 5 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) criminal trial,  772, pp. 1198-1200.) in this circumstance, however, the prosecution was responding to a repeated suggestion by defense counsel that the prosecution had released the actual murderer based on an ke the 11 ramirez argues that his claims regarding the second and third instances of purported prosecutorial misconduct were not forfeited, despite a lack of objection below. we decline to address this argument. as we discuss below, we would reject both claims even had they been properly preserved. 28 decision, that is, that the evidence did not support holding statement that it would not prosecute astorga if he were innocent was that it was prosecuting yoshida and ramirez because they were guilty, the required inference softens the effect of the argument and makes it less likely the jury was improperly influenced by it. moreover, to the extent there was confusion about the time of the homicide; defense counsel argued astorga was there, and the prosecution argued there was no evidence that was so. but this argument was inconsequential as to ramirez who, as discussed earlier, made a clear admission to the police that he was present, and that he came out of his car with a knife. even assuming there was a question as to whether astorga was there, regardless of any argument by the prosecution. c. third instance in closing rebuttal, the prosecution asserted that defense admonished the jury: the truth in this case and not search for doubt. they are asking you to search for doubt. your job is to seek the truth and get jurors essentialimproperly diminishing the standard of proof. ramirez also to find the defendants guilty. 29 again, defense counsel did not object to this statement at trial, and there is no indication an admonition would have been ineffective. thus, ramirez has forfeited this claim on appeal. (people v. cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at pp. 1000-1001.) even were we to reach the issue, on the merits we find no misconducregarding reasonable doubt: proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. the evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. in other words, the court instructed the jury to determine whether the charge was true, and not to struggle unnecessarily with eliminating all possible doubt. similarly, the prosecution cautioned that the jury need not seek reasons to doubt when the truth was otherwise evident. the prosecution did not suggest that the jury ignore or disregard doubts that were reasonable. nor does the record reveal any indication that the prosecution expressly or impliedly told the jurors that it was would be served equally by an verdict. 8. instructional error as to natural and probable consequences yoshida and ramirez argue that the jury instructions allowed them to be convicted of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences theory of aiding and abetting, an outcome barred by chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th 155. for the 30 reasons below, we reverse the conviction of ramirez. we find there was no reversible error as to yoshida. chiu, which was decided approximately seven months before the trial hereconvicted of first degree premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. rather, his or her liability for that crime must be based on direct aiding and abetting (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 158-159.) chiu theories of guilt, one of which was legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in the record (id. at p. must be reversed unless we can conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury based its verdict on a legally valid theory. (ibid.) a. ramirez in regards to ramirez, the jury was instructed on two theories of aiding and abetting: first, under calcrim no. 401, that ramirez directly aided and abetted the murder of stittiams; and second, under calcrim no. 403, that ramirez was guilty of assault with a deadly weapon, a natural and probable consequence of which was the commission of murder. the court instructed the jury separately on first and second degree murder; at no point did the court instruct the jury that it could not find ramirez guilty of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences theory. the prosecution relied on both theories in its closing. it theory. some can agree to aiding and abetting. some can think 31 natural and probable consequences. l have to agree on the deciding that ramirez aided and abetted a 1st degree murder? [or a]re we deciding if ramirez committed a 1st [d]egree [m]to agree on which t as respondent concedes, it was error for the trial court to instruct the jury that it could convict ramirez for first degree murder based on a natural and probable consequences theory. because the jury was instructed on two theories of guilt, one legally correct and one not, we must reverse unless we can conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that ramirez was convicted on the legally correct theory of direct aiding and abetting. we cannot so conclude. the jury was instructed on both theories and was told twice, once by the prosecutor and once by the court, that it could convict on either one, even if individual jurors did not agree which theory applied. in its closing, the prosecution presented scenarios in support of both theories: either that ramirez turned his car around so that he and yoshida could kill stittiams, or that ramirez only intended to commit an assault, the felony underlying the natural and probable consequences instruction. under these circumstances, we cannot be certain beyond a reasonable doubt that no juror chose to convict under the impermissible theory. respondent argues that the note sent from the jurors 32 and therefore not considering the natural and probable consequences theory. although this is a plausible interpretation of the note, it does not eliminate all reasonable doubt: the question may not have come from all the jurors (some of whom may have been focused on the natural and probable consequences theory), or tintended to incorporate both the direct and natural and probable consequences theories, as both were presented to the jury as versions of aiding and abetting. evidence strongly suggests that appellant ramirez shared appellant own closing argument, which presented a plausible scenario in which ramirez merely intended to commit an assault. although it is certainly possible that ramirez shared the intent to kill, we cannot say beyond a reasonable doubt that all jurors made that determination. the people may accept a reduction of the conviction to second degree murder or retry the case and seek a first degree murder conviction under a legally permissible theory. (see chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 168.) b. yoshida as yoshida concedes, the jury instructions regarding natural and probable consequences pertained only to ramirez, the aider and abettor. thus, yoshida could not have been convicted of first degree murder under this legally impermissible theory, and his conviction must stand. 33 deciding whether ramirez committed a first degree murder indicates that some jurors may have decided that ramirez, not yoshida, was the direct perpetrator. in that scenario, yoshida argues, the jurors would find him to be the aider and abettor, potentially under the natural and probable consequences theory. we find this interpretation implausible beyond a reasonable doubt. there was no basis on which the jury could find that ramirez, as opposed to yoshida, was the direct perpetrator. the prosecution presented no evidence or argument that ramirez was the direct perpetrator, and as discussed earlier, the jury instructions regarding aiding and abetting referred only to ramirez. 9. cumulative error and ineffective assistance of counsel yoshida and ramirez argue that to the extent any of their claimed errors do not themselves compel reversal, the cumulative effect of those errors does. ramirez additionally makes a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel to the extent several of his arguments were forfeited on appeal because trial counsel failed to object. we do not agree. as discussed, the instructional error regarding the natural and probable consequences doctrine requires reversal of and cumulatively neither require reversal nor a finding that disposition the judgment against yoshida is afficonviction for first degree murder is reversed. in accordance with chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th 155, this matter is remanded to the trial 34 court with directions to allow the people to accept a reduction of murder, or to elect to retry ramirez for first degree murder under a theory or theories other than natural and probable consequences. if the people elect to retry ramirez, the true finding on the street gang enhancement is reversed as to ramirez only, and the enhancement may be alleged again in the new trial. if the people murder, then the true finding on the enhancement is affirmed, and ramirez shall be resentenced. if the people do not accept the reduction and, after the filing of the remittitur in the trial court, ramirez is not retried within the time described in section 1382, subdivision (a)(2) (60 days unless waived by the defendant), the trial court shall proceed as if the remittitur constituted a modification of the judgment to reflect a conviction of second degree murder with the true finding on the enhancement affirmed, and shall resentence ramirez accordingly. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 