filed 3/9/16 p. v. zavaladiaz ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gustavo adolfo zavaladiaz, defendant and appellant. b263966 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya088257) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed as modified. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, viet h. nguyen, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 following a jury trial, defendant and appellant, gustavo adolfo zavaladiaz, was convicted of three counts of committing a lewd act on a child (pen. code,1  288, subd. (a); counts 1, 3, & 5), oral copulation with, or sexual penetration of, a child under the age of 10 ( 288.7, subd. (b); count 2), and continuous sexual abuse of a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.5, subd. (a); count 4). he was sentenced to the following consecutive terms: 15-years-to-life on counts 1, 2 and 5; six years on count 3, and 12 years on count 4. defendant argues his confession was improperly admitted into evidence because, when providing miranda 2 advisements, the interrogating detective entitlement to an attorney at public expense was limited to his in-court appearances rather than also including his post-arrest interview with the detective. he also contends the trial court was required to impose one-third of the midterm sentence on count 3. the attorney general concedes the second point, and we accept that concession. however, the judgment is otherwise affirmed because, in light of the other convincing evidence pointing a reasonable doubt. facts in july 2012, defendant, his cousin f.z., and f.z four children, lived with f.zmother. at times, defendant leered at f.z. 11-year-old son, m.f., when the boy walked around the house in his underwear. defendant touched m.f. on various areas of his body (buttocks, chest, thighs, genitals) on a daily basis. he watched as m.f. showered and used the restroom. six months later, f.z. and her family moved out of the house and into another home in the same area. defendant moved in with them. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 3 when he lived in f.z.home. defendant forced m.f. to touch defendanwhen the prosecutor asked m.f. to describe what defendant was doing, m.f. testified m.f. referred to defendant gave m.f. money and toys and say anything to his siblings because he considered defendant to be an important figure in the family and wanted to protect him. defendant. on august 24could not do so because defendant had ahold of him. after he was violated, e.z. went to the bathroom and, while he was examining his painful buttocks in the mirror, he accidently defecated in the sink. the accident made his mother angry which, in turn, caused e.z. to tell her what defendant had done to him. f.z. called the police. officers arrived and interviewed f.z. and e.z. defendant and m.f. were at an amusement park at that time. the officers told f.z. to call the police when defendant and m.f. returned, and then left f.z.s home. when defendant arrived home, f.z. that, if you really did that to my kids, that he has to say the truth so you guys can help he f.z. arrival. when the police returned to the home, m.f. informed an officer that he had been inappropriately touched by defendant. on direct examination, the prosecutor asked m.f., that when you were in the bathroom urinating, the deputy rivera advised defendant of his miranda rights. defendant waived his 4 rights, and provided no specific information other than to say that he knew what he did was wrong. defendant was arrested. on august 26, 2013, detective liliana becerra interviewed m.f. m.f. explained some of the mistreatment he suffered at the hands of defendant between july 2012 and august 2013. he said defendant, on separate occasions: reached his hand inside his underwear and grabbed m.f; placed his mouth on the tip of his penis while m.f. was sleeping; undressed m.f; and watched m.f. shower. defendant provided m.f. with candy and video games in exchange for m.f. allowing defendant to touch him. m.f. estimated he had been touched on 50-90 separate occasions during this 13-month period. later that day, becerra met with defendant. at the time, defendant remained under arrest and was read his miranda rights.3 othes. i m.z. he grabbed was his penis. defendant explained he would walk in on m.f. in the bathroom where he on two occasions while m.f. was sleeping and but it was never like with the intention of 3 interview, was admitted into evidence. 5 nything discussion a. miranda 1. the advisement defendant received two sets of miranda advisementsone on august 24, 2013 and the other on august 26, 2013. it is the latter set that defendant argues was inadequate. he maintains the detective improperly told defendant that he would have a right to cost-free counsel only when he reached court as opposed to when he was being questioned by the detective. this defect, he asserts, rendered the confession inadmissible and prejudiced his case to such a degree that reversal of the judgment is required. the exchange between the detective and defendant occurred in spanish. after defendant indicated he understood he had the right to remain silent and that his statements could be used against him in court, the following occurred: [detective] . . . you have the right to have an attorney present before and during questioning. do you understand? [defendant] yeah. [detective] yeah, does that mean yes or no? [defendant] yeah. [detective] y, one will be assigned to you before you are questioned. do you understand? 6 [defendant] [detective] enough money, enough to pay for a lawyeryou will be automatically assigned one without worrying about needing [defendant] [i]f i tell you right now , really have a stable job. [detective] nll give you one anyway to represent you. whether you have money or not. [defendant] okay. [detective] bfinancially cannot afford a lawyer one will be appointed to you before you are questioned. do you understand this question or should i explain it to you again? [defendant] yes, please explain. [detective] all alone, have enough money you will be appointed a lawyer to defend you. [defendant] okay. [detective] do you understand? [defendant] yeah. [detective] [defendant] 7 defendant subsequently signed a miranda form detailing his rights and indicating he understood the questions asked by the officer.4 he then said he wanted to speak with these advisements. it cited several reasons for the ruling including: (1) the law permitted the detective to explain the rights in more detail when an accused expresses a lack of understanding; (2) two days earlier, with rivera, defendant indicated he understood his rights thereby raising a concern about whether defendant was being honest when he expressed some misunderstanding of those same rights read to him by becerra; (3) defendant was not subjected to any form of coercion; and (4) defendant was advised he had a right to have an attorney present during the interview. 2. analysis in order to pto any questioning that he has the right to remain silent, that anything he says can be used against him in a court of law, that he has the right to the presence of an attorney, and that if he cannot afford an attorney one will be appointed for him prior to any questioning if miranda v. arizona, supra, 384 u.s. at p. 479, italics added.) the trial onderance of the evidence to be voluntary, knowing and intelligent under the totality of the people v. sauceda-contreras (2012) 55 cal.4th 203, 219.) miranda examine miranda warnings as if construing a will or defining the terms of an easement. to [a suspect] his rights people v. kelly (1990) 51 cal.3d 931, 948-949.) 4 the form is not included in the record on appeal. 8 we decline to address whether the advisements as a whole reasonably conveyed to defendant that he had the right to an attorney, at public expense, before and during questioning. this discussion is bypassed because it is clear the prejudicial impact attributable to the confession made to becerra is insufficient to warrant reversal of the judgment. accordingly, we resolve the issue against defendant based on the application of well-settled rules concerning the required prejudice for reversal of the judgment due to error under the federal constitution. own confession is probably the most probative and damaging evidence that can be arizona v. fulminante (1991) 499 u.s. 279, 296.) nonetheless, if a trial court erroneously admits a confession that was taken in violation of miranda, the defendant is entitled to a reversal of the judgment only if the error was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. racklin (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 872, 877-878, citing arizona v. fulminante , supra, 499 u.s. at pp. 307-312 & chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 8, 24.) defendant maintains, without his statements to becerra, there would have been onfession admitted in violation of miranda was harmless (people v. elizalde (2015) 61 cal.4th 523, 542), we prejudice. m.f. did not exclude the possibility that defendant was orally copulating him; rather, he said he was not able to remember exactly what defendant was doing and, in conduct when she testified m.f. told becerra that m.f. 9 it is quite clear from the record that anyone in this room has a doubt that there was touching going on, and there was a lot of touching going on. [] the bottom line is this: are you convinced that the touching buttocks, the thigh, arclearly touching was going on. the bottom line is, are you convicted [sic] beyond a 5 ugust 26 statement had not been admitted into evidence as the defense would have still been confronted with the testimony of m.f. and e.z. both children provided significant details regarding eir accounts and the record does not suggest they had any motivation to testify falsely.6 the acts described by the children, e.g., digital penetration of the anus, masturbation by defendant, oral copulation would have been unrebutted if what would have been the only remaining issue 5 each alleged offense had a scienter component. ( 288, subd. (a) [lewd act is an passions, or sexually arouse]; 288.7, subd. (b) [incorporating section 289 which requires the 6 while there is nothing in the record to suggest the children were untruthful, we f.z.testimony that, after e.z. had been violated, she discovered e.z. accidently defecated in the bathroom sink. there was no evidence the defecation was triggered by anything 10 under the circumstances of this case, it is difficult to fathom the acts of sexual nonetheless, the fatal strike to any possible defense that defendant lacked the requisite mens rea was his august 24 comment to rivera. in that statement, after being confronted by f.z. about his misdeeds with her children, and after receiving and understanding his miranda rights, defendant admitted to rivera that he knew what he had done was wrong. in other words, the conduct was not, in any respect, accidental or innocent. given the weight of the evidence, we are convinced, beyond a reasonable doubt, was ruled inadmissible. b. the term imposed on count 3 must be corrected with respect to count 3, defendant was sentenced to a consecutive midterm of six years for committing a lewd act on a child ( 288, subd. (a)). it is true that a trial court has the discretion to impose full consecutive sentences for certain sex offenses. ( 667.6, subds. (c), (d) & (e).) however, the legislature has not included the offense of committing a lewd act on a child as one of those offenses. ( 667.6, subd. (e).) thus, pursuant to section 1170.1, subdivision (a), the trial court was permitted to impose a consecutive sentence for that offense but the consecutive term was limited to one-third of the midterm.. judgment should be amended to reflect a consecutive term of two years on count 3. 11 disposition the trial court is ordered to correct the abstract of judgment to reflect a consecutive term of two years on count 3 and to forward a corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. baker, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 