filed 2/23/17 p. v. velazquez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ernesto romero velazquez, defendant and appellant. b263981 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba406570) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. kimberly taylor, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and chung l. mar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 appellant ernesto romero velazquez appeals from the judgment entered following his convictions by jury of carjacking (count 1) and second degree robbery (count 2), each with a finding he personally used a firearm, and with admissions he suffered a prior felony conviction and a prior serious felony conviction, and served a prior prison term. (pen. code,  211, 212.5, subd. (c), 215, subd. (a), 667, subds. (a) & (d), 667.5, subd. (b).)1 we affirm. factual and procedural summary to the first trial, appellant filed a motion to quash the identification of appellant by the victim in this case during a photograph lineup and at the preliminary hearing, on the ground the lineup was impermissibly suggestive in violation of argue the motion or secure a trial court ruling on it. the jury in the first trial deadlocked and, on february 21, 2014, the trial court declared a mistrial. appellant did not later renew his due process motion to quash or file a new one. at the conclusion of the second trial, the jury deliberated two hours 20 minutes, asked no questions of the court, and, on february 23, 2015, convicted appellant as previously indicated. 1 on april 7, 2016, appellant filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus (case no. b271390) and, on april 15, 2016, this court ordered that this appeal and the petition be considered concurrently. the petition will be the subject of a separate order. 3 1. . a. ramirez. (1) ramirezoffenses. yovani ramirez martinez (the victim, hereafter, ramirez), using a spanish interpreter, testified as follows. ramirez spoke a little english. about 10:30 p.m. on september 29, 2012, ramirez, a cook, was driving his honda accord (license plate number 6eod158) and returning home from work. he stopped at a red light at normandie and exposition and let a couple, a male and female, cross the street. ramirez rolled down his window. ramirez testified he weapon was a semiautomatic gun. the gunman, whom ramirez identified at trial as appellant, told ramirez to get out of the car or appellant would kill him. the prosecutor asked ramirez to describe the gunman, and ramirez tattoo on his chest, two tattoos on his arm, with one a woman, one with a skuwearing a white t-shirt. ramirez also testified as follows. ramirez was inside his car when he saw appellant lift his shirt and pull out the gun. appellant was two or three feet from the car. appellant lifted his shirt high enough for ramirez ramirez was parts of his body. after appellant pulled his shirt up, he opened the car door. appellant grabbed ramirez by the shoulder, took him out the car, and twisted his arm behind his back. the gun barrel was 4 touching ramirezramirez did not turn his head but saw ar. the prosecutor asked ramirezout of the car . . . the defendant, how long did you have a chance ramirez initially said ramirez also testified that when he was coming out the car, he later asked ramirez how long he had a chance to look at ramirez was getting out the car. ramirez replied he saw him about five to 30 seconds. at one point the court asked ramirez what was the ramirez was first confronted to the time ramirez could no longer see him. ramirez ramirez later saw appellant perhaps a minute when appellant and others were leaving in the car and ramirez was on the sidewalk. ramirez arm(s) were ramirez saw those tattoos ramirezramirez ramirez appellant had hair and was fatter than he was on september 29, 2012. after appellant pulled ramirez out of the car, appellant called a second person to take ramirez to the sidewalk. the second person was an african-american man who had a tattoo on his neck and was wearing dreadlocks. the second man put a gun 5 to the back of ramirezramirezside, held ramirezthe sidewalk. ramirez had a chance to look at the second ramirez that if he moved, the second gunman would kill him. the second gunman spoke to ramirez in english. the second gunman took ramirezwallet and cell phone. the second gunman told ramirez not to turn around or he would be shot. during cross-examination, ramirez testified that, right after the second gunman told ramirez not to turn around, ramirez saw appellant for a minute, driving away in ramirezcar. ramirez also testified he turned his head and saw seven people, including the couple who had crossed the street, enter his car and drive away.2 there were five men and two women. a cd ramirezramirez walked away and had a citizen call 911. (2) subsequent events. (a) ramirez 911 call and the arrival of police. at trial, the prosecutor played a tape of ramirez calling 911. ramirez was nervous and afraid when he called. the tape reflected ramirez spanic people and that ramirez whether what happened was fresh in his mind when he made the call. ramirez ramirez whether he correctly 2 los angeles police detective enrique robledo testified ramirez told him that the second suspect threatened to kill ramirez if he moved or turned around to see them leave in his 6 ramirez ramirez white, hispanic, or asian, and ramirez replieramirez about 40 minutes after that call and he was still nervous and afraid. (b) ramirez about october 29, 2012, ramirez tow yard. his stereo system and car parts, such as windshield missing. his cooking utensils that had been in the trunk were missing as well. (c) ramirez in about december 2012, ramirez met with detective robledo, who showed him a photographic lineup containing six photographs (hereafter, six-pack). ramirez identified photograph no. 1 as depicting the carjacker. (appellant concedes photograph no. 1 depicted him.) ramirez also wrote a statement in spanish. number one as the person who took my car with a gun.[3] it was an automatic weapon. [] the second person was about six five. his hair was curly. those were the two people who were carrying ramirez testified photograph no. 1 depicted a person with tattoos and not wearing a t-shirt, and ramirez did not see tattoos on the persons depicted in the remaining five photographs. 3 this sentence implies ramirez made his statement to robledo after viewing photograph no. 1. 7 (d) first trial. ramirez testified at trial that, at the may 2013 preliminary hearing, he saw appellant in the courtroom and this made ramirez nervous. ramirez called robledo and told him ramirez feared for his life. robledo told ramirez to step outside or stay near someone until robledo arrived. robledo quickly arrived.4 ramirez testified at the preliminary hearing as follows. after the incident, university of southern california police arrived, los angeles police arrived about 40 minutes later, and, still later, a third los angeles police officer arrived in a patrol car. ramirez told that third officer that appellant had tattoos on his arms. ramirez identified appellant at the preliminary hearing as the person who robbed and carjacked him. ramirez testified he turned going to kill ramirez. ramirez observed appellant probably four or five seconds when appellant made that statement. when ramirez stepped out the car, he was looking in another direction and not at his assailant. ramirez identified appellant at the first trial as the person who robbed and carjacked him. 4 robledo testified that on the date of the preliminary hearing, ramirez called robledo and told him appellant was in court and ramirez was afraid. robledo told ramirez to leave the building or remain in the courtroom near a deputy. robledo arrived, entered the courtroom, and saw ramirez and appellant seated with perhaps two people between them. ramirez pointed out appellant to robledo. robledo took ramirez out of the courtroom. 8 b. officer los angeles police officer chris jones testified as follows. about 11:50 p.m. on september 29, 2012, jones and his partner responded to exposition and budlong. once there, jones contacted ramirez. jones did not remember whether ramirez spoke in english or spanish. ramirez hook upas a result of what had just happened to him. ramirez told jones that ramirez was held at gunpoint and taken out of his car. ramirez gave jones a brief description of who took his car. ramirez said he was surrounded by four males and two females. jones testified the main person who stood out to ramirez ramirez also said the person who pulled ramirez out of the car and pointed a 5 jones testified ramirez skinned male black, possible male ramirez was unable to describe the hearing, jones testified the only person ramirez described was a c. los angeles police officer ernesto escoto testified as follows. about 10:10 p.m. on october 1, 2012, escoto found the honda in the rear parking lot of an apartment building at 2464 5 roblenumber one as a male hispanic, brown, unknown [sic], six foot, 200 pounds, 30 to 35, blue shirt, blue jeans, tattoo on the neck, 9 east lake in los angeles. the carand was advised the car was stolen and to hold it for prints.6 accordingly, escoto did not enter the car and inspected it only from the outside. escoto did not remember whether there was a cd on the front passenger seat, but there could have been one arrived and towed the car. neither escoto nor his partner rolled d. fingerprint evidence. on october 4, 2012, los angeles police print specialist t prints from the honda.7 the prints were placed on 11 print cards. print card no. 1 contained a fingerprint moses recovered passenger seat. print card no. 9 contained three palmprints that 6 an instruction to hold a vehicle for prints meant an officer was to place a note on it indicating the car was being held for prints so no one would enter the vehicle. if a person conducted a follow-up inspection of such a vehicle, the person would have to sign in with the tow truck company. 7 moses testified the honda was in a locked building where vehicles that were being kept for evidence were housed. the building was only opened for los angeles police or experts like moses. the honda was apparently unlocked; moses had not indicated in his notes that the honda was locked. moses testified that based on his diagram and notes, up. 10 moses recovered in the rear trunk area above and to the right of the license plate. print card no. 10 contained another palmprint moses recovered from the rear trunk area, just above the license plate. los angeles police forensic print specialist ruben sanchez testified as follows. the 11 print cards were run through a computer that identified appellant as a possible suspect and provided an exemplar of his prints. a comparison specialist compared the print cards with the exemplar and concluded three conpersonally obtained a print exemplar from appellant. sanchez compared that exemplar with the 11 print cards and confirmed was found on a , print card no. 9 contained three left palmprints of appellant, and print card no. 10 contained another left palmprint of appellant. e. (1) the six-pack. robledo testified as follows. in november 2012, a fingerprint recovered from the honda was matched to a suspect and, as a result, the ramirez report was assigned to robledo. robledo investigation division (sid)] to ernest velazquez, his arrest and cii number, assigned to detective robledo for . . . further follow-robledo did not receive a photograph of appellant with the report. on december 5, 2012, the case was assigned to robledo. robledo immediately called ramirez to meet with him. 11 on december 6, 2012, ramirez came to the station and robledo prepared a six-pack. robledo indicated the above cii number meant the person to whom it was assigned probably had photograph depicted appellant.8 rand knew about the suspect description that ramirez gave to jones as reflected in the report. however, jones did not use that report when preparing the six-pack. robledo testified report (see fn. 5, ante) did not match the person depicted in photograph no. 1 of the six-pack, except for the fact the depicted person was a male hispanic. in the six-pack, photograph no. 1 was the only photograph depicting a person with tattoos and the only photograph depicting a person not wearing a shirt. 8 after robledo so testified, the court indicated outside the presence of the jury that when defense counsel had asked robledo from where he had obtained the photograph, all robledo had to say was he obtained it from law enforcement resources, and he did not need to mention the cii number or the probable [a]s part of his tesfrom a police computer and that . . . it was likely as a result of a cii number that the defendant had or a prior arrest. [] i am in our assessment of appellantineffective assistance claim, we consider post the stricken information, not as evidence heard by the jury, but as considered. 12 when ramirez came to the station on december 6, 2012, robledo had him wait while robledo accessed a california department of justice computer to obtain five remaining photographs for the six-pack. robledo entered into the computer , 20 years oldinformation about tattoos was not t make up the computer system. descriptors. ro through them and try to make some sense of what the computer is spitting out elect them. you have to computer generated the remaining five photographs of the six-pack. on december 6, 2012, robledo showed the six-pack to ramirez. (2) ramirez. robledo also interviewed ramirez on december 6, 2012. the conversation was in spanish. robledo, relying on his memory and notes, testified that ramirez described appellant and an african-american male. ramirez descfive seven to five eight, 170 to 180 pounds, 28 to 32 years old, white t-shirt, blue jeans, white sneakers, tattoo on either the left or right forearm of either a skull or a female, tattoos on both ramirez told robledo that ramirez [the] to exit the car. ramirez 13 ramirez never mentioned a chest tattoo to robledo. robledo, referring to his notes, testified ramirez described the african-american male. robledo listed him as suspect no. 2. hispanic, slash, black, black hair, unknown color eyes, about six feet, 200 pounds, 30 to 35 years old. . . . black shirt, blue jeans, e [ramirez] says, . . . he might have been hispanic, most likely black. and i asked him why. when he spoke with ramirez were admitted into evidence. (3) subsequent events. robledo testified that prior to the 2013 preliminary hearing, he had never met appellant and, at the time of the preliminary hearing, robledo did not know whether appellant in trial, robledo took photographs of tattoos on appellant. the area showing a chest tattoo and a large red mark towards the viewed very quickly, could be interpreted as resembling a skull because the photograph depicted sunken eyes, and the photograph could be so interpreted even though the skull was colored orange to resemble a devil. before robledo took the photographs, he did not know whether appellant had those 14 tattoos. when robledo took the photographs, he saw no tattoos 2. defense evidence. in defense, salvador medina testified as follows. medina was a director of victory outreach (victory), a recovery home. appellant were friends. on march 12, 2013, the date of the preliminary hearing, medina brought appellant to the courthouse and sat with him in the courtroom. ramirez arrived, then sat next to appellant for about 30 to 45 minutes. ramirez was not nervous and did not behave abnormally. robledo entered the courtroom and called ramirez into the hallway. when ramirez reentered the courtroom, he sat behind and away from medina and appellant. issues appellant claims (1) he was denied effective assistance of counsel by ramirez654 barred multiple punishment on his convictions. discussion 1. appellant did not receive ineffective assistance of counsel. appellant claims he received ineffective assistance of as violative of due process his identification of appellant on the ground the six-pack was impermissibly suggestive and the identification was unreliable. we reject the claim. 15 a. applicable law. was so defective as to require reversal of a conviction . . . has two must show that objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing people v. ledesma (1987) 43 n performance was deficient, a criminal defendant must also establish prejudice before he can obtain relief on an ineffective-id. at p. 217.) prejudice is shown when there is a reasonable probability proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. in assessing an ineffective assistance attack on trial coupresumed unless the record affirmatively excludes a rational people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 1259-1260.) moreover, on appeal, if the record sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation, an ineffective assistance contention must be rejected. (people v. slaughter (2002) 27 cal.4th 1187, 1219.) 16 [a]n attorney representing a criminal defendant generally has the right to control trial tactics and strategy, despite differences of opinion or even open objections from the [citation.] decisions regarding whether to object to certain evidence or to make motions affecting evidentiary matters people v. scheer (1998) 68 cal.app.4th 1009, 1024.) ether the admission of of law, we consider (1) whether the identification procedure was unduly suggestive and unnecessary, and, if so, (2) whether the identification itself was nevertheless reliable under the totality of people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 989 (cunningham).) as to the first above enumerated consideration, the united states supreme court, in previous ocess concerns arise only when law enforcement officers use an identification perry v. new hampshire (2012) 565 u.s. 228, 238-239 [181 l.ed.2d 694] (perry).) moreover, [o]nly if the challenged identification procedure is unnecessarily suggestive is it necessary to determine people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 930-931.) ing the existence of an unreliable identification procedure. [citations.] out from the others in a way that would suggest the witness cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 990.) unreliability in the totality of the circumstances.ibid.) 17 b. application of the law to the facts. we need not decide the due process issues of whether perry, supra, 565 u.s. at p. 239), or whether the photograph caused appellant stand out from the others in a way that would (cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 990.) the ineffective assistance issue before us is whether the record affirmatively excludes a rational basis for a no. 1 and the six-pack. in the present case, based on the rationally could have concluded not to renew the motion on due process grounds because: (1) photograph no. 1 was not suggestive, (2) photograph no. 1 was the only photograph of appellant available to robledo, therefore, its use was necessary, and (3) under the totality of the circumstances, ramirezliable. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 122.) (1) concluded that photograph no. 1 was not suggestive. in the present case, detective robledo did not use robledo simply inputted into a computer a cii number that was associated with the fingerprint match and assigned to appellant, the computer generated the photograph robledo had of appellant (from a prior arrest), and robledo made it photograph no. 1 in the six-pack. thus, robledo had no control over depicted his features or himchest tattoos or the depiction of him without a shirt, and had no 18 control over whether those depictions allegedly caused appellant prior to seeing this computer-generated photograph, the detective had not met appellant and therefore could not have selected a suggestive photograph of him. thus, any alleged suggestiveness of photograph no. 1 was not intentional. moreover, photograph no.1 was inconsistent with the to the extent it described the carjacker as having a tattoo(s) on his neck (not on his chest or shoulders) and cornrows. robledo, in presenting a-pack, was not presenting a photograph of appellant that completely matched ramirezdescription of the suspect to jones. in fact, the only common factors between the computer-generated photograph and ramirezdescription were hispanic ethnicity and the mere fact of a tattoo(s). in sum, have refrained from making a due process motion because he concluded he would not be able to meet his burden of demonstrating that photograph no. 1 and/or the six-pack were suggestive perry, supra, 565 u.s. at p. 239, italics added). the fact that a different trial counsel might have concluded differently does not compel a contrary conclusion. (2) nably could have concluded that photograph no. 1 was the only available photograph of appellant, therefore, its use was necessary. appellant cites no evidence that any law enforcement officer involved in this case had another photograph of appellant. nor, for that matter, does the record demonstrate robledo could have obtained the remaining photographs in the six-pack in any 19 way other than the way that he did. the computer generated the first and only photograph of appellant. in other words, counsel reasonably could have concluded that use of photograph no. 1 in the six-pack was necessary. aining from filing a suppression motion because he reasonably could have concluded that he could not meet his burden of demonstrating that the six-pack was both and unnecessaryperry, supra, 565 u.s. at p. 239, italics added). (3) concluded that the identification was reliable under the totality of the circumstances. finally, concluded that ramirezwas reliable under the totality of the circumstances, negating the need to suppress the identification. ramirez testified at trial that, at the preliminary hearing, he told a los angeles police officer on september 29, 2012, that appellant had tattoos on his arms. photograph no. 1 does not robledo testified at trial that, as late as the preliminary hearing date, he did not know one way or the other whether appellant had tattoos on either of his arms. thus, ramirezconcerning tattoos based on ramirezindependent memory. similarly, ramirezattackers, appellant and the african-american male, was not suggested by photograph no. 1 and/or the six-pack, but was based on ramirezindependent memory. photograph no. 1 (depicting appellant, a hispanic male) does not suggest the existence of a second suspect, namely, an african-american male. however, 20 once ramirez saw photograph no. 1, he consistently maintained he had two attackers, appellant and the african-american male. ramirez gave robledo detailed descriptions of both, and ramirez clarified by his statements to the detective and later testimony that (1) appellant had a shaved head and the arm and chest tattoos, and (2) the african-american male was wearing cornrows and was the person who had the tattoo on his neck. ramirez clarified there were two gunmen, not one. photograph no. 1 could not have suggested these additional facts. during the present trial, ramirez testified to the effect that he had many opportunities to identify appellant. while still inside his car, he was able to look at appellan and other parts of his body. ramirez testified he approximately 30 seconds while being removed from his car and saw appellant for an additional minute while appellant was driving away. ramirez identified appellant at the preliminary second trial. refraining from filing another due process motion because trial counsel rationally could have concluded he would not have been cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 990.) no ineffective assistance of counsel occurred. 2. penal code section 654 did not bar multiple punishment. th was not that ramirez was physically robbed of his car and/or its contents by appellanttheory as reflected in their opening statement and jury argument was that appellant was not only liable for carjacking, but was liable for robbery because (1) he aided and abetted the robbery of 21 ramirez of his wallet by handing him off to cohort, the african-american man, who then at gunpoint moved ramirez away from his car to the sidewalk before committing that robbery, or (2) that robbery was the natural and probable consequence of the carjacking.9 during sentencing, the court concurrent prison terms, and the court later did so. appellant claims penal code section 654,10 barred multiple punishment on his convictions. we disagree. whether a course of criminal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of [penal code] section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of such offenses but not for more than one. 9 although the robbery instruction did not specify the property that was taken by force or fear, the people did not argue to the jury that appellant and the african-american were joint perpetrators of the robbery of the wallet. the people did not argue, for example, that (1) appellant used force or fear to remove ramirez from the car, not only intending to take the car, but intending the african-and (2) the african-american, with that understanding, took the wallet. 10 n act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. 22 [citation.]people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 885 (capistrano).) purpose of [penal code] culpability.objective, not temporal proximity of his offenses, which determine whether the transaction is indivisible. [citation.] court; [to permit multiple punishments,] there must be evidence to support [the] finding the defendant formed a separate intent [citation.] (capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at p 886, fn. omitted.) as an implied finding that the defendant possessed multiple intents or objectives, i.e., as a conclusion penal code section 654 does not apply. (people v. alford (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1463, most favorable to the respondent and presume the existence of every fact the trial court could reasonably deduce from the people v. jones (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1139, 1143.) reversed on appeal if there is substantial evidence to support them. (id. at pp. 1143, 1147.) in capistrano, the california supreme court rejected the claim that the trial court in that case violated penal code section 654 by imposing multiple punishment for carjacking and home invasion robbery. (capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 885-887.) despite the temporal proximity of the offenses (id. at p. 887), the court found that the (ibid.) by first accosting them at their 23 cars and later inside their residences. (ibid.) capistrano stated, elevation of the threat to the victims by forcing them into their homes where defendant committed additional crimes amount[ed] to a separate criminal objective. ibid.) here, as in capistrano, the victim was confronted twice and by more than one assailant. appellant personally committed an act of violence against ramirez by pointing a gun at his head, then appellant elevated the threat of harm to ramirez by handing him over to who committed a separate act of violence by pointing a different gun at ramirezhead and robbing him of his wallet (and phone). had appellant simply intended to commit carjacking, he could have done so at the initial point of contact by driving away with the stolen car and robbing ramirez . instead, appellant aided and abetted the armed robbery of ramirez at a different location by a different assailant wielding a different gun, amounting to a separate criminal objective. (cf. capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 887.) the risk ramirez might be harmed either accidentally, during any effort by him to resist or flee, and/or by the intervention of a third party increased while the cohort was forcing ramirez away from his car at gunpoint. once at the sidewalk, the cohort also took ramirezhim from using it to call for help. in sum, the trial court was not obligated to treat appellant as no more culpable than a standstill strong-arm robber. the purpose of penal code section 654 is to insure that punishment is culpability. the trial court reasonably could have concluded that when appellant, as an aider and abettor, robbed ramirez of his wallet, appellant committed 24 armed robbery with an elevated threat to ramirez, and the elevated threat amounted to a separate criminal objective.11 (cf. capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 887.) section 654 did not s convictions.12 11 that is, it cannot be said that the natural and probable consequence theory was the theory of guilt as to the robbery. 12 none of the cases cited by appellant (including people v. bauer (1969) 1 cal.3d 368, distinguished by capistrano) compel a contrary conclusion. this also includes people v. dominguez (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 410 (dominguez), a case in which the defendant plato the victim, felt like a gun and the defendant demanded everything [the victim] had. id. at p. 420; see pp. 414-415.) in response (and unlike what happened in the present case), the victim in dominguez handed over his jewelry and van and fled, resulting in, simultaneously, a robbery of both items and a carjacking. (id. at p. 420.) moreover, in dominguez (unlike in the present case), the people conceded in the trial court that penal code section 654 barred multiple punishment for robbery and carjacking. (dominguez, at p. 419.) 25 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports goswami, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 