filed 7/26/18 p. v. sendejas ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arthur sendejas et al., defendant and appellant. b263449 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba420834) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, edmund wilcox clarke, jr., judge. as to defendant gina sanchez, reversed. as to defendant arthur sendejas, affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. jerome mcguire, under appointment by the court of appeal for defendant and appellant arthur sendejas. melissa hill, under appointment by the court of appeal for defendant and appellant gina sanchez. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, 2 assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, victoria b. wilson and chung l. mar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ two men, one of whom was identified as defendant arthur sendejas (sendejas), a gang member, fired multiple shots at robert r., who was affiliated with a nonrival gang. after police learned from a confidential informant that sendejas had a copy of the police report of the possession contained identifying information about the witnesses to the shooting. sendejas had received the copy of the report from his cousin, codefendant gina sanchez (sanchez), who worked for the police. both were arrested. following a joint trial, a jury convicted sendejas of attempted murder, firearm possession by a felon, attempted dissuasion of a witness, and conspiracy to dissuade a witness. the jury also found true gang and firearm enhancements. the jury convicted sanchez of attempted dissuasion of a witness and conspiracy to dissuade a witness. on appeal, defendants assert prejudicial discovery violations and evidentiary and instructional errors, errors , and insufficient evidence to support the convictions and gang and for of a witness for insufficient evidence, remand for the trial court to enhancement, enhancements. 3 factual and procedural background a. the charges sendejas was charged in a fourth amended information with four felony counts: attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder (pen. code,  664, subd. (a), 187, subd. (a)),1 firearm possession by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1), attempted dissuasion of a witness ( 136.1, subd. (c)(2)) and conspiracy to dissuade witness ( 182, subd. (a)(1)). as to the attempted murder count, the information specially alleged sendejas had personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)) and the offense was gang-related and punishable by a life term pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5)). as to the attempted witness dissuasion and conspiracy counts, it was specially alleged sendejas had committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, and with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(a), (b)(4)). as to all counts, the information specially alleged sendejas had suffered one prior strike conviction ( 667, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and one prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and had served one prior prison term for a felony ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the same information charged sanchez with two felony counts: attempted dissuasion of a witness and conspiracy to dissuade a witness. 1 statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 4 the defendants pleaded not guilty, and sendejas denied the special allegations. the case proceeded to trial. b. summary of the prosecution evidence 1. the events leading up to the shooting robert r.2 he was friendly with members of the gang, but he no longer associated with them. robert r. younger brother, omar r., was a gang detective for the montebello police department. in september 2012, robert r. and n.v., his live-in girlfriend, had a violent argument, which robert r. reported to the montebello police department. robert r. knew he risked n.v. who was on parole at the time. n.v. left and moved in with sendejas, with whom robert r. later learned she had been having an affair. n.v. and sendejas began making threatening phone calls to robert r. sendejas and martin v., both sangra gang members, attempted to confront robert r. outside his house. 2. the shooting on october 14, 2012, robert r. was in his backyard, when he saw sendejas and martin v. at the nearby gate. the two men yellwith martin v. the bullets struck a car belonging to k.b., who was visiting robert r. k.b. telephoned the emergency operator 2 to protect personal privacy interests, we identify certain people by first name and last initial only and, in some instances, by initials only. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b).) 5 a handgun over the gate. neither robert r. nor k.b. was injured in the shooting. s.f. was inside the house located in front of robert r.the same lot. she saw two men approach the backyard and peek n . . . . . . house. s.f. told montebello police officer daniel contreras that she described the shooter as mexican, with a moustache, a patch of hair below his bottom lip, and tattoos on his right arm. after interviewing s.f. and k.b., officer contreras wrote a report (the shooting report) and included their identifying information. later, robert r. and s.f. separately identified sendejas as the shooter from a six-pack photographic lineup prepared by detective craig adams. following s.f.identification of sendejas, detective adams showed her a single photograph of sendejas.3 on november 20, 2012, charges were filed against sendejas and a warrant for his arrest was issued. sendejas was arrested on january 16, 2013 and was released on bail. 3. the conversations between sendejas and the confidential informant and the search home b.l. (informant), a former gang member, worked as a paid confidential informant for the montebello police department gang detectives, including omar r., robert r. 3 s.f. testified detective adams showed her the single photograph and then pressured her to identify sendejas in the photographic lineup. 6 informant knew sendejas through n.v., the sister of informantwife. on june 11, 2013, informant told montebello police detectives cervantes and adams that sendejas had acquired a sanchez, who worked at the montebello police department. sendejas had un informant agreed to try to obtain for the detectives the unredacted shooting report in sendejas informant telephoned sendejas and offered to show a copy of the report to stranger(a moniker), who was a member of robert r.former metro 13 robert r. had snitched to the police. sendejas agreed to have informant on june 26, 2013, informant met sendejas in a parking lot. informant was wearing a concealed audio recording device that recorded their conversation.4 during the conversation, sendejas warned informant endejas said his attorneys had refused to give him a copy of the unredacted shooting report, and he was not supposed to have it.5 at trial, informant acknowledged that on october 4, 2013, four days before the preliminary hearing, he told detectives adams and cervantes that sendejas did not commit the 4 sendejas was played for the jury at trial. 5 on august 17, 2013, the police executed a search warrant report. 7 shooting.6 instead, informant reported, robert r. had staged the shooting because he was angry with sendejas over n.v. and wanted to get sendejas arrested.7 on direct examination, informant recanted his october 4, 2013 statements to detectives informant the time by emotions and family loyalty. 4. the investigation of sanchez sanchez, sendejasmontebello police department. as a records technician, sanchez was able to view, modify, download, and photocopy police reports records management system. sanchez also had access to the original hard-copy police reports stored in the master case record file. her job required that she sign an acknowledgement of the confidentiality of criminal record information. when victims or suspects were provided copies of police reports, witness and suspect identifying information was always redacted. in the wake of informantsupervisor, began auditing audit revealed that sanchez had accessed the shooting report on numerous occasions between november 28, 2012 and august 21, 2013 and deleted addresses and aliases from martin v.sendejas 6 provided them to the defense. 7 at his request, informant was relocated by the montebello police department shortly after this conversation. 8 appeared to coincide with court proceedings and/or police investigations related to the shooting. on september 13, 2013, the montebello police department devised a ruse that involved scanning a false supplemental report to the shooting report into the records management system. the supplemental report listed new, but nonexistent, eyewitnesses. in sanchezconversation with detective julio calleros about the phony eyewitnesses and mentioned n.v., sendejas and martin v. minutes later, sanchez accessed the false supplemental police report, took a break, and was seen using her cellphone. iris belliston, a document examiner for the los angeles the probably not produced from a scanned and printed copy of the from the master case record file. 5. the gang evidence sergeant javier clift (sergeant clift) of the los angeles ng expert. according to sergeant clift, the mexican mafia prison gang controlled all the sureno or hispanic gangs. it set the rules governing gang culture, of which respect, fear, and reputation were important aspects. under the rules, if a gang member were disrespected and failed to retaliate, both the gang member and the gang would be perceived as weak by their own gang, other gangs, and the community. a gang member was also obligated to retaliate if a fellow gang member, family member, or romantic partner were disrespected. 9 gang members instilled fear in the community by committing violent crimes. they also engendered fear by wearing gang-affiliated tattoos, painting graffiti on public places and, although not common, by yelling their gang name before committing a crime. invoking the gang name was a way to ensure the crime victim realized the gang supported the commission of the violent crime. assisting law enforcement, the consequence of which was always death. a sureno gang member accused of snitching was not to be legal document indicating the gang member had cooperated with the police. an unredacted police report bearing name and statements to the police qualified as paperwork. if that paperwork were given to fellow gang members, they were sergeant clift was familiar with the sangra gang, which began in the city of san gabriel. the primary activities of the sangra gang were narcotics sales, murder, murder for hire, assault with a deadly weapon, automobile theft, car stripping, robbery, burglary, and identity theft. prior crimes committed by convicted sangra gang members included murder in april 2009 and dissuading a witness in december 2009. sergeant clift learned about the facts of both crimes from sergeant valdez, a gang investigator for the san gabriel police department. sergeant clift also had read about the murder in the newspaper. sendejas neck, all of which signified his sangra gang affiliation. according to sergeant clift, sendejas had been known to him since the 10 preliminary hearing approximately eight months earlier. sergeant clift opined sendejas was an active member of the sangra gang based on information clift had received from -related tattoos. when presented with a hypothetical based on the facts of the events leading up to the october 14, 2012 shooting and the shooting itself, sergeant clift opined the shooting would have been committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, and with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. sergeant clift reasoned because the shooter arrived at identified his gang membership immediately prior to firing his gun, the shooter was in effect proclaiming to the neighborhood that his gang was fearless, as its members were willing to leave their own neighborhood to commit crimes. when presented with a follow-up hypothetical based on the recorded and unrecorded conversations between sendejas and informant, sergeant providing an unredacted police report of the shooting in exchange for the promise to show it to thmember, would have been committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, and with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. sergeant clift explained the hypothetical demonstrated the power of the gang because one of its members had a law enforcement contact able to supply the was a snitch. 11 c. summary of defense evidence neither defendant testified at trial. n.v.violent argument with robert r. was that he threw a beer bottle at her and pushed her into a shelf full of bottles. dr. kathy peck, an eyewitness identification expert, opined that s.f.hotographic identification of sendejas was unduly tainted by detective adams suggestive behavior (as recounted by s.f. at trial): showing her a single photograph of sendejas and telling her other witnesses had identified him as the shooter before s.f. had selected his photograph from the six-pack. , irene s., sendejas was at home on the afternoon of october 14, 2012 watching a football game. for the brief time she left, sendejas remained at home with their younger children. he did not have tattoos on his left arm until december 2012. a family photograph taken in november 2012 showed sendejas did not yet have tattoos on his arm. presented with a hypothetical based on the facts of this case, martin flores, a gang expert, opined that the shooting resulted from a private dispute between two people who happened to be gang members; the shooting was not gang-related. according to antoinette nunez, an intelligence analyst for the california department of justice and an expert in cell telephone charting, the cell telephones of sendejas and martin v. at the time of the shooting were hitting cell telephone towers located 13.6 miles from where the shooting occurred. 12 d. verdicts and sentencing the jury convicted sendejas and sanchez as charged and found true, as to sendejas, the gang and firearm enhancements. in bifurcated proceedings, sendejas admitted he had a prior robbery conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court sentenced sendejas to an aggregate state prison term of 55 years to life. the trial court sentenced sanchez to three years in state prison, suspended execution of sentence, and placed her on three years of probation. discussion i. the verdicts against sanchez were based on insufficent evidence sanchez challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the verdicts.8 the jury convicted her in count 3 of attempted dissuasion of robert r., a witness and a victim, by the threat of force or violence and as part of a conspiracy in violation of section 136.1. section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) prohibits [ing] to prevent or dissuade any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any or by an express or implied threat of force or violence, upon the 8 because we agree with sanchez and reverse her convictions, we need not reach her other contentions on appeal. 13 that sanchez personally attempted to dissuade robert r., the people proceeded on the theory that sanchez aided and abetted sendejas in attempting to dissuade robert r. within the meaning of section 136, subdivisions (a)(2), (c)(1) and (c)(2). sanchez was also convicted in count 4 of conspiracy to dissuade a witness. ( 182, subd. (a)(1), 136.1.) here, the l liability was that she conspired with sendejas to commit the crime based on evidence of certain overt acts. the people relied on the same overt acts to prove sanchez guilty of the attempted dissuasion count. a. the standard of review in reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we examine the entire record and draw all reasonable inferences therefrom in favor of the judgment to determine whether there is reasonable and credible evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 44, accord, people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 241 (streeter).) our review is the same in a prosecution primarily resting upon circumstantial evidence. (people v. watkins (2012) 55 cal.4th 999, 1020.) we do not reweigh the evidence or reassess the credibility of witnesses. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60.) we accept the logical inferences the jury might have drawn from the evidence although we may have concluded otherwise. (streeter, at p. 241.) 14 b. the evidence was insufficient to prove sanchez had the requisite knowledge or intent to commit the charged offenses whether sanchez convictions should be reversed hinges on the sufficiency of the evidence to support the intent elements of attempted dissuasion of a witness and conspiracy to dissuade a witness with respect to purported role as aider and abettor or co-conspirator in the commission of the crimes. is rarely susceptible of direct proof and usually must be inferred from the facts and circumstances surrounding the (people v. pre (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 413, 420.) attempted dissuasion of a witness is a specific intent crime. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1210; people v. wahidi (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 802, 806.) the defendant must have acted and malice, as used with this offense, is intent to vex, annoy, harm, or injure in any way another person, or to thwart or interfere in any manner with the orderly administration of ( 136, subd. (1), 136.1, subd. (a)(2)r acts, no crime has people v. mcdaniel (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 278, 284.) as pertinent here, for sanchez to be convicted of attempted dissuasion of a witness as an aider and abettor, there first must be sufficient evidence that she acted with knowledge of robert r. (see people v. mendoza (1998) 18 cal.4th 1114, 1123; accord, people v. johnson pose is not sufficient for aiding and 15 abetting; the defendant must also share that purpose or intend to (people v. nguyen (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 518, 530.) [a]n aider and abettor will the specific intent when he or she knows the full extent of the criminal purpose and gives aid or encouragement with the intent or purpose of facilitating the commission of the (in re meagan r. (1996) 42 cal.app.4th 17, 22.) on appeal, without separately addressing the attempted dissuasion and conspiracy convictions, the people assert sanchez harbored the requisite intent for the charged offenses. in support of their claim, the people point to the following circumstantial evidence: sanchez gave sendejas an unauthorized copy of the shooting report prior to june 11, 2013 and altered portions of internal police department records concerning him, conduct which was prohibited by her training and at great risk to her job. november 2012 and august 2013 and accessed a fake supplemental report in september 2013. according to the people, a jury could reasonably infer from this evidence that sanchez intended to commit the crimes. explicit as to sanchezas an aider and abettor: the prosecutor urged that sanchez to have when she gave the report containing the witness identification information to sendejas that he intended to use it to dissuade a witness. the prosecutor explained her theory as follows: you have to understand that the nature of the information she was giving him proves she knew its unlawful purpose, because nothing else you can do with that 16 information. no other reason to have the prosecutor reasoned, for sanchez to be guilty of aiding and abetting, she has to know is that when giving [the report] to him, it is because going to use it to intimidate a witness. dissuade a witness. to interfere with the orderly process of the prosecutor then argued sanchez shared intent to dissuade a witness by aiding sendejas was shown by evidence that she was willing to ignore her training and jeopardize her employment to give sendejas the confidential material. add to that that [sanchez] is related to the man accused and that she is accessing the alleged co-suspect [martin v.] information and deleting stuff, and you have clear, circumstantial evidence of an agreement and of her we find the position unsupported by the record. it is undisputed that the entirety of the evidence linking sanchez to the crime of attempted dissuasion of a witness was her unauthorized dissemination of the unredacted police report and her prohibited computer activities at the police station. the issue is whether this evidence was sufficient to prove the intent element of aiding and abetting, namely, that sanchez knew sendejas intended to commit the crime and intended to facilitate his commission of the crime. we conclude the evidence failed to show knowledge of sendejas specific intent and reverse her conviction of attempted dissuasion of a witness on that ground. without the requisite knowledge of criminal purpose, she could not have shared his specific criminal intent. the evidence that sanchez left an unredacted copy of the shooting report at the home of sendejas mother and that it subsequently came into possession supported a 17 reasonable inference that sanchez intended for sendejas to receive the report. her willingness to go to great lengths to acquire the report for sendejas and at great personal cost suggested she was highly determined to do so. this evidence, however, failed to show why sanchez obtained the report for her cousin. evidence of reason for obtaining the report was relevant to show whether she knew of sendej specific intent to use the report to dissuade a witness. such knowledge cannot be inferred from the other evidence purportedly connecting sanchez to the crimeher prohibited computer activity. by deleting some of sendejas personal information and monitoring his case, sanchez may have been attempting to protect her cousin. this may also have been intent in giving the report to sendejas. if so, her protectiveness tells us nothing about her knowledge of her criminal purpose. finally, there was the confidential material in the report. as noted, the prosecutor argued that knowledge of sendejas specific intent to dissuade a witness should be imputed to sanchez from the nature of the material in the shooting report. sanchez to have from the unredacted identifying information that her cousin intended to use it for an unlawful purpose. this argument is premised on the assumption that sanchez believed or anticipated, prior to providing the shooting report, that sendejas intended to commit the crime. nothing in the record supports this assumption; it is based solely on speculation. for example, there was no evidence of relationship with sendejas, her understanding of his gang activities, or her familiarity with gang culture and its rules governing snitching. the suggestion, in cross-examining sergeant clift, that sanchez sought her job to enable her cousin 18 to have unauthorized access to confidential police records was without evidentiary support. merely because sanchez improperly disclosed confidential material to sendejas, does not prove she had knowledge of his intent to use it to dissuade a witness. the crime of conspiracy to dissuade a witness requires proof of two specific intentsa intent to agree to commit the target offense, and a specific intent to commit that (people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 123; accord, people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 870.) for sanchez to be found guilty of this offense, there must be sufficient evidence that sanchez specifically intended to agree or conspired with sendejas to dissuade a witness and specifically intended to dissuade robert r., which was the object of the conspiracy. the specific intent to agree to commit a crime may be, and from the secret nature of the crime typically is, established by circumstantial evidence. thus, it is not necessary for the people to prove the purported conspirators met or made an express agreement. (people v. tran (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 1207, 1221.) evidence is sufficient if it supports an inference that the parties positively or tacitly came to a mutual understanding to commit a (people v. prevost (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1382, 1399; accord, people v. homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 870.) it is necessary, however, for the people to establish that the known facts establish beyond a reasonable doubt the existence of an agreement to commit the underlying offense. (people v. austin (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1596, 1607.) here there was no evidence, direct or circumstantial, that sanchez made an agreement with sendejas to dissuade robert r. or any witness. the only agreement involving sanchez was to furnish sendejas with the unredacted shooting report. no 19 inference could logically be drawn that because sanchez agreed to provide sendejas with the report, she also agreed with him, expressly or tacitly, to intimidate a witness. without sufficient evidence of an agreement, the conspiracy verdicts against both defendants on this charge must also be reversed. ii. sufficient evidence supported the verdict of attempted witness dissuasion against sendejas sendejas challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support his conviction of attempted dissuasion of robert r., a witness and a victim, by the threat of force or violence in violation of section 136.1 as charged in count 3. sendejas argues there was insufficient evidence he harbored the requisite intent to be found guilty of the crime. as discussed, section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) prohibits nowingly and maliciously attempt[ing] to prevent or dissuade any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any an intent to vex, annoy, harm, or injure in any way another person, or to thwart or interfere in any manner with the orderly ( 136, subd. (1).) he offense is a felony. ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1).) sendejas is not contending his attempt to dissuade robert r. was unknowing. rather, he maintains his attempt was not malicious. specifically, sendejas argues there was no credible evidence of his intent to harm robert r. or to prevent him from testifying. applying the applicable standard of review (see people v. zaragoza, supra, 1 cal.5th 21, 44), we conclude 20 there was substantial evidence that sendejas knowingly and maliciously attempted to dissuade robert r. according to the testimony of informant, sendejas was in possession of an unredacted copy of the shooting report, which sendejas said he planned to give to robert r. sendejas later readily agreed that informant could have a copy of the report as to show one of robert r. fellow gang members that robert r. was a snitch. sergeant clift, the gang expert, testified that or legal documents from courts or law enforcement agencies were used by gangs to prove a gang member listed in the document was a snitch or sought help from the police. if a own member was a snitch, the gang was obligated to by retaliating against the snitch, typically killing the offending gang member. this testimony established both an intent to harm robert r. and an intent to prevent him from testifying. by detailing what he perceives as critical omissions and contradictions in informant testimony, sendejas is inviting us to reweigh the evidence and to engage in speculation, neither of which is the function of an appellate court. (people v. culver (1973) 10 cal.3d 542, 548; people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048, 1081, overruled in part on other grounds in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1.) determining witness credibility is the exclusive province of the trier of fact. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) nothing in the record shows that informantsuggests, inherently improbable or physically impossible. there 21 iii. sufficient evidence supported the gang enhancements a. overview of the governing law the california street terrorism enforcement and the one component of the statute is a sentence enhancement for association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang defined as an organization that has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the crimes enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e) and whose occasions or by two or more persons within a three-year period. ( 186.22, subds. (e), (f); people v. loeun (1997) 17 cal.4th 1, 9.) testimony of a gang expert, founded on his or her conversations with gang members, personal investigation of crimes committed by gang members, and information obtained from colleagues in his or her own and other law enforcement agencies, may be sufficient to prove a primary (people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1465.) b. the relevant testimony make money through selling narcotics, identity theft, automobile theft, and prostitution. later, the prosecutor twice asked 22 sergeant clift to enumerate the kinds of crimes committed by sangra gang members. the first time, sergeant clift answered with a list of crimes that included section 186.22, subdivision (e) predicate offenses, murder, assault with a deadly weapon, and dissuading a witness. the prosecutor posed the question again, this time inquiring whether sangra gang members had individually or collectively engaged in a pattern of criminal sergeant may have covered this. i apolin response, sergeant clift provided a list of predicate offenses similar to his previous answer, adding burglary and robbery. of any specific prior convictions of sangra gang members committing or attempting to commit any of the crimes listed in . . . sergeant clift related april 2009, and bobby mattersfor dissuading a witness, which he committed in december 2009. the prosecutor then introduced certified copies of the trial court records supporting the convictions. sergeant clift acknowledged he had not been involved in investigating these cases, but he became familiar with the underlying facts from conversations with sergeant valdez, a gang investigator of the san gabriel police department. sergeant clift also had read about the murder in the newspaper. sergeant clift opined, based on this information, that casio and matters were sangra gang members. the prosecutor introduced photographs of sendejastattoos and asked sergeant clift to explain their significance to 23 assault rifle, which sergeant clift testified represented the circle clique, a subset of the sangra gang. sergeant clift explained a clique was a group of gang members that are from the main and gave examples of how gang members decide to self-identify as a clique within a gang, noting gang is arguing the above testimony is wanting, sendejas individual gang members [casio and matters] committed predicate offenses is insufficient to prove that those are the the meaning of people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59 (prunty); (2) the evidence upon which the gang expert relied in relating that casio and matters were sangra gang members constituted case-specific testimonial hearsay prohibited by people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez); and (3) the evidence established the shooting was motivated by personal enmity, not gang-related enhancement findings has merit. c. the standard of review evidence to support an enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify 24 the trier of findings, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. [citation.] reviewing court neither reweighs evidence nor reevaluates a witnesss (people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 59-60.) d. people v. prunty case in prunty, the defendant argued the people failed to introduce sufficient evidence to prove he had committed the underlying offenses for the benefit of a criminal street gang, contesting the theory that the relevant ongoing organization, association or group was the gang known as the norteos in general. (prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 70.) specifically, the defendant contended use of crimes committed by various norteo subsets to prove the existence of a single norteo organization . . . improperly conflated multiple separate street gangs into a single norteo gang without evidence of activities or collective organizational to warrant treating those subsets as a single entity (ibid.) the california supreme court agreed, holding, the case positing the existence of a single street for purposes of section 186.22, [subdivision] (f) turns on the existence and conduct of one or more gang subsets, then the prosecution must show some associational or organizational connection uniting those subsets. that connection may take the form of evidence or collaboration or organization, or the sharing of material information among the subsets of a larger group. alternatively, it may be shown that the subsets are part of the same loosely hierarchical organization, even if the subsets 25 themselves do not communicate or work together. and in other cases, the prosecution may show that various subset members exhibit behavior showing their self-identification with a larger group, thereby allowing those subsets to be treated as a single (prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 71.) sendejas misperceives the reach of prunty. the need for the people to show sufficient associational or organizational links comes into play only when the people seek to prove the defendant committed crimes to benefit the gang as a whole with evidence of felonies committed by members of the subsets. prunty does not apply where, as here, the theory was the sangra gang was an entity and individual gang members were acting on behalf of the entity. (see people v. ewing (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 359, 372 [prunty does not apply where the people do not proffer the predicate crimes of subset gang members to prove the existence of a criminal street gang].) further, the people presented sufficient evidence to support their theory: sergeant clift testified to the primary activities of the sangra gang as a whole, which included predicate offenses committed by sangra gang members casio and matters to benefit the gang. (see people v. margarejo (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 102, 108 [gang testimony that the main or primary activities was to commit crimes, including murder was sufficient evidence of the primary activities].) indeed, no evidence was adduced that casio and matters belonged to a sangra gang subset or had acted on behalf of a gang subset. (see people v. pettie (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 23, 49-50.) although there was evidence of affiliation with the circle clique, there was no evidence he committed the crimes 26 at issue for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with this subset. again, relying on prunty, sendejas maintains the people provided insufficient evidence of a pattern of criminal activity based on merely two predicate offenses. the statute, however, requires nothing more. (see  186.22, subd.(f).) it appears sendejas would have us apply prunty whenever there are predicate offenses committed by individual gang members or a gang subset exists. prunty is limited to a discrete set of facts, and we decline to extend its holding as urged by sendejas. e. people v. sanchez case sendejas argues sergeant opinion that the defendants in the predicate casio and matters offenses were sangra gang members constituted inadmissible testimonial hearsay prohibited by sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665.9 (id. at p. 686.) 9 arguably, sanchez changed the law on the proper scope of expert testimony as it existed prior to sendeja(see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686, fn. 13 [disapproving people v. gardeley suggested an expert may properly testify regarding case-specific out-of-court statements without satisfying hearsay ruleaccordingly, we do not find sendejas forfeited this issue by failing to raise an objection at trial. (see people v. welch (1993) 5 been futile or wholly unsupported by substantive law then in people v. blessett (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 903, clause 27 in sanchez, the gang expert testified he had worked as a gang officer for 17 years and investigated more than 500 gang cases. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 671.) while he had never met the defendant and had never been present during any police contacts with him, the gang expert had reviewed the notice, which was provided to a suspected gang member to warn him or her of criminal exposure for participating in gang crimes. the expert also reviewed the (fi) card chronicling his gang history. (id. at pp. 672-673.) the gang expert described four reports of police contacts with the defendant and related statements contained in police documents. (ibid.) the expert testified about the delhi gang culture, its activities, territory, and the offenses committed by other delhi gang members. (id. at p. 672.) the expert opined, based on all this information, that the defendant was a member of the delhi gang and had possessed the gun and drugs as charged to benefit the gang. (id. at p. 673.) the california supreme court reversed the gang enhancement, concluding the expert testimony that the defendant was a gang member was derived from erroneously admitted evidence. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 670-671.) the court the following rule: when any expert relates to the jury case-specific out-of-court statements and treats the content of those statements as true and accurate to support the opinion, the statements are hearsay. it cannot logically be maintained that the statements are not being admitted for their truth. if the case is one in which a prosecution expert seeks to relate testimonial hearsay, there is a confrontation clause given the state of the decisional law prior to the introduction of 28 violation unless (1) there is a showing of unavailability and (2) the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination or forfeited that right by (id. at p. 686.) the court identified testimonial hearsay statements to be those made to memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. nontestimonial statements are those whose primary purpose is to deal with an ongoing emergency or some other purpose unrelated to preserving facts for later use at (id. at p. 689.) the sanchez court, however, carefully limited the reach of its holding. first, it explained, decision does not call into question the propriety of an testimony concerning background information regarding his knowledge and expertise and premises generally accepted in this field. . . . thus, our decision does not affect the traditional latitude granted to experts to describe background information and knowledge in the area of his (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 685.) the court found the gang testimony about general gang behavior and his descriptions of the conduct and territory of gang were admissible on well-recognized sources in [the area of (id. at p. 698.) second, the sanchez court emphasized, expert may still rely on hearsay in forming an opinion and may tell the jury in general terms that he did so. because the jury must independently evaluate the probative value of an testimony, evidence code section 802 properly allows an expert to relate generally the kind and source of the upon which his opinion rests. . . . there is a distinction to be made between allowing an expert to describe the type or source of the matter relied upon as opposed to presenting, as fact, case-specific 29 hearsay that does not otherwise fall under a statutory exception. [] what an expert cannot do is relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by competent evidence or are covered by a hearsay (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685-686.) from the facts before it, the sanchez court concluded the gang testimony relating case-specific information obtained from police reports was improper testimonial hearsay because it concerned case-specific facts gathered during an official investigation of a completed (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 694.) the expert testified about the portion of step notices retained by the police, which were signed by an officer under penalty of perjury and included the biographical information, whom he was with, and what statements he (id. at p. 696.) the court held that this information was sufficiently formal to constitute testimonial hearsay. (id. at pp. 696-697.) here, sendejas targets evidence of the predicate offenses, and asserts alleged predicate crime to establish a pattern of criminal gang activity is an element of a gang allegation [and] must be considered a case- according to sendejas, because sergeant clift opined that casio and matters were sangra gang members after consulting with gang investigator sergeant valdez, sergeant hearsay prohibited by sanchez. appellate courts, including our district, have rejected this argument, although we acknowledge the split of authority among the districts on whether gang membership of a person 30 as defined by sanchez.10 thus, in people v. meraz (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 1162, review granted on another ground march 22, 2017, s239442 with directions that the opinion remain precedential (meraz), division 8 of our district reiterated the limitation the sanchez court imposed on its ruling, to wit, that to the particular events and participants alleged to have been involved in the case being id. at pp. 1174-1175, quoting sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. the (meraz, at p. 1175, quoting sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 698.) the meraz court boffenses tried in that case. (meraz, at p. 1175.) accordingly, sanchez did not require exclusion of that testimony. in people v. blessett, supra, 22 cal.app.5th 903, the third district held that facts regarding gang membership of defendants to predicate crimes used to establish a pattern of gang it first observed that sanchez did not address predicate offenses, but instead, facts used by a gang expert to establish (id. at p. 944.) the blessett court then concluded that facts historical facts related to the gangs conduct and activities. these facts pertain to the gang as an organization and are not specific to the case being tried. they orgapattern of c and is thus a 10 see, e.g., people v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575 (first district). 31 criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (f)) irrespective of the events and participants in the case being tried. a predicate offense and the underlying events are essentially a chapter in the gangs biography. (people v. blessett, at pp. 944-945, italics omitted.) similarly here, sergeant reliance on a conversation with gang investigator sergeant valdez in testifying that the defendants in the two predicate offensescasio and matterswere sangra gang members did not contravene sanchez. we further conclude that even if admission of this testimony were error under sanchez, it was not prejudicial beyond a reasonable doubt.11 certified copies of the minute orders in the casio exhibit 67) and matters exhibit 68) cases were admitted into evidence at trial.12 exhibit 67 reflects that the jury found true that casio had committed first degree murder the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street (exhibit 67, p. 30.) exhibit 68 recites that the jury found true that matters offense of intimidating a witness to prevent the witness from testifying was the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang (exhibit 68, p. 31.) in addition, the 11 we apply the more exacting federal standard of review admission of sergeant cli (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 689; meraz, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at p. 1176.) 12 because the record did not include those exhibits, we requested the clerk to obtain copies of the exhibits from the superior court. on our own motion, we augment the record to include the exhibits. 32 june 29, 2011 minute order in exhibit 68 describes exhibits admitted in matters criminal case, including a photograph of graffiti on a including (id. at p. 23) and a reference to a person appearing in an exhibit as a [hat] that bears the word (id. at p. 25). finally, sendejas has failed to identify any hearsay statement, let alone testimonial hearsay, that would run afoul of the confrontation clause under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36.) f. substantial evidence established the shooting was gang-related sendejas does not claim there was insufficient evidence to prove the attempted dissuasion of a witness offense was committed for the benefit of, or in association with, the sangra gang. instead, sendejas challenges the gang enhancement on the attempted murder conviction. he argues the evidence showed the attempted murder of robert r. was motivated by personal enmity not gang retaliation. although his romantic rivalry with robert r. over n.v. may have triggered their dispute, the evidence supported the finding that the attempted murder was committed for the benefit of, or in association with, the sangra gang. the jury heard robert r., who was gang-affiliated, acknowledge he had violated gang culture by snitching to police about his physical altercation with n.v. the jury also heard evidence that sendejas and his confederate martin v. were members of the sangra gang, and that sendejas had prominent gang tattoos signifying his affiliation with the gang. the attempted murder of robert r. occurred outside his home when sendejas and 33 martin v. approached, and one or both of them called out robert r. recognized the two gang members and given that the shooting involved two sangra gang members acting in concert, the jury reasonably could have concluded the crime was gang-related and committed with the specific intent to benefit members of the sangra gang. (people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 68 substantial evidence establishes that the defendant intended to and did commit the charged felony with known members of a gang, the jury may fairly infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by those gang people v. villalobos (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 310, 322 mission of a crime in concert with known gang members . . . supports the inference that the defendant acted with the specific intent to promote, further or assist gang members in the commission of the the jury also heard sergeant expert testimony that a gang member who allowed himself, his family member, or wife/girlfriend to be disrespected would harm the reputation in the community. in response to a hypothetical drawn from the evidence in this case, sergeant clift opined the shooting would have been committed for the benefit of and in association with a criminal street gang. sergeant clift explained because the gang member was armed, arrived with backup, and yelled his gang name, he was broadcasting his lack of fear and willingness to commit crimes outside of their neighborhood. (people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 63 opinion that particular criminal conduct benefited a gang by enhancing its reputation for viciousness can be sufficient 34 to raise the inference that the conduct was for the benefit of a criminal street ].) in sum, the true findings on both gang enhancements were supported by substantial evidence. iv. the trial court did not err in violation of sixth amendment right to counsel on appeal, sendejas argues that (1) as of june 26, 2013the onversation with informantsendejas was represented by counsel on the aggravated assault charge; (2) the charges of aggravated assault and the then uncharged counts for attempted murder and firearm possession by a felon are the same offense under the analysis in blockburger v. united states (1932) 284 u.s. 299 (blockburger); (3) the sixth amendment right to counsel thus attached as of june 26, 2013 to the attempted murder as well as the firearm possession by a felon counts, and the police therefore could not employ informant to obtain incriminating statements from sendejas; (4) the people conceded the sixth amendment right to counsel attached to the attempted murder charge as of june 26, 2013 as well as that informant was then an agent of the police; (4) under massiah v. united states (1964) 377 u.s. 201 (massiah), the trial court erred in refusing to give a jury instruction requested by defense counsel conversation to then uncharged witness dissuasion counts, but disallowing its consideration in deliberating on the attempted murder and firearm possession by a felon counts; and (5) the failure to give that limiting instruction was prejudicial error under chapman v. state of california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. 35 the people did not respond to this argument on appeal, although at the jury instruction conference, they relied on texas v. cobb (2001) 532 u.s. 162 (cobb) in arguing that massiah apply merely to related offenses. a. the relevant pretrial proceedings, contents of the unrecorded and recorded conversations, and the proposed jury instruction as a result of the october 14, 2012 shooting, sendejas was charged by felony complaint in november 2012 with aggravated assault. in january 2013, following the filing of the information, sendejas was arrested, appointed counsel, and released on bond. thereafter, sendejas and informant would apparently see each other socially because n.v., sendeja on june 11, 2013, informant informed the police that sendejas had repeatedly bragged that he was in possession of a copy of the unredacted shooting report, he had obtained the report from his cousin gina sanchez rather than from his gang members. informant agreed to try to obtain the unredacted shooting report from sendejas. informant came up with the idea of contacting sendejas and offering to show the report to stranger, a member paperwork or proof that robert r. had told the police about attempted murder. the detectives in their presence from the police station. during the telephone 36 on june 26, 2013, informant met with sendejas and surreptitiously recorded their conversation for the montebello police department. on the recording, sendejas could be heard ng member: sendejas admonished [] . . . . going to get come back to me, . . . [] . . . dog. [] . . . [] i tried asking my lawyers and all that, dog, and on or about january 20, 2014, the people dismissed the information and filed a complaint charging sendejas with the gang-related attempted murder of robert r. based on the record n april 2, 2014, the people filed an amended information charging 37 sendejas with gang-related attempted murder, firearm possession by a felon, and attempted dissuasion of a witness.13 statements he made to informant, the people filed an opposition june 26, 2013, the dattached to the attempted murder charge that is the basis of reliable informant) was working as a police agent in questioning relying on blockburger, the people contended that because the offenses of attempted murder and witness dissuasion the proof of very different sixth amendment right had not attached to the attempted witness dissuasion charge on june 26, 2013, and his statements made to informant during the recorded conversation were admissible against him. evidence was admitted for a limited purpose. you may consider that evidence only for that purpose and for no other. evidence of a tape-recorded conversation between [informant] and defendant arthur sendejas is not to be considered in connection with your deliberations on count one and two, which are charges of attempted murder and felon in possession of a firearm. you may only consider the tape-recorded conversation in your deliberations on counts three and four, the charges of dissuading a witness and conspiracy to dissuade a witnes 13 the information was repeatedly amended; defendants sendejas and sanchez were ultimately tried on the fourth amended information. 38 the prosecutor opposed the instruction because massiah is offense specific related. the trial court agreed with the prosecutor. b. massiah and progeny in massiah, the united states supreme court held that a judicial proceeding has been initiated against an accused and the sixth amendment right to counsel has attached, any statement the government deliberately elicits from the accused in the absence of counsel is inadmissible at trial against the (people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 66-67; see massiah, supra, 377 u.s. at pp. 206-207.) the sixth amendment right, however, is offense specific. it cannot be invoked once for all future prosecutions, for it does not attach until a prosecution is commenced, that is, or after the initiation of adversary judicial criminal proceedingswhether by way of formal charge, preliminary hearing, indictment, information, or arraignment (mcneil v. wisconsin (1991) 501 u.s. 171, 175.) in cobb, the supreme court reiterated that the sixth amendment right to counsel is offense specific. (cobb, supra, 532 u.s. at p. 168.) the court rejected the argument that the right to counsel attaches not only to the charged offense, but also to other offenses that are closely related factually to the charged offense. the court then stated, definition of an is not necessarily limited to the four corners of a charging instrument. in blockburger v. united states, 284 u.s. 299 (1932), we explained that the same act or transaction constitutes a violation of two distinct statutory provisions, the test to be applied to determine whether there are two offenses or only one, is whether each provision requires proof of a fact which 39 the other does [citation.] we have since applied the blockburger test to delineate the scope of the fifth amendment double jeopardy clause, which prevents multiple or successive prosecutions for the [citation.] we see no constitutional difference between the meaning of the term in the contexts of double jeopardy and of the right to counsel. accordingly, we hold that when the sixth amendment right to counsel attaches, it does encompass offenses that, even if not formally charged, would be considered the same offense under the blockburger (cobb, supra, at p. 173.) thus, the sixth amendment did not bar the police from interrogating the defendant concerning the murders because when he confessed to the murders, he had been indicted for the burglary, but had not been charged in the murders, and as defined under texas law, burglary and capital murder were not the same offense. (id. at p. 174.)14 c. under blockburger, sixth amendment right had not yet attached to the then uncharged attempted murder and firearm possession by a felon charges at the time of his recorded conversation with informant although sendejas had been charged with assault with a firearm and not yet with attempted murder or firearm possession by a felon on june 26, 2013, the time of his recorded conversation 14 accord, people v. martin (2002) 98 cal.app.4th 408, 424 is true even if the facts relating to the witness intimidation were inextricably intertwined or closely related to the charged offense of 40 with informant, the people conceded at the previously described suppression hearing that for purposes of massiah, sixth amendment right to counsel had already attached to the subsequently filed attempted murder charge. we reject the concession, finding it erroneous as a matter of law. (cf. in re daniel k. (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 661, 666; in re meranda p. (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 1143, 1166, fn. 17; and people v. howard (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 1526, 1539, disapproved on an unrelated ground by people v. fuhrman (1997) 16 cal.4th 930, 947, fn. 11.) under the blockburger test, assault with a firearm and attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder cannot be considered the same offense. assault with a firearm requires proof that the defendant attempted, and had the present ability, to apply force against another person using a firearm. (see  240, 245, subd. (a)(2).) in contrast, attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder requires proof that the defendant engaged in a direct but ineffectual act toward killing the victim with the specific intent to kill. ( 188; people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1467, disapproved on an unrelated ground by people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 199.) each offense requires proof of a fact that the other does not: aggravated assault mandates proof that the defendant attempted and was able to apply force using a gun, whereas attempted murder does not; it can be committed without the use of physical force or a gun. attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder requires proof that the defendant specifically intended to kill the victim; whereas assault with a firearm does not. (people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 788.) aggravated assault requires an intentional act and actual knowledge of those facts sufficient to establish that the act by its 41 nature will probably and directly result in the application of physical force against (id. at p. 790.) sendejas cites no authority for his argument that the crime of firearm possession by a felon under section 29800, subd. (a)(1) is considered the same offense as aggravated assault under the blockburger test. the conclusion that it is not is patent from the any person who has been convicted of . . . a felony . . . and who owns, purchases, receives, or has in possession or under custody or in light of these differences between the offenses, sixth amendment right to counsel was not implicated with respect to the then uncharged attempted murder and firearm possession by a felon offenses at the time informant recorded his conversation with sendejas. accordingly, the trial court correctly determined there was no massiah violation and properly declined to give the proposed limiting instruction. because there was no massiah error, we do not address claim of prejudice. v. the trial court did not improperly limit impeachment of robert r. sendejas contends the trial court abused its discretion and violated his right to present a defense by limiting his opportunity to impeach robert r.turpitude. a. the relevant testimony robert r. testified on direct examination that during an argument in september 2012, n.v. threw a beer bottle, striking 42 him in the head. robert r. demanded that she leave and reported the incident to the montebello police department. on cross-examination, robert r. denied he was the aggressor during the argument and testified n.v. pushed him into a shelf and threw a beer bottle. he also denied brandishing a gun. at the time, there were no guns in his home. detective paul antista of the montebello police department testified that, following an investigation, the for prosecution, and the office declined to pursue it. n.v. testified on direct examination that during their september 2012 argument, robert r. pushed her into a shelf, threw a beer bottle at her, and retrieved a gun from his room. n.v. at this point in n.v.and had the jury and n.v. leave the courtroom. the trial court asked sendejastrial under the guise of impeaching [robert r.]coulwas offering n.v.robert r.noting that robert r. had denied the claims made by n.v. and it was robert r.[n.v.] counsel explained that n.v.argument. the trial court ultimately ruled the evidence that robert r. threw the bottle and brandished a gun was inadmissible collaterthese issues is not justified by the potential impact, which is only 43 if the jury uses it properly to conclude perhaps they should not believe [robert r.] because he engaged in domestic violence, not bec sendejaswas also admissible to support the defense theory that robert r. had framed sendejas for the shooting. the trial court stated the evidence was collateral, time-consuming and of no assistance to the jury in deciding the case. the trial court advised that the defense could elicit testimony from n.v. that robert r. had a motive to lie about the september 2012 incident. the trial court uld not permit n.v.testify, if she would be testifying solely about the september 2012 incident. counsel acknowledged that was her anticipated testimony. finally, the trial court concluded robert r. could not be impeached for the purported criminal act of brandishing a gun in violation of section 417 because the offense did not reflect a readiness to do evil. when the trial reconvened, the trial court n.v. about supposedly seeing a gun. n.v. b. the standard of review trial ruling to admit or exclude evidence offered for impeachment is reviewed for abuse of discretion and will be upheld unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a miscarriage of justice. (people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 240, disapproved on another ground by people v. romero & self (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 53.) 44 c. the trial court properly exercised its discretion ato present a defense by excluding proposed impeachment evidence on collateral issues misconduct not resulting in a felony conviction may be admissible to impeach credibility if it involves moral turpitude, because such conduct bespeaks a willingness to lie or a readiness to do evil. (people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 295-296.) the is broad. (id. criminal trials from degenerating into nitpicking wars of attrition ibid.) the california supreme convictions entails problems of proof, unfair surprise, and moral turpitude evaluation which felony convictions do not present. hence, courts may and should consider with particular care whether the admission of such evidence might involve undue time, confusion, or prejudice which outweighs its probative id. at pp. 296-297; accord, people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 443.) sendejasrobert r.that he was the aggressor with the testimony of n.v. and, presumably, her mother. counsel also intended to show with n.v.robert r. lied when he denied brandishing a firearm and the act of brandishing a firearm evinced moral turpitude. the trial court made a decision that any further evidence from n.v. and her mother would be more prejudicial 45 than probative under evidence code section 352.15 we find no abuse of discretion. the nature of the misconduct at issue, brandishing a firearm, involved potential violence rather than bearing directly on robert r.people v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d onvictions which are assaultive in nature do not weigh as heavily in the balance favoring admissibility as those convictions which are based on dishonesty or some other lack of integrity ].) office not to prosecute the september 2012 incident weakened any inference of moral turpitude and thus its probative value. furthermore, having witnesses continue to testify and be cross-examined about the domestic violence incident had the potential to be both time consuming and distracting. whether robert r. brandished a firearm during the incident was tangential to the feel compelled to resolve what happened in the collateral domestic violence dispute, rather than consider whether the acts of domestic violence purportedly committed by robert r. against n.v. were a reason to doubt his credibility in this case. given the collateral nature of the disputed issues in the domestic violence incident, we also fail to see how the exclusion of the purported misconduct in that incident implicated sendejasright to present a defense. (see generally holmes v. south 15 evidence code section 352 provides that it is within the the the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue 46 carolina (2006) 547 u.s. 319, 324 whether rooted directly in the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment or in the compulsory process or confrontation clauses of the sixth amendment, the constitution guarantees criminal defendants meaningful opportunity to present a complete defense. although this right can be abridged by evidence rules that infring[e] on a weighty interest of the accused and are arbitrary or disproportionate to the purposes they are designed to serve (holmes, at p. 324) the ordinary rules of right to present a defense. (people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 270; holmes, at pp. 326-327.) vi. the trial court did not improperly limit -examination of s.f. sendejas claims the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to allow s.f. to be cross-examined concerning her knowledge of the kind of people she had seen visiting robert r.home. sendejas further argues this inability to cross-examine s.f. also violated his constitutional right to confrontation and to present a defense. a. the relevant testimony on direct examination, s.f. testified that two men approached robert r.when the gate would not budge, the men stood facing each other, just talking. s.f. stated that she thought the men were robert r. on cross-examination, sendejass.f. why she thought the two men at the gate were robert r.response, s.f. tes 47 met [robert r.coming and going when i would visit my cousin [in the front the trial courtrial or their fashion the trial court addepeople worry me too. . . . do you have much more with this witness?the trial court decided to take a lunch recess. during the lunch recess, the trial court asked if sendejascounsel was attempting to elicit from s.f. that she had seen gang members visiting robert r.your honor. his visitors, in robert [r.]trial court admonished that such testimony would be speculative; s.f. would not be able discern whether a person is a gang member simply by observing their appearance or movements. the trial court robert r.testimony that he was not associated with gang members by sanchezen stated s.f. had apparently testified during the preliminary hearing that she assumed the two men who walked up to the gate were gang members based on their robert r.] had coming to and trial court declined to change its ruling. 48 b. the trial court properly exercised its discretion and did not violate sright to cross-examine s.f. in people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 301, the california supreme court explained that every restriction on a desired method of cross-examination is a constitutional violation. within the confines of the confrontation clause, the trial court retains wide latitude in restricting cross-examination that is repetitive, prejudicial, confusing of the issues, or of marginal to impeach robert r.associated with gang members, sendejaselicit testimony from s.f. that she saw gang members visiting robert r.was vague, and no foundation had been laid either as to s.f.(evid. code,  403, 702) or her expertise in that area (evid. code,  801), the trial court could reasonably have found that the question raised speculative issues that were more prejudicial than probative. (see evid. code,  352.) we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion or infringe on se. as a general matter, the ordinary rules of evidence do not impermissibly infringe on the right to present a defense. courts retain, moreover, a traditional and intrinsic power to exercise discretion to control the admission of evidence in the interests of orderly procedure and the avoidance of (people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 620.) 49 vii. the admission of the photographic identification of sendejas did not violate his due process rights sendejas argues his due process rights were violated by an unduly suggestive photographic identification of him as the shooter. a. the relevant proceedings and testimony on the day of the shooting, s.f. met montebello police detective adams at the police station. he showed her a six-pack photographic lineup that included sendetranspired after s.f. viewed the photographic lineup was the subject of conflicting evidence presented at the preliminary hearing. s.f. testified that she was not able to identify sendejas from the photographic lineup until adams showed her a single photograph of him. she then reexamined the six-pack and identified sendejas as the shooter. detective adams testified at the preliminary hearing that s.f. selected sendejasom the photographic lineup and identified him as the shooter. adams then showed s.f. a whether it looked more like the photograph she had chosen. s.f. adams told her it was the same person in both photographs. based on s.f.filed a pretrial motion to suppress any photographic and in-court identifications of him as the shooter as infringing his due process rights. the people opposed the motion. 50 following a hearing, the trial court denied the motion. in explaining its ruling, the trial court observed that the conflicting evidence of what occurred during the photographic lineup procedure in testimony was believable and s.f. the trial court concluded the photographic lineup that the parties were not precluded from presenting the conflicting evidence of the photographic lineup procedure at trial. the trial testimony of s.f. and detective adams was similar to their preliminary hearing testimony. b. the governing law and standard of review determine whether the admission of identification consider (1) whether the identification procedure was unduly suggestive and unnecessary, and, if so, (2) whether the identification itself was nevertheless reliable under the totality of the circumstances, taking into account such factors as the opportunity of the witness to view the suspect at the time of the offense, the accuracy of his or her prior description of the suspect, the level of certainty demonstrated at the time of the identification, and the lapse of time between the offense and the identification. [citation.] we review deferentially the trial courts findings of historical fact, especially those that turn on credibility determinations, but we independently review the trial courts ruling regarding whether, under those facts, a pretrial identification procedure was unduly suggestive. [citation.] only if the challenged identification procedure is unnecessarily 51 suggestive is it necessary to determine the reliability of the resulting identification. people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 930-931.) c. s.f.ejas was not unduly suggestive in determining whether the photographic identification anything caused defendant to stand out from the others in a way that would suggest the witness should select him. (people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 943.) sendejas relied on s.f.evidence it was unduly suggestive. showing s.f. a single updated photograph after she failed to identify him from the six-pack certainly would have caused sendejas to stand out from the others when she reexamined the six-pack and selected his photograph. the trial court discredited s.f.photographic identification procedure in favor of detective s.f. was not shown the single photograph of sendejas until she had already reviewed the six-pack and had identified him as the shooter. in people v. gordon (1990) 50 cal.3d 1223 (overruled on another ground in people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863 and people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952), the eyewitness to a robbery made a tentative identification of one of the robbers in a live lineup. upon reflection while driving home, the eyewitness became certain of her identification of the shooter. she later received a telephone call from one of the detectives in which he 52 assured her that she had picked the right person.16 (id. at pp. 1241-1242.) the california supreme court held that troactively suggestive, due process rights. (id. at p. 1243.) similarly, here, the photographic identification of sendejas as the shooter was not unduly suggestive, and the trial court did not err in admitting it. viii. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting s.f.concerning hang-up telephone calls and the immediate need to move from her home sendejas contends the trial court abused its discretion by admitting s.f.s testimony about hang-up telephone calls she had move out immediately. according to sendejas, the testimony was improper lay opinion evidence of his guilt. a. the relevant testimony resolving the issue of the admissibility of s.f.testimony necessitates that it be considered in the context of other related testimony elicited by the prosecutor. as set forth above, at trial, s.f. testified she did not initially identify anyone 16 detective adams showed s.f. the single photograph adams, who had been a detective for about five months at the time, testified he knew that was a mistake. 53 from the six-pack photographic lineup shown to her on october 14, 2012. she eventually selected photograph only after she was shown a single photograph of him, was told that other witnesses had identified him, and that his photograph was in the six-pack. to impeach this aspect of s.f.questioned her about her telephonic interview with a defense investigator on march 11, 2013. s.f. testified she did not recall telling the investigator that (1) before detective adams showed her the six-pack, he had told her not to guess because the suspect may or may not be in the lineup; (2) she could still identify the suspect on march 11, 2013; and (3) she had described the shooter to the police as a male hispanic, tall with dark hair, a moustache, and a patch of hair below his lip. the prosecutor subsequently questioned s.f. about possible hang-up telephone calls and moving from her home: october 28th, 2013, did you begin to receive phone calls on the sendejastrial court overruled the objection, noting the prosecutor wa s.f. then testified she began receiving hang-up telephone calls around march 2013 from a private number to the phone number she had provided the police. s.f. did not think the hang-up calls were significant until october 2013, when detective calleros asked whether she had been receiving any inappropriate telephone calls. the prosecutor [s.f.], at some point did you learn that it was possible that your information had been given to the 54 sanchezthe grounds and then withdrew his objection. without any further objection, s.f. s.f. further testified the montebello police department relocated her and her family for a month. she was not permitted to return home that day, and her the prosecutor later called alfonso kotero, an investigator stify about his march 2013 interview with s.f. during that interview, s.f. told kotero that prior to being shown the six-pack, detective adams admonished that she should not guess and should inform him if she identified the shooter. s.f. gave kotero no indication that the photographic identification procedure was suggestive or involved pressure. detective adams testified on direct examination that on october 14, 2012, the day of the shooting, he showed s.f. a six-pack photographic lineup, which included sendejasphotograph, and she identified him as the shooter. detective antista testified s.f. told him that she was concerned about receiving blocked telephone calls; she believed the calls were related to her preliminary hearing testimony. s.f. received one of the blocked calls on october 8, 2013 while waiting to testify at the preliminary hearing. antista made several attempts to have s.f. come to the police station and examine a photographic lineup containing martin v.photograph. s.f. insisted she was unable to identify him and would not view the lineup. 55 b. the testimony was properly admitted as relevant to s.f. sendejas argues the trial court erred by failing to sustain according to sendejas, because the testimony amounted to improper lay opinion evidence by detectives that sendejas was guilty of attempted dissuasion of a witness, it was more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. he maintains that s.f.-up telephone calls and the urgent need to relocate effectively conveyed to the jury that s.f. was in danger from sendejas because he knew her identifying information. sendejas relies on people v. melton (1988) 44 cal.3d 713 (melton), people v. smith (1989) 214 cal.app.3d 904 (smith), and people v. sergill (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 34 (sergill) to support his argument. an opinion as is permitted by law, including but not limited to an opinion that is: [] (a) [r]ationally based on the perception of the witness; and [] (b) [h]elpful to a clear understanding of his [e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute, the court or jury may consider in determining the credibility of a witness any matter that has any tendency in reason to prove or disprove the truthfulness of his testimony at the hearing, including but not limited to any of the following: [] . . . [] (f) [t]he existence or nonexistence of a bias, interest, or other motive[;] [] . . . [] (h) [a] statement made by him that is inconsistent with any part of his testimony at the hearing[;] [] . . . [] (j) [h]is attitude toward the action in which he testifies or toward the giving of (see also 56 people v. humiston (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 460, 479 unless precluded by statute, any evidence is admissible to attack the credibility of a witness if it will establish a fact that has a tendency in reason to disprove the truthfulness of the witnesss lay opinion regarding the veracity of particular statements by another, however, is generally inadmissible on that issue. (people v. melton, supra, 44 cal.3d 713, 744.) similarly, opinion testimony as to the guilt or innocence of the defendant is inadmissible. (people v. torres (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 37, 46-47; people v. clay (1964) 227 cal.app.2d 87, 98-99.) these rules are meant to ensure that it is the trier of fact who determines credibility and the issue of the guilt. (see people v. torres, supra, 33 cal.app.4th at p. 47; sergill, supra, 138 cal.app.3d at p. 41.) lay witness is occasionally permitted to express an ultimate opinion based on his perception, but only where to a clear understanding of his [citations], i.e., where the concrete observations on which the opinion is based cannot otherwise be (melton, supra, 44 cal.3d at p. 744.) in melton, the prosecutor elicited testimony from defense investigator carpenter that he made no effort to find a person named charles, who had been mentioned by witness boyd as possibly involved in the killing at issue. (melton, supra, 44 cal.3d at p. 742.) the purpose of the inquiry was to suggest carpenter did not believe (id. at p. 744.) the california supreme court held the trial court had erred by admitting testimony indicate his assessment of because the evidence was essentially irrelevant and incompetent given carpenter was not an expert on 57 judging credibility and he nothing of reputation for (id. at pp. 743-745.) the melton court, nonetheless, found the error was harmless. carpenter had answered only four questions on this matter, the prosecutor did not exploit the matter in closing argument, and there was strong evidence of the guilt. (id. at p. 745.) in smith, the court of appeal similarly found inadmissible the testimony of deputy rifkin that he believed the dying declaration that did (smith, supra, 214 cal.app.3d at pp. 914-915.) rifkin based his opinion of the veracity on their acquaintanceship, the tendency to be honest and open, and the concern in the voice when he named his killer. (id. at p. 914.) the court noted opinion may have been rationally based on his perceptions of the physical condition and mental state, but was not necessary to elucidate his which tended to invade the province of the jury. (id. at p. 915.) the court, however, concluded the error was harmless. independent facts strongly linked the defendant to the killing and, given rifkin had known the victim for two years and the victim apparently trusted him, rifkin also have been qualified to render an opinion as to the character for honesty and (id. at pp. 914-915.) in sergill, two police officers gave opinion testimony as to the credibility in a child molestation case; each told the jury that he or she believed the girl was telling the truth. the court of appeal concluded the opinions did not qualify as expert testimony. they were not experts in judging truthfulness and their on the truthfulness during their limited contacts with her did not have a reasonable tendency to 58 prove or disprove her credibility and were therefore not (sergill, supra, 138 cal.app.3d at p. 40.) additionally, the appellate court reasoned the trial court in effect had declared to the jury that one of the officers was especially qualified to render his opinion as to whether a person reporting a crime was telling id. at p. 41.) in reversing the judgment, the sergill copinion testimony was the usurpation of the jurys function as ibid.) unlike melton, smith, and sergill, the present case did not involve the prosecutor simply asking a law enforcement officer/lay witness to give an opinion about the guilt of the challenged testimony that sendejas claims was tantamount to an opinion by the police was not opinion testimony at all. rather, it s.f.of the identification procedure, which were relevant to her credibility. considered in context with the related evidence discussed in the previous section of this opinion, s.f.about the hang-up telephone calls and her immediate relocation by the montebello police department was admissible to show that she had a motive not to tell the truth at the preliminary hearing and the trial, and to clarify the reason for her reluctance to testify. more specifically, s.f. initially identified sendejas on october 14, 2012, was certain of her identification, and felt no pressure from detective adams to identify sendejas as the shooter. after the hang-up telephone calls began in march 2013, s.f. learned her identifying information had been provided to 59 sendejas and she was immediately relocated by the police department. at the preliminary hearing in october 2013 and at trial, s.f.purportedly felt uncertain and pressured about her identification of sendejas. e]vidence that a witness is afraid to testify or fears retaliation for testifying is relevant to the credibility of that witness and is therefore admissible. people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1084.) arelevant to her credibility and is well within the discretion of the ibid.third party threat may bear on the credibility of the witness, whether or not the ibid.trial court has discretion, within the limits of evidence code section 352, to permit the prosecution to introduce evidence supporting a prosecution reasonably anticipates a defense attack on the id. at p. 1085.) the challenged -finding function, but instead, elucidated s.f.understand her attitude toward the case at the time of trial. ix. detectives that sendejas had the unredacted shooting report and -of-court statements to informant were properly admitted sendejas objects to the admission of a statement that informant made during trial as well as several out-of-court statements sendejas made to informant. 60 on direct examination of informant, the prosecutor sought to establish informantdetectives that sendejas had a copy of the unredacted shooting report. the prosecutor asked informantfeel like you needed to tell the montebello police department about the fact defendant sendejas had an unredacted police informant informant informant the trial court sustained a foundational objection to this last answer, struck it, and asked the jury not to consider it. the prosecutor then asked informantabout what you thought had happened in this case, just knowing that he had informant sendejas contests the admission of informantevidence code section 352. because no objection was interposed to that testimony, sendejas has forfeited this claim on appeal. (evid. code,  353; people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 127 [requiring appeal].) in any event, any error was harmless in light of informantconcerned for the safety of the witnesses in this case. on direct examination, informant also testified about several out-of-court unrecorded statements sendejas made to him. specifically, sendejas told informant that he was in possession of a copy of the unredacted shooting report, he 61 obtained the report from his cousin gina sanchez rather than from his counsel, he planned to share the report with robert r.fellow gang medetective omar r. lived and that the detective had children. whether sendejas is now objecting to those statements as inadmissible hearsay is unclear. assuming he is, we conclude -of-court statements to informant were admissible under evidence code section 1220, which creates an exception to the hearsay rule for statements of a party offered against that party. sendejasinformantexpressing his concern that sendejas knew generally where detective omar r. lived and that he had children. counsel asserted the testimony was unduly prejudicial. the trial court line of questioning is being presentethe state of mind of this witness and his motives in undertaking whatever conduct is going to follow. not necessarily to prove the truth or non-understand what he says was his motivati sendejas contends the statements were improperly admitted as more prejudicial than probative. we disagree. the testimony was relevant to show informantto the police about what sendejas had told him. the trial court instructed the jury on the limited purpose for which it was to consider the evidence, and the jury is presumed to have followed the limiting instruction. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, following evidence code section 352 objection].) 62 x. assault rifle tattoo was properly admitted a. the relevant testimony before sergeant clift testified, sendejasto any expert testimony concerning the assault rifle tattoo as more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. the trial court agreed with the prosecutor that the tattoo was higher than the average member, because of his affiliation with the circle clique, a dangerous gang subset. at trial, sergeant clift was asked on direct examination to sergeant additional acronym for that is s-k-s. what that represents is that is an sergeant clift additionally testified that members. b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting evidence of the sks tattoo the meaning and visibility were relevant to prove the gang allegation; the tattoo displayed affiliation with the sangra gang and his willingness to intimidate others and to engage in violence on behalf of the gang. (see people v. ochoa (2001) 26 cal.4th 398, 437-438, disapproved on another ground by people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 263, 63 fn. 14 [murder defendants tattoo and gang testimony explaining its meaning admissible to show defendants admission of his conduct and consciousness of guilt]; see also people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 46-48 [evidence of meaning of tattoos properly admitted as relevant to prove intent and motive].) nor was exclusion of the evidence compelled by evidence code section 352. both sendejas, the alleged perpetrator, and robert r., the alleged victim, had gang affiliations. the sks tattoo was just one of several and varied gang-related tattoos on body; the significance of each sergeant clift explained to the jury. xi. the trial court did not commit instructional error sendejas presented an affirmative defense of entrapment to the charge of attempted dissuasion of a witness.17 he contends the trial court prejudicially erred by failing to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 3409 as part of his entrapment defense that no act done by police agent informant may be attributed to him. a. the governing law and standard of review a trial court in a criminal case has a duty to instruct on general principles of law applicable to the case (people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 686, 744, overruled on another ground in people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912, 919), that is, those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and which are necessary for the understanding of the 17 sendejas and sanchez also relied on this affirmative defense as to the charges of conspiracy to dissuade a witness, which charges we have reversed. 64 case. (people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 115.) a court may, however, refuse an instruction offered by the defendant if it incorrectly states the law, is argumentative, duplicative, or potentially confusing [citation], or if it is not supported by substantial (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 246.) we review a claims of instructional error de novo. (people v. posey, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 218.) assessing a claim of instructional error, must view a challenged portion the context of the instructions as a whole and the trial to determine there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury has applied the challenged instruction in a that violates the (people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 831.) entrapment is established when the conduct of law enforcement or an agent of law enforcement is likely to induce a normally law-abiding person to commit the offense, either by generating in such a person a motive for the crime other than ordinary criminal intent or by making the commission of the crime unusually attractive. (people v. barraza (1979) 23 cal.3d 675, 689-690.) entrapment is normally a question for the trier of fact, and an appellate court will only find that it exists as a matter of law where the evidence is so compelling and uncontradicted the jury could draw no other reasonable inference. (people v. thoi (1989) 213 cal.app.3d 689, 694.) a defendant bears the burden of proving entrapment by a preponderance of the evidence. (people v. mower (2002) 28 cal.4th 457, 480.) b. the relevant proceedings during the conference on jury instructions, the trial court agreed to charge the jury with calcrim no. 3408, which 65 ppped if a law enforcement officer [or his/her agent] engaged in conduct that would cause a normally law-abiding person to commit the crime. [] some examples of entrapment might include conduct like badgering, persuasion by flattery or coaxing, repeated and insistent requests, or an appeal to friendship or sympathy. [] . . . [] if an officer [or his/her agent] simply gave the defendant an opportunity to commit the crime or merely tried to restrain sendejasjury with calcrim no. 3409, which states in pertinent part, if, while acting for a law enforcement purpose, an officer [or (his/her) agent] pretends to be an accomplice of a defendant, then no act done by the officer [or agent] may be attributed to the defendant or held against the defendant, unless the defendant, using (his/her) independent will, directed the officer [or agent] to do the sendejasentrapment. the trial court asked counsel to explain what act was done by informant that could be attributed to sendejas within the meaning of calcrim no. 3409. counsel explained informant had solicited sendejas to hand over the unredacted shooting report under the false pretense that informant would then show the report to stranger, robert r.member. counsel argued the instruction was necessary so the jury would understand informantrobert r. could not be attributed to sendejas. the trial court rejected the instruction. 66 c. the trial court did not err by declining to charge the jury with calcrim no. 3409 on appeal, sendejas contends, as he did before the trial court, that the instruction was necessary to his entrapment defense. pursuant to people v. goldberg (1957) 152 cal.app.2d 562 (goldberg) and people v. lanzit (1925) 70 cal.app. 498 (lanzit) upon which calcrim no. 3409 is based, the purpose of the instruction is done by a feigned accomplice may be imputed to the criminal actor at the trial. in any event, where an accused is encouraged by the officers, it must be clear that the commission of a crime goldberg, at p. 571, citing lanzit, at p. 509.) according to sendejas, informant initiated the scheme to put the shooting report in the hands of stranger, robert r.llow gang member. sendejas only released the report at informantdirected informant to give it to stranger. in refusing to instruct pursuant to calcrim no. 3409. although informant came up with the idea of giving the shooting report to stranger, he did so only after sendejas had indicated he planned to show the report to robert r.-examination, informantup with that idea, mr. sendejas had never talked to you about informant he say he was going to give it to, before you came up with the ideathe idea of approaching him about giving the report to informant to robert[ r.]informant then testified he told the 67 police when he subsequently met with them what sendejas intended to do with the report. that [june that mr. sendejas had told you of a plan to give the report to other members of robert [r.]informant replied, mr. sendejas told that to you, but at that meeting, three weeks before the tape-record[ed] meeting, mr. sendejas had told you that mr. sendejas, on his own, was going to give informant informant further, the jury was adequately instructed pursuant to calcrim no. 3408 on the affirmative defense of entrapment. based on calcrim no. 3408, sendejasjury that informant came up with the idea of showing the shooting report to stranger and proceeded to cajole sendejas to provide the entire unredacted report for that purpose by appealing to their friendship and familial relationship. in short, the trial court did not commit instructional error in failing to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 3409. xii. remand is required for the trial court to consider whether to strike the firearm enhancement sendejas was sentenced to an aggregate state prison term of 55 years to life: an indeterminate life term for attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder, with a minimum parole eligibility date of 15 years under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), doubled to 30 years under the three strikes law; plus 20 years for the firearm enhancement under section 68 12022.53, subdivision (c); plus five years for the prior serious felony enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1); a concurrent indeterminate life term for attempted dissuasion of a witness, with a minimum parole eligibility date of seven years, doubled under the three strikes law to 14 years. the trial court dismissed the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement attendant to the attempted dissuasion of a witness count in the interest of justice and stayed imposition of the sentences on the remaining counts and enhancements. on october 11, 2017, governor brown signed senate bill 620, which amended sections 12022.5 and 12022.53 to provide trial courts with the discretion to strike a firearm enhancement or finding. (stats 2017, ch. 682.) senate bill 620 added the following language to both statutes: 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any (stats 2017, ch. 682,  1-2.) on may 14, 2018, we requested supplemental briefing on the impact of senate bill 620 on the firearm enhancement in sendejas and the people agree that the case should be remanded so that the trial court may exercise its discretion under senate bill 620 to strike the firearm enhancement in section 12022.53, subdivision (c). because there is no final judgment in this case and in order (people v. white (1969) 71 cal.2d 80, 83-84), we remand the case 69 to the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancement. xiii. remand is not necessary for the trial court to consider whether to strike the gang enhancement when a jury finds an alleged gang enhancement to be true, the trial court must generally impose the consequent punishment ( 186.22, subd. (b).) when the punishment for the underlying felony is life in prison, the additional punishment for the gang defendant is eligible for parole. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5).) although the gang enhancement is mandatory and consecutive, a trial court has the broad discretion to dismiss (or fully strike) the enhancement in the interests of justice under section 1385, subdivision (a); in fact, a court can exercise such discretion before, during or after a trial. (people v. fuentes (2016) 1 cal.5th 218, 221.) the trial court also has the discretion to the additional for a gang enhancement. (id. at pp. 227-228; strike the additional p,  186.22, subd. (g) court may strike the additional punishment for the enhancements provided in this sendejasthat the trial court had discretion to strike the gang enhancement, citing people v. torres (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1420, 1433, fn. 6 and section 1385. at the outset of the sentencing hearing, the trial court advised counsel that it had read the 70 trial court did not comment on its ability to strike the gang enhancement; indeed, neither the trial court nor the parties raised the question of striking the gang enhancement. on a silent record, a trial court is presumed to have known and followed the applicable law (people v. stowell (2003) 31 cal.4th 1107, 1114), and that rule applies to sentencing choices (people v. fuhrman (1997) 16 cal.4th 930, 945 [remand unnecessary the absence of any affirmative indication in the that the trial court erroneously believed it lacked discretion to strike a prior conviction under section 1385]). because there is nothing in the record indicating that the trial court believed it lacked the authority to strike the gang enhancement, there is no need to remand this matter to give the trial court another opportunity to exercise that discretion. xiv. the partial denial of the pitchess motion was proper a. the governing law and standard of review although police officer personnel records are generally confidential ( 832.7-832.8), a criminal defendant is entitled to the discovery of the contents of those records if the information contained therein is relevant to his or her ability to obtain a fair trial or to defend against pending charges. (pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531, 536-538.) the process by which a criminal defendant may discover personnel records is codified in evidence code sections 1043 to 1045. initially, the defendant must submit a motion accompanied by an affidavit or declaration showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure and forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending (evid. code,  1043, 71 subd. (b)(3); see people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 179.) in other words, showing of good cause requires a defendant seeking pitchess discovery to establish . . . a logical link between the defense proposed and the pending charge, [and] to articulate how the discovery being sought would support such a defense or how it would impeach the version of (warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1021 (warrick); see people v. gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 179.) reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses only that information falling within the statutorily defined standards warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1019; accord, gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 179.) the discoverability of material in police personnel records for abuse of discretion standard. (alford v. superior court (2003) 29 cal.4th 1033, 1039; accord, riske v. superior court (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 647, 657.) b. the pitchess motion and relevant proceedings prior to trial, sendejas filed a pitchess motion seeking discovery of information in the personnel records of montebello police detectives adams, calleros, antista and omar r. evidence, filing of false police reports, perjury and false in support of the motion, sendejas stated, that robert r. department to pursue a false claim that [sendejas] fired shots at because the alleged shooting victim, robert r[.], [was] the 72 brother of montebello police [detective] omar r[.] the r[.] was investigated for domestic violence [involving n.v.], no charges were filed and the domestic violence case, investigated by the declaration also alleged when robert r. claimed sendejas shot at him, the incident was investigated by detective omar r.pick defendant sendejas from a six received information from a confidential informant that robert r. defendant shooting and was attempting to frame sendejas. detective adams ignored this report and did no follow-up investigation of an investigation of [defendant] gina sanchez and defendant sendejas for releasing confidential police reports based in part on the fact that sanchez had excessively viewed the robert r. police reports on the department computer. detective calleros had information that detective omar r[.], who was not an investigator on the case, had also excessively viewed the same against detective omar r. false police report as a ruse in a sting operation against gina sanchez. the report falsely claimed there was a new eyewitness implicating defendant sendejas in the robert r[.] attached to the declaration were police reports and joined the pitchess motion and filed a similar declaration. 73 at the hearing on the motion, the trial court announced its tentative ruling was to grant the pitchess motion as to detective adams only. the trial any specific allegations detectives. as to detective calleros, the trial court reasoned the detective antista, the trial court stated the allegation that the domestic violence incident he investigated was declined for filing for inappropriate reasons is not proper impeachment evidence as to detective omar r., the trial court noted, other than his repeated viewing of the police reports, there was no wrongful conduct attributed to him, such as coercing his colleagues into taking certain action, dissuading witnesses, or writing false reports, or that he otherwise participated in the investigations involving sanchez and sendejasallegation of bias and sort of brotherhood among the montebello police department which [has] led to pursuing the wrong people in its final ruling, the trial court granted the motion as to detective adams and denied it as to the remaining detectives. the trial court determined the allegations that detective omar r. had convinced the others to commit misconduct were unsubstantiated, and there was an insufficient factual basis in the declarations to support the requested discovery. 74 c. defendants failed to establish good cause for the production of the personnel records of detectives antista, calleros, and omar r. sendejas contends the trial court abused its discretion by restricting the requested discovery to the personnel records of detective adams. sendejas argues he presented a plausible factual [omar r.] and/or his colleagues may have lied, skewed evidence, or ignored evidence in the investigation of this case, and that they may have committed 18 although the threshold for establishing entitlement to pitchess discovery is low, it is burden to bear. in garcia v. superior court (2007) 42 cal.4th 63 (garcia), the california supreme court echoed its earlier decision in warrick by explaining that a pitchess motion may be supported by an affidavit from counsel describing on information and belief, factual scenario that would support a defense claim of officer misconduct. [citation.] factual scenario, depending on the circumstances of the case, may consist of . . . defense affidavit, and in addition a police report, witness statements, or other pertinent documents. the court then determines whether averments, [v]iewed in conjunction with the police reports and any other documents, suffice to establish a plausible factual foundation for the alleged officer misconduct and to articulate a valid theory as to how the information sought might be admissible at [citation.] corroboration of or motivation for alleged officer misconduct is not required. 18 sanchez, joined by sendejas, advances this argument on appeal. 75 [citation.] rather, plausible scenario of officer misconduct is one that might or could have [citation.] a scenario is plausible when it asserts specific misconduct that is both internally consistent and supports the proposed defense. a defendant must also show how the information sought could lead to or be evidence potentially admissible at (garcia, supra, at p. 71.) as noted by the trial court, the defense theory that the four detectives committed misconduct by aiding robert r. in his retaliatory efforts to frame sendejas for the shooting was articulated by counsel in their declarations. however, in accordance with garcia, while plausibility, not ascertained facts, is the linchpin under warrick, the defense theory must be supported by a specific factual foundation for the asserted officer misconduct. here, with the exception of detective adams, defendants did not meet this requirement. committed by detectives antista, calleros and omar r. showing they had lied, skewed evidence, or ignored evidence in favor of robert r. what the declarations do provide in terms of factual allegations are the following: (1) detectives antista, calleros, and omar r. were colleagues; (2) detectives antista and calleros had investigated various aspects of this then evolving case; and (3) detective omar r. was robert r.detective omar r. had accessed the pertinent police reports on numerous occasions. when considered in conjunction with the attached transcript excerpts and police reports, the allegations in the declarations do not reflect specific acts of misconduct committed by the three detectives. with 76 investigation of the domestic violence incident, his report stated robert r. and n.v. each blamed the other as the aggressor. robert r. declined to cooperate with any prosecution of n.v., but n.v. stated she wanted robert r. to be prosecuted. antista ended his report stating he planned to submit the case for prosecution of robert r. detective ruse the police used while investigating sanchez. in an excerpt of his preliminary hearing testimony, calleros acknowledged on cross-examination that detective omar r. had accessed the shooting report 53 times. when asked whether that was proper attorney assertedactions support the inference that detective [omar r.] and detectives with whom he worked may also have had a motive to skew evidence against sanchez and sendejas, or in [robert r.] this assertion, however, is mere argument, and does not constitute the showing of good cause required by pitchess to discover detective omar r. where, as here, the supporting declarations fail to establish a plausible factual foundation for the alleged officer misconduct when read in light of the other pertinent documents, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the pitchess motion as to detectives antista, calleros, and omar r. (warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1025; people v. hill (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1089, 1099, disapproved in part on another ground in people v. french (2008) 43 cal.4th 36.) 77 disposition the judgment as to sanchez is reversed. convictions for attempted premeditated murder and dissuasion of a witness are affirmed. conviction for conspiracy to dissuade a witness is reversed, and the case is remanded for resentencing consistent with this opinion. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. 