filed 9/12/16 p. v. sanders ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charlton e. sanders, defendant and appellant. b263073 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba411230) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, clifford l. klein, craig e. veals, and james dabney, judges. affirmed. paul j. katz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and timothy m. weiner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction when counsel for a defendant informs the court of a belief that the defendant may be mentally incompetent, the court must suspend the criminal prosecution until the court determines whether the defendant is competent to stand trial. if the court, after ordering an examination of the defendant and holding a competency hearing, concludes the defendant is competent to stand trial, the court makes that finding and resumes the criminal prosecution. the issue in this appeal is whether the trial court made a sufficient finding that the defendant was competent to stand trial before the court resumed the prosecution. because we conclude that the court made a sufficient finding of competence, we affirm. factual and procedural background1 a. the assault at approximately 6:45 a.m. on may 12, 2013 christopher wong went to a drug store in los angeles to shoot a promotional video for the store. after he walked through the store with his producer, he went outside to his car to get his professional camera equipment and a metal tripod. wong found a shopping cart near the entrance of the store, and put his equipment into the cart so he could take it to the area of the . as wong was on his way to set up his equipment, charlton sanders approached him from behind and took the tripod out of the cart. as wong turned toward sanders, sanders hit wong with the tripod three times in his head and face. wong fell, but was able to get away from sanders when an employee from inside the store intervened and pulled sanders away from wong. the police responded, and wong identified sanders as 1 becauwe summarize the facts only briefly and in a light most favorable to the judgment. (see people v. lessie (2010) 47 cal.4th 1152, 1157; people v. camacho (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 1269, 1272, fn. 2; superior gunite v. ralph mitzel inc. (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 301, 304, fn. 1.) 3 his assailant. wong was treated at the hospital for his injuries, which included an inch-and-a-half wound on the top of his head that required eight staples. b. the charges the people charged sanders with battery with serious bodily injury (pen. code,  243, subd. (d))2 and assault with a deadly weapon or instrument other than a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). the people alleged, as to the battery count, that sanders used a deadly and dangerous weapon (the camera tripod) in the commission of a felony, within the meaning of sections 12022, subdivision (b)(1), and 1192.7, subdivision (c)(23), and, as to both counts, that sanders personally inflicted great bodily injury on a person other than an accomplice in the commission of a felony, within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). the people also alleged that sanders suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction in florida, as defined by sections 667, subdivisions (a) and (d), and 1170.12, subdivision (b), and that sanders served a prior prison term for a felony within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). c. the verdict and sentence before trial, to stand trial, and the trial court suspended competency. the court subsequently reinstated the proceedings, and the jury convicted sanders on both counts and found true all of the allegations. the court, however, determined that the florida conviction was not for a serious or violent felony. the trial court sentenced sanders to an aggregate prison term of eight years. 2 statutory references are to the penal code. 4 discussion sanders argues that, after the trial court suspended the criminal prosecution to evaluate whether he was competent to stand trial, that sanders was mentally competent before restarting criminal proceedin a. applicable law people v. mendoza (2016) 62 cal.4th 856, 871.) both federal due process and state law require a trial judge to suspend trial proceedings and conduct a competency hearing whenever the court is presented with substantial evidence of incompetence, that is, evidence that raises a reasonable or bona fide doubt concerning the defendants competence to stand trial. . . . evidence of incompetence may emanate from several sources, including the s demeanor, irrational behavior, and prior mental evaluations. (people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 464; accord, people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 847.) people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 691.) as relevant person cannot be tried or adjudged to punishment . . . while that person is mentally incompetent(b), if counsel informs the court that he or she believes the defendant is or may be mentally incompetent, the court shall order thas mental competence is to be determined in a hearing which is held pursuant to sections 1368.1 and 1369. if counsel informs the court that he or she believes the defendant is mentally 5 competent, the court may nevertheless order a hearing.3 trial court is obligated to conduct a full competency hearing if substantial evidence raises a reasonable doubt that a criminal defendant may be incompetent. this is true even if the evidence creating that doubt is presented by the defense or if the sum of the evidence is in conflict. the failure to conduct a hearing despite the presence of such substantial evidence is reversible error.(people v. lightsey, at p. 691; see people v. hale (1988) 44 cal.3d 531, 541.) the crimisuspended until the question of the present mental competence of the defendant has been determined 1368, subd. (c).) people v. g.h. (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 1548, 1560.) if the court determines that the defendant is competent to stand trial, the court people v. marks (1988) 45 cal.3d 1335, 1342.) court at a minimum expressly and unmistakably state on the 3 [a] trial by court or jury of the question of mental competence shall proceed in the following order: [] (a) the court shall appoint a psychiatrist or licensed psychologist, and any other expert the court may deem appropriate, to examine the defendant. . . . [] . . . [] (b)(1) the counsel for the defendant shall offer evidence in support of the allegation of mental incompetence. [] (2) if the defense declines to offer any evidence in support of the allegation of mental incompetence, the prosecution may do so. [] (c) the prosecution shall present its case regarding the issue o (d) each party may offer rebutting testimony, unless the court, for good reason in furtherance of justice, also permits other evidence in support of the original contention. [] (e) when the evidence is concluded, unless the case is submitted without final argument, the prosecution shall make its final argument and the defense shall conclude with its final argument to the court or jury. [] (f) in a jury trial, the court shall charge the jury, instructing them on all matters of law necessary for the rendering of a verdict. it shall be presumed that the defendant is mentally competent unless it is proved by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant is mentally incompetent. the verdict of the jury shall 6 record, either orally or in writing, its determination as to whether the defendant is id. at p. 1343.) b. the trial court expressly and unmistakably stated on the record that sanders was competent to stand trial on january 30, 2014, one of the days trial was set to begin, standby counsel substituted in to represent sanders, who had been representing himself. after conferring with sanders during a break, counsel stated to the courti have had with mr. sanders, i do have a doubt as to his competency to stand trial and i am concerned that his mental state is not where it needs to be in order for him to receive a fair trial and to cooperate and assist in the presentation of a defense. i am basing that on the statements that are included in the police reports and also my conversations with mr. sanders and things i viewed when i was standby counsel and watching him in court. i think that mr. sanders needs to get his head straight before he can understand the proceedings that diagnosed history for mr. sanders for which he is currently receiving medication throughout county jail. i doctor, but it does not seem to be we will need to order a report then,respondedsuspended the prosecution, appointed a doctor to examine sanders and prepare a report, for march 3, 2014. at the march 3, 2014 hearing the following exchange occurred: the court: [the] court has received a psychiatric report opining that mr. sanders is competent to stand trial. [counsel for sanders]: yes, your honor. the court: i had the report a moment ago. . . . i did start reading it. we just got it over the fax, although you have had it for a while. [counsel for sanders]: since this morning. 7 the court: so we will proceed with rearraignment. [counsel for sanders]: yes. the report did make a finding of competency for mr. sanders. the court set a pretrial conference for march 20, 2014. the record reflects, as sanders contends, that at the march 3, 2014 hearing the expressly and unmistakably state on the recordmentally competent to stand trial. the trial cousanders was competent, but the court did not state it found sanders was competent. the a finding of competence, not to a finding by the court that sanders was competent. (see people v. marks, supra, 45 cal.3d statement by the court that it had formed any opinion as to whether defendant was competentsanders correctly argues, the fact that the minute order for the march 3, 2014 hearing states, the defendant is found competent to stand trial,absence of a finding by the court as reflected in the adoption of i.m. (2014) 232 cal.app.4tin re p.a. (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 23, 30, fn. 4 [c]onflicts between the s transcripts are generally presumed to be clerical in nature and are res transcript unless the particular circumstances dictate otherwise]; people v. gonzalez n oral pronouncement of judgment and the minute order are presumed clerical, and in re jacob m. (1989) 210 . . . transcript shows the minute order does not accurately reflect the findings of the court the people concede the point. 8 nevertheless, there were hearings after march 3, 2014. at the next hearing on march 20, 2014 counsel for sanders stated he had the competency that he had previously, and suggested that the court order another report from a second doctor. the court commented that the report prepared by the first doctor here are certain inconsistencies with the report and the manifestation of certain behaviors on the part of mr. sanders that i think interferes both with his understanding and his participatiocounsel stated that he was again declarinwas asking the court to order a second evaluation by a different doctor. sanders interrupted and per again. i am not incompetent. it would be a waste of referring to his attorney, [h] he can declare a doubt for someone who has represented himself and has represen the court om at a june 24, 2014 hearing the court indicated it had received the psychological report from the second doctor, which the court stated was well written and which found sanders competent to stand trial. counsel for sanders and the prosecutor stated they were submitting on the second report. the court stated that, the court concludes that the defendant is in fact competent to stand trial, which is consistent with my court-resumed the criminal prosecution. the court subsequently granted sanderagain. thus, the trial court expressly and unmistakably stated on the record that sanders was mentally competent to stand trial, although the trial court made the finding on june 24, 2014, not march 3, 2014, and after the court had reviewed two psychological reports, not one. the trial court also stated the basis for its the court observations of sanders in court, neither of which sanders challenges as 9 insufficient. nor does sanders identify anything of significance that occurred between march 3, 2014 and june 24, 2014, other than the court ordered another psychiatric evaluation. the trial court on june 24, 2014 essentially cured any error in failing to make an express and unequivocal finding of competency on march 3, 2014. sanders argues, without citing any authority, that the competency hearing on june so during criminal proceedings subsecriminal proceedings includmarch 20, 2014 order for another report and competency hearing. not according to the california supreme court. ]he failure to comply with the absence of power to hear or determine the case, an absence of authority over the subject rather, except in a particular manner, or to give certain kinds of relief, or to act without the jurisdiction over the cause, it acts in excess of that authority in failing to hold a people v. superior court (marks) (1991) 1 cal.4th 56, 66, fn. omitted; see people v. cadogan subdivision (c), does not literally suspend all proceedings pending a competency although the trial court may not have had authority between march 3, 2014 and june 24, 2014 to swear in a panel of jurors, preside over a trial, or conduct a sentencing hearing, the court still had jurisdiction to order another report, hold a second competency hearing, and then make an express and unequivocal finding of competency. (see people v. pennington code the trial court has no power to proceed with the trial once a doubt arises as to the ; people v. cadogan, supra, 173 cal.app.4th at pp. 1510-1511 10 [in the criminal prosecution that must be suspended until the question of [competency] has been determined,people v. tomas (1977) 74 cal.app.3d 75, 87-judge or sentenc therefore, the trial court competency and scheduled another competency hearing. moreover, an appellate court, upon finding the trial court has erred by failing to hold a competency hearing and make a finding of competence, may order a limited remand for a , whenever such a hearing is feasible. (people v. lightsey, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 702-710; see people v. ary (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 1016, 1028; see also people v. ary (2011) 51 cal.4th 510, 520.) here, a express finding was not only feasible, it actually occurred soon after the first competency hearing, and with the benefit of additional contemporaneous information and testimony (see people v. lightseyn assessing whether a retrospective competency hearing is feasible, t(1) [t]he passage of time, (2) the availability of contemporaneous medical evidence, including medical records and prior competency determinations, (3) any statements by the defendant in the trial record, and (4) the availability of individuals and trial witnesses, both experts and non-experts, who were in a position to interact with [the] defendant thus, the trial court has already provided sanders with the appropriate remedy for its initial failure to make an express and unequivocal finding of competency to stand trial, and there is no need for a remand. 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. garnett, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 