filed 6/13/16 p. v. arciniega ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel arciniega, defendant and appellant. b263746 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga093291) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, cathryn brougham, judge. affirmed. melissa j. kim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, thomas c. hsieh, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 following a jury trial, defendant and appellant daniel arciniega was convicted of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211, subd. (a))1 and resisting arrest ( 148, subd. (a)(1)). he was granted probation on both offenses. defendant contends: the conviction for robbery was not supported by sufficient evidence the property was taken by force; the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury that it must unanimously agree on the act that constituted the force necessary for robbery; and, pursuant to section 654, the trial court should have imposed and stayed the sentence for resisting arrest. defendant also requests we independently examine the record of the in camera hearing conducted by the trial court pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess) to determine whether the trial court abused its discretion in finding there was no discoverable misconduct related to one of the arresting police officerscorporal william early. the judgment is affirmed have ensured the trial court did not abuse its discretion when conducting the in camera hearing. facts prosecution case on may 14, 2014, abel ibarra, a loss prevention officer at pavilions grocery store, observed defendant place beer in his backpack and leave the store without paying for it. ibarra, and his partner elizabeth ayala, approached defendant about 10 feet outside of the entrance and said they needed to speak with him about items in his backpack. defendant continued walking. ibarra positioned himself in front of defendant so as to block path. ibarra was five feet, eight inches tall; defendant stood six feet tall. defendant grabbed and tried to push him out of the way. ibarra and ayala attempted to clutch . defendant reacted by using additional force 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 in an effort to flee. a struggle ensued and eventually ibarra and defendant fell to the ground. focused their efforts on simply holding defendant down as ibarra knew the police had been called. but, defendant never stopped corporal william early, a south pasadena police officer, arrived and observed the loss prevention officers struggling with defendant as defendant was vi. early took over the detention and ordered defendant to stop fighting. but, defendant continued to resist so violently that early was not able to subdue him. a police sergeant ultimately responded to the scene and assisted early with handcuffing defendant. defendant was arrested and the beer was recovered from his backpack. wesley coop was eating his lunch in his car in the parking lot when he saw the commotion. he watched as defendant argued with a male and a female. coop heard two individuals tried wall. main aggressor was [defendant]. [t]he other two individuals were just trying to hold him there, trying to just keep him from leaving, from fleeing or whatever else he wanted to 2 defense case defendant testified on his own behalf. he admitted he took beer from the grocery store without paying for it. when he reached approximately 10 feet outside the store, ibarra violently grabbed him from behind without saying anything. ibarra pushed 2 similarly, the store manager observed a loss prevention agent attempting to stop defendant from fleeing the scene. 4 defendant toward the store, telling him to return the beer. ayala arrived and identified herself as a loss prevention officer before a handcuff was secured to . na put [him] to s the group fell to the ground with defendant between ibarra and ayala. ibarra released the chokehold when early arrived. defendant believed early used unnecessary force in arresting him. defendant never put his hands on either ibarra or ayala. discussion sufficiency of force for robbery appellate court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 104.) robbery is defined as the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear. ( 211.) obtains possession of the stolen property. the crime of robbery includes the element of people v. estes (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 23, 27.) in this regard, robbery is a continuing offense that begins from the time of the original taking until the robber reaches a place of relative safety. [citation.] (people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994.) thus, a person may be convicted of robbery of a security guard if the person, as he or she is leaving the scene, (people v. estes, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 27; see also miller v. superior court (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 5 ) fear as used in the definition of the crime of robbery have no technical meaning peculiar to the law and must be presumed to be within the people v. mungia (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1703, 1708.)3 force is a relative concept. (id. at p. 1709.) is immaterial. (people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 1015, 1025.) rather, in order to qualify for a robbery the force must simply be more than that which is necessary to accomplish the mere seizing of the property. [citations.]people v. anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 995.) under this rubric, [a] shove by a defendant who is larger or stronger than his victim may lead a jury to find that the shove amounted to the necessary force.people v. mungia, supra, 234 cal.app.3d at p. 1709.) the cashier to move away from an open sary to people v. garcia (1996) 45 cal.app.4th 1242, 1246, disapproved on another point in people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 365, fn. 2,) on the other hand, the type of force that may be insufficient to support a robbery conviction includes the force applied to the victims body as a result of a pickpocket (people v. garcia, supra, 45 cal.app.4th at p. 1246) or the force caused by someone who snatches the purse of an unresisting victim (people v. burns (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1251, 1258-1259). defendant did not merely brush against ibarra as he fled the scene. he initiated contact with ibarra, i.e., a man four inches shorter than him, and attempting to push him out of the way. defendant then opted to continue the struggle until he was handcuffed by two police officers. when defendant , 3 because the prosecutor did not proceed on the theory that the robbery was accomplished by the use of fear, and indeed there is no evidence the loss prevention officers were fearful, we focus on whether there was sufficient evidence the robbery was committed with the use of force. 6 the stolen property had already been secured and his attention was directed toward using force to retain it and facilitate an escape. a rational trier of fact could have found unanimity defendant notes the prosecutor relied on two separate acts of force to support the robbery offensem and concurrent push, and the struggle with ibarra and ayala. he maintains the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury that it must unanimously agree on the act of force supporting the robbery. it is a rudimentary principle of (people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 305.) however, the trial court is not required to instruct the jury that it must agree on the theory of how an offense was committed (people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132) nor is it required to give a unanimity instruction where the offense constitutes a continuous course of conduct (people v. jenkins (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 287, 299). both exceptions apply here. first, the evidence showed only one discrete crime of robbery; the different possibilities of force amounted to different theories for a single robbery. in addition, the potentially different applications of force were so closely connected that they fell within the continuous course of conduct exception. no unanimity instruction was required. section 654 with respect to both offenses, sentence was not imposed, and defendant was granted probation. it is true that section 654 prohibits multiple punishment for a single physical act that violates different provisions of law. however, because probation does people v. wittig (1984) 158 cal.app.3d 124, 137; people v. stender (1975) 47 7 cal.app.3d 413, 425, overruled on other grounds in people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225, 240.) we therefore reject the sentence for resisting arrest. the pitchess hearing at the request of defendant, we have conducted an independent review of the pitchess. we hold the trial court trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling that there was no discoverable information relating to corporal william early. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 