filed 11/9/16 p. v. loera ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan loera, defendant and appellant. b263932 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba415136) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall, judge. affirmed. lynda a. romero, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 juan loera was convicted of first degree murder (pen. code,1  187) and attempted murder ( 187, 664), both committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) he challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the determination that he committed the crimes for the benefit of a gang. we affirm. factual and procedural background as the sole issue on appeal pertains to the sufficiency of the evidence to support the true finding on the gang enhancement, we need only recite in detail the evidence bearing on this finding. on july 13, 2013, loera, an admitted member of the 38th street gang, fired shots into a party at the pueblo del rio housing complex, killing one person and injuring another. when questioned by police, loera initially said that he had heard that members of the 38th street gang shot members of a rival gang, the pueblo but that he had not been involved. subsequently, however, loera admitted that he was the shooter. he told the police that (a 38th street gang member) drove him to the pueblos,2 where he approached the party, ,shot at the people there. him while he was in custody. when she asked what he had done, he illed he informed her that the police knew everything that he did and that he was going to go to jail. asked why he did it, and loera responded, at trial, los angeles police department gang officer bryan schilling provided evidence pertaining to gangs in general and the 38th street gang. schilling had previously testified as a gang expert on the 38th street gang and the pueblos. schilling testified that as of the time of the shooting, the 38th street gang was a criminal street gang with approximately 250 members who used a common hand sign, wore a particular baseball cap, and 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 and to the pueblo del rio housing complex where the party took place. 3 frequently bore tattoos featuring the numbers 3 and 8 and the letters t and e. like many gangs, the 38th street gang had cliques or subsets, one of which was the morgan boys or morgan block. schilling testified that the primary activities of the 38th street gang included possession of firearms by convicted felons, grand theft auto, felony drug sales, burglary, home invasion robbery, attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon, and murder. the prosecution presented evidence that robert benavidez and noe baeza were 38th street gang members who were convicted of murder with a gang allegation that occurred in 2009. the prosecution also presented evidence that in 2009 38th street gang member raul rodarte was convicted of murdering a member of the pueblos, prompting a retaliatory shooting by the pueblos against the 38th street gang. schilling opined that loera was a member of the 38th street gang. loera had told schilling in august 2013 that he was a member of the 38th street gang and that his schilling testified that loera had tattoos of a t and an e on his wrists and a 3 and an 8 on one palm. at the time of trial, he had a tattoo of a 3 and an 8 on his head. in response to a hypothetical question consistent with the evidence in the case, schilling opined that such a shooting would be for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang. for 38th street gang members to enter pueblos territory, leave their car, identify their gang, and commit a shooting would assert the 38th street gangand demonstrate its willingness to commit crimes against a rival gang. it would raise the status of both the gang itself and the shooter within the gang. the jury convicted loera of first degree murder and attempted murder, and found true the gang enhancement allegation as to both counts. the jury also found true firearm enhancement allegations pertaining to both counts under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d). loera admitted a prior strike conviction ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). loera was sentenced for the murder to 25 years to life in prison, doubled because of the prior strike conviction, plus a consecutive sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (d) of 25 years to life. for the attempted murder, loera received a sentence of life imprisonment and a consecutive 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement 4 pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) and the three strikes law, for each count the court imposed a minimum confinement period of 30 years before loera would become eligible for parole. loera appeals. discussion the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) a criminal street gang is defined by section 186.22, subdivision (f), as e or common identifying committed or attempted to commit certain predicate offenses. to prove that a criminal street gang exists in accordance with these statutory provisions, the prosecution must demonstrate both that the gang constitutes a criminal street gang and that the defendant sought to benefit that particular gang when committing the underlying felony. (people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59, 67 (prunty).) loera contends that there was insufficient evidence to support the true findings on the gang enhancement allegations pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). e to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime of review applies to the sufficiency of the evidence supporting special people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715.) 5 on appeal is based on the recent decision in prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th 59, in which the california supreme court held that when the prosecution seeks to prove the street gang enhancement by showing a defendant committed a felony to benefit a given gang, but establishes the commission of the required predicate offenses with evidence of crimes co alleged subsets, it must also prove a connection between the gang and the subsets. (id. at pp. 67-68.) in prunty, the gang enhancement finding was not supported by substantial evidence because the prosecution had theorized that the offense was committed to benefit a larger, umbrella gang with subsets, but it had proven the predicate offenses with evidence of activities of two of subsets without presenting evidence of an associational or organizational connection between the subsets or to the larger overarching gang. (id. at pp. 81-82.) based on prunty, loera argues that because he was affiliated with the morgan boys or morgan block subset of the 38th street gang, the prosecution was required to introduce evidence that the predicate offenses were committed by members of the morgan boys or morgan block subset of the 38th street gang, or that the individuals who committed the predicate offenses had a connection or agreement with the morgan subset. the prunty situation, however, did not arise here, because the prosecution did not rely on the conduct of subsets to demonstrate the existence of a criminal street gang. (see prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 85.) loera was a member of the 38th street gang who committed the offenses to benefit that gang, and the predicate offenses presented to the jury were committed by 38th street gang members. accordingly, while there was evidence that loera was affiliated with the morgan boys or morgan block subset of the 38th street gang, the prosecution also presented evidence of itself, including his admission that he was a member, his tattoos, his statement to his mother that he was 38,when he committed the shooting. the evidence also permitted a reasonable jury to conclude that the 38th street gang was a criminal street gang within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). finally, the prosecution presented evidence from which the jury could conclude that loera committed the murder and attempted 6 murder for the benefit of the 38th street gang. the evidence was sufficient to findings on the gang allegations. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. 