 filed 6/23/16 p. v. acevedo ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel ray acevedo, defendant and appellant. b263123 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba408864) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura f. priver, judge. reversed in part and otherwise affirmed. victor j. morse, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and paul s. thies, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________ 2 in this appeal from a first degree murder conviction, appellant daniel ray acevedo challenges the trial courthis motion to bifurcate the trial of his gang enhancement allegation from the trial for the underlying crime; refusal to dismiss a prior juvenile adjudication; and its imposition of a (stayed) sentence for the gang enhancement. we conclude that the trial court acted within its discretion with respect to the first two grounds for his appeal, but erred with respect to the third. background mid-morning on january 22, 2013, working at a fast-food restaurant on pico boulevard near hoover street, in los angeles, luis ornelas and felicitas solano cruz served three hispanic men in a white cadillac at the drive-through window. ornelas identified the driver, who he had often served before, as appellant acevedo, and he recognized the right front seat passenger as someone else he had seen many times as a customer. -through line, which exited onto pico boulevard. ornelas testified that the front seat passenger seemed nervous. cruz described the driver by size, complexion, hair, tattoos (some of which she described), and hat. the front seat passenger she described as between 17 and 20 years old, with a shaved head and tattoos on his cheeks and hands. ornelas identified acevedo from a photographic lineup, and at trial. when cruz was shown a photographic lineup, she said nothing at first, and later said only that the photo of rene velasquez looked similar to the front seat passenger. at trial she said she was scared and nervous that because she testified something might happen to her. about 10:30 a.m., parra almicar walked east on pico boulevard near alvarado street in los angeles after leaving a store in which he had purchased a notebook. a clerk at the store, maria serpas, saw a white four-door car driving slowlynext to almicarafter hearing the shots she left the store, and saw almicar lying on the ground. 3 eddy torres, in an office near the pico and alvarado intersection, heard two pops, and saw almicar running then falling to the ground. a hispanic man then ran up to almicar, jumped on his back with his knees, fired three shots from a revolver into almicarand ran west on pico. from a bus traveling east on pico, francisco montes heard two or three loud noises. the bus driver said, saw a man point a silver revolver at parra, who was lying on the sidewalk, fire three shots at almicar, then walk westbound diagonally across pico. the police found almicar dead, lying on the sidewalk at the corner of pico and alvarado. he had died from five fatal gunshot wounds, three to his face and two in his back, all apparently from a revolver. almicar had no known gang affiliation. vicinity of the shooting at 10:30 that morning. about 14 minutes after the shooting acevedo woke henry borja (who also wore a tracking deviceresidence. the tracking devices confirmed that borja was home at the time, and that acevedo was there for about six minutes. friends, and as 18th street gang members, and testified that borja and acevedo engaged in a conversation she did not hear. about an hour after the shooting, two officers stopped a white cadillac in which acevedo was the driver and velasquez was the front seat passenger. they did not know about the shooting, and released the two after citing acevedo for littering. about 6:00 p.m. on the evening of the shooting, acevedo was arrested during another traffic stop while driving the white cadillac, this time without passengers. a blood stain on the inside of the right front door matched arrested a few hours later, following a pursuit on foot. a few weeks later borja called and instructed his girlfriend to retrieve a bag from among gardening supplies near the front of his residence, and to deliver it to someone in century citywhich she did. the recipient turned out to be an undercover agent, who delivered the packagecontaining the revolver used to shoot almicarto the police. 4 officer meza of the police department testified as an expert on the 18th street gang, identifying acevedo, velasquez, and borja as 18th street gang members, both from previous encounters and from their identifying tattoos. he provided testimony about that cliques and tattoos showing affiliation; and specific convictions of various members for violent crimes including attempted murder. he also testified that the area in which almicar was killed was an area claimed by the 18th street gang, and that the events to which the various witnesses had testified would indicate the killing was committed for the benefit of and in association with the 18th street gang, in order to intimidate the community and deter the reporting of crimes. a jury found appellant daniel ray acevedo guilty of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),1 committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), in which a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d) & (e)(1)). the trial court sentenced acevedo to 25 years to life in prison for the murder, doubled to 50 years to life under the three strikes law, and to an additional 25 years to life under section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e), for a total of 75 years to life in prison. for the finding under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), the court imposed an additional 10 years, stayed pursuant to section 654. discussion acevedo appeals on three grounds: first, that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to bifurcate the trial for the criminal street gang enhancement allegation ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) from the trial on the charge of murder. ( 187, subd. (a).) second, that the court abused its discretion by refusing to dismiss a prior juvenile adjudication, and for sentencing acevedo as a second-striker under the three strikes law. ( 667, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subd. (c)(1) & (2); 1385.) third, that the 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 5 court erred by imposing a 10-year sentence for the gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) (although it then stayed the sentence under section 654). we conclude that the trial court acted within its discretion with respect to the first and second of these grounds, and on that basis we affirm his conviction for murder and his sentence as a second-striker. however, we also concludeas respondent concedesthat the trial court erred by imposing the 10-year gang enhancement term. we therefore will remand the matter to the trial court for entry of an amended abstract of judgment, striking the stayed 10-year gang enhancement sentence imposed under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), and imposing instead subdivision (b)(5) requirement that he must serve a minimum of 15 years before being paroled. in all other respects, we affirm the judgment. i. discretion. to establish the criminal street gang enhancement of section 186.22, subdivision criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal [citation.] in addition, the prosecution must prove that the gang (1) is an ongoing association of three or more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so-period. ( 186.22, subds. (e) & (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 616-617.) acevedo makes no contention that the prosecutionence was insufficient to prove any of the enumerated elements of the gang enhancement allegation. officer 6 gang had engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity, primarily including murders, attempted murders, robberies, and assaults with deadly weapons. he identified a named gang member who was convicted of assault with a firearm in 2011; and another named gang member who was convicted of attempted robbery in 2010. and meza identified acevedo, velasquez, and borja as 18th street gang members, based on their gang tattoos (those identified by other witnesses, as well as others on other parts of their bodies), their admission to officers of their 18th street gang membership, their association with other gang members, and their presence in an 18th street gang stronghold. gang, but from other witnesses as well. ornelas, the fast-food worker, testified that acevedo had an the other fast-attoos of letters or numbers, and a teardrop tattoo near his eye. the officers who cited acevedo for littering soon after the girlfriend testified that both borja and acevedo were 18th street gang members. seeking to bifurcate the gang enhancement allegation, acevedo argued in the trial court be irrelevant to the substantive charge of murder, and more prejudicial than probative. and in this appeal he points to the absence of evidence that the murder victim had any gang affiliation, that the murder was committed in retaliation for any offense against the 18th street gang or any threat to its reputation, that the perpetrators had claimed responsibility for or bragged about the crime, or that either they or the gang actually gained status from the crime. paraphrasing a key supreme court decision on the subject, he argues that the evidence extraordinarily prejudicial, and of so little relevance to [his] guilt [of the charged crime], that it threatens (see people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049.) that, acevedo argues, deprived him of his constitutional right to due process of law. 7 people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1048.) acevedo does not contend in this court that the gang enhancement evidence was wholly irrelevant to proof of his guilt on the murder charge, or that the evidence of his gang involvement would necessarily have been inadmissible in a bifurcated trial on that charge. rather, he argues that the gang enhancement evidence motive, identity, and witness credibility on the murder charge; that h a gang motive; and very little additional to prove the issues of motive, identity, and witness reluctance to testify. trele, he contends, would have been to show his connections to velasquez, his passenger in the cadillac and the alleged shooter, and with borja, whose residence he visited shortly after the shooting and at which the revolver was found. it is of course true that the portion of the gang enhancement allegation evidence involving crimes in which acevedo was not involvedevidence of pattern of criminal gang activity, essential to establish the gang enhancement allegationwould not have been admissible in a bifurcated trial of the murder charge alone. and while that evidence was not particularly graphic or inflammatory (and was in fact less inflammatory than the evidence of the charged crime in this case), it necessarily had at least some potential for prejudice. (see people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th but the remainder of the gang enhancement evidence was far more than just and the gang enhancement evidence did not range beyond that required for proof of the elements of the murder allegation, and the gang enhancement allegation. this case therefore occasions where the admission of evidence has violated due process and rendered the 8 people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 232.) first, of course, the evidencacevedo as the white cadillac, and identification of velasquez as his front seat passenger. many tattoos identified them as gang members, tended to explain their presence together in the car and their frequent presence together in the area of the murder. it also tended to nowledge and active participation in the shootingdriving slowly next to almicar as he walked along the sidewalk, permitting his passenger to exit the car in order to shoot almicar, and preparing for a quick getaway following the shooting. it tended to ex, another member of the same gang, just s residence, where the murder weapon was later retrieved. and it , based on evidence of gang retaliation for witness cooperation with investigations of gang crimes. the evidence of required to establish the gang enhancement allegation, but was relevant also to the credibility of at least one witness, and to the issues of intent, motive, and identity with respect to the charged offense. acevedo argues that than first-degree murder might have been negatively affected by the evidence of his gang associations but the argument (even if true) demonstrates that the gang evidence was relevant not just to the gang enhancement, but also to show his active participation in the charged crime. (see people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049 [evidence of gang membership is .) the jury was entitled to conclude (as acevedo argued it should) that acevedo did not know in advance that his passenger would exit the car and shoot almicar, and that he might have driven slowly next to almicar only because he was instructed by velasquez to do so. but in evaluating 9 the likelihood that acevedo had actively participated in the planning and perpetration of the charged crime, the jury was entitled to consider the evidence of his familiarity with the area, the testimony that he and velasquez were perceived by witnesses as being nervous immediately before the shooting, and his close association with other members of the 18th street gang, including perpetrators of other violent crimes in the area. (see people v. funes (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1506, 1516-1517 [evidence of gang activities is permissible where gang enhancement evidence is also relevant to intent and motive in trial of charged offense].) acevedo all but concedes the relevance of the gang evidence on these issues, by arguing only that the evidence but not necessarily conclusive proof ofthe defense theory that acevedo acted only as an accessory after the crime. the trial court was not oblivious to the danger of prejudice resulting from inflammatory evidence that would be offered to support the gang enhancement allegation, but would be irrelevant to proof of the substantive charge of murder. after considering the pretrial bifurcation motion, it and what although the gang involvement evidence would necessarily be prejudicial to the defendantthe court believes it can cure that with appropriate limiting instruction and . . . ia limiting instruction as it the court did limit the purpose for which the jury could consider the evidence of gang activity. in the terms of calcrim no. 1403, the court instructed the jury: only for the limited purpose of deciding whether: intent, purpose, and knowledge that are required to prove the gang-related crime and enhancements charged; 10 believability of a witness and when you consider the facts and information relied on by an expert witness in reaching his or her opinion. any other purpose. you may not conclude from this evidence that the defendant is a person of bad character or that he has being improperly influenced by the introduction of the unduly prejudicial gang evidence purpose, and he cites no deficiency or error in the instruction. we have no basis on which to evidence. (people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 776.)2 ii. the refusal to second degree murder did not abuse the cour in people v. romero, our supreme court affirmed the authority of trial courts to strike prior felony conviction allegations under section 1385, in cases brought under the three strikes law. (people v. romero (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 529-530.) in this case, acevedo asked the court to strike his prior juvenile court adjudication for second degree murder. the court denied his romero motion, imposing a second strike sentence under the three strikes law, doubling his first degree murder sentence of 25 years-to-life imprisonment to a sentence of imprisonment for 50 years-to-life, which, with the consecutive firearm-enhancement term, then totals 75 years-to-life imprisonment. acevedo appeals, arguing that the denial of his romero motion abused th discretion. 2 we also find no basis on which to conclude that a result more favorable to acevedo on the murder charge would have been reasonably probable if trial of the gang enhancement allegation had been bifurcated. (see people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. burch (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 862, 868-869 [errors in denying bifurcation are evaluated for reasonable probability of prejudice under watson standard].) 11 the manner in which the trial court is required to exercise its discretion in ruling on a romero motion is explained in people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148. in ruling whether to strike or vacate a prior serious or violent felony conviction allegation or finding under the three strikes law in furtherance of justice under section 1385, subdivision circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious and/or violent (people v. williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 161.) court motion conceded that in september 2002, when he was 17 years old, he had suffered a juvenile second degree murder adjudication in which he was identified as the perpetrator of a gang related shooting ( 187, subd. (a)); that on february 8, 2010, he had been released on parole; that on june 24, 2010, he was discharged from parole; and that on november 1, 2011, he had suffered a misdemeanor conviction for evading a police officer. (veh. code,  2800.1.) he argues on appeal that he should have been found by the trial court to be outside the spirit of the three strikes law, because his prior serious offense had been committed when he was just 17 years old, more than 10 years before his current offense; and even if his motion to strike the prior adjudication were granted, he would still be subject to a mandatory sentence of 50 years to life imprisonmentnship with his recently born daughter, his only child, outside the confines of the prison system in the year 2063. we conclude that the trial courtromero motion did not abuse its discretion. the court explained its exercise of discretion appropriate under the law, in light of the facts that the charge for which acevedo had suffered his strike adjudication was the same as his conviction in this case; and although he had been a juvenile when he y free from custody for that long a period of time 12 3 the trial court expressly affirmed its recognition that it had discretion to grant the motion, though it also concluded that to do so in this case might have abused its discretion. (people v. gillispie (1997) 60 cal.app.4th 429, here the legislature establishes a sentencing norm and requires the court explicitly to justify a departure therefrom, and the court sentences in conformity with the legislative standard, all that is required on the appellate record is a showing that the court was aware of its discretion to select an alternate disposition. (people v. langevin (1984) 155 cal.app.3d 520, 524; people v. gillispie, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at p. 433.) applying this standard, acevedo has failed to show any abuse of discretion. iii. the 10-year gang enhancement sentence must be reversed. imposition of the 10-year sentence enhancement of subdivision (b)(1)(c) of section 186.22, relying on people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002 for the proposition that his life sentence for first degree murder is not subject to the 10-year enhancement under that provision. subdivision (b) of section 186.22 establishes alternative methods for punishment for crimes committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. in subdivision (b)(1)(c), that section imposes a 10-year enhancement a violent felony. but the subdivision (b)(1)(c) alternative does not apply where the violent felony as is the felony for which acevedo was convicted in this case. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5).) instead, it is subdivision (b)(5) of section 186.22 that applies, imposing a minimum term of 15 years before the defendant may be considered for parole. (people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1004-1005.) 3 acevedo committed the crime for which he was convicted in this case on january 22, 2013about 30 months after his discharge from parole for the murder adjudication, slightly more than two years after his most recent misdemeanor conviction, and apparently while he was still on parole for the offense under welfare and institutions code section 1001.5 (knowingly possessing or bringing into a california youth authority camp a controlled substance, alcoholic beverage, firearm, etc.). 13 as acevedo contendsand respondent agreesthe trial court erred in this case by imposing the 10-year enhancement under subdivision (b)(1)(c) of section 186.22, then staying the enhancement under section 654, rather than imposing a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under subdivision (b)(5) of section 186.22. we therefore will remand the matter with directions for the trial court to issue an amended abstract of judgment striking the stayed 10-year gang enhancement, and imposing a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under subdivision (b)(5) of section 186.22. disposition the matter is remanded with directions to issue an amended abstract of judgment striking the stayed 10-year gang enhancement, and imposing a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under subdivision (b)(5) of section 186.22. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. lui, j. 