filed 8/1/16 p.v. hill ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. montreal dajon hill, defendant and appellant. b263608 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na093497) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james d. otto, judge. affirmed. stephen temko, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and amanda v. lopez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 appellant, montreal dajon hill, appeals from a judgment after a jury convicted him of one count of first degree murder in violation of penal code1 section 187, subdivision (a). the jury also found three firearm allegations to be true: appellant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm which caused great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)); appellant intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)); and appellant personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)). the jury found appellant not guilty of an attempted murder charge. the jury also found a gang allegation to be not true. the trial court sentenced appellant to 25 years to life for the murder plus a consecutive term of 25 years to life for the gun use enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)). the remaining allegations were stayed pursuant to section 654. appellant contends the trial court erred in admitting irrelevant and speculative evidence from a witness relating to what the witness thought was about to happen. appellant claims the error was prejudicial because the testimony reduced the find the trial court affirm the judgment. prosecution evidence on september 25, 2012, jennifer z. and gerardo placencia, the murder victim, were returning home after taking one of friends home. jennifer, who was 12 years old, was riding a scooter and placencia was walking. as jennifer and placencia passed sunrise donut shop on 7th street in long beach, placencia sbecause they were being followed. as she sped up, placencia was behind her. she then heard someone, also from behind her, seconds, jennifer heard a gunshot. jennifer ducked down but could not hear anything because her ears were ringing from the gunshot. she saw a man on the sidewalk and two others in the street who 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 3 passed by her. jennifer subsequently got back up on her scooter and went to a store on the corner of rose and 7th street for help. eric deshon hubbard was in custody at the time of trial. hubbard testified against appellant as part of a grant of leniency after pleading guilty to an accessory charge and a gang allegation charge. hubbard testified that, at about 8:40 p.m. on the evening of the shooting, he and les to the donut shop. appellant met them at the donut shop riding a beach cruiser. the three men went into the donut shop so that hubbard could change a $20 bill because hubbard owed appellant some money. ,male, pass by with jennifer, who is also hispanic. a appellant hopped on his bicycle. when hubbard said, g to , ho were on their bikes, started following appellant. hubbard was very concerned about the hubbard and brittman were riding in the street. because appellant was on the sidewalk, hubbard told him to get on the street but appellant did not acknowledge hubbard. hubbard then saw appellant take a gun from his pocket or jacket and shoot placencia twice in the back. prior to appellant taking the gun out, hubbard did not know appellant had a gun. hubbard was startled, surprised and scared when appellant shot placencia because hubbard was not expecting it. placencia died from one of the gunshots to his back. 4 hubbard, who was arrested the next morning, initially lied to detectives. hubbard testified that he decided to be honest after a detective told him that the police had video images showing hubbard at the scene. security camera images from the donut shop and a marijuana collective showed the events of the night. three young black males subsequently identified as appellant, hubbard and brittman were shown entering and leaving the donut shop and riding their bikes down the street. the videos also showed appellant shooting placencia. at the trial, hubbard identified himself, appellant and brittman from the images taken from the video cameras from the donut shop and a marijuana collective near the shooting. on the evening of the shooting, long beach police department detective malcolm evans saw appellant on a street corner with a group of subjects in a heated discussion. detective evans thought appellant resembled one of the men he had seen on the donut shop video. appellant was wearing a dark shirt, gray cutoff jeans, white socks and dark shoes when he was in the donut shop and when detective evans saw him on the street. appellant admitted to the police that he was a member of the grape street crips gang. appellant was arrested that eveni los angeles police department officer jason archie testified as a gang expert. officer archie had testified as a grape street crips gang expert over 50 times. he testified that murder is one of the primary activities of ture, asking a person where they are from is like a declaration of war. in the past, the person asking would allow the person to answer. now, the gang members just start shooting no matter how the victims answer the question. officer archie testified that appellant was a member of the grape street crips gang because appellant admitted being a member. appellant also had gang tattoos. in ooting done under the circumstances of this case would 5 have been done for the benefit of, at the direction of and in association with a criminal street gang to cause fear and intimidation. if people know that they kill people, it enhances their reputation and discourages people from calling the police or testifying in court. the shooter is benefited because his reputation is enhanced and his membership in the gang is bolstered. evidence , which was admitted into evidence. discussion appellant claims the trial court committed reversible error by allowing hubbard to testify about what he thought was going to happen. the trial court overruled defense ative. appellant argues that the ruling only relevant evidence is admissible. (evid. code,  350.) except as otherwise 351; people v. carter relevant evidence means evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.(evid. code,  210.) while a trial court has broad discretion to determine the relevance of evidence, it lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (people v. lopez (2013) 56 cal.4th 1028, 1058; people v. heard (2003) 31 cal.4th 946, 973.) speculative evidence is irrelevant evidence. (people v. babbitt (1988) 45 cal.3d 660, 682.) [t]he prohibition against an examiners question that calls for an answer based on speculation and conjecture is also founded on the concept of relevancy. such testimony is irrelevant, because it does not have a tendency in reason to prove or disprove the disputed issue on which the testimony is proffered.people v. rodriguez (2014) 58 cal.4th 587, 630-631.) in this case, the issue arose after hubbard testified that appellant nodded his head, meaning that they should go after placencia. hubbard then asked appellant what 6 appellant was planning to do. appellant, however, did not respond and began to follow placencia. hubbard began to follow appellant. appellant claims prejudicial error from the following exchange between the prosecutor and hubbard about the subsequent shooting. street, and you told [appellant] to basically get in the street? [] a: yes. [] q: now, at this point, because maybe the jury is having trouble believing this, but at that point in time, did you think something bad was going to happen? [] a: yes. [] q: why did you think something bad was going to happen? [] a: at this point, defense counsel objected that the testimony was speculative. after the trial court overruled the objection, the prosecutor repeated the question about why hubbard thought something bad was about to happen, to which hubbard responded, focused s the following colloquy between the prosecutor and hubbard then occurred: a: yes. [] q: and as you thought something bad was going to happen, you were still looking over at [appellant], correct? [] a: correct. [] q: [appellant] shoot? [] a: appellant also contends the questions elicited a lay opinion which was based on speculation and conjecture. i. the arguments have not been forfeited. the attorney general preliminarily argues that the evidentiary arguments have been forfeited because defense counsel did not object to the initial question about what hubbard thought might happen. defense counsel only objected after the testimony was 7 admitted into evidence and then did not raise additional objections when the prosecutor continued to ask questions along the same line. defense counsel did not move to strike the testimony. the attorney general also asserts that appellant has raised the separate issue of whether the testimony called for improper lay opinion which is not cognizable on appeal. 353, subdivision (a) allows a judgment to be reversed because of erroneous admission of evidence only if an objection to the evidence or a (people v. demetrulias (2006) 39 cal.4th 1, 20.) the specific ground of the objection is not cognizable on appeal unless the party made a timely and specific objection in the trial court. (ibid.) we disagree that the claim that the testimony was speculative has been forfeited. the record shows that defense counsel did not object to the first question as to whether hubbard thought something bad was going to happen. however, defense counsel then objected to the very next question about why he thought something bad was going to happen on the ground it was speculative. after the trial court overruled the objection, the -to preserve the issue of whether the testimony was speculative. the questions improperly called for a lay opinion has been forfeited. the argument on appeal is that the lay opinion was speculative and called for conjecture. therefore, it is cognizable on the theory that it was speculative. ii. the evidence was properly admitted. as previously noted, appellant contends that admitted because it is irrelevant, speculative and conjectural. a trial court ruling on the admission or exclusion of evidence is reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 491; people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 230.) 8 evidence code section 800 states: a witness is not testifying as an expert, his testimony in the form of an opinion is limited to such an opinion as is permitted by law, including but not limited to an opinion that is: [] (a) rationally based on the perception of the witness; and [] (b) helpful to a clear understanding of his testimony.code,  702.) [a]n examiners question asking a lay witness to testify to facts that the witness has not personally observed, or to state an opinion not based on his or her own observations, calls for speculation and conjecture by the witness and is prohibited by evidence code sections 702 and 800. people v. rodriguez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 631.) we are not persuaded that the trial court erred in overruling the objection that d appellant ask , cappellant was riding the beach cruiser on the sidewalk while his two companions rode in the street. appellant refused to acknowledge statements and questions posed to him by subsequently testified that he thought something bad was going about what he was thinking corroborated his testimony about his perceptions and why he followed appellant on that evening. the testimony was, therefore, relevant and not speculative. (evid. code,  210; people v. thuss (2003) 107 cal.app.4th 221.) appellant also asserts that the testimony was based on an improper lay opinion.  800, subd. ot based on the bare assertion that something bad was going to happen. hubbard explained with 9 numerous details what he had observed prior to the shooting and why he decided to as acting code,  800; people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 429.) appellant also claims that the evidence was improper because hubbard was allowed to render an generally, a lay witness may not give an opinion about anothers state of mind. however, a witness may testify about objective behavior and describe behavior as being consistent with a state of mind.people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 397.) appellant is incorrect hubbard never actually speculate about why appellant was acting the way he was or purport to predict that appellant was going to shoot placencia twice in the back. indeed, as appellant points out, hubbard actually testified that he had no idea appellant even had a gun. in addition, although the evidence arguably supported an inference of malice in light of the other evidence in the case, the trial court did not err in overruling the objection. hubbard only testified about why he felt something bad was going to happen based on his observations of appellant. hubbard had previously testified about his gang vernacular, making a head gesture and then following him. hubbard had also testified that a appellant refused to acknowledge warnings from his companions that appellant should not to do anything stupid. thus, hubbardcomments, gestures, conduct and demeanor, all of which led hubbard to believe something bad was about to happen. although the evidence may have led to an inference of , hubmind. under the circumstances, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence. 10 iii. appellant has not shown prejudice. about what he thought, the jury would only have found him guilty of second degree murder. appellant argues that deliberate and premeditated. even if we were to conclude that evidence should not have been admitted, we cannot conclude that it is reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a more favorable result in the absence of the error. (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) first degree murder is an unlawful killing with malice aforethought, premeditation, and deliberation. (people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1181.) a second degree murder also requires proof of malice but does not include the elements of premeditation and deliberation. (ibida verdict of deliberate and premeditated first degree murder requires more than a showing of intent to kill. [citation.] deliberation refers to careful weighing of considerations in forming a course of action; means thought over in advance. [citations.] people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 812.) however, both premeditation and deliberation can occur within a brief interval of time. (ibidthe test is not time, but reflection. be arrived at quickly. people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 849.) what he thought, it is reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a more favorable verdict. to begin with, whelming evidence that appellant was guilty of first degree murder. significantly, the jury was shown footage from security cameras taken from the donut shop and the marijuana collective. the combined footage from the two locations showed appellant in the donut shop, following placencia and jennifer, and then shooting placencia twice in the back. the jury also heard testimony that both hubbard and appellant were admitted gang rd a 11 gunshot. officer archie testified that those words in gang culture were a declaration of war. once a gang member asked a victim that question, the gang member did not wait for the victim to answer but would just start shooting. consistent with that evidence, hubbard testified that appellant asked a complete , appellant then made a head motion to his two companions to follow placencia even though placencia did not respond to appellant. appellant began to pursue placencia, who warned jennifer to speed up, because they were being followed. appellant refused to acknowledge questions and suggestions by hubbard and brittman that appellant should not do anything stupid. hubbard testified that he saw appellant take a gun from his jacket and shoot placencia twice in the back. in sum, the footage coupled with testimony from jennifer, officer archie and hubbard provided sufficient and indeed overwhelming evidence that the killing was thought was going to happen was erroneously admitted, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have only found appellant guilty of second degree murder. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: chavez, j. hoffstadt, j. 