filed 2/1/17 p. v. shim ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph hyungseop shim, defendant and appellant. in re joseph hyungseop shim, on habeas corpus. b264605 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba411385) b269737 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, edmund w. clarke, jr., judge. affirmed. original proceeding; petition for writ of habeas corpus. petition denied. tara k. hoveland and fay arfa for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant 2 attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ defendant joseph hyungseop shim was charged by information with three counts of continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14 (pen. code,  288.5, subd. (a); counts 1, 4, 5),1 and two counts of lewd and lascivious acts involving children aged 14 or 15 ( 288, subd. (c)(1); counts 2 & 3) against his three minor daughters. the information also included special allegations that the crimes were committed against more than one victim, warranting a sentence of 25 years to life. ( 667.61, subd. (e).) defendant was convicted by jury of all counts, and the special allegations were found true. defendant received three concurrent 25-year-to-life terms for counts 1, 4, and 5, and also received two concurrent two-year terms for counts 2 and 3. defendant makes numerous claims of error on appeal. principally, he contends the trial court was biased against his trial favoritism toward the prosecution and its witnesses, and which deprived him of his right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. in addition, he claims: the prosecutor and the trial court committed misconduct by misstating the burden of proof; the evidence was insufficient to support all counts, because the s implausible; the victim support people used by the daughters during their testimony improperly 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 influenced the jury with their facial expressions and conduct, and ; the trial court erred by refusing to counsel; the prosecutor committed misconduct by failing to timely disclose videos and transcripts of the lead s interviews with the daughters; his 25-year-to-life sentence is cruel and unusual; and, cumulative error requires reversal. in his habeas petition, defendant contends the trial court erred when it failed to grant him a continuance or additional funds so that he could hire a memory expert. although we have concerns about several remarks by the trial judge, neither those concerns nor any other claim of error warrants reversal. accordingly, we affirm the judgment and deny the habeas petition. factual and procedural background defendant is the father of daughters s.s., born in 1996, j.s., born in 1998, and p.s., born in 2001. defendant and the v.c., divorced in 2007. before the divorce, defendant never touched the girls sexually. however, he did hit the girls. after the divorce, the girls lived with their mother, and had visitation with defendant. i. inappropriate touching between 2008 and 2012, s.s., j.s., and p.s. visited with defendant at his apartment nearly every weekend. defendant would pick the girls up on friday, and return them home to their mother on sunday evenings. all three girls testified that he touched their breasts during the drive to his apartment. usually, s.s. sat in the front seat, and therefore, she was touched the most frequently. this touching started when she was 11 or 12, 4 continued until she was 13, and occurred 3 or 4 times a month. when s.s. told defendant to stop, he told her that he was her father, and her body belonged to him so he was allowed to touch her. j.s. sometimes sat in the front , and was also touched by defendant. j.s. testified that defendant touched her breasts once a month, over a period of 20 months. he touched her both over and under her clothing, starting when she was 11 or 12 years old. he also sometimes touched her breasts in his apartment. when j.s. told defendant to stop, he p.s. also testified that defendant touched her breasts in the car. defendant also . s.s. testified ocks three or four times a month between the ages of 11 and 12. this occurred mostly in his apartment, but also in the elevator and hallway. j.s. testified that defendant slapped or grabbed her buttocks, starting when she was 11 years old. this happened once or twice a month. buttocks. this happened during every visit over a six-month period. she also saw defendant . the touching occurred in the bedroom the girls shared at s apartment. s.s., j.s., and p.s. each testified similarly, that defendant would hold them down on the bed, with their legs dangling off of the bed. defendant would stand at the edge of the bed 5 his foot on their vaginas. s.s. testified that defendant did this to her one time, and that she saw defendant do it to p.s. j.s. testified that defendant started touching her this way when she was 11, and that it happened once every three or four months until she turned 13. she saw defendant do it to her sisters. p.s. testified that defendant touched her this way more than once. it started when she was 10 or 11. she also saw defendant do it to both of her sisters. defendant also once tongue-kissed s.s. when she was 11 or 12, came into the bathroom when j.s. was showering, and touched vagina with his hand, both over and under her clothing. defendant also hit the girls when he was angry, and around august 2012, dragged s.s. by her hair. ii. disclosure after the hair pulling incident, s.s. refused to see defendant. s.s. did not tell mother why she no longer wanted to lost her appetite. mother was also concerned because j.s. and p.s. appeared angry after visitation with defendant. therefore, mother enrolled all three girls in counseling. when s.s. began counseling, she told her counselor about the hair pulling incident, but did not initially discuss the sexual touching. wthe counselor reported the physical abuse to the los angeles county department of children and family services (department), and when social workers interviewed s.s., she told them about the sexual abuse. after she reported the abuse to the social workers, mother took her to the police to make a report. mother also contacted the department and made a report. 6 s.s. initially told mother that defendant had only touched her breasts. however, after several months, she told mother more details about the touching. at the time s.s. first disclosed the sexual abuse to mother, neither j.s. nor p.s. had told mother that defendant touched them inappropriately. at first, s.s. only told police that defendant touched her abuse. she was also afraid defendant would get in trouble. eventually, she told police about defendant touching her vagina and tongue-kissing her. prior to disclosing the abuse to social workers, s.s. had never discussed it with her sisters or her mother. in 2012, after s.s. disclosed that defendant had sexually abused her, mother no longer allowed the girls to visit with defendant. she sought a temporary restraining order in the family court. the order was granted, and after that defendant did not see the children. first interviewed by social workers and discovered that s.s. had disclosed the abuse. she was upset because she could no longer visit with defendant, and because she had to meet with police and miss school. when j.s. first spoke with police, she did not tell them what happened because she did not want defendant to get in trouble. however, she began to feel guilty for being untruthful with the police so she told her counselor the truth. when she later met with the police, she told them what happened. p.s. did not tell mother about the touching until after s.s. disclosed the abuse. mother took p.s. to make a report to police. p.s. initially did not share all the details of the abuse, but eventually told police everything because she felt it was 7 important to be truthful. she did not share everything at first because she was embarrassed. after the abuse was reported to police, p.s. did discuss it with s.s., but not with j.s. clinical psychologist jayme jones testified about sexual abuse accommodation syndrome, explaining why abuse often stays a secret and why victims might delay disclosure, disclose in bits and pieces, and even recant their allegations of abuse. he explained that it is also not unusual for a victim to express feelings of affection for an abuser. iii. investigation los angeles police officer mauricio moisa was assigned to investigate the allegations in this case. he first interviewed s.s. on august 22, 2012, and the interview was recorded. s.s. initially disclosed that defendant had touched her breast over and under her clothing while driving in the car, and that defendant had tongue-kissed her. she appeared very concerned about getting defendant in trouble, but wanted to protect her sisters, and wanted the touching to stop. officer moisa interviewed j.s. and p.s. the following day. p.s. admitted to seeing defendant admitted to seeing defendant that defendant had touched her own breasts in the elevator at his apartment. she did not disclose any other inappropriate touching during this interview. j.s. appeared upset when officer moisa interviewed her, and did not disclose any abuse during the august 23 interview. the next morning, officer moisa received a voicemail from mother indicating that j.s. had disclosed to her that she was not truthful during her interview. on august 24, 2012, officer moisa interviewed j.s. she admitted she had not been truthful because 8 she loved defendant and did not want him to get in trouble. she admitted to seeing defendant touch both s.s. and that he had touched her breasts. she did not disclose any additional touching during this interview. in a later interview of p.s., p.s. offered more details about the abuse, indicating that defendant had touched her vagina with his hand and massaged her vagina with his foot. when officer moisa re-interviewed s.s., she disclosed that defendant would throw her on the bed and place his foot on her vagina. j.s. also disclosed that defendant would pin her to the bed and touch her vagina with his foot. no additional touching was disclosed. iv. defense case department social worker mike oh testified that he investigated a referral for the family in august 2011 based on an incident where intentionally stepped on upset with her every time she visited defendant, and that mother was upset that defendant was not paying child support. s.s. told mr. oh that she would rather live with defendant. neither younger sibling disclosed any problems with either parent. social worker steven song testified that he investigated a referral for the family in the summer of 2012 based on the hair pulling incident. when he interviewed s.s., she only disclosed that defendant had pulled her hair. both younger sisters denied any abuse. when mother was interviewed, she did not suspect any abuse of the younger daughters. during cross-examination, mr. song testified that the department received another referral sometime after july 2012, and s.s. disclosed to mr. song that defendant had touched her 9 defendant would touch her sisters. p.s. also disclosed that defendant touched her breasts. casey lee testified that she was co-ministers with defendant at a church in 2007 and 2008. defendant left the church and formed his own church in 2010. lee later joined daughters. lee never witnessed any abuse or improper touching by defendant. tiffany park (also known as jung hee) testified that she married defendant in 2010. she never saw defendant throw the girls on the bed, or touch their breasts in the car. the girbedroom door was always open. clinical and forensic psychologist david thompson testified. he formerly worked as the interim director of the walworth county department of health and human services in wisconsin. one of his responsibilities was to supervise the child welfare office which was in charge of investigating child abuse. he ensured that social workers were trained to conduct interviews correctly. generally, child forensic interviews should be recorded so that the interview techniques can be properly evaluated because the way the interviewer asks questions can affect responses and the recollections of the child. questions should initially be broad and open-ended, and not provide the child with any new information so that their answers do not become tainted. leading questions should be avoided. the questions may become more focused as the interview progresses, related to the responses that the child has already given. children can report things that did not happen. also, children are prone to source monitoring error, where they can recall an event, but cannot recall their source of information 10 about the event (e.g., whether they personally had an experience or whether someone told them about an experience). also, if a child is exposed to negative comments about a person, it can affect the childparental coaching can also affect a , and sibling interactions. repeated interviews, if the interviews are not done correctly, can reinforce and solidify untrue memories. discussion i. judicial bias and misconduct defendant complains of a number of instances of judicial bias and misconduct aimed at his trial counsel, fay arfa (who also represents defendant on appeal). specifically, he complains that the trial court: (1) told counsel that she was not the right lawyer for the case; (2) made explosive remarks during voir dire; (3) (4) aligned itself with the prosecution; (ictims j.s. and p.s.; (6) told the jury that sex crimes might not require physical findings or medical evidence; (7) accused defense counsel of misconduct and constantly interrupted her; (8) asked defense witnesses pro-prosecution questions; and (9) tried to remove trial counsel when defendant moved for a new trial. defendant contends that the misconduct had the consequence of depriving him of his right to counsel, due process, and a fair trial. respondent contends that defendant never objected on the basis that the court was biased or had engaged in misconduct. defendant arguably concedes this point, contending in his reply brief that any objection would have been futile, or that his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object. however, our examination of the record shows that even 11 least two occasions she made it clear to the court that she believed the court was biased against her. during a february 18, 2015 pretrial hearing, counsel complained that the court had disparaged her in front of defendant and his family. during voir dire on march 17, 2015, counsel told the court that its comments had caused the jury to lose all respect for her and questioned whether the court could be fair to her.2 merits, to the extent we can, in part because we believe some attempts at that his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by not further objecting. (people v. mitchell (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 442, 466-467 [in order to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel, objective standard of reasonableness, and that he was prejudiced 2 we also note that during trial, defendant filed a document captionsin the presence of the jury lest they seem to lean toward or lend their (people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237-of the jury, the court asked counsel why it was necessary to tell the court to be discreet. counsel responded that she believed the examples, the only example counsel provided was that the court was critical of her questioning style. the court explained that her questioning style made it hard for the jury to understand the evidence, and for the child witnesses to understand what was being asked of them. when queried, counsel failed to provide any further examples. 12 ; see also people v. farley (2009) 46 cal.4th 1053, 1110; people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 114.) although we accept that defendant did not forfeit some of his arguments, we find problematic defendant selective summarization of the record, generally only citing the objectionable comments by the trial court without providing any context for the comments, or only providing string citations to the record without any objectionable comments. an (cal. rules of court, rule 8.204(a)(2)(c)), and the failure to fairly characterize the proceedings in brief waives any alleged error. (foreman & clark corp. v. fallon (1971) 3 cal.3d 875, 881; schmidlin v. city of palo alto (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 728, 737-738.) furthertargeted analysis for why (cal. rules of court, rule 8.204(a)(1)(b); people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793 [a brief must contain reasoned argument and legal authority to support its contentions or the court may treat the claim as waived]; benach v. county of los angeles (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 836, 852.)3 where no adequate discussion of the relevant facts or 3 defendant did not cite a single example in his brief under this subheading. rather, a string of citations to the record, with no discussion whatsoever, has been provided. 13 reach the merits of any claimed error. (foreman & clark corp. v. fallon, supra, 3 cal.3d at p. 881.) ii. legal standards fair trial in a fair tribunal is a basic requirement of due people v. freeman (2010) 47 cal.4th 993, 1000.) trial judges should be iscreet in what they say and do in the presence of a jury lest they seem to lean toward or lend their influence to one side or the people v. burnett (1993) 12 cal.app.4th 469, 475.) a trial judge has the duty to be impartial, courteous, patient, and dignified. (ibid.) discretion to control the conduct of the trial . . . , the court disparaging remarks to defense counsel so as to discredit the defense or create the impression it is allying itself with the . . . discretion to rebuke an attorney, sometimes harshly, when that attorney asks inappropriate quinstructions, or otherwise engages in improper or delaying people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 78 (snow), citations omittedbased on actual observation of the witnesses and evidence in the people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1111.) a against a party, even if erroneous, do not establish a charge of judicial bias. (id. at p. 1112.) on 14 some comments would have been better left unsaid. rather, we that it denied [the defendant] a fair, as opposed to a perfect, snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 78; see also people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112.) iii. analysis defendant has complained of numerous instances of judicial misconduct. we have examined the entire record, and , spanning nearly two years of proceedings, and, although we are troubled by several of , we can find none that cross the line of judicial bias or misconduct.4 in most instances, the court merely made stern or disapproving comments to defense counsel. a fair reading of the record shows that the trial court was doing its best to control the proceedings in the face of a difficult and sometimes emotional defense counsel.5 we also observe the court sometimes 4 we discuss these in part i of this discussion. 5 as part of our analysis, we will set forth several incidents involving defense counsel that appear to have exasperated the defeexpressed concern that the requested discovery was too broad rolled her eyes and gestured at the court. after asking for a continuance and obtaining the trial concerning the daughters in the possession of the juvenile court 15 rebuked the prosecutor, and many of the comments about which defendant complains were made outside of the presence of the jury. where the defendant has identified specific instances of misconduct, we examine them below. a. trial court told counsel that she was not the right lawyer for the case defendant contends the trial court disparaged defense counsel, out of the presence of the jury, when the court told [i]f i have to tell you what a pretrial date is for, i am this statement was made on february 18, 2015, after diness to go to trial. after the court indicated that the case would be going to trial in early march, and would not be continued further, the court asked defendant for a back. the context of the exchange made completely clear that the parties were returning for a pretrial conference. or the department, defense counsel waited more than a month before contacting the department to obtain the records. defense counsel requested continuances at the next two pretrial hearings. at one, when the court explained why it was skyward and rais[ing] her hands to the side as if calling on some while cross-raised for the first time the notion that the case against defendant was time-barred. when the court asked whether the issue should have been raised earlier, defense counsel responded 16 nevertheless, defense cnot ready. . . . g me to trial at comment. the court was simply remarking unwillingness to accept that the case was proceeding to trial. b. voir dire defendant [d] during voir dire, when the court cautioned defense counsel to not ask prospective jurors to tinformation.6 persisted in her attempts to ask the prospective jurors about divorces and anything--you asking these questions and the judge has been admonishing me. is there anything . . . ,ted idefense counsel asked for a break, stating that she needed to leave the room. the court allowed her to take a break. 6 manipulated the daughters to falsely accuse defendant of molestation to help mother in her custody dispute with defendant. 17 when the proceedings reconvened, the court told defense counsel that she could continue her voir dire. defense counsel presence of the jury, defense counsel expressed her concern that ments, and that the court should direct critical comments to her at sidebar instead of in the presence of the jury. of sensitivity . . . and the court also explained that it could not efficiently address every issue that came up at sidebar. the record makes clear that defendant persisted with voir dire questioning that the trial court deemed inappropriate, and that counsel then went so far as to improperly accuse the trial the scope of voir dire . (people v. williams (2006) 40 cal.4th 287, 307 scope of voir dire.people v. chong (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 232, 243-244 [an attorney may be reprimanded when the attorney fails to maintain a respectful attitude toward the court and .)7 7 defendant does not raise on appeal the separate point that ruling or argue the point in front of the jury. 18 c. el defendant cites to numerous comments by the court that defendant characterizes as disparaging or disrespectful. first, defendant complains that the court accused defense counsel of 8 these comments arose during an exchange about whether the prosecutor and the court had correctly instructed the jury about the presumption of 8 during the jury selection process, the prosecutor commented about the presumption of innocence. defendant objected that the prosecuthowever the objection was overruled. following these comments, the trial court explained the presumption of innocence and the reasonable doubt standard to the jury. outside of the presence of the prospective jurors, defense prosecucourt asked whether counsel had heard its comments about the presumption of innocence, and defense counsel stated that instruction actually saywhat instructed the jury. the court explained that when the time came, it would instruct the jury with calcrim instructions. however, counsel persisted that the court did not properly instruct the jury, and attempted to describe for the record what had been said. the court expressed itthe courtroom when the reporter was making an accurate record of the proceedings. 19 innocence, where defense counsel labored to describe what had been said by the prosecutor and the court. hardly disparaged counsel. rather, the court was merely explaining that counsel was misrepresenting the record, and that her objections were noted but further discussion on the topic was not an efficient use of time recorded what was actually said. second, defendant contends that the court made comments court, when the you should be protected from questions that are maybe a little more invasive, or whatever you might want to call it, than what i thi[] . . . anything i do against mr. shim, or against his lawyer, or against we . the court was merely explaining its role in controlling voir dire, and expressly admonished the jury that it should not hold its comments against defendant or his attorney. lastly, defendant complains that the court accused counsel ors, 20 disrespectful to the court.9 defendant has mischaracterized the record. these comments arose after counsel was dilatory and 9 -examination of s.s., it was nearly time to take a recess. defense counsel indicated that she had a new subject she wanted explore, and asked the court whether she should start the new subject. the court indicated that they would take their recess in 10 minutes, but that counsel should begin her new line of questioning. when questioning resumed, counsel persisted with the old line of questioning. after several minutes, the court asked indicated that it would take its recess, and asked counsel if she would be ready to proceed to the next subject of her inquiry when court reconvened. counsel indicated that she would. outside of the presence of the jury, the court asked why counsel had not proceeded to the new subject. counsel explained told you i wanted you to use the time we had, you decided to do what i think was a passive aggressive stunt, not go to the new subject, simply stay in the old one, which i think is inconsiderate have asked for a breatactics. when the proceedings resumed the following day, and both the prosecutor and defense counsel raised evidentiary issues for the court to address, the court explained that the jury was waiting and asked both defendant and the prosecutor why these wasteful, both of you, with juror time? . . . [] . . . if it happens ve had years to do this, so they can direct their 21 wasted considerable time during cross-examination, after being warned by the court to use her time effectively. moreover, both defense counsel and the prosecutor were warned about wasting time. we find no misconduct. it is clear that the court was attempting to manage the proceedings, and to ensure that both attorneys were effectively using their time. d. victims, j.s. and p.s. specifically, defendant complains that the court instructed j.s. that she did not have to identify defendant instructed the jury that minor from . . . and that the court implied that defense counsel wanted to prevent j.s. from attending a preplanned trip by continuing her questioning of j.s.10 -examination of s.s., defense counsel noticeably paused for some time, seemingly to find or formulate her next question for s.s. the court asked, through your laptop, spending some time, and then asking can just ask the things you want to know without scrolling through however much you have on that laptop. counsel continued her questioning, but had some difficulty formulating a question, repeatedly trying to t you back up. think of one good question. you need to make it clear to her of the time of the telling, the time of the 10 s duty to protect minor witnesses occurred after defense counsel had extensively 22 as to p.s., defendant contends that the court impermissibly implied that p.s. was not comfortable talking about the molestation, told her she could to respond to questioning, and improperly implied that p.s. was relieved after providing her testimony.11 cross-examined j.s., and indicated that she needed an additional one or one and one-half hours to continue the cross-examination. the court explained that it expected counsel to more efficiently cross-j.s. had concluded her testimony, and both the prosecutor and defendant indicated they had no further questions for her. however, defense counsel re doing hedefense counsel asked if the discussion could continue outside the presence of the jury, and the court responded no. defense counsel indicated that she wanted the court to order j.s. to stay in town, and the court denied the request. 11 during redirect examination of p.s., the prosecutor asked p.s. how she felt after opening up and talking about the touching. p.s. said cross-examination, defendant asked a series of questions asking p.s. to explain why she was reliev[d]oes it make improper and argumentative. p.s. started to cry. the court indicated that the quess been on the stand this long . . . the court then asked p.s. if she needed a break, and told her she could take her time. 23 defendant has again mischaracterized the record, and we . evidence code section 765 provides that [t]he court shall exercise reasonable control over the mode of interrogation of a witness so as to make interrogation as rapid, as distinct, and as effective for the ascertainment of the truth, as may be, and to protect the witness from undue harassment or embarras (id., subd. (a).) moreover, this section provides thaith a witness under the age of 14 . . . the court shall take special care to protect him or her from undue harassment or embarrassment, and to restrict the unnecessary repetition of questions. the court shall also take special care to ensure that questions are stated in a form which is appropriate to the age or cognitive level of the witness . . . (id., subd. (b).) both j.s. and p.s. were minors at the time of their testimony. p.s. was only 13. a trial court enjoys broad discretion under section 765 to control proceedings and protect witnesses from harassment. (people v. spence (2012) 212 cal.app.4th 478, 513-514 (spence).) we can hardly view the courts comments as improper vouching or evidence that the court had aligned itself with the prosecution. (people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 347.) e. defendant contends the trial court made inappropriate comments that physical findings may not be necessary in a sex crime case. during jury selection, the prosecutor asked one prospective juror, a mealways expect to the prospective juror responded that he would always expect such evidence. the court explained that the case did not involve 24 trust that you all understand that there are forms of sexual crime . there can be things like that, anything that could be detected even minutes later. [] . . . [] . . . . . . that there necessarily is scientific, physical evidence. it might just be testimony in some statements. it is well settled that physical evidence is not required to support a conviction, and that the testimony of just one witness is enough to convict. (people v. watts (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 1250, 1259; see also people v. gammage (1992) 2 cal.4th 693, 700-701.) f. trial court accused defense counsel of misconduct and interrupted defense counsel defendant contends the trial court accused counsel of defendant cites to six comments by the court, which were made in the presence of the jury, that ated that she wanted to conduct redirect examination of defense witness steven song. also, the court advised counsel to not have witness song were discussing a document that counsel presented to rdefendant also points to the asking her to clarify her objections, and inquiring about the relevance of a line of inquiry. we are not persuaded that any of the comments were inappropriate, and find that they were in the 25 g. trial court asked defense witnesses pro-prosecution questions defendant argues that the trial court asked an impermiss-dr. thompson. during cross-examination, the prosecutor asked dr. thompson if a child who was repeatedly assaulted may be less likely to recall the specific details of what occurred than a child who was assaulted only once. dr. thompson responded that he later qualified recall an assault depended on how the victim was asked about the assaults. after the prosecutor completed his questioning, and defense counsel indicated that she had no further questions, the court asked the expert: techniques are used, then of distinguishing details of one event from another. but the more you stray from those good techniques, the greater the chance is the court was well within its discretion to ask questions to s was done here. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 597.) there was nothing pro-prosecution about the question. the question merely sought clarification about the matters to which the expert had testified. h. trial court tried to remove trial counsel when defendant moved for a new trial and before the sentencing hearing, defendant moved for a new trial, and to reduce would constitute cruel and unusual punishment. in support of the motion to reduce sentence, defendant submitted 26 an unsigned letter to the court, in which he claimed specifically, he contended that his attorney only visited him twice in jail, for a total of 30 minutes. he felt he never had an opportunity to discuss the case with his attorney. he also complained that his attorney did not leverage evidence well, did not ask proper questions of the witnesses, did not communicate with dsettle the case, and that counsel did not allow him to testify. issued an order to show cause (osc) why defendant should not relieve his attorney and retain new counsel, or why he should not be required to waive all conflicts as to his current attorney as the case goes forward and to waive any disability he might claim to suffer from continuing with representation by the same attorney about wa breakdown in the attorney-client relationship and that a testify and not communicating with him about settlement of the case. at the hearing on the osc, counsel indicated that she did not believe a conflict existed, and, in any event, that defendant intended to waive any conflict. the court questioned defendant about each of the accusations made against his attorney, and defendant agreed that he did not need a new attorney. the court advised defendant that he could seek a second opinion regarding defendant stated that he did not want to consult another attorney. a conflict, and 27 attempt to retaliate against [counsel] for filing a motion for new trial . . . .instead, the court was responding to accusations by defendant that his counsel had interfered with this right to testify and had not adequately discussed the case with him. the court could have reasonably construed the letter as a request for a new attorney, or at least that it had a duty to explore the conduct complained of. (people v. smith (1993) 6 cal.4th 684, 695-696.) i. questionable trial court comments statement during the february 18, 2015 pretrial hearing, that counsel might not be the right lawyer for the case, was merely a do concern us. when the trial court asked about setting the next defense counsel said, you here counsel -- but ut the obvious. we are zero of 15. i said that [earlier]. this statement verges on the sarcastic, a tone judicial officers should avoid.12 12 another example not raised by the defendant involved a hearing to set a pretrial hearing date. defense counsel said she n there. that makes it very that on your calendar when you accepted the trial date that i set. that you would have warned me if you had not only a special conference, but a special spe 28 we have also discussed the events during voir dire on march 17, 2015, and concluded that the trial court did not commit misconduct or show bias when it tried to stop defense counsel from questioning prospective jurors about the details of their divorces and custody disputes. however, when defense counsel complained in front of the jury that the court had caused the jury to lose respect for her, the i when defense counsel asked what the court meant, it said, air, now, like to signal something to me. you walked out of the courtroom, unable to continue during jury selection. which i must say in my decades of expunderstand that the court was faced with an apparently difficult lawyer, but two portions of this trouble us. first, it took place in front of the jury. second, the trial court appears to have indicated a preexisting prejudice against defense counsel based another exchange between the court and counsel is concerning. during voir dire on march 18, 2015, defense counsel asked prospective jurors whether they were aware defendant was a pastor. the trial court stopped her, calling any such record leads us to include it because it puts in context the level of acrimony between court and counsel. 29 courts at all. [] sorry to say, in my own faith many clerics have not only sinned, but committed criminal acts. so the fact aside whether the court was correct in limiting voir dire (and we can see potential religious bias as a proper area of inquiry on voir dire), in this case -chosen in a case where a clergy member was on trial for sexual abuse. we note, however, that the voir dire limitation issue was waived because defense counsel did not accept the trial cinvitation to brief the issue for its reconsideration. in conclusion, the court appears to have been presented with counsel who was intentionally delaying the trial and had sometimes engaged in emotional displays. as trying as this may be, a bettethe presence of the jury. at the end of the day, however, we believe these comments fall into the better left unsaid category and do not amount to judicial bias. iv. tris-examination counsel and to confront and cross-specifically, defendant complains that the court erroneously req-cross-examination; that the trial court erroneously instructed the not giinterrupted defense counsel; that the trial court refused to allow 30 defendant to recross-examine officer moisa; that the trial court refused to allow defense counsel to question mother about a declaration she signed; that the court criticized defense counsel; that the trial court aligned with the prosecution when it instructed s.s. how to refresh her recollection; that the -examination of mother, and by preventing counsel from impeaching mother with a declaration she had signed; and that the court demonstrated pro-prosecution bias by not requiring the prosecutor to use interrogatories and by not correcting the prosecutor when he used compound questions. a criminal defendant has the right to a reasonable opportunity to effectively cross-examine the witnesses against him. (delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 680.) s desired method of cross-examination is a constitutional violation. within the confines of the confrontation clause, the trial court retains wide latitude in restricting cross-examination that is repetitive, prejudicial, confusing of the issues, or of marginal relevance. [citations.] california law is in accord. [citation.] thus, unless the defendant can show that the prohibited cross-examination a significantly different impression of [the s exercise of its discretion in this regard does not violate the sixth amendment. [citationpeople v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1251.) as with many of argument concerning judicial bias and misconduct, counsel has again failed to adequately support her claims of error by fairly summarizing the facts, or 31 providing improper. and, many of the arguments made here overlap with the same conduct by the trial court. as we explained above, we have reviewed the entire record, and are not persuaded that the court was discourteous or inappropriate with defense counsel. therefore, we will only address those claims which were not raised before-examine witnesses. a. use of interrogatories, anti-israeli slur, and instructions defendant contends the court improperly required defense counsel to use interrogatory questions during her examination of witnesses, used an improper example to teach cross-examination, questions. durin cross-examination of j.s., j.s. was observed to be very upset; she was quivering and crying. she was framed as statements rather than questions. the next day, out of the presence of the jury, the court explained to defense counsel how to conduct an efficient cross-examination using proper questions which started with interrogatory words rather than statements. specifically, the court noted that the use of interrogatory words at the beginning the court noted that it was important to not confuse minor witnesses, and made clear that its directions applied to both counsel. 32 the court provided an example of effective cross-examination, explaining on appeal, defendant nterrogatories should never be used during cross- he cites a treatise on cross-interrogatories such as who, what, when, where, and so forth. (pozner et al., cross-examination: science and techniques (2d ed. 2008) pp. 212-213.) the use of interrogatories is not itself improper, and was a reasonable mechanism by which the court could ensure that the minor witnesses properly understood the questions counsel was asking. the trial court understandably could have concluded proach to cross-examination would cause the minor witness to believe she was not just being asked questions but instead, was in an argument. (see, e.g., spence, supra, 212 cal.app.4th at pp. 513-514.) further, the court did not always require that defendant use interrogatories. for example, when defendant was cross-examining p.s., the prosecutor objected that defendant was not using interrogatories, and the court indicated that the questions were fine because the witness seemed to understand them. this makes clear that the court was not unnecessarily restricting -examination, but was merely trying to protect the witnesses. 33 moreover, the court did not improperly instruct the jury to disregard questions. rather, the court merely instructed the jury, consistent with calcrim no. 222, that nothing that the attorneys say is evidence. in their opening statements and closing arguments, the attorneys discuss the case, but their remarks are not evidence. their questions are not evidence. the lastly, concerning the cross-examination, we can discern no anti-israeli animus, or improper limitation on cross-examination.13 b. recross-examination of officer moisa defendant was given an extensive opportunity to cross-examine officer moisa. in fact, counsel twice recross-examined him. when counsel concluded her final recross-examination, she indicted that she had nothing further. the prosecutor interposed several more questions, which merely sought to clarify some earlier testimony, and when he concluded, the trial court indicated that the witness could step down. defense counsel started to speak, witnesses. we just cannot allow this trial to go on forever. please take your seat at counsel t no objection was made. the trial court was well within its discretion to limit -examination. trial judges have wide latitude to impose reasonable limits on cross-examination. (people v. 13 -israeli, and interjects in his randparents, 34 quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 623-624.) moreover, defendant has not demonstrated any possible prejudice, or any fact that he was unable to elicit from officer moisa. c. questioning of mother about declaration, alignment with prosecution concerning questioning of mother, and impeachment defendant contends the trial court impermissibly limited his cross-examination of mother, by refusing to allow counsel to ask her about a declaration she signed in her divorce proceedings with defendant; by evidencing a pro-prosecution bias during counselquestioning of mother; and by not allowing counsel to impeach mother with a declaration signed in the family law proceedings. we find no merit in any of these contentions. concerning the declaration, it appears that counsel was attempting to question mother about a family law document dated january 13, 2011, which was prepared by an attorney, signed by mother, and requested payment of child support arrearages. the court asked her attorney submitted? counsel indicated that she intended to ask if mother signed it and did not provide any proffer of the relevance of the document. my question direc defendant has not attempted to demonstrate any prejudice, and we can discern none. the trial court permitted extensive questioning of mother about the divorce and child custody proceedings, and allowed counsel to question mother about numerous family law documents. 35 defendant also complains that the court evidenced a pro-prosecution bias with statemecross-examination of mother. for example, defendant asked defendant to court asked defense counsel whether the agreement truly permitted visitation at any time, such as the middle of the night, or whether it provided for visitation at reasonable times. we find no evidence of bias, or an unreasonable limitation on cross-examination. counsel asked mother repeated questions about the divorce, utilizing legal terms of art or asking about forms that were prepared by an attorney, which were clearly confusing to mother. the court simply sought to clarify what counsel was asking, so that mother could properly answer the questionsresponses to the questions. lastly, defendant contends that the court aligned with the prosecution when it prevented defendant from impeaching mother with a declaration she signed in the family law proceedings. however, a careful review of the record shows that defense counsel was taking an inordinate amount of time he legal file in a slow, tedious fashion . . . looking for things to ask favoring the prosecutor, or improperly limiting cross-examination, but was merely preventing the further delay of proceedings with questioning about documents with marginal relevance.14 the 14 the document that counsel sought to impeach mother with was a responsive declaration to an osc filed by defendant, which sought to chdeclaration indicated that she did not consent to the requested 36 court did not evidence any pro-prosecution bias. in fact, the matters during his questioning of mother, and told the prosecutor relates to these charges and this eviden d. court aligned with the prosecution concerning defendant complains that the trial court aligned with the prosecution in its handling of --examination of s.s., counsel asked s.s. whether mother took her to counseling the prosecutor began to object, and the court interjected, listecircumstances under which the car was taken, and s.s. disclosed permission, and that they got into an accident. the court responded t car incident. the prosecutor objected that the question was argumentative, and the court clarified that the car order, but did consent to father having visitation, and to mother intent to was clarify whether the parties shared joint legal custody, or whether mother had sole legal custody. 37 was taken without permission, and disagreed with the assessment that the car was stolen. we are not persuaded that any bias or unfair limitation on cross-examination is evidenced by these remarks. the court merely sought to clarify the facts and avoid any improper embellishment of those facts by defense counsel. e. emory refresh her recollection of events by referring to documents. we disagree. a careful reading of the record indicates that the court explained to s.s. that a writing might help her remember events, but that just because something is written down does not mean . . . actually trigger[] [her] here, the court was simply correctly instructing s.s. on how documents may be used to refresh her recollection. (evid. legally correct instructions, and cannot see how this instruction cross-examination of s.s. f. trial court did not correct prosecutor defendant also cites to a handful of examples of when the prosecutor asked compound questions or did not start questions with interrogatories, where the trial court did not correct the prosecutor. the record is replete with similar examples of the court not correcting defense counsel, and examples of the court correcting the prosecutor. again, defendant has selectively cited the record and provided an incomplete representation of the facts. 38 v. prosecutor and trial court misstated the burden of proof and undermined the presumption of innocence defendant complains of three instances where the court or the prosecutor made impermissible statements lowering the of. first, during jury selection, the prosecutor commented to the prospective jurors that the and at some point in time, once the evidence starts coming in, once you start hearing the testimony and seeing all the other evidence, once that starts coming in, then you, in your mind, can start evaluating and start deciding, based on that evidence, whether-- [] . . . [] . . . that cloak can be shed. so once the evidence comes in, you can decide whether that cloak geoverruled. following these comments, the trial court explained the a reasonable doubt, the defendant will win. whether he has had a little evidence, no evidence, a lot of evidence, whether his lawyer helped you understand the evidence, . . . he still is entitled presumption says. [] so you can call it a starting line. you can . . . . [i], . . . [defendant] second, also during jury selection, defendant was questioning a prospective juror about whether he or she could be fair, and the juror paraphrased the bible in his or her response. 39 up the subject of religion, you know [defendant] the prosecutor objected, and the court made the following remarks: mething to consider at all. if or nowhere in a church structure, has no meaning in the criminal courts at all. [] sorry to say, in my own faith many clerics have not only sinned, but committed criminal acts. so the fact that lastly, defendant complains that the prosecutor told told. some of you may have heard that instruction before from there anyone here who feels that they would not be able to follow that instruction? in other words, that they would hold us, the people, to a higher burden. that they would need certaintyhundred percent certaintyno objection was made. . . intemperate behavior violates the egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it nsible methods to 40 . . . [citation.] additionally, when the claim [of prosecutorial misconduct] focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-(people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841.) a prosecutor commits misconduct when he or she misstates the law generally (people v. bell (1989) 49 cal.3d 502, 538), particularly in an attempt to absolve the prosecution of its obligation to overcome reasonable doubt on all elements. (people v. gonzalez (1990) 51 cal.3d 1179, 1215; see also people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 831-832.) as an initial matter, we conclude that defendant has not preserved this issue on appeal, as no objection was interposed (people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 952.) and, in any event, we find no prejudicial misconduct because the challenged statements did not misstate the burden of proof. the jury was correctly told that proof beyond a reasonable doubt is required before defendant may be convicted. (see calcrim no. 220.) the challenged remark, that the presumption of innocence does not last forever, is a logical corollary to the correct instructions they had received. moreover, correctly stated the law that [t]he evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some also, the indicated that defendant was more culpable because of his status 41 as clergy, or burden of proof. also, defendant has failed to demonstrate that the challenged remarks resulted in any prejudice. there is no reasonable possibility the jury construed the comments to permit conviction despite reasonable doubts. before the case was submitted to the jury, the jury was properly instructed on the correct standard of proof, and to disregard statements by s instructions. we evidence to the contrary. (people v. nguyen (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 28, 37.) vi. verdict not supported by substantial evidence defendant contends and nonsensical stories could only lead a rational trier of fact to improbable, because the assaults where defendant rubbed his fo entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact (people v. bolin substantial evidence supports the decision, not whether the evidence proves guilt bpeople v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 432.) therefore, the reviewing with a finding of innocence or a lesser degree of crime does not 42 warrant a reversal of the people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 849.) reversal is only warranted when it clearly bolin, at p. 331.) we defer to t(snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 66.) neither conflicts in the evidence nor suspicious testimony justify the reversal of a judgment, because it is the exclusive province of the trier of fact to determine the credibility of witnesses and the truth or falsity of the facts testified to. (people v. huston (1943) 21 cal.2d 690, 693, overruled on other grounds in people v. burton (1961) 55 cal.2d 328, 352.) an exception to this rule is when the are physically impossible or inherently improbable. to be inherently improbable, the falsity of the people v. sassounian (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 361, 409.) substanti there was nothing implausible about the daughters testimony that with their legs dangling off of the bed. defendant is essentially asking this court to reweigh the evidence, which we cannot do. vii. victim support person error a victim support person accompanied s.s., j.s., p.s., and mother during their testimony. defendant contends that the support people made inappropriate gestures and facial expressions, that the trial court failed to admonish the support people to not influence the witnesses, and that the trial court failed to determine that a support person was necessary. 43 where the charges in a criminal case involve, among other crimes, a violation of section 288 or 288.5, a prosecuting witness may have up to two support persons of his or her choice during testimony. ( 868.5, subd. (a).) only one of the support persons may accompany the witness to the stand. (ibid.) witnesswitnesses who testify for the prosecution. (people v. adams (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 412, 433-434.) j.s. was the first to testify, and utilized a victim support person. before her testimony commenced, the court admonished the jury and the support person gentlemen, certain witnesses are allowed to have someone present who might assist them in remaining calm and testifying in a more steady, less distracted fashion. and so the woman next to the witness is here for that purpose. [] she of course will not be signaling any information to the witness nor responding in here with the belief that the witness may be a little more comfortable with someone right next to her. that she knows is here to make her feel better. s.s. also used a support person without any objection and the jury and support person were similarly admonished of the role. p.s. also utilized a support person, with no objection or examination, cross-examination, and redirect examination, defendant complained that ,,her arm around the witness as she was leaving, whispered 44 counsel stated she rned that her actions are impacting the court acknowledged that it had seen the support that the court could not see her face from the bench. the court asked the prosecutor what he had seen. the prosecutor admitted seeing back touching. the court asked whether it should address the support person before resuming testimony, and counsel agreed. when testimony h the witness or evidence any facial expression on your part that might distract the jury, who is watching the witness at all times defendant did not ask for any further instruction. mother also testified with a victim support person. the any impression a support person has of the answers, or questions, as an initial matter, we find that any claim of error has been forfeited, except as to p.s. though several witnesses testified with the support of a victim advocate, defendant did not object below that the court failed to admonish them, or to any other aspect of the victim support procedure used at trial (other . as such, defendant forfeited this claim by failing to present it to the trial court. (people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1214 (myles).) further, as tvictim support people were required, unless a defendant requests a hearing and determination on this issue, he may not challenge 45 the necessity for a support person on appeal. (people v. lord (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 1718, 1722.) moreover, the claims fail on their merits. the mere presence of a support person with a witness on the stand does not or right to a fair trial. (spence, supra, 212 cal.app.4th at p. 514, citing myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 1214-1215.) there may be a due process violation, s assess that testimony. (spence, at p. 514.) for example, emotional displays or gestures may indicate to the jury that the s testimony. (myles, at pp. 1214-1215.) conduct implicato a number of factors, including the type of conduct the support person engaged in while the witness testified, and the type of s use of a support person. (myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 1214-1215.) the defendant has the burden of demonstrating that the support id. at p. 1215.) , and or disapproval about the content of the testimony, and properly explained to the jury the role of a support person.15 although some 15 comments about the support people in any way vouched for the 46 improper gestures were observed, she was promptly corrected by rt jury about the proper role of a support person. viii. trial court erred in not releasing school and therapy records before trial, defendant subpoenaed the school and therapy records for s.s., j.s., and p.s. the trial court reviewed these records in camera and determined that no discoverable information existed. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in failing to release these records to defendant, arguing that the records would have supported the defense . defendant asks this court to independently review the records (which were maintained under seal by the trial court), to determine if the trial court erroneously failed to disclose the records. we have independently reviewed the sealed school and therapy records, consisting of six separate envelopes of records, and conclude that no discoverable information was withheld, and that no possible prejudice could have resulted. ix. prosecutorial misconduct by failing to timely disclose videos and transcripts of victim interviews defendant contends that the prosecutor failed to timely disclose video recordings of interviews that officer moisa conducted with the victims, as well as transcripts of those recordings, which were ultimately introduced into evidence. defendant concedes that the prosecutor provided audio recordings of the interviews, and that defense counsel had the interviews transcribed. he contends that the belated disclosure 47 of the videos and transcripts amounts to a brady violation. (brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady).) a. relevant facts during officer to transcripts of his interviews with the victims. once a recess was taken, defense counsel complained that she had received the audio recordings of the interviews, but had not been provided with the transcripts by the prosecutor[her] transcripts. the prosecutor represented that he mailed copies of the transcripts to defense counsel in january 2015, as soon as they were available. the court asked the parties to meet and confer about the status of discovery, and to raise any issues with the court. when court reconvened the following day, the parties discussed the status of the discovery. that morning, in an abundance of caution, the prosecutor had turned over transcripts, and copies of video recordings of the interviews. defense counsel represented that she only had some of the videos before trial. the prosecutor represented that all of the videos were previously turned over on may 17 and september 19, 2013, in two discs. defense counsel confirmed she received two discs, but complained that one contained videos and one contained only audio. the prosecutor clarified that there was one video disc and one audio disc, containing all of the relevant recordings. the prosecution denied that defendant was not timely provided with everything. the court instructed defendant to make a motion related to the discovery issue if necessary once counsel had an opportunity to review the discovery in her possession. later in the proceedings, when the parties were discussing jury instructions, defendant requested an instruction on late 48 discovery. the court indicated that it intended to refuse the instruction. defense counsel maintained that she had timely received an audiotape of the interviews, but insisted that she had not received the video recording of the interviews or transcripts. defendant also made a section 1385 motion on this same basis. at the heari, defendant admitted there was nothing in the transcripts that would have caused defendant to confront witnesses differently, and did not otherwise identify any prejudice resulting from the untimely disclosure of the videos. the court found there was no prejudice, and denied the motion and request for an instructed on late discovery. b. analysis -discovery statute) . . . certain cateprosecuting attorney or [known by] the prosecuting attorney . . . . . . 30 days before trial, or immediately if discovered or obtained within 30 days of trial. ( . . . [] upon a showing both that the defense complied with the informal discovery procedures provided by the statute, and that the prosecutor has not complied with sectlimited to, immediate disclosure, . . . continuance of the matter, or any other lawful order. ( 1054.5, subd. (b).) the court may alsibidpeople v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 279-280 (verdugo), citations omitted violation of section 1054.1 is subject to the harmless-error standard set 49 forth in people v. watson verdugo, at p. 280) and is reviewed for an abuse of discretion (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 299). a brady violation occurs only when three conditions are must be favorable to the accused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is impeaching; that evidence must have been suppressed by the state, either willfully under this standard precase of impeachment evidence, materiality requires more than a might have changed the outcome of the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have be people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 274 (lucas), disapproved on another ground in people v. romero (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 53, fn. 19.) the critical rule for purposes of brady [e]vidence that is presented at trial is not considered suppressed, regardless of whether or not it had previously been disclosed during lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 274; see also people v. morrison (2004) 34 cal.4th 698, 715.) here, because the evidence was presented at trial, defendant cannot demonstrate a brady violation. even if the videos were not timely disclosed (which was contested by the parties), defense counsel received the videos during trial and the videos were ultimately presented to the jury. moreover, we can discern no prejudice. defendant admitted he was not prejudiced by any belated receipt of the 50 transcripts, as he had made his own. moreover, defendant had been provided with the audio recordings, and has identified nothing in the videos that would have led to a different outcome at trial. (verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 279-280.) x. cruel and unusual punishment defendant contends the imposition of a life sentence under section 667.61 constitutes cruel and unusual punishment under both federal and state standards, and that the trial court erred s motion to reduce his sentence. defendant reasons that section 667.61 is facially unconstitutional and that the crimes and personal circumstances. section 667.61 is called the (people v. anderson (2009) 47 cal.4th 92, 99.) the one strike law enacted to ensure serious and dangerous sex offenders would receive lengthy prison sentences upon their first (people v. palmore (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 1290, 1296.) it mandates a sentence of 25 years to life for specified sex offenses committed under certain aggravating circumstances. (people v. alvarado (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 178, 186.) under federal law, a sentence is cruel and unusual under the eighth amendment if i crime. (harmelin v. michigan (1991) 501 u.s. 957, 1001.) when assessing a claim of cruel and unusual punishment under the california constitution, we look at the nature of the offense and the offender, the punishment for more serious crimes committed in the same jurisdiction, and the punishment for the same offense in other jurisdictions. (people v. romero (2002) 99 cal.app.4th 1418, 1431-1432.) if, after conducting this analysis, the court determines so disproportionate to 51 the crime for which it is inflicted that it shocks the conscience and offends fundam it is precluded under our state constitution. (in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424.) whether a punishment is cruel or unusual is a question of law for the court, but the facts underlying this determination must be viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. rhodes (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1374, 1390.) s. section constitutional muster under both federal and state standards. (people v. estrada (1997) 57 cal.app.4th 1270, 1277-1283 (estrada); people v. alvarado, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at pp. 199-201.) [p]unishment under the one strike law is precisely tailored to fit crimes bearing certain clearly defined characteristics. for the 25-year minimum term to apply, the predicate offense must be a crime of sexual violence and it must be committed under circumstances which increase the risk of injury or death to the victim. . . . thus . . . , the defendant . . . cannot claim he is the victim of an indiscriminate sentencing scheme which metes out the same punishment for a broadly defined offense regardless of the circumstances surrounding the commission of the offense. (estrada, supra, 57 cal.app.4th at p. 1280, citations & fn. omitted.) mo punishment is not grossly disproportionate to his crimes. defendant continuously sexually abused his three daughters over a period of years, subjecting them to almost weekly violations. ds lack of prior record, though worthy of consideration, does not diminish his culpability. the length of the sentence, when considered in light 52 of the severity of the offenses and culpability does not give rise to an inference of gross disproportionality. moreover, neither the extra- or intra-jurisdictional comparison of punishments provide any additional basis for finding the sentence to shocks the conscience. (people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 477-478.) defendant suggests that two or more acts of sexual conduct with a minor under the age of 11 over a period of three months garners a sentence of only 5 years to 25 years in new york (n.y. pen. code,  70.02, subd. (3)(a), 130.75, subd. (1)(a)), that murder in california receives a similar sentence to the one defendant has received ( 187), and a defendant receives a lesser sentence for continuous sexual abuse of a child ( 288.5), forcible rape ( 264), infliction of corporal injury on a child ( 273d, subd. (a)), forcible lewd conduct on a child ( 288, subd. (b), and statutory rape ( 261.5, subd. (d)) in california. however, punishing conduct as severely as second degree murder is [n]either shocking [n] (people v. alvarado, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at p. 200; estrada, supra, 57 cal.app.4th at pp. 1278-1283.) we therefore cons sentence does not constitute cruel or unusual punishment under either the state or federal constitutions. xi. cumulative error lastly, defendant argues that cumulative error requires reversal. however, we have found no errors to cumulate. xii. habeas petition in his habeas petition, which we consolidate with his appeal for purposes of oral argument and decision, defendant he trial court denied [defendant] due process and a fair trial by denying more funds for a memory expert and by 53 refusing to grant defense counsel a continuance to hire a memory a. relevant facts the information was filed in july 2013. defendant was initially represented by keith kim, but fay arfa substituted in as counsel on august 28, 2013. the case was slow to proceed to trial. proceedings were repeatedly continued, often by stipulation of counsel. proceedings were further delayed by numerous defense motions, such as a demurrer to the information, motion to dismiss, a motion to compel discovery, among others. there were also repeated discovery disputes concerning the scope of discovery sought by the defense, such as medical records, therapy records, school records, and diaries of the victims that involved extensive litigation, and further delayed trial. defendant also made several motions to continue trial, in august 2014, october 2014, and november 2014, asserting that he needed more time to prepare his defense and conduct his investigation. the court either granted these motions, or proceedings were continued by stipulation of the parties. on may 8, 2014, defendant made an ex parte motion for appointment of a defense memory expert. the motion sought approval of funds to hire dr. geoffrey loftus as a memory expert, d the motion was denied by the trial court, apparently urging counsel to select an expert from the los angeles superior court expert appointee list. therefore, on june 3, 2014, defendant moved to appoint a panel memory expert, dr. michael perrotti. the trial court granted the motion that same day, authorizing payment of $280 per hour, not to exceed $2,800. 54 on august 29, 2014, defendant sought additional funds for his appointed expert. in support of the motion, counsel included a letter from dr. perrotti, specifying the work completed to date, and the amount of time needed to continue his work. dr. perrotti contemplated reviewing 1,751 pages of documents, such as interviews of the victims, the preliminary hearing transcript, and police reports. he had expended 16 hours to date, and anticipated needing an additional 20 hours to complete his analysis. that same day, the court authorized an additional 10 hours of work. on september 4, 2014, the court authorized an additional six hours of work. on january 14, 2015, defendant sought additional expert funds so that dr. perrotti could complete his analysis. an 26 hours reviewing family law records, court transcripts, and dependency records, among numerous other unspecified this time, he anticipated needing an additional 25 to 30 hours to prepare for trial. the court refused to authorize more allow dr. perrotti to come to court to explain his need for additional funds. on february 3, 2015, defendant resubmitted his request for additional funds for dr. perrotti, this time seeking an additional 50 hours of compensation, anticipating it would take 35 hours just to review all of the discovery in the case. alternatively, defendant sought an order appointing dr. loftus as his memory expert. also on february 3, 2015, defendant filed an ex parte 55 dr. perrotti advised . . . that he qualified as a memory expert, a taint and a caas expert. defendant sought additional funds for dr. phillip esplin, at a rate of $350 per hour. dr. perrotti appeared in court on february 18, 2015, to support his request for additional funds. in an in camera proceeding, dr. perrotti explained that counsel had asked him to review over 1,700 pages of discovery, including family law records, and law enforcement interviews. counsel admitted that she sent the expert all of her discovery, and that she did not define the scope of the work for him. counsel represented that the expert would testify that the victims were not telling the ed this assessment. dr. perrotti testified that the victims were asked leading questions by investigators, and that the victims concern that the expert was invading the province of the jury, reasoning that this was not scientific data, but the facts of the case. dr. perrotti expressed that he would testify to memory decay, and the science of effective interviewing. the court was skeptical that an additional 50 hours needed to be expended on this topic, about which dr. perrotti testified that he already possessed extensive knowledge. the court denied any additional funds for dr. perrotti. that same day, defendant also made a motion to continue trial. the motion urged that a continuance was required because dr. perrotti had not yet completed his report, as he needed additional funds to complete his assessment of the case. defendant represented that his family was raising money to pay for an expert, and that he needed more time. the court denied 56 the request for a continuance. trial was set for february 25, 2015. on february 20, 2015, defendant made another motion for a continuance, urging that on february 18, 2015, dr. perrotti informed defense counsel that he could not generate any reports or form any opinions because he had not been paid to complete his assessmeecause dr. perrotti was selected from the court approved list, i honestly believed his expected that the court would authorize any additional funds requested and justified by the expert. counsel represented that she needed to find a new expert, and that she could be ready for counsel also wanted a continuance so she could attend an mcle conference from march 5 through march 7. the trial court continued trial until march 12, 2015. on march 12, 2015, defendant made another motion to continue trial, urging that he had retained an out-of-expert on march 3, 2015, and that the expert needed time to prepare for trial. defendant expected to be ready for trial on march 25, 2015. the trial court expressed its concern that defendant had been in custody for two years waiting for the case to go to trial. the court explained that the case would be transferred to the trial department on march 16, 2015, and that counsel could explain why she needed more time to that department. the people announced ready for trial, the defendant was deemed ready for trial, and the court denied the motion. the case was ultimately assigned to the same judge for trial, and defendant did not again raise the issue of a continuance. 57 in support of habeas petition, dr. loftus and, if called as a witness, i would have testified in accordance attached to his declaration was a november 11, 2015 report, indicating that defendant had asked him to prepare a report in support of his habeas petition, reports, court findings, case correspondence, petitions, and if called as a memory expert, dr. loftus would have testified to general theories of memory, circumstances under which memory fails, the effects of attention, the effects of forgetting, the suggestibility of young children, the consequences of post-event information on memory and witness confidence, and circumstances under which witness confidence cannot be relied upon as an index of reliability and accuracy. counsel also submitted a declaration in support of the petition, generally urging that defendant needed a memory expert to testify about the subjects identified in the loftus declaration. counsel averred that after the trial court refused to grant more funds for dr. perrotti, she did not have time to hire a new memory expert, an, who ultimately testified at trial. she averred that she did not have sufficient time to retain dr. loftus, and that if she had more time, she would have retained dr. loftus in addition to dr. thompson who did testify. b. analysis [i]f the trial court had originally appointed dr. loftus or given trial counsel . . . more time to hire an expert after denying dr. perrotti more funds, trial counsel 58 could have hired dr. geoffrey loftus to testify how memory works. dr. loftus would have attacked the reliability of daughters collaterally attack a presumptively final criminal judgment, the petitioner bears a heavy burden initially to plead sufficient grounds for relief, and then later to prove people v. duvall and with particsupporting the claim, including pertinent portions of trial ibidallegations made without any explanation of the basis for the allegations do not warrant relief, let alone an evidentiary people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 656.) appellate court receiving such a petition evaluates it by asking whether, assuming the peti(duvall, at pp. 474-475.) if so, the required prima facie showing has been made. if no prima facie case is made, we will summarily deny the petition. on the other hand, if the allegations of the petition, taken as true, establish a claim for relief, we will issue an osc why relief should not be granted. (id. at p. 475.) we find defendant has not stated a prima facie claim for relief, and therefore summary denial of the petition is proper. declaration and report by dr. loftus, averring what he would have testified to had he been retained as an expertdeclaration that she did not have sufficient time to retain 59 dr. loftus. this evidence fails to demonstrate any different outcome at trial. wbefore us amply reveals no abuse of discretion or a continuance. evidence code section 730 provides that court, . . . that expert evidence is or may be required by the court or by any party to the action, the court . . . may appoint one or more experts to investigate, to render a report as may be ordered by the court, and to testify as an expert at the trial of the action relative to the fact or matter as to which the expert evidence is or may be required. the court may fix the compensation for these services, if any, rendered by any person appointed under this section, in addition to any service as -ordered defense services may be required in order to assure a defendant his constitutional right not only to counsel, but to the effective assistance of (corenevsky v. superior court (1984) 36 cal.3d 307, 319.) is only necessary services to which the indigent defendant is however, the burden is on the defendant to show that the services are necessary to his (people v. gaglione (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 1291, 1304.) decision on the need for the appointment of an expert lies within the discretion of the trial court and the trial s decision will not be set aside absent an abuse of that discretion (ibid.) moreover, the decision to order a continuance is within the sound discretion of the court, and may only be granted for good cause. ( 1050, subd. (e); people v. murphy (1963) 59 cal.2d 818, 825.) however, that discretion may not be exercised in a manner 60 that deprives a defendant of a meaningful opportunity to prepare a defense. (murphy, at p. 825.) here, defendant had retained dr. perrotti, who would have testified as a memory and taint expert. it was only because of mismanagement of dr. time that he was unable to render an opinion at trial. it was well within the discretion to deny co eleventh hour request to retain new experts, and for a continuance of proceedings which had dragged on for nearly two years. moreover, dr. thompson provided competent testimony on many of the proffered areas of expertise about which dr. loftus would have testified. therefore, we can discern no possible prejudice. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the petition for habeas corpus is denied. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p.j. flier, j. 