filed 1/17/17 p. v. moore ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raphaiel a. moore, defendant and appellant. b264855 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na097665) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard r. romero, judge. affirmed. lenore de vita, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and wyatt e. bloomfield, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 raphaiel moore appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of two counts of carjacking, two counts of corporal injury to a former spouse, and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon. after moore admitted prior conviction allegations, the trial court sentenced him to 28 years and eight months in state prison. moore challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the carjacking convictions and the admission of prior, uncharged conduct, among other contentions on appeal. finding no reversible error, we affirm. background moore and his wife, armanda smith (the victim) were estranged at the time of the offenses charged in this case (november-december 2013). they had been in a relationship for six years and had two children together. in august 2013, smith and moore separated. the prosecution presented evidence of over the years. in october 2013, smith filed for divorce. in november 2013, smith leased a toyota solara that was involved in the carjacking evidence indicating smith used any funds from moore to finance the lease. smith never gave moore permission to drive the solara. november 26, 2013 incident of carjacking and corporal injury to smith about 6:15 p.m. on november 26, 2013, smith exited her apartment to retrieve something from her car (the toyota solara). smith noticed moore standing nearby. moore no longer lived at the apartment, but some of his property was still stored semiautomatic gun at her. smith ran, but moore caught her. 3 smith sprayed moore with mace, and moore tackled her to the ground. closed fists. she covered her face with her arms as moore continued to strike her. she heard smith screaming and observed the struggle between moore and smith.1 ran to her car, stood behind it, and shouted at smith not to take the hood of the car, admonishing moore not to drive into smith. moore made eye contact with smith, and then backed the car into her, striking her leg drove out of the apartment complex. smith reported the incident to a security guard at the apartment complex and to the police.2 she later sought medical treatment for her injuries (bruising and soreness on her leg and arm). later in the evening on november 26, 2013, moore told smith he would return the car. he drove it back that evening and parked it at the apartment complex. 1 2 the security guard testified at trial. he reviewed security footage from the apartment complex, which showed moore entering the gated complex at 5:59 p.m., when a girl let him in through a pedestrian gate. 4 december 1, 2013 incident of carjacking and corporal injury to smith about 6:40 p.m. on december 1, 2013, smith observed moore holding a semiautomatic gun when she exited her toyota solara with her seven-year-old nephew, after returning to her apartment complex. smith fled, dialing 911 and screaming at moore to stay away from her as she ran.3 she placed her car keys and cell phone in her bra to hide them from moore. moore caught her and threw her to the ground. he climbed on top of her and struck her in the chest and arms with closed fists. smith shouted had struck smith.4 solara. smith stood up and ran after him. when exited the apartment, she observed smith attempting to take the keys back from moore. moore entered the car. smith stood behind the car and repeatedly told moore not to take the car. engine and backed the car into smith, striking her leg.5 moore drove away. smith again called the police. she later sought medical 3 jury. 4 5 that smith jumped onto the trunk of the car and fell off when moore drove away. 5 treatment for her injuries (a sprained arm and contusions on her leg). in the days following the december 1, 2013 incident, smith and moore exchanged messages on facebook. moore stated that he would return the car to her by parking it outside his on december 5, 2013, officers arrested moore outside the apartment of a woman he had been dating since august 2013. .25-s california identification card from the same bedroom. the woman and her father told officers they had never seen the gun before. at trial, smith testified that the recovered gun looked like the one moore brought to her apartment on november 26 and december 1, 2013. moore called his girlfriend from jail on the day of his arrest. she informed him that officers found the gun at her apartment. because, he an audio recording of this call was played for the jury. verdicts and sentencing the jury found moore guilty of two counts of carjacking (pen. code,  215, subd. (a); counts 1 & 4),6 two counts of corporal injury to a former spouse ( 273.5, subd. (a); counts 3 & 5), and 6 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 6 one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 6).7 the jury found moore not guilty of making criminal threats against smith on november 26, 2013. ( 422, subd. (a); count 2.) the jury also found not true the allegations in the information that moore personally used a handgun within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b), during commission of the carjackings. moore admitted prior conviction allegations set forth in the information. the trial court sentenced him to 28 years and eight months in state prison: the upper term of nine years on count 1, doubled to 18 years under the three strikes law; one-third the middle term on count 4, or 20 months, doubled to 40 months under the three strikes law; one-third the middle term on count 6, or eight months, doubled to 16 months under the three strikes law; plus a consecutive five-year term for the prior serious felony enhancement ( 667, subd. (a)(1)); and a consecutive one-year sentence for the prior prison term enhancement ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the court imposed and stayed sentences on counts 3 and 5. discussion sufficiency of the evidence supporting the carjacking convictions using calcrim no. 1650, the trial court instructed the jury, in pertinent part: carjacking. this crime, the people must prove that: 7 moore stipulated that he had been convicted of a felony and the stipulation was read to the jury. 7 own; a person who possessed the vehicle; 4. the defendant used force or fear to take the vehicle or to prevent that person from resisting; vehicle, he intended to deprive the other person of possession of the vehicle either temporaril moore contends there is insufficient evidence supporting the carjacking convictions because the prosecution failed to prove his challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence fails for the reasons explained below. in reviewing a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence, the whole record viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, a rational trier of fact could have found the elements people v. felix (2009) the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could people v. smith (2005) accorded the evidence are matters within the province of the trier people v. ramos (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 1194, 1207.) inferences that the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if the court would have people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 8 is there sufficient people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) substantial evidence presented at trial (and the logical inferences to be drawn from that evidence) demonstrates: in august 2013, smith and moore separated. on october 11, 2013, smith filed for divorce, and her mother served moore with divorce papers on october 18, 2013. in mid-november 2013, smith leased the toyota solara. lease. he did not give smith money to finance the car. smith never gave moore permission to drive the solara. smith and moore were not living together on the dates of the crimes charged in the information. thus, substantial evidence establishes, on november 26, 2013 (count 1) and december 1, 2013 (count 4), (calcrim no. 1650.) smith testified she leased the car without making a down payment. there is no evidence indicating smith put any accumulations of a spouse . . . after the date of separation of the spouses, are the separate property of the spouse. (fam. code,  771.) there is substantial evidence in the record from which the jury could have reasonably concluded beyond a reasonable doubt that moore took a motor vehicle that was not his own on november 26 and december 1, 2013. moore does not challenge 9 the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the other elements of the carjacking convictions. community property during deliberations, the jury submitted the following written quespurchased? did raphaiel contribute to the purchase? would it in response to the first two questions, the court ordered a readback response to the final question and the jury should have been allowed to consider that factor in determining if the people proved [moore] took a car that was not we disagree that the court should have encouraged the jury to speculate the solara was community property in the absence of any evidence that smith used community property funds to finance the car lease. given this lack of evidence, community property fails. we believe is relevant to your questions, and then you decide 10 testimony include the portion demonstrating that, in the divorce evidence that [moore] contributed any money towards the p again, the court did not err in declining to allow the jury to speculate that the car was community property in the absence of substantial evidence supporting that theory. admission of evidence of uncharged conduct (evid. code,  1101, subd. (b)) moore contends the trial court abused its discretion in admitting evidence of his prior, uncharged conduct, pursuant to evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). under evidence code section 1101, evidence of an uncharged crime is inadmis prior conduct and the charged offense need only be sufficiently similar to support the inference that defendant probably people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1194.) the probativeness of other-crimes evidence on the issue of motive does not necessarily depend on similarities between the charged and uncharged crimes, so long as the offenses have a direct logical nexus. (people v. demetrulias (2006) 39 cal.4th 1, 15.) the trial court must exclude the proffered evidence, however, if its probative admission would create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of 11 people v. cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1195, citing evid. code,  352.) we review (people v. cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1195.) the trial court allowed the prosecution to present evidence criminal threats former boyfriend and vandalism of , towards people around [smith] to try and maintain control over specifically, the prosecution presented evidence that, on april 6, 2007, during a break in moore and moore pursued yfriend, brian sneed, in a car chase and threatened to kill him. when he daughter. smith was inside her apartment. moore and sneed made eye contact. sneed decided to get back in his car. then he pursued him -and-mouse [car] chase for about fsneed was forced to stop at a red light behind other cars. moore and ordered sneed to roll down his window so they could talk. sneed declined. moore angrily told hito let you sneed feared for his life, believing moore could carry out the threat. when the traffic began moving, sneed made a turn and moore continued to pursue him. after a couple of minutes, 12 on april 21, 2007, just after midnight, moore called smith and asked to meet her. although they were still estranged, smith agreed to meet him outside her apartment. after he he wanted to contact sneed. when he did not return the phone, smith reported the taking to the police. about one hour after he took the phone, moore placed a call to scell phone. after sneed answered the call, additional times. he also told sneed that he belonged to a gang based in compton and indicated he knew where sneed lived and worked. sneed hung up the phone, fearful that moore would carry out the threat. moore immediately called sneed five or six more times before sneed disconnected his telephone (a landline). sneed woke up his father, a captain with the los angeles county , and explained the situation. instructed him to plug in the phone. it immediately rang. sneed answered the call from moore, who began threatening him again. sneed handed the phone to his father. (danny sneed), when sneed handed him the phone, he identified himself would kill sneed if sneed continued to see smith. moore was felony by threatening sneed and queried whether he should send deputies to arrest moore. gangster. i know where he [sneed] lives 13 after continuing to make the same, repetitive threat, moore ended the call. the following morning, on april 22, 2007, moore arrived outing about smith and her mother not allowing him to see his fence, with a long piece of steel in his hand, and slashed three of her tires before leaving the scene. as he argued below, moore asserts the evidence of the prior, uncharged conduct was not relevant to the charged offenses. we agree with the attorney general that the evidence the charged offenses. when moore and smith were estranged, moore engaged in a pattern of threatening, dangerous and violent behavior in order to intimidate smith and frighten her back into a relationship with him and scare off anyone who threatened a reconciliation (e.g., r). to the extent the evidence was more prejudicial than probative or cumulative of other evidence tending to show violent behavior when his relationship with smith was in jeopardy (arguments moore did not raise below in objecting to the admission of this evidence), any error in admitting this evidence was harmless. it is not reasonably probable that the outcome of trial would have been more favorable to moore if the trial court had excluded this evidence. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) the other evidence supporting the convictions, including testimony from smith, her mother and her nephew describing the charged offenses, was not weak. 14 admission of evidence of uncharged conduct against a former girlfriend (evid. code,  1109) moore contends the trial court abused its discretion in admitting under evidence code section 1109 evidence that moore vandalized the car of a former girlfriend. moore argues vandalism does not qualify as an act of domestic violence within the meaning of evidence code section 1109. the evidence the prosecution presented at trial girlfriend. ended, scott made a police report that moore had been harassing her because he was upset that she had a new boyfriend. in the morning on scott called the police about moore. scott reported that moore she and her aunt went upstairs and looked out the window. scott observed moore apprincident. moore argues this incident did not constitute a prior act of domestic violence within the meaning of evidence code section 1109 because there was no evidence indicating moore placed injury to . . . herself, or another 13700, subd. (a) [defining 1109].) we need not evaluate whether the incident constitutes 15 domestic violence because, to the extent the trial court erred in admitting the evidence under evidence code section 1109, the evidence was admissible under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), as evidence of prior, uncharged conduct tending to establish motive and intent. like the incidents involving mer boyfriend, this incident involving scott again demonstrated moore resorting to threatening and violent conduct when rejected by a former girlfriend. we reiterate what we stated above regarding evidence of the other prior, uncharged conduct: to the extent the evidence was more prejudicial than probative or cumulative of other threatening, dangerous and violent behavior when his relationship with smith was in jeopardy, any error in admitting this evidence was harmless. it is not reasonably probable that the outcome of trial would have been more favorable to moore if the trial court had excluded this evidence. (people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) the other evidence supporting the convictions, including testimony from smith, her mother and her nephew describing the charged offenses, was not weak. admission of 911 call moore contends the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted evidence of a december 1, 2013 (the date of the second carjacking count) 911 call made by a man identified only as the prosecution sought to admit the call under the spontaneous statement objection to the hearsay rule. (evid. code,  1240.) moore objected to the admission of this evidence below, arguing that the call indicated marcell had no personal knowledge of the events, but was reporting what others told him 16 as he relayed the information to the operator. the trial court ruled the evidence was admissible, commenting that there was on appeal, moore argues call under the spontaneous statement exception to the hearsay statement is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement: [] (a) purports to narrate, describe, or explain an act, condition, or event perceived by the declarant; and [] (b) was made spontaneously while the declarant was under the based on the transcript of the 911 call that was played for the jury, marcell called to report the december 1, 2013 incident. he told the operatsee them, they were on the floor wrestling or whatever, trying to demonstrates marcell perceived the events he reported. he was not merely relaying information about events other persons had observed (although he did provide some additional details that others around him stated: the make of the car, whether the car was 2-door or 4-door). moore also argues were not spontaneous within the meaning of evidence code nt of time passed between not the first 911 call to come in about this event. the first call 17 came in three full minutes before marcell made his call. by the time marcell made the call any emotional influence he might purported lack of percipient knowledge. he did not argue that cordingly, moore forfeited this claim on appeal. (people v. kennedy (2005) 36 evidence, the specific ground of the objection must be stated. the appellate courts review of the trial courts admission of evidence disapproved on other grounds in people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 459.)8 even if moore had preserved this claim, we would reject his argument. the transcript indicates marcell made the 911 call shortly after the events unfolded, while smith was sitting outside talking to security personnel in her witnessing the events had not died down. (evid. code,  1240.) lack of ad moore contends the trial court erred in failing to admonish a support person who accompanied smith to the witness stand at trial, pursuant to section 868.5. moore forfeited this claim because he did not object below. (people v. myles (2012) 53 8 moore similarly forfeited his claim on appeal that the unidentified male told him. to the extent the admission of information relayed to marcell by other witnesses was in error, it was harmless. marcell witnessed the events he reported and received only minor details from others. 18 victim-witness advocate accompanied [the victim] to the witness in any event, this contention lacks merit. section 868.5, subdivision (b), requires the trial court to admonish the support if the support person also is a witness at trial. (people v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 1170-1171.) moore does not dispute dispute the lack of prejudice in that there is no indication in the record that the support person prompted, swayed or influenced smith in any way.9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. lui, j. 9 based on our resolution of the contentions moore raises on appeal, we reject his claim that cumulative error requires reversal of his convictions. 