filed 2/9/16 p. v. rodriguez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan rodriguez, defendant and appellant. b264119 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba417263) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, terry a. bork, judge. affirmed. tracy l. emblem, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance by plaintiff and respondent. 2 following a jury trial, defendant was found guilty of possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)1; count 1) and assault with a firearm in violation ( 245, subd. (a)(2); count 2). on count 2, the jury found defendant personally used a firearm in the commission of the crime. defendant admitted he had a prior strike conviction. the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate 12-year prison term. we appointed counsel to represent defendant on appeal. dcounsel filed a brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende) requesting that this court review the entire record to determine if there are any arguable appellate issues. we notified defendant of his right to file a supplemental brief within 30 days. defendant did not file a supplemental brief. facts a. prosecution case christopher rodriguez was sitting on his porch speaking to a friend when he noticed a woman across the street with a baby in her arms pushing a stroller as she left a house party. defendant followed behind her, yelling at her and kicking the stroller. as during the incident, defendant made eye contact with rodriguez. defendant eventually crossed the street and approached rodriguez. defendant , rodriguez replied he rodriguez of lying, repeatedly called him a and persisted with his question. eventually an older gentleman placed his hand when officers arrived, defendant made eye-contact with them and then ran. defendant was eventually apprehended with the assistance of a police helicopter. a gun found on one of the nearby driveways was identified by rodriguez and his friend as the s dna was found on the gun. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 b. defense case deother. defendant walked mother and father followed him. defendant approached rodriguez and get out he instructed neither dsaw a . discussion/disposition pursuant to people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, we examined the entire record to determine if there are any arguable issues on appeal. based on that independent review, we are satisfied appointed counsel fulfilled his obligations, and there are no issues warranting further review on appeal. the judgment is affirmed. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259.) not to be published in the official reports kumar, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. baker, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 