filed 11/15/16 p. v. murphy ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. levi murphy, defendant and appellant. b264815 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga093250) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stan blumenfeld, judge. affirmed. maggie shrout, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and susan sullivan pithey and zee rodriguez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 -judgment order terminating his probation under penal code1 section 1203.2 and executing a previously imposed sentence of four years in state prison. on appeal, murphy contends that the trial court erred by failing to exercise its discretion to consider whether a disposition other than imposition of a four-year prison term was warranted for his probation violation. we affirm. factual background and procedural history i. the charges on may 8, 2014, murphy was driving his vehicle in the city of arcadia when he was involved in a traffic collision. murphy hit murphy then continued driving and rear-result of the collision, bounlom suffered minor back pain, but did not seek medical treatment. quan sustained injuries to his neck and upper back and received chiropractic treatment. murphy was arrested for being under the influence of alcohol. at the police station, he submitted to a breathalyzer test, which showed a blood alcohol content of 0.13 percent. murphy was charged with one count of driving under the influence of alcohol and causing injury (veh. code,  23153, subd. (a)), and one count of driving with a blood alcohol content of 0.08 percent or more and causing injury (veh. code,  23153, subd. (b)). it was alleged that murphy had two prior serious or violent 1 unless otherwise stated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ( 667, subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b)), and had served one prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). ii. murphy is placed on formal probation on february 11, 2015, the trial court held a pre-trial hearing. the court two prior serious or violent felony convictions and place him on five years of formal probation. as a condition of his probation, murphy would be placed in the fresh start recovery home, a residential treatment program. the court stated to murphy: [y]ou do have a serious decision to make as to whether you want indicated sentence is going to be disastrous for you unless you are successful on the program, which means you have to have a level of commitment to doing what you need to do on the program. execution of four years in state prison, which means that if you business and get all of this done, you violate the terms and conditions of your probation, you are going to be doing those four years. . . . moreover, any time that you serve presentencing, if i have to sentence you in this case and revoke your probation, murphy stated that he understood and wished to accept the indicated sentence. he pleaded no contest to each of the charged counts, and admitted the sentence enhancement allegations. the court ordered the prior serious or violent felony allegations stricken. ( 1385.) the court sentenced murphy to a total term of four years in state prison, suspended execution of 4 the sentence and placed murphy on five years of formal probation. the court ordered murphy be released from custody and transported directly to the fresh start recovery home. the court further advised recovery home for any reason whatsoever, unless this court example, there was a medical emergency with a family member or murphy felt threatened by someone in the facility, murphy it upon yourself to simply leave. if you leave that program, i will impose that four years. if you otherwise violate the terms and conditions of your probationadvised the court that he understood and accepted the terms and conditions of his probation. iii. murphy is remanded into custody on march 23, 2015, murphy appeared in court, with a report that he had left the fresh start recovery home on march 19, had reported to his probation officer on march 20, and had checked himself into a new residential treatment program on march 22. the court noted that it was unclear whether murphy had left fresh start on his own or had been asked to leave by the program, and continued the matter to allow defense counsel to present further information about s departure from fresh start. the court ordered murphy to remain in his new treatment program and submit to daily random drug testing until the next hearing date. at a march 26, 2015 hearing, the trial court stated that it had received a letter from the fresh start program 5 a very different picture from that which was painted by mr. murphy when [the court] saw him last.the letter indicated that murphy had left fresh start without permission and had committed other violations of the terms and conditions of the program. the court read aloud portions of its prior sentencing order and stated that if the allegations made by fresh start were proven be a very serious violation of the court also noted that murphy appeared to be claiming that the allegations were fabricated and that he had been discharged from fresh start through no fault of his own because he made legitimate complaints about the conditions in the program. the court then statedme the only thing that really is left for the court is to set this matter for a formal hearing to decide the issue. and if it turns tence him to that four the court set the matter for a formal probation violation hearing, and remanded murphy into custody. iv. the probation violation hearing the court heard the probation violation on april 17, 2015. gabriella hernandez, the program director for fresh start, and that murphy had been admitted into fresh start on march 4, 2015. on that day, he reviewed and signed a copy of the program rules and regulations, including the rule prohibiting residents from leaving the premises without authorization. over the next two weeks, however, murphy left the premises without authorization on four separate occasions. on march 5, 2015, murphy left the facility in the evening without authorization and returned a few hours later. on march 7, 2015, murphy again left the facility without 6 authorization and returned in the evening smelling of alcohol. he admitted to whorton on that occasion that he had used alcohol, marijuana, and methamphetamine. on march 9, 2015, murphy left the facility a third time without authorization and broke a window in a s home. following that incident, murphy was warned that if he left the facility again without authorization, he would be discharged from the program. on march 19, 2015, murphy had an appointment for a drug assessment at 10:00 a.m.; however, he left the facility at 6:00 a.m. without authorization and unaccompanied by an escort. as soon as he noticed murphy where he was, but murphy called whorton back two minutes later and whorton could hear his mother in the background. later that morning, hernandez made the decision to discharge murphy from fresh start for his repeated violations of the program rules. both hernandez and whorton denied that murphy ever complained to them about unsanitary conditions at the fresh start facility. murphy testified in his own behalf, denying that he ever left the premises of fresh start without authorization or an escort. according to murphy, he left the facility on march 5 to attend an appointment with his probation officer, on march 7 to apply for an identification card with the department of motor vehicles, and on march 9 to attend an alcoholics anonymous meeting. on each occasion, murphy had permission to leave the facility, was accompanied by an escort, and did not consume any alcohol or drugs. on march 19, murphy left the facility with an escort to attend a scheduled appointment for a substance abuse assessment. murphy complained to the specialist conducting the 7 assessment that there were bed bugs and other sanitary issues at fresh start. on prior occasions, murphy also had complained about the unsanitary conditions at fresh start to hernandez and whorton. when murphy returned to fresh start on march 19 after his appointment, he was told that he was being discharged from the program for complaining about the conditions at the facility. the following day, murphy met with his probation officer and enrolled in a new residential treatment program. defense counsel argued that murphy was in substantial compliance with his probation, and that even if the court were to find a violation, it should reinstate probation and allow murphy an opportunity to participate in the new treatment program. the prosecution argued that probation should not be reinstated because conduct showed a pattern of repeated violations and misrepresentations to the court. the trial court noted that it had conducted an exhaustive review of the evidence and considered its prior admonitions to murphy at the sentencing hearing about the consequences of a probation violation. in weighing the credibility of the witnesses, the court stated that it claimed by murphy. the court also stated that its review of the evidence showed that the court found that murphy was in violation of the terms and conditions of his probation, and ordered execution of the previously imposed sentence of four years in state prison. 8 discussion on appeal, murphy argues that the trial court failed to properly exercise its discretion at the probation violation hearing as required under california law and the due process clause of the federal constitution. murphy specifically asserts that the trial court improperly decided before hearing any evidence or argument that any probation violation would result in the obation and the imposition of a four-year state prison sentence. i. relevant law under section 1203.2, a trif the interests of justice so require and the court, in its judgment, has reason to believe . . . that the person has violated any of the conditions ( 1203.2, subd. (a).) pon finding a violation of probation and revoking probation, the court has several sentencing options. [citation.] it may reinstate probation on the same terms, reinstate probation with modified terms, or terminate probation and sentence the defendant to state prison. people v. bolian (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 1415, 1420; see also people v. medina (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 318lthough section 1203.2 does not expressly reon s authority to modify probation necessarily pre the court decides to terminate probation and send the defendant to state prison, the sentence the court may impose depends on how the court disposed of the case when it first placed the defendant on probation. if the court originally suspended imposition of sentence, the court may, upon revocation and termpronounce judgment for any time 9 within the longest period for which the person might have been ( 1203.2, subd. (c).)people v. bolian, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 1420; people v. ramirez (2008) 159 cal.app.4th 1412, hen a court suspends imposition of sentence before placing a defendant on probation, the court has full sente if the court originally imposed a sentence and suspended execution of it, upon revocation and termination of probation, the court must order that imposed sentence into effect. [citations.] the court ordinarily has no authority to impose a lesser sentence in such a case. (people v. bolian, supra, at pp. 1420-1421; people v. ramirez, suprawhen a court imposes a sentence but suspends its execution pending a term of probation, on revocation and termination of probation the sentencing judge must order .) the decision whether to reinstate or terminate probation rests within the broad discretion of the trial court. (people v. bolian, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at the record shows that the trial court proceeded with sentencing on the erroneous assumption it lacked discretion, remand is necessary so that the trial court may have the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion at a new sentencing hearing. people v. brown (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1213, not required, however, if the record demonstrates the trial court was aware of its sentencing discretion, . . . [or] if the record is silent concerning whether the trial court misunderstood its sentencing discretion. error may not be presumed from a sileis presumed to have been aware of and followed the applicable [citations.] id. at pp. 1228-1229.) 10 ii. the trial court did not err in imposing a four-year ion murphy contends that the trial court abused its discretion in imposing a four-year prison term because the court failed to make an impartial assessment of whether a disposition other than revocation of probation and imposition of a prison sentence was warranted under the circumstances of the case. in support of this claim, murphy points to the trial him at the original sentencing hearing that if murphy violated any of the terms and conditions of his probation, then he would be murphy also points to the trial violation hearing that if the allegations made by fresh start violations were proven to be true, then the court would im murphy claims that these statements show that the trial court was whether he had violated his probation, and that once a violation was found, the court refused to consider any disposition other than imposing a four-year state prison term. full and in context, however, the record reflects that the court properly exercised its discretion in determining whether murphy had committed a violation of probation, and upon finding a violation, in deciding whether the revocation and termination of probation was warranted under the circumstances of the case. in setting the matter for a formal probation violation hearing, the trial court noted that, if the allegations made by fresh start 11 finding a probation violation under such circumstances would be that the of the previously imposed four-year sentence. the court thus made clear that its disposition in the matter would depend upon the evidence presented by the parties at the hearing and the specific circumstances surrounding alleged probation violations. the record further reflects that, at the probation violation hearing, the trial court carefully considered all of the evidence presented by the parties as well as the arguments of counsel before rendering its disposition. argument that murphy had substantially complied with the conditions of his probation and that his probation should be reinstated if a violation were found, the trial court stated to the request that if i find a violation, which i am inclined to do as aded otherwise at this in response, the prosecution argued that reinstatement was not warranted because murphy had committed a pattern of repeated violations and misrepresentations to the court. the trial court agreed that eflected a in the face of an incredibly stern admonition and opportunity,and on those grounds, decided to revoke and terminate his probation. therefore, contrary on appeal, the trial court did not solely determine at the hearing whether murphy had violated the terms and conditions of his probation, but also considered whether probation should be reinstated or terminated. 12 in addition, once the trial court exercised its discretion to decide that termination of probation was appropriate, the court was required to order the execution of the four-year prison term that it had previously imposed. as discussed, when the court first placed murphy on formal probation, it imposed a total term of four years in state prison but suspended the execution of that sentence pending the period of probation. accordingly, upon revocation and termination of probation, the court did not have the authority to impose a lesser sentence, but rather was required to order the exact sentence previously imposed into effect. (people v. bolian, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at pp. 1420-1421; people v. ramirez, supra, 159 cal.app.4th at p. 1424.) the trial court thus acted within the scope of its authority in sentencing murphy to a four-year prison term. murphy nevertheless argues that the trial court violated his federal due process rights by predetermining his punishment for any probation violation without considering the particular circumstances of his case. the record reflects, however, that the trial court held a full evidentiary hearing for the purpose of determining whether murphy had violated the conditions of his probation, and if so, whether his probation should be reinstated or terminated. based on the evidence presented at the hearing, the trial court found that murphy had engaged in a pattern of probation violations that included multiple unauthorized leaves from his residential treatment facility, and that murphy had been repeatedly warned about the potential consequences of these violations prior to being placed on probation. once the trial court decided in its discretion that termination of probation was warranted, it properly ordered the execution of the four-year prison term previously imposed. because the totality of the 13 record demonstrates that the trial court properly understood and probation violation hearing, remand for a new hearing is not required in this case. disposition the er revoking and terminating probation and imposing a four-year term in state prison is affirmed. zelon, acting p. j. we concur: segal, j. keeny, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 