filed 6/21/16 p. v. lavatai ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mika lavatai, defendant and appellant. b264293 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba408344) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, curtis b. rappe, judge. affirmed. marilee marshall, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 introduction mika lavatai appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of second degree murder. he argues that the trial court erroneously refused his requested instruction on involuntary manslaughter, and violated his fifth amendment rights under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda) by admitting evidence of incriminating statements lavatai made to law enforcement. we conclude that there was no substantial evidence from which a jury could reasonably find lavatai committed involuntary manslaughter but not murder, and that his fifth amendment argument is not preserved for appeal. therefore, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. renteria goes dancing with his girlfriend in august 2012 juan carlos renteria (renteria) had been dating mariela orellana for approximately two months. prior to that, she had been dating armando campos for two years. when orellana began dating renteria, campos became jealous, told orellana that he wanted to resume on august 8, 2012 renteria went dancing with orellana at a restaurant in the city of commerce, at approximately 11:00 p.m. at approximately 12:30 a.m. on august 9, orellana saw campos at the restaurant, although campos left before she and renteria did. renteria took orellana home and left her house shortly before 3:00 a.m. they made plans to see each other the next day. orellana later tried to reach renteria, but her text messages to him were not returned. 3 b. lavatai and his accomplice attack renteria in the early morning houarmando was lying on r in the evening he had seen a heavy-set man, which investigation later determined was deontae dean, wearing a black sweatshirt with a hoodie covering his head and through the window. armando saw renteria start to open the door, turn around, and go to the man sitting down at the curb. armando then observed a ressed all in renteria from behind and hit him on the back of the head. armando ran downstairs and out to the street. when armando arrived outside the apartment building, the two men were attacking his brother in the street, and renteria was bleeding from his torso and his arms. renteria told armando not to help him or get involved. the two men continued to hit renteria, even after he fell to the ground unconscious and unmoving. eeping, but awoke when she heard armando screaming. she looked out the window and saw two individuals fighting with her brother. she screamed at them to stop, and then ran downstairs. when she arrived outside, she saw that ,, and there was tacking renteria while renteria was trying to his head. she also saw that one of the attackers had a sharp weapon. ricardo, had also been sleeping in the apartment when he awoke to the sound of people screaming. ricardo ran downstairs, saw the fight and his brother and sister screaming, and went inside to call the police. eventually, the two men ran away. armando approached his brother and saw that he was covered in blood and unconscious, but still breathing. renteria regained consciousness and began walking toward the house, but collapsed at the door. he fell rt completely [on, she] saw that he had a wound on his heart and he 4 renteria began convulsing. an ambulance came and took him to the hospital. renteria died from a stab wound to the heart. he had six separate stab wounds, including four to the back, one to the arm (a defensive wound), and one to the chest. renteria lived for a day after the attack, but lost too much blood to survive. c. lavatai explains to law enforcement that he attacked renteria at the request and direction of campos deputy sheriff kevin acebedo and another deputy subsequently spoke with lavatai, who admitted in a recorded interview the people played for the jury that he and .1 lavatai told deputy acebedo that he had never previously seen the man he and dean attacked, who lavatai ultimately learned was renteria, but lavatai explained that at approximately 8:00 p.m. campos asked him to come with him in his car, and they eventually drove to the restaurant in the city of commerce. lavatai waited outside in the car for an hour or two while campos was inside. around midnight, campos came out of the restaurant. when renteria came out of the restaurant, the two men began following driving a pickup truck. lavatai car as they followed renteria to his house. lavatai was wearing black clothes and gloves because he thought campos wanted him to [renteria] lavatai explained to the deputies that when he and campos arrived at house, campos parked away from but apartment building. lavatai knew it was the right building because he and campos has scouted it several days or the night before, and campos told lavatai the plan 1 the people also played for the jury a surveillance video obtained from a store near the attack. 5 was that dean would distract the man by engaging him in a conversation, lavatai would come up and attack renteria from behind, and then dean would join in the assault. when renteria arrived, campos was speaking to lavatai from his phone in the car, and said, lavatai went up to renteria and first hit him in the head ted socking him up. a couple of timeswith a butterfly knife campos had given him.2 dean, also dressed in black, used a long pole or a pipe. campos stayed in the car during the attack. after the attack, lavatai and dean ran away and campos picked them up. lavatai said that campos had told him to attack renteria because renteria had lavatai explained to the deputies that he attacked renteria because campo when asked whether lavatai ever thought that campos meant kill the victim, d. the jury convicts lavatai, and the trial court sentences him the people charged lavatai with the willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of renteria. the people also alleged that lavatai personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon in the commission of a felony within the meaning of penal code section 12022, subdivision (b)(1),3 and that lavatai intentionally killed renteria by means of lying in 2 a people v. davis (1988) 202 cal.app.3d is people ex rel. mautner v. quattrone (1989) 211 cal.app.3d 1389, 1398). 3 statutory references are to the penal code. 6 wait, within the meaning of section 190.2, subdivision (a)(15), and for financial gain, within the meaning of section 190.2, subdivision (a)(1). the jury found lavatai guilty of second degree murder, and found true the allegation that he personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon. the trial court sentenced lavatai to 16 years to life in prison (15 years to life for second degree murder plus one year for the weapons enhancement), awarded 802 days of actual custody credit, and imposed various fines and fees. lavatai timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct on involuntary manslaughter lavatai argues that the trial court erroneously refused to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser-evidence [he] did not intend to kill renteria and that he did not consciously disregard the manslaughter because intended to do anything but rough up renteria, that he stabbed him during the heat of the fight and was unaware [renteria] . . . is the unlawful killing of a human being without malice. ( 192.) it is statutorily defined as a killing occurring during the commission of an unlawful act, not amounting to a felony; or in the in the commission of a lawful act which might produce death, [accomplished] in an unlawful manner, or without due caution and circumspection. ( 192, subd. (b).) although the statutory language appears to exclude killings committed in the course of a felony, the supreme court has interpreted section 192 broadly to encompass an unintentional killing in the course of a noninherently dangerous felony committed without due caution or circumspection.(people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 31, citing people v. burroughs (1984) 35 cal.3d 824, 835 and people v. bryant (2013) 56 cal.4th 959, 972.) 7 involuntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder. (people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 942; people v. thomas an instruction on a lesser included offense must be given only if there is substantial evidence from which a jury could reasonably conclude that the defendant committed the lesser, uncharged offense but not the greater, charged offensethomas, at p. 813.) evidence presents a material issue of whether a killing was committed without malice, and if there is substantial evidence defendant committed involuntary manslaughter, constitutional right to have the jury determine every material issue. [citation.] malice is implied, however, when a killing results from an intentional act, the natural consequences of which are dangerous to human life, and the act is deliberately performed with people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596; see people v. brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 35 when . . . the defendant indisputably has deliberately engaged in a type of aggravated assault the natural consequences of which are dangerous to human life, thus satisfying the objective component of implied malice as a matter of law, and no material issue is presented as to whether the defendant subjectively appreciated the danger to human life his or her conduct posed, there is no sua sponte duty to instruct on involuntary tement to deputy acebedo that campos only from which a reasonable juror could entertain a reasonable doubt (people v. brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 34) that lavatai had acted in conscious disregard of the risk his after scouting the location a day or two before committing the crime, lavatai orchestrated a plan of attack in which dean would create a diversion while lavatai snuck up on renteria from behind. lavatai attacked renteria with a knife while his accomplice beat renteria with a pipe. lavatai stabbed renteria repeatedly, including once to the chest that penetrated his heart and killed him, and then ran away without looking back to see whether he had killed renteria or, in his words, 8 merely roughed him up. nor did lavatai distinguish between roughing up renteria and killing him. as lavatai admitted to deputy acebedo, he knew that campos wanted him to renteria, and that taking care of renteria included killing him. there was no evidence that the killing was accidental or negligent, or that lavatai his planned and coordinated attack posed. ] a mere misdemeanor battery by administering [a] . (people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 596-597.) to the contrary, lavatai attacked from a place of hiding with a deadly weapon, knowing his victim might die, and not caring if he did. jury on involuntary manslaughter. (see people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 934, 1028 [involuntary manslaughter instruction not appropriate where the defendant there was no reasonable doubt from the evidence that the defendant acted with the intent to kill or a conscious disregard for human life]; people v. evers defendant realizes and then acts in total disregard of the danger, the defendant is guilty of murder based on implied malice,passion or imperfect self-defense].) b. lavatai forfeited his argument that the detectives obtained statements from him in violation of his fifth amendment rights lavatai argues that the trial court erred by allowing deputy acebedo to testify about the statements lavatai made to him because the detectives obtained them in violation of miranda. lavatai argues that deputy acebedo subjected him to custodial interrogation during the interview without giving him any miranda warnings, the judge at the preliminary hearing erred in denying his motion to suppress, and the court should have suppressed the statements at trial. lavatai, however, never made a motion at trial to suppress his statements to the detectives, and the trial court never ruled on the admissibility of the statements. lavatai 9 acebedo at trial about his interview with lavatai, nor did lavatai object when the prosecutor played the recording of the interview for the jurors and gave them copies of the transcript of the interview. the only objection was at the preliminary hearing. an objection made at a preliminary hearing is not preserved for appeal unless renewed at trial. (see people v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, 1139 bsent a ruling or stipulation thwould be dees failure to renew it means the issue was not preserved for appealpeople v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. armstrong (1991) 232 cal.app.3d 228, 233, fn. 6 failure to renew, in the superior court, an objection made to [an exhibit] at the preliminary hearing on grounds of hearsay or lack of foundation constituted a waiver, barring consideration of those issues on appealpeople v. remington (1990) 217 cal.app.3d 423, 429-431 [defendantat trial a venue objection made at the preliminary hearing waived the right to object to venue on appeal]; see also people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 126 a pretrial ruling on a claimed violation of s fifth amendment rights is subject to reconsideration by the trial court, and an objection on fifth amendment grounds to the admissibility of the evidence is waived if not made at tri therefore, lavatai forfeited his argument that the trial court should have suppressed his statements to deputy acebedo. lavatai relies on people v. crittenden, supra, 9 cal.4th 83, to argue that, although to do so, as he was entitled to no further hearing, and nothing had changed since the court denied his crittenden, however, involved very different procedural circumstances. the defendant in crittenden . . . to exclude his statements on the ground they were obtained in violation of miranda(id. at p. 125.) so far, so good. the defendant in crittenden, however, miranda grounds at trial, and the trial court denied the motion. (ibid. 10 motion to change venue and transferred the case to another county, the defendant again moved to exclude the statements, but this time only under evidence code section 352 and mirandaibid.miranda (id. at p. 126.) if a motion to exclude evidence is made raising a specific objection, directed to a particular, identifiable body of evidence, at the beginning of or during trial at a time when the trial judge can determine the evidentiary question in its appropriate context, the issue is preserved for appeal without the need for a further objection at the time the evidence is sought to be introducedid. at p. 127, emphasis added; see people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 821 motion in limine can preserve an appellate claim, so long as the party objected to the specific evidence on the specific ground urged on appeal at a time when the court could determine the evidentiary question in the proper context unlike the defendant in crittenden, however, lavatai did not make a miranda objection before, at the beginning of, or during the trial, by way of a motion in limine or otherwise, to the trial judge. indeed, there is no indication in the record the trial judge had any knowledge that lavatai had made a motion at the preliminary hearing to suppress his statements to deputy acebedo, or that or how the judge presiding over the preliminary hearing had ruled on the motion. the trial court did not erroneously rule on ahearing did not preserve the issue for appeal.4 4 lavatai argues for the first time in his reply brief, in two sentences and without the argument, which could have been anticipated because there was no objection at trial, is forfeited. (see people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 349-350 [waiting until reply brief to make an argument forfeits the argument]; people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 1017points raised in the reply brief for the first time will not be considered, unless good reason is shown for failure to present them beforegument also fails because lavatai does not address the issue of prejudice. (see people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 92-93 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. blumenfeld, j.* o prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must show both s performance was deficient and that the deficient performance prejudiced the defensein re cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 974, 1019 here are two components to an ineffective assistance of counsel claim: deficient performance of counsel and *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 