filed 9/22/16 p. v. bright ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carl bright, defendant and appellant. b264692 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba414940) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. richard c. neuhoff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 the jury convicted defendant and appellant carl bright of second degree murder (pen. code  187)1 and found true the special allegation that defendant used a deadly and dangerous weapon in commission of the crime ( 12022, subdivision (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced defendant to 16 years-to-life in state prison. defendant contends that multiple errors at trial misled the jury regarding the elements of murder and manslaughter. he specifically argues that the jury was incorrectly led to believe: (1) provocation under a heat of passion theory of voluntary manslaughter must be sufficient to cause a reasonable person to kill; (2) only facts specifically testified to at trial could be -defense requires consideration of what a reasonable person would believe; and (4) implied malice does not require that defendant deliberately acted with conscious disregard for human life. he further contends that any failure of trial counsel to object to the errors constituted ineffective assistance of counsel, and even if the individual errors do not warrant reversal, their cumulative effect was prejudicial. we affirm the judgment. facts prosecution the murder defendant and robert brown both lived in the skid row area of los angeles. staying in a shelter. defendant provided brown food, lent him money, and let him wash his clothes and take showers in his apartment. they saw each other almost every day. on june 10, 2013, brown and defendant spoke on the phone about brown 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 in the morning. defendant came downstairs to before taking him upstairs, as required by the single resident occupancy hotel where he lived, but that day he led brown straight to the stairwell and up to the apartment. he apartment was usually immaculate, but when defendant opened the door, brown saw that the entertainment center had been knocked over. there was blood everywhere. defendant led brown to the bathroom, where a woman, later identified as gina marie dodd, was lying in the bathtub. brown asked if she was dead. defendant replied, defendant told brown that he had been out in front of his apartment the night before, when the woman stopped him and asked to come inside.2 defendant took her to find her going through his belongings. he asked the woman what she was doing. she going to do whatever you want? . . . defendant grabbed the wom[h]e started getting weak. so hand off her and he told her, get myself together and you get the woman said she was not going anywhere that she leave, but she refused. defendant told brown he was not going to let the woman disrespect him. he said he the situation continued to escalate. defendant could not remember what happened after that. he woke up defendant never told brown that the woman 2 in an interview with police, brown said defendant told him the woman was smoking, got spooked, and needed to get inside. in his grand jury testimony, brown stated that defendant said the woman told him she was trying to get away from someone and needed somewhere to go. 4 punched, kicked, or tried to stab him, and never said the woman had a screwdriver or other weapon in her hand, or that he was afraid of her. defendant cleaned the apartment after telling brown what happened. he washed blood off the floor and walls, and put a bloody screwdriver in the dishwasher. he then smoked cocaine. defendant wanted brown to spend the night at the apartment as a hotel guest and help him get rid of the body. brown feigned a willingness to help, but did not assist defendant or see defendant attempt to dispose of the body. brown left the apartment for a short while at some point. when he returned, the living room had been cleaned up. a little before 7:00 p.m., defendant and brown went to buy some marijuana. while defendant had a conversation with a person on the street, brown indicated that he was going to continue looking for some marijuana. instead he walked to a nearby police station and reported the crime. between 6:00 and 7:00 p.m. that evening. they waited for sergeants severins and lopez to arrive, and then knocked on the door. defendant opened the door and consented to apartment with defendant while the search was conducted. defendant appeared to be under the influence of cocaine. he was agitated and fidgeting, and his breath smelled of the drug. defendant had no obvious injuries to his hands or wrists and was walking normally. detectto be approximately 40 to 50 years old. her hair was wet, and parts of her blouse were burned. there was also a silver substance resembling nail polish on her body. the apartment smelled of acetone and there were several empty nail polish bottles. there were red stains in the living room that appeared to be blood. officers recovered a screwdriver from the counter top. 5 est and statement officers arrested defendant at approximately 7:10 that evening and took him to the police station later that night. because the holding cell was very cold, officers handcuffed defendant to a bench outside the cell. defendant suffered a seizure between 3:00 and 6:00 a.m. the next morning. he lost consciousness and broke or dislocated his arm, which was still handcuffed to the bench. he was transported to the hospital for treatment, but was returned to jail when he became responsive again later that day. defendant was questioned by detectives sergio ortiz and al marengo at about 5:00 p.m. defendant told the detectives that a strange woman ran up the stairs to his door on the morning of june 9. she said someone was chasing her, and asked him to let her in, so he brought her inside. the woman took out some pipes and asked for beer. defendant left to buy her beer, and when he returned, she was rummaging through his belongings and stea he told the woman she had to leave. she screamed obscenities and used abusive language. defendant could not tolerate her called he defendant began to worry that he would lose his apartment because the woman had come upstairs without signdisposed of later. the detectives asked defendant if he had tried to cut the woman up, 6 defendant told the detectives he had personal problems. his mother, grandmother, and daughter had all died that year. he did not have a prior criminal record and had not caused any trouble at the hotel where he was living. he said he would never any possible injuries that the woman may have caused by hitting him in the jaw. detective ortiz did not obsecaused by the seizure. other evidence the autopsy on dod dodd suffered sharp force injuries, blunt force injuries, and burns. there were 40 sharp force injuries, including 20 wounds which were incised, or superficial, and 20 stab wounds, three of which were k, and one was to the rear of her left side. one of the fatal wounds was more likely to have been inflicted by a knife than by a screwdriver, but it was undetermined how the other two wounds were inflicted. seventeen of the sharp force wounds were inflicted postmortem. the 23 remaining wounds were inflicted either before dodd died or around the time of her death. two appeared to be defensive. she had no wounds to her right hand. dodd had bruising on her shoulder, knees, feet, arm, and neck that appeared to bruised, and the hyoid bone beneath this bruise had a minimally displaced fracture, an injuries consistent with manual strangulation, either by a hand or by a choke hold. dodd had second- and third-degree burns on approximately 30 percent of her 7 body. the burns were inflicted post-mortem. a toxicology screen revealed that dodd had methamphetamine, marijuana, and cocaine in her system. defense dr. ettie rosenberg testified that the effect of ingesting a combination of methamphetamine, marijuana, and cocaine would be significantly greater on an individual than would be expected simply by adding together the effects of the individual would likely exhibit irritability and aggression. neuropsychologist deborah miora diagnosed defendant as having dysexecutive syndrome. people with dysexecutive syndrome have difficulty inhibiting themselves, thinking about what they are doing, and weighing options. dysexecutive syndrome is not listed in the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (dsm). miora -based behavior[] discussion defendant complains that he was prejudiced by several instructional errors at trial. e elements of the offenses set forth in the various verdicts the jury considered. citing to people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935 (beltran), defendant characterizes these errors as instructional, and disavows any claim of prosecutorial misconduct conduct.3 3 in beltran, the california supreme court considered the effect of the noting that the issue was one of instructional error. (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at 954, fn. 15.) 8 pertain to the alleged instructional error. defense counsel did not object to the instructions defendant now challenges or to party forfeits any challenge to a jury instruction that was correct in law and responsive to the evidence if the party fails to object in the trial court. (people v. hudson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1002, 1011-1012 [(hudson)]; people v. ramos (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1082, 1087 (ramos).) the rule of forfeiture does not apply, however, if the instruction was an incorrect statement of the law (hudson, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 1012), or if the instructional error . ( 1259; ramos, supra, 163 cal.app.4th at p. of the defendant necessarily requires an examination of the merits of the claimat least to the extent of ascertaining whether the asserted error would result in prejudice if error it ramos, suprapeople v. franco assistance of counsel also requires that we assess the substance of his contentions. (see people v. chong (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 232, 243.) contentions on the merits, despite his failure to object below. we hold that the trial court did not err in instructing the jury, and that even if the trial court had erred, any error was harmless under the standard articulated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson merits, defense counsel did not render ineffective assistance by failing to object to the instructions in the trial court. (people v. bradley (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 64, 90 [f] having concluded that the trial court did not err, contention that he suffered prejudice from cumulative errors at trial. (see people v. hines (1997) 15 cal.4th 997, 1061.) 9 legal principles we review de novo the question of whether a jury instruction correctly states the law. (people v. posey applicabramos, supra, 163 cal.app.4th at p. 1088.) challenging an instruction as being subject to erroneous interpretation by the jury must demonstrate a reasonable likelihood that the jury understood the instruction in the way people v. cross (2008) 45 cal.4th 58, 67-68 (cross).) determining whether error has been committed in giving or not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which are given so as to support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such i(ramos, supra, at p. 1088.) where error exists, we determine its prejudicial effect under the standard of review set forth in watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at page 836. (people v. flood (1998) 18 cal.4th 470, 490.) an error is prejudicial and requires reversal only when there is a had the trial court properly instructed the jury . . . ibid.) proceedings jury questions relevant here, the trial court instructed the jury on first degree premeditated murder (calcrim nos. 520, 521) and the lesser included offenses of second degree murder (calcrim no. 520), and voluntary manslaughter under theories of heat of passion (calcrim no. 570) and unreasonable self-defense (calcrim no. 571). the jury was also instructed on justifiable homicide under a self-defense theory. (calcrim 10 no. 505.) during deliberations, the jury asked: are we to judge premeditation simply based on the evidence or does the are normal average person [sic] state of mind the jury. initially the court stated it planned to answer the questions by directing the jury to review the instructions. the prosecutor agreed with this approach. defense counsel argued the court should instead further clarify or provide more specific instructions on [] t -- the instructions, because it applies to re talking about whether a state of mind is objectively reasonable or unreasonable or whether a person of average subjective. but if -- my recommendation is that we further clarify and explain that for murder one and murder two, that requires you take into consideration his subjective state of mind. e heat of passion is a reason. -- objective and subjective element to both voluntary manslaughter theories that were presented. both of them. i mean, i could tell them that. the the prosecutor maintained that referring the jury to the instructions was the better 11 that it would instruct the jury regarding state of mind, but would not go into detail regarding specific charges. clarifying instructions the court addressed the jury as follows, without objection: re we to judge premeditation -- supposed to base it on the evidence -- to both questions is yes. okay? the issues relating to -- when you mind. all the evidence that was received in the trial goes to make that determination as to what mind in the instructions, for example, premeditation and deliberation, the defendant had to have deliberated and premeditated based on the definition given to you in the instructions. okay? -- any time you talk about concepts that involve both subjective -- e of mind -- and ab contain both objective and subjective components. so they refer to both the defendant has to be acting with that particular state of mind and a reasonable -- and then those actions are also tested by a reasonable person standard, whether a reasonable person would believe x or react in the same manner. okay? so, a, you have to react in that 12 manner, and, b, a reasonable person would have reacted in that manner. subjective component, what the defendant believed, and an objective component. all it. it has to be a reasonable belief looking at it. how you judge that is you look at all the evidence. all right? all the surrounding evidence and circumstances in order to determine -- to draw those types of conclusions and any other evidence that comes into play. okay? analysis standard for provocation incorrectly believe that the standard for provocation under a heat of passion theory of provoked to kill, rather legal principles voluntary manslaughter is the intentional but nonmalicious killing of a human being, and is a lesser included offense of murder. ( 192, subd. (a); people v. moye 13 (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549 (moye); people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 102; people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 59 (lee).) a killing may be reduced from murder to voluntary manslaughter if it occurs upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion on sufficient provocation. (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 942, 951; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 583 (manriquezthe killing, the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201; beltran, supra, at p. 942; people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 759 (enraca).) a heat-of-passion theory of manslaughter has both an objective and a subjective component. (moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549; manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 584.) by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 59; manriquez, supra, at p. 583.) sufficiently provocative to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 939; enraca, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 759; lee, supra, at p. 59.) to satisfy the subjective component, induced by [adequate] provocation. [citation.]moye, supra, at -[citation] other than revpeople v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163; beltran, supra, at p. 950; people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 1139.) proceedings in closing argument, the prosecutor discussed the level of provocation necessary to 14 reduce murder to manslaughter due to heat of passion: agree that the defendant was provoked in this case. i mean he ended up killing. r the influence of intense emotions. that intense emotion, but certainly during certain periods he did. t of passion. this is a reasonable standard the law injects into this as well. the provocation would cause a person of average disposition -- not [defendant] -- to act rashly and without due deliberation from passion rather than from judgment. down into a more simple fashion in a second. because slapping somebody is not sufficient provocation to kill them. it is not enough that the defendant was simply [] also a cooling off period between -- let me -- about what we see in the law as something that would rise to the level of heat of passion. reading a bunch of legal words off of a board. have children together. you have a family. you have a mortgage. you both work very hard. you both love each other. at least you think you do. you come home early from freak out. you grab the baseball bat that you have next to your bed just in case an intruder comes and you beat the living daylights out of the guy and you kill him. 15 omebody in the same position maybe spent your life for? -- this could work for men or women -- would be under such stronself-he attack at all. on the contrary, you came home early to surprise your wife. somebody down from murder to manslaughter. or your husband who had a little too much to drink and slaps you and you kill them, which is much more than what we have here. under that kind of emotion because the woman discussion defendant argues that this case is analogous to beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th 935. the beltran jury had been instructed regarding provocation with a modified version of calcrim no. 570 as it existed in 2006. (beltran, supra, at p. 954.) the instruction consider whether a person of average disposition would have been provoked and how such a person would react in the same situation knowing the same factsibid. [italics added].) the prosecutor in beltran argued to the jury that a reasonable person would not [y]ou stub your (ibid.) defense counsel countered that the provocation need not have caused a person of average disposition to kill, but must have caused the person to act rashly and impulsively, without thinking. (id. 16 whether the provocation was sufficient, consider whether a person of average disposition would have been provoked and how such a person would react in the same situation be other, less severe, rash actsid. provocation involved must be such as to cause a person of average disposition in the same situation and knowing the same facts to do an act rashly and under the influence of such intense emotion that his judgment or reasoning process was obscured. this is an ibid. [fn. omitted].) beltran was convicted of second degree murder. (ibid.) on appeal, the parties argued regarding the nature of the provocation sufficient to constitute heat of passion. beltran contended that the correct standard was whether the provocation would have caused a person of average disposition to act rashly and impulsively, without thinking. the attorney general maintained that the requisite provocation must be of such a nature that a person of average disposition would be instructions, and the trial coursame error of law regarding the degree of provocation necessary to negate malice and reduce the degree of homicide to voluntary manslaughter. he argued that this error permitted the jury to reject his claim of voluntary manslaughter, and reach a verdict of reasonable person to act rashly, but was not sufficient to cause such a person to kill. the court of appeal reversed, agreeing with beltran as to the standard for provocation, and concluding that the relevant jury instruction was at least ambiguous, if not misleading, and that under the circumstances of the case, the error was prejudicial. (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 945.) the california supreme court agreed with the court of appeal that t]he proper standard focuses upon whether the person of average disposition would be induced to beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 939.) but, 17 contrary to the court of appeal, the supreme court held that the language of calcrim beltran, supra, at p. 954.) it concluded that in the particular ibidalthough hardly clear, seemed to suggest that the jury should consis conduct and whether such a person would kill.ibid.) the supreme court ultimately reversed the court of appeal, reasoning that the jury had asked for clarification of the standard for provocation, and the trial court had responded with a correct statement of law, such that it not reasonably probable that any possible s argument misled the jury.beltran, supra, at p. 956.) the supreme court additionally held that the defendant had not been prejudiced under watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818, the evidence supporting the existing judgment is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, that there is no reasonable probability the error of which the defendant beltran, supra, at p. 956.) defendant argues that the instant case closely parallels beltran, with the exception onfusion causing prejudicial error. we disagree. the instant case differs from beltran in significant ways, but is similar to beltran questions, and (2) the evidence supporting a result more favorable to defendant is comparatively weak when evaluated against conviction for second degree murder. the beltran jury was instructed under a modified version of the original calcrim no. 570, adopted in 2006. as beltran noted, calcrim no. 570 was deciding whether the provocation was sufficient, consider whether a person of average disposition, in the same situation and knowing the same facts, would have reacted from passion rather than from judgmentbeltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 954, fn. 14 [italics 18 added].) this was the ve4 the language of the 2008 revision articulates the law in a clear manner, and includes the crucial language of the standard articulated in beltranthan from judgmwhich was omitted from the earlier instruction. (see beltran, supra, at pp. 939, 948, 954, fn. 14.) whatever ambiguity existed in the 2006 version of susceptible to mani5 the relevant language of calcrim no. 570 [2008 rev.] states the law fully and correctly. the trial court did not err in instructing the jury in this case, nor could there have been any latent ambiguity in the instruction moreover, in beltranthe standard for provocation, as it asked for clarification of the standard specifically. (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 945.) the jury question in this case related to are we to judge premeditation simply factor we should consider? incident or is our standard to be any normal average person [sic voluntary manslaughter. he construes the second sentence of the jury question as pertaining to voluntary manslaughter. we are not persuaded.6 the only point raised in 4 although defendant refers to the language in the two versions of the instruction he does not provide the language of either version in his briefs, or compare the language of the two versions. 5 we note that this language has remained unchanged throughout the three revisions subsequent to 2008. 6 is more likely that both parts relate to first degree murder, for which premeditation is required, or that the second part of the question refers to the relevant mental state in the charges generally. 19 the second sentence relates to the application of an objective or subjective state of mind, without reference to the issue of provocation. there is no indication that the jury provocation. defendant argues that, unlike the trial court in beltranreferring the jury to the instructions on the subjective and objective components of voluntary manslaughter did not properly inform the jury of the required mental state. as statements thand you kill somebodydefendant reasons that the trial court improperly standard, whether a reasonable person would . . . react in the same waydid. . . . . . . a, you [the defendant] have to react in that manner, and, b, a reasonable person would have reacted in that manner with a particular state of mind and . . . whether a reasonable person would believe x or react in the same manneras described by defendant, it appears the court was addressing how the jury should evaluate defecourt directed the jury to refer to the instructions to determine the necessary state of mind desupreme court in beltran beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 954 [fn. omitted].) 20 here, as in beltranresponsive to its question. the court explained that all of the charges required required to consider how a reasonable personnot defendantwould react. in those instances, the court admonished the jury to review its instructions to determine how to employ the reasonable person standard, which necessarily included how to correctly employ the standard to evaluate provocation. we also reject the contention that the prosecutor incorrectly stated the standard for gally incorrect, and that defense counsel was remiss for failing to object to the instructions and in the 2006 and 2008 versions of calcrim no. 570, it was not likely that the people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 47; people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 436; people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 224 (najeraare usually billed in advance to the jury as matters of argument, not evidence, [citation], and are likely viewed as the statements of advocates; the latter . . . are viewed as people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 438.) given the foregoing, it is not reasonably probable the jury law. nor is it probable that the result would have been more favorable for defendant had the jury been admonished not to consi 21 in beltraniven the strons murder conviction and the comparatively weak evidence of any legally adequate provocation, a different (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 957.) defendant told brown he was provoked by the woman going through his things, taking money from detectives, he added that the woman had hit him once in the jaw and reached for a screwdriver, which he knocked out of her hand. assuming dodd behaved as described by defendant, which is not likely given the complete lack of injury to defendant, these are not the type of provocations that would cause a reasonable person to react rashly from passion rather than from judgment. (see najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 226 [calling defendant ,, not drive any ordinary person to act rashly or without dusee also people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789voluntary manslaughter instruction is not warranted where the act that allegedly provoked the killing was no more than taunting words, a technical battery, or slight touching.statements indicated that he was thinking through what was happeninghe was angry at being disrespected and concerned that he could lose his housing because the woman had beltran, supra, at p. 950 [. . . simply by acting imprudently or out of anger. even imprudent conduct done while angry is ordinarily the product of some judgment and thought, however fleeting defendant had the presence of mind to stop choking the woman in the midst of their confrontation. he said that after he began choking her, he let the woman go, and told her he would get himself together, and that she should get herself together, too, and leave his apartment. by exercising this restraint, defendant demonstrated that he was evaluating the situation rather than reacting blindly. he recognized that he did not havto change course. the evidence strongly supports the conclusion that defendant weighed the consequences of his actions, but that when the woman persisted in her belligerent behavior, he ultimately dec 22 that he reached this conclusion through reflection, and not as a result of a rash response, is bolstered by his utter lack of remorse in describing the killing to brown. defendant did not express shock or disbelief at his own actions. he consideration of inferences defendant contends that the following argument from the prosecutor led the jury to believe that it was not permitted to draw inferences from the facts, and should disregard anything that it did not hear from the witness stand: what is the evidence? nothing the attorneys say is evidence. why is that important? well, when we get up here and talk to you, and specifically when the defense talked in their opening statement to you and said things like she was out of control, she came at him with a screwdriver, he had to hold her back, he had to choke her around the throat with his arm, all of those things, [] . . . [] . . . [] if you are unable to point to any piece of evidence that came from that stand that said that he was afraid, self-defense does not apply. and there was no evidence of it, ladies and gentlemen. none of the witnesses that testified for the prosecution ever said that man, [defendant], was ever afraid defendant points to no specific instruction given by the trial court that could have bare we to judge premeditation simply based we should consider?indicated that it was confused as to whether it could consider face only to first- 23 simply or whether its role was to consider have required inferences to be drawn that recitation e answer to both those questions [i.e., to both parts of the first question] is defendant omits that the trial court explained: state of mind. how you judge that is you look at all the evidence. all right? all the surrounding evidence and circumstances in order to determine -- to draw those types of conclusions and any other evidence that comes into play. that determination as evidence, and in ll the surrounding evidence and circumstajurinferences.7 7 it is highly unlikely that the jury understood the prosecutor to be stating that only witness testimony and direct evidence could be considered. the prosecutor was directly out of control, she came at [defendant] with a screwdriver, he had to hold her back, he 24 additionally, any error is harmless in light of the relative strength of the evidence in support of the conviction, as we discussed above. imperfect self defense are we to be any normal average person [sic injected confusion regarding the imperfect self-defense theory of voluntary manslaughter by telling the jury that imperfect self-defense included an objective component. fect self-defense, when the trier of fact finds that a defendant killed another person because the defendant actually, but unreasonably, believed he was in imminent danger of death or great bodily injury, the defendant is deemed to have acted without malice and thus can be convicted of no crime greater than people v. mejia-lenares (2006) 135 cal.app.4th 1437, 1446.) the jury was instructed as to imperfect self-defense under calcrim no. 571: otherwise be murder is reduced to voluntary manslaughter if the defendant killed a person because he acted in imperfect self-defense. instructiowitnesses, the exhibits admitted into evidence, and anything else i told you to consider as evidence. [] nothing that the attorneys say is evidence. in their opening statements and closing arguments, the attorneys discuss the case, but their remarks are not evidence. answers. do not assume that something is true just because one of the attorneys asked a your decision on the evidence, and the evidence is the words of the defendant, the words of mr. brown . . . and he then went on to describe how lack of self-defense could be inferred from the facts, including physical facts like the nature 25 -defense, his action was lawful and you must find him not guilty of any crime. the difference between complete self-defense and imperfect self-need to use deadly force was reasonable. -defense if: the defendant actually believed that he was in imminent danger of being killed or suffering great bodily injury; the defendant actually believed that the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to defend against the danger; at least one of those beliefs was unreasonable. is believed to be. , consider all the circumstances as they were known and appeared to the defendant. the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant was not acting in imperfect self-defense. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of murder. (italics added.) defendant objects to thhowever, there are concepts that involve both subjective -- e of mind -- person would think. [] . . . [] . . . [s]o certain concepts in the instructions relating to voluntary manslaughter contain both objective and subjective components. so they refer to both the defendant has to be acting with that particular state of mind and . . . then those actions are also tested by a reasonable person standard, whether a reasonable person would believe x or react in the same manner. okay? so, a, you have to react in that manner, and, b, a reasonable person would have reacted in that manner. [] so look at 26 certain concepts in the instructions relating to voluntary manslaughterthat the jury was to employ an objective standard in specific circumstances: when you see the word reasonable person in the instructions or person of average dispositionitalics added.) given this explicit instruction, it is highly unlikely that the jury would misunderstand when the objective standard should be applied. must be considered: defendant must have in imminent danger of being killed or suffering great bodily injury, and immediate use of deadly force was necessary to defend against the danger. the instruction also advises the jury regarding what to consider when evaluatin in relation to the instructions for voluntary manslaughter was correct. to determine whether defendant was not guilty because he killed in self-defense or guilty of voluntary manslaughter under an imperfect self-defense use deadly force jury determine what a reasonable the trial court did not err in its response to the jury, but even if error had occurred, it was harmless for the reasons previously discussed. implied malice the jury was instructed on express and implied malice as defined in calcrim 27 no. 520. defendant argues for the first time on appeal that calcrim no. 520 was internally inconsistent as to implied malice, because the jury was instructed implied malice requires that under as relevant here, the jury was instructed under calcrim no. 520 that: implied malice if: he intentionally committed an act; human life; deliberately acted with conscious disregard for human life. mental state that must be formed before the act that causes death is committed. it does not require deliberation (id., italics added.) calcrim no. 520 referred the jury to calcrim no. 521 for the elements of first degree murder, which includes e defendant is guilty of first degree murder if the people have proved that he acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. the defendant acted willfully if he intended to kill. the defendant acted deliberately if he carefully weighed the considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. the defendant acted with premeditation if he decided to kill before completing the 28 acts that caused death. [] the length of time the person spends considering whether to kill does not alone determine whether the killing is deliberate and premeditated. the amount of time required for deliberation and premeditation may vary from person to person and according to the circumstances. a decision to kill made rashly, impulsively, or without careful consideration is not deliberate and premeditated. on the other hand, a cold, calculated decision to kill can be reached quickly. the test is the extent of the reflection, not the length of time.(id., italics added.) to the extent defendant argues that calcrim no. 520 is ambiguous, he has forfeited the issue by failing to seek a clarifying instruction in the trial court. calcrim no. 520 is a correct statement of the law, including its definition of implied malice and the admonition that malice aforethought does not require deliberation. caljic no. 8.11 defined), the caljic analog to calcrim no. 520, has been upheld as a correct statement of law by our supreme court. (people v. dellinger (1989) 49 cal.3d 1212, 1222 (dellinger); see also people v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 152 (knoller) [emphasizing that the language of caljic no. 8.11 and calcrim no. 520 articulate the standard set forth in dellinger].) caljic no. 8.11 includes language indistinguishable from calcrim no. 520, and defines implied malice as requiring that calcrim no. 520 accurately defines implied malice, defendant may not complain on appeal that the instruction is ambiguous or incomplete because he did not request clarifying language in the trial court. (people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 622; people v. canizalez (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 832, 849.) the contention also fails on the merits. the mental state of deliberation is an essential element of one form of first degree murder, but it is not required for second degree murder. (people v. hansen (1994) 9 cal.4th 300, 307, overruled on another ground in people v. sarun chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1200, [is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice, but without the additional elements [of] willfulness, premeditation, and deliberation[] that would support a conviction of first 29 ].) despite the language of section 188 defining express maliceexpress when there is manifested a deliberate intention unlawfully to take away the life of a fellow creatureour supreme court has long held that deliberate intent is not an element of second degree murder. (people v. saille (1991) 54 cal.3d 1103, 1114-1115, citing people v. valentine (1946) 28 cal.2d 121, 131-deliberate intent, under the statute (pen. code,  187, 189) is not an essential element of murder, as such. it is an essential element of one class only of first degree murder and is not at all an in short, implied malice requires a defendants awareness of engaging in conduct that endangers the life of anotherno more, and no less.knoller, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 143 [approving language that implied malice as used in calcrim no. 520, the requirement determination, subject to long-standing judicial interpretation, that implied malice exists when the r(people v. nieto benitez (1992) 4 cal.4th 91, 103) committed with conscious disregard for[] human lifedellinger, supra, 49 cal.3d at p. 1222). accordingly, calcrim no. 520 correctly advises the jury deliberately acted with conscious but that the mental state of deliberation is not required to prove either form of malice aforethought. assuming some ambiguity exists in calcrim no. 520, reversal is not required. the killing was a murder of the first or second degree, and no argument was made that defendant did not act deliberately as required for implied malice. understood the instruction in the way asserted by cross, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 68.) the record strongly supports a finding that defendant killed with express malice, considering the nature and extent of the wounds inflicted by defendant. it is doubtful that the jury had cause to rely on implied malice as a theory of murder. given the multitude of injuries defendant inflicted on dodd, it is not reasonably probable the jury failed to find, at a minimum, that defendant 30 acted with implied malice when he human life. we are skeptical that error occurred, but if so, defendant has not established prejudice. (cal. const., art. vi,  13; watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. raphael, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 