filed 6/13/16 p. v. lepe ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. estevan lepe, defendant and appellant. b264589 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va111293) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, raul a. sahagun, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded for resentencing. mark david greenberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer and wyatt e. bloomfield, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant estevan lepe of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)1), kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a)), first degree burglary ( 459), and evading an officer (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)). as to the murder, the jury found true the allegations that defendant committed the murder while engaged in the crimes of burglary and kidnapping; as to the murder and kidnapping, the jury found true the allegations that a principal personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury and death ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d), & (e)(1)); and as to each of the offenses, the jury found true the allegations that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(a)-(c)2) (gang enhancements).3 the trial court sentenced defendant to life in prison without the possibility of parole plus 25 years to life. on appeal, defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports the gang enhancements as to the murder and kidnapping, the trial courtto bifurcate the trial on the gang allegations resulted in a fundamentally unfair trial, and the trial court abused its discretion in permitting the prosecution to introduce a recording of his jail cell conversation with baeza in its rebuttal case. we reverse the gang enhancements and the sentences on the personal firearm use enhancements and remand for resentencing. we otherwise affirm the judgment. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) as to the murder and kidnapping convictions, subdivision (b)(1)(b) as to the burglary conviction, and subdivision (b)(1)(a) as to the evading an officer conviction. 3 defendant was tried in a first trial with codefendants noe baeza and robert benavidez. the jury in that trial convicted baeza and benavidez of first degree murder, kidnapping, first degree burglary, and being felons in possession of firearms. we affirmed those convictions in case number b245457. the jury in that case was unable to reach a verdict as to defendant, and the trial court declared a mistrial. 3 background i. the prosecution at trial, the prosecution introduced evidence concerning the abduction and killing of arturo alvarez, a member of the 38th street gang. alvarez, his wife erica castro, gate. about 12:45 a.m. on july 7, 2009, alvarez, castro, and their children were asleep in the living room when they were awakened by banging on the front door. someone alvarez, castro, and their children went to one of the bedrooms. from the bedroom, castro heard more banging and two or three gunshots. two men wearing masks entered the bedroom. they were armed with firearms. the men ordered alvarez and his family to [g] from the floor. a third man entered the room. alvarroom. the three men alvarez to put his hands behind his back and took him out of the room. one of abductors said, wcastat some point, castro got up from the floor and went to the living room. no one was there. less rudy dominguez lived on kauffman avenue. about 12:45 a.m. on july 7, 2009, he was watching television d a gunshot and went outside. dominguez saw a man run out of house and to a van parked a couple of houses away. the people exited the alvarez house and got into the van. the van drove away on michigan towards atlantic. about 12:45 a.m. on july 7, 2009, south gate police department officer robert pellerin was in his police car when he received a radio call of shots being fired in the area of kauffman avenue. he responded to the area and began to look for vehicles leaving the area. according to the radio call, a witness reported that a silver or tan pickup or van 4 left the area immediately after the shooting. pellerin saw a gold honda van at the intersection of michigan and atlantic traveling from the direction of the shooting. he followed the van onto the 710 freeway. traffic was very light and the officer pulled his car up next to the van. there was about one lane between the vehicles. pellerin tried to look inside the van. he aimed his spotlight at the driver side of the vanwindow was rolled down. pellerin as the driver. the van transitioned onto other freeways before exiting on rosecrans. when the van reached broadway and 125th street, it slowed to 15 miles per hour and a man exited the van. pellerin activated his emergency lights and siren, but the van did not slow down. instead, it accelerated. when the van reached the intersection of spring and 123rd street, the van again slowed to 15 miles per hour and a second man exited the van. the parties stipulated at trial that the second man who exited the van was benavidez. the van traveled to los angeles and 124th streets where the van slowed and a third person exited the van. pellerin continued his pursuit of the van. the van failed to obey stop signs or traffic lights, performed illegal u-turns, and reached speeds approaching 100 miles per hour. when the van reached 55th and figueroa, it slowed and a fourth person exited the van. the parties stipulated at trial that the fourth person who exited the van was baeza. at that point, a california highway patrol unit employed a technique called to stop the van during the pursuit. when the van was stopped, its driver got out and ran northbound. pellerin armed himself with his patrol rifle and approached the alvarez. hands and feet were zip tied behind his back, and there was duct tape around his face. alvarez was bleeding from what appeared to pellerin to be a fatal gunshot wound to his head.4 4 body. he testified that alvarez suffered two gunshot wounds to his head. each wound was fatal. 5 while pellerin cleared the van, california highway patrol officer isaac subia pursued the driver on foot. los angeles police department helicopter pilot officer rudy villareal, who had monitored the pursuit of the van, monitored subiadriver. villareal villareal never lost sight of the driver. the driver ran between a number of houses and entered the house at 711 west 55th street. police officers surrounded the house to contain its occupants. twelve persons, including defendant, were removed from the house. eight of those persons surname. los angeles police department officer bryan schilling testified as the expert on gangs generally and on the 38th street gang specifically. he testified that the 38th street gang had between 400 and 450 members who had common signs and symbols sales of cocaine and rock cocaine; vehicle, residential, and commercial burglary; attempted murder; murder; and home invasion. schilling identified two predicate gang offenses to establish a pattern of gang activity. according to schilling, gang members sometimes commit crimes against members of their own gang. two of the most common reasons for such crimes and stealing from another gang member or his family. the officer explained that every gang has rules of conduct and its members are expected to act respectfully towards other members of their gang. if a gang member violates the rules of conduct or is disrespectful towards a fellow gang member, the potential consequences include a taxa monetary payment, battery, and murder. alvarezvarious tattoos that signified his membership in the 38th street gang. schilling opined that baeza was a member of 38th street on july 7, 2009.5 5 on march 19, 2013, art valenzuela, a los angeles countcustody assistant at the twin towers correctional facility, retrieved from baeza 6 schilling testified that gang members sometimes commit crimes with non-gang members, using the non-members as drivers or lookouts. the primary reason for using a non-gang membersomeone had , and whose car registration and insurance were up-to-dateis to avoid detection by law enforcement. the prosecutor gave schilling a set of hypothetical facts based on the facts in this case and asked whether the homicide, kidnapping, burglary, and evasion were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. schilling responded that those offenses would have benefited the gang primarily because they o boundaries. it is willing to take out one of his offenses would instill fear in other members of the gang, in that they would show that action would be taken against a gang mboundaries. schillingwould not change if there was no evidence the driver of the van was a 38th street gang member. according to schilling, the offenses also would send a message to other gangs that the 38th street gang was violent and willing to kill ii. the defense alibi evidence defendant presented alibi evidence in his defense. eric lepe (eric), defendantbrother, testified that he lived with defendant on july 7, 2009. during the late evening on july 6, 2009, eric saw defendant around the house as eric was performing chores. after midnight, eric heard police sirens. he went outside to the front of the house to see what was happening. he came back in the house and went to a back room where his sister-in-law, estella lepe (estella), was watching television with defendant. eric asked the jail. the roll call indicated that baeza was a member of the 38th street gang. 7 them to turn to the news to see what was happening outside. shortly thereafter, the police detained eric, defendant, and estella. estella corroborated . according to estella, she and defendant were watching television together when she heard sirens in the early morning on july 7, 2009. omar carbajal, who also lived with defendant. he testified that he saw defendant in the television room on july 6, 2009, just before midnight. between midnight and 1:30 a.m. on july 7, 2009, carbajal spoke with his girlfriend in front of the houseapparently in a parked vehicle. carbajal did not see girlfriend left around 1:30 a.m., carbajal went back inside the house and saw defendant. shortly thereafter, carbajal heard sirens. during the early morning on july 7, 2009, dorothy lowe, was awakened by police sirens. lowe looked out her window and saw a van. she also saw a man run down her driveway and through her backyard. it was dark outside, and she did not see he man did not look like defendanthe appeared to be a little shorter than defendant. patricia guerra was awakened by sirens on july 7, 2009, and looked out of her window. guerra saw someone run from her driveway towards the street. but was certain the person she saw running was not defendant. the person she saw running was a little bit shorter than defendant. iii. rebuttal evidence was recorded and the recording was played for the jury. soon after defendant was left alone with baeza, defendant said to baeza( 8 defendant -[] defendant defendant-[] they did not get me in the car. , they defendant said to defendant said, defendant said, because somebody said they knew me. . . . i think somebody said they knew me.baeza said he had not spoken with anyone and advised defendant to request a lawyer the next time the detectives wanted to speak with him. defendant told baeza he said to the detectives, talking about, dude. there was a big mess in baeza saidpowder i guess defendant replied, but are they going to screw you over guy[?]baeza said he did not know. baeza said to defendant, defendant responded-in-law when we hear the helicopter go brum and i was the second to the last fool as soon as i went in there the bitch was like, i know it was you this and that and i said whatever cause i seen fool that when they take me fooli am innocent homie. do you understand guy? cause as soon as i went out fool the cops seen me fool and they were likeno that is not him the one that ran from us. do you 9 what i mean, when you call home, hum tell them that they are going to have to say that you cause if you were home with your family you know probably the guy got away you know probably did run thru your house fool. who knows? []-[] he salvation, because you were at your house. []-ydefendant yeah, because you were at your house. do you understand? just relax and calm down. do you understand? baeza again advised defendant to request a lawyer if the detectives attempted to you right now that wcan be the main witness. that he was there. do you understand? if not they are going to [violate] baeza told defendant that they would be moved to a larger cell that was equipped with a telephone and [r]ight there you abaeza said, well, when you talk to your family you tell them, well, that they should say that you were at home, you know what i mean? that you were there, that you were at discussion i. t findings defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports the jury true finding on the gang allegations. we agree. 10 a. standard of review conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27 [82 cal.rptr.3d 323, 190 evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 319 [61 l.ed.2d 560, 99 s.ct. 2781].) in so doing, a people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053 [99 cal.rptr.2people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715.) verdict. [citatpeople v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) we review a claim that insufficient evidence supports a gang allegation finding under the same standard of review. (people v. villalobos (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 310, 321-322.) b. application of relevant principles the gang enhancement in section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) consists of two prongs that require the prosecution to prove the defendant committed the charged offense (1) h any criminal street gang,and (2) with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by (people v. gonzales (2015) 232 cal.app.4th 1449, 1464.) as to the first prong, [e]xpert opinion that particular crimonly permissible but can be sufficient to support the penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), gang enhancement. (people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048; people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 4expert opinion that particular 11 criminal conduct benefited a gang by enhancing its reputation for viciousness can be sufficient to raise the inference that the conduct was committed for the benefit of . . . a[ ] criminal street gang within the meaning of section 186.22[, subdivision] a i.e., without evidentiary supporthowever, is insufficient to find an offense gang related. (people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 657; people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 851 [gang enhancement [defendants] were acting on their own behalf . . . or were acting on behalf of the [gang]. while it is possible the two were acting for the benefit of the gang, a mere possibility is in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, 1199 [gang enhancement any criminal conduct, without a further requirement that the conduct be apart the criminal conduct underlying the offense of conviction sought to be enhanced.people v. albillar, supra, ny criminal conduct by gang memberscharge offenses. (id. at pp. 65-requirement that the defendant act with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist a gang; the statute requires only the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by gang members.id. at p. 67.) ort the first prong necessary for the gang enhancement. schilling offered two reasons gangs retaliate family. because there was no trial evidence that established that alvarez snitched or stole from another gang member or his family, there is no evidence to support the true findings on the gang allegations. (people v. ochoa, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at p. 657; people v. ramon, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at p. 85; in re frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1199.) as the section 12022.53 enhancement on the murder and 12 186.22, subdivision (b), we also reverse those sentences and remand the matter for resentencing. ii. fundamental unfairness from evidence in unitary trial defendant concedes that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying his motion to bifurcate trial of the gang allegations based on the evidence the prosecutor said she would present, but contends that the failure to bifurcate resulted in a fundamentally unfair trial when the prosecutor failed to present the proffered evidence and the gang evidence adduced at trial was insufficient to support the gang allegations, yet was highly prejudicial on the issue of guilt a. background prior to trial, defense counsel moved to bifurcate trial of the gang allegations from trial of the charged offenses, arguing that gang evidence is highly prejudicial and there was little or no evidence that defendant was a gang member or that the offenses were gang related. in her motion, defense counsel stated that baeza testified in the prior trial that he was asked to assist in kidnapping alvarez to obtain information from alvarez on the whereabouts of at the hearing on the motion to bifurcate, defense counsel argued there was a risk that the jury would infer defendant was involved in gang activities even though no evidence would be adduced that he was a gang member. defense counsel argued that the heart of the case was identificationi.e., whether defendant was the driver of the van. the prosecutor argued that any gang evidence adduced was unlikely inflammatory compared with the facts underlying the murder charge. the trial court asked if the the case was that the crimes were gang related. the prosecutor responded that all of the offenses were related to a 38th street gang member and that 13 baeza, a 38th street gang member, kidnapping, to use a gang term, big homey of 38th street, a high-ranking member of the gang, and the kidnapping of mr. alvarez was for the purpose of obtaining information to the trial court found gang inextricably intertwined with the motive of the case,motion to bifurcate. baeza, however, did not testify at trial. b. application of relevant principles errontestify at trial, however, defendant advances the argument that the remaining evidence that the prosecution offeredwhich inherently could not have been more incriminating than that same evidence in combination with the proffered baeza testimonycreated an unfair trial. this claim is essentially a direct challenge to the admission of the gang evidence in the unitary trial. he admission of evidence, even if erroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair.people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) to prove a deprivation of federal due process rights, [a defendant] must satisfy a high constitutional standard to show that the erroneous admission of evidence resulted in an unfair trial. only if there are no permissible inferences the jury may draw from the evidence can its admission violate due process. even then, the evidence must be of such quality as necessarily prevents a fair trial. [citations.] only under such circumstances can it be inferred that the jury must have used the evidence for an improper purpose. the dispositive issue is . . . whether the trial court committed an error which rendered the trial so arbitrary and 14 fundamentally unfair that it violated federal due process. [citations.](people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 229-230.)6 the denial of motion to bifurcate and the admission of the gang evidence did not result in a fundamentally unfair trial. first, the gang evidence was (people v. albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at pp. 223-224.) second, the gang evidence was not of such a quality that it necessarily prevented a fair trial. (id. at p. 229.) the gang evidence adduced at trialschillingwas straight forward and not particularly inflammatory compared to the facts of the charged offensesthe invasion of the alvarez home in which alvarez was abducted at gunpoint in front of his family, bound, and shot in the head twice. (see people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1051 [a trial court does not abuse its discretion in denying a motion to bifurcate gang allegations when the gang was not so minimally probative on the charged offense, and so inflammatory in comparison, that it threatened to sway the jury to convict regardless of [the] defendant pellerin, an s driver. defendant participated in a jail cell conversation with baeza in which defendant made incriminating statementsreferring to a conversation with detectives, defendant said to baeza 6 defendant asks us to analyze the effect of the admission of the gang evidence consistent with an approach the california supreme court has used in joinder and severance cases. with respect to the joinder of counts, the supremreviewing court still must determine whether, in the end, the joinder of counts or defendants for trial resulted in gross unfairness depriving the defendant of due process of law.people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 851, citing, inter alia, people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 162.) defendant contends we should apply that analytical of his motion to bifurcate the gang not an abuse of discretion when made. we need not decide whether to import these cases here, because, as indicated above, deadmission of the gang evidence here created a fundamentally unfair trial. 15 car. . . . and in which he and baeza contrived an alibi, thereby demonstrating a consciowas fair. iii. rebuttal evidence defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in permitting the prosecution to introduce a recording of jail cell conversation with baeza because the recording c-in-chief, and thus was improper rebuttal evidence. the trial court acted within its discretion in permitting the prosecution to introduce the recording. a. standard of review we revierebuttal evidence for an abuse of discretion. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1199.) a trial court abuses its discretion when it exercise[s] its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that result[s] in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 705.) b. application of relevant principles roper rebuttal evidence does not include a material part of the case in the prosecutions possession that tends to establish the defendants commission of the crime. it is restricted to evidence made necessary by the defendants case in the sense that he has introduced new evidence or made assertions that were not implicit in his denial of guilt. (people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1199, quoting people v. carter (1957) 48 cal.2d 737, 753-754.) may introduce evidence that rebuts it even though that evidence could have been introduced as papeople v. orabuena (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 540, 543-544.) 16 in its case-in-chief, the prosecution relied on pellerinas the driver of the car, and the discovery of defendant in the house into which the driver fled, in order to tie defendant to the crime. thereafter, defendant introduced an alibi defense through testimony from eric, estella, and carbajal that defendant was at home at the time the charged offenses were committed. the prosecuconsisted of th cell conversation with baeza in which defendant and baeza contrived the alibi defense that defendant was home at the relevant ould attest to the fact that defendant was home. relying on people v. mcdowell (1965) 234 cal.app.2d 54, 56-587 case-in-chief, defendant argues the recorded jail cell conversation was inadmissible as rebuttal evidence because it clearly and unequivocally evidence of consciousness of guiltand thus admissible in the -in-chief. however, evidence is admissible to rebut an alibi defense even when such evidence could have been admitted -in-chief. (people v. orabuena, supra, 56 cal.app.3d at pp. 543-544.) here, the trial court had reason to conclude as it did that the prosecution anticipation of a possible defense, which they know whether it is going to be presented or not. [] once it is presented they can present the rebuttal of evidence.accordingly, the trial court acted within its discretion in admitting the rebuttal evidence. (people v. ledesma, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 705; people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1199.) because the trial court did not abuse its prejudice arguments. 7 people v. mcdowell, supra, 234 cal.app.2d 54 was disapproved on another ground in people v. williams (1965) 63 cal.2d 454, 460, footnote 8. 17 disposition the gang enhancements under section 182.22 and the sentences on the personal firearm use enhancements under section 12022.53 are reversed and the matter is remanded for resentencing. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports raphael, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 