filed 1/17/17 p. v. duke ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan daveilo duke, defendant and appellant. b264579 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma057733) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa mangay chung, judge. reversed with directions. fay arfa for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, colleen m. tiedermann and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 appellant jonathan duke challenges his first degree murder conviction for his role in the killing of victor enriquez. the people alleged that duke helped alfred crowder corner enriquez at the security gate of an apartment complex in palmdale, where crowder stabbed him repeatedly. duke raises several challenges to his conviction. we reverse based on people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155 (chiu), decided after the trial but while this matter was pending.1 facts and proceedings below on october 17, 2012, enriquez was stabbed to death inside the security gate of an apartment complex in palmdale. los angeles county department deputies arrested crowder and duke. an information charged duke with one count of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))2, and alleged that duke had committed the offense for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4).) the two defendants were tried separately.3 they had different defense attorneys, but the prosecutor was the same in both trials. evidence indicated that virtually all those involved in the casethe victim, the perpetrators, and the most important witnesseswere members of, or associated with, various street gangs. according to a deputy who testified as an expert witness, members of many different gangs reside in close proximity to one another in palmdale. gang members typically arrive in palmdale when their families relocate from other areas of los angeles county. because most gang members are transplants from other areas, gangs in palmdale generally have less clearly defined territories than elsewhere. 1 duke has also filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, which we address in a separate order. 2 unless otherwise specified, subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 3 enriquez, the victim in this case, and duke were both members of , a gang associated with the crips. crowder, codefendant who played the lead role in the stabbing, was a member of the fruit town piru gang, which is associated with the blood nation. terrence affiliated with the kitchen crips gang but he testified that he had not been active in the gang for many years. three other key witnesses, anthony palmer, deon tatum, and kenneth thomas, were all members of dime block, a small gang that started in the area near where the murder took place. in other areas of los angeles county, members of these different gangs might be enemies, but because of the lack of well-defined gang territories in palmdale, members of the gangs in the palmdale area often associate with and ally with one another. palmer testified that, although they were both members of the same gang, duke and enriquez had disliked one another since at least june 2012, when they got into a fistfight after enriquez told people that duke was not a because he had not been jumped into the gang. according to palmer, in the months prior to the shooting, rumors spread among gang members in the area that enriquez was a snitch, and that when police had discovered a gun that might have belonged to him, he blamed his ow. palmer heard that enriquez might have provided the police with information that led to conviction for felony theft. a assigned to the gang detail, confirmed these rumors, testifying that enriquez had been a police informant for a couple of months, and that his information led to the arrest of a drug dealer named kevin hart on the same day that enriquez was later murdered. the prosecution presented four accounts from witnesses who either testified or told police that they witnessed the stabbing or the events immediately before and afterward. two of these witnesses, palmer and dorsey, testified at trial. the other two, tatum and thomas, testified that they did not know or could not remember anything about the murder, but 4 the court admitted their prior statements made to the police in which they described what happened immediately before and after the stabbing. palmer testified that, on the night of the stabbing, duke, crowder, was located across the street from the apartment complex where enriquez was located. upon seeing enriquez inside the gate of the apartment complex, the group talked about retaliating against him for his snitching. enriquez. duke encouraged palmer to shoot enriquez in retaliation for enriq conviction for felony theft. according to palmer, duke offered to obtain a gun for palmer to use, but palmer said they should wait until later, when fewer people were around. palmer left the group but returned approximately 30 minutes later. when he returned, he saw duke and crowder walking across the street toward the security gate of the apartment complex where enriquez and dorsey were located. he saw crowder punch enriquez, and duke joined in, hitting enriquez once or twice. enriquez tried to run away, but crowder pursued enriquez and fell on top of him. at this point, palmer saw that crowder had a knife in his hand. duke did not help crowder chase down enriquez, but stayed at the gate. afterward, duke and crowder walked back across the street, and palmer and the others ran away. tatum, another member of the dime block gang and an associate of palmer, testified that he did not see the stabbing and said he could remember nothing in relation to it. the prosecution played a recording of police interview made shortly after enriquez was killed in which tatum described events shortly before and after the stabbing consistent in most respects with palmer's testimony and adding details of events that occurred when palmer was not present. tatum told police that while the group was congregate he saw duke and crowder m. while a large kitchen knife. tatum saw the two holding the knives as they walked across the street toward the gate to the apartment complex 5 where enriquez was located. tatum then left the scene, explaining that he did not believe anything would happen and that he did not want to witness a stabbing. tatum identified duke and crowder from a photo array as the people he saw holding the knives. dorsey was a member of the same gang as duke and enriquez, the s, a gang affiliated with the crips. dorsey testified that he and enriquez spent the evening in an outdoor area of the apartment complex smoking marijuana. he saw duke and crowder approaching the security gate together. enriquez asked duke and crowder if they wanted to enter, and held the door open for them. according to dorsey, crowder pulled enriquez toward him and stabbed him. dorsey then ran away. kenneth thomas, a member of a local unaffiliated gang, and one of the testified that he had never seen duke before, and that the police were trying to get him to lie about witnessing the stabbing. detective brandt house, a deputy in the los thomas a few days after the stabbing, and that on that occasion, thomas told him that he saw the stabbing. according to detective house, thomas told him that he saw enriquez on the ground with two men standing over him. one of the men was bent over and appeared to be striking enriquez with a knife. thomas said that the other ding at the ready to assist the primary attacker. thomas told detective house that he believed the second attacker also had a knife, and that he had struck enriquez. thomas also remembered dorsey being present with enriquez, but said that dorsey was not one of the attackers. the primary attacker then got into a car. thomas refused to identify the attackers from a photographic lineup. a prosecution medical expert who performed an autopsy on enriquez testified that enriquez had been stabbed 15 times, and that more than half of the stab wounds could have been fatal. deputies arrested crowder two days later, on october 19. they discovered crowder had a cut and a scrape on his right knee, which was consistent with an injury he might have suffered when, according to testimony, crowder tripped and fell over enriquez during the 6 attack. a shoe with dried blood on it. lab tests revealed the blood contained dna from enriquez, as well as from an unknown person, but not from crowder or duke. acting on information from an anonymous caller, deputies discovered two knives in an abandoned mattress near the stabbing location. one of the knives had finger holes and appeared to have blood on it. lab tests showed thunknown party. the other knife was a serrated kitchen knife that did not appear to have blood on it. the knife with finger holes could have caused all of and the kitchen knife would not have caused wounds like those enriquez suffered. regarding gangs. detective daniel welle, the investigating officer in the case, was of the opinion that crowder was a member of the fruit town pirus, relying on tion card (fi card).4 the same deputy testified that he believed duke was a member of the . duke flashing gang signs, and an fi card in which duke identified himself as a member . the same deputy testified that a crime like the one duke and crowder were accused of committing would have been for the benefit of their gangs. det testified that the stabbing was for the benefit of the rollin because it eliminated a snitch from the gang, and also benefited the fruit town pirus gang, to a lesser extent acity for violence. palmer and duke both had tattoobloods on point killer. this indicated that they were both opposed to the bloods on point gang. the defense attempted to show that others had motive to kill enriquez. according to palmer, a gang member known as take down t girlfriend. palmer had heard 4 witnesses in the record referred to these cards as both field interview and field identification cards. 7 for illegal gun possession. palmer also heard that enriquez had snitched on him, leading to a conviction for receiving stolen property. in addition, palmer and enriquez had once dated the same woman. palmer admitted he would retaliate against a snitch, but claimed he would not have done so in this case because he did not have proof that enriquez was a snitch. saquena monroe, the mother of two of his children, testified that enriquez had fought with members of the dime block gang, including palmer. according to monroe, enriquez had told her that members of dime block had threatened him. the mother of told monroe that enriquez had fought with someone from his neighborhood because enriquez had been messing around with a woman who dated someone in dime block. a jury found duke guilty of first degree murder, and found true the allegation that he committed the crime for the benefit of a criminal street gang. the trial court sentenced duke to 25 years to life in prison. discussion duke raises several contentions on appeal. he contends that (1) the prosecution committed brady5 error by failing to disclose impeaching evidence regarding relocation payments made to palmer and dorsey; (2) there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction; (3) the trial court committed reversible error by erroneously instructing the jury regarding the natural-and-probable-consequences doctrine for first degree murder; (4) the trial court violated his miranda6 rights by admitting information from an fi card obtained after duke was in custody; the prosecutor erred by: (5) uncharged bad acts, (6) asking a gang expert improper hypothetical questions, and (7) arguing improperly during closing arguments; (8) his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to present exculpatory evidence of alibi witnesses; (9) there was insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement; and (10) the trial court allowed improper testimony regarding gang 5 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady). 6 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 8 actions. we conviction because after the trial was over but while the case was still pending, our supreme court disapproved the jury instruction regarding the natural-and-probable-consequences doctrine. (see chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 158-159.) i. disclosure of cooperation agreements with prosecution witnesses for a new trial on the ground that the prosecution failed to disclose to the defense cooperation agreements prosecutors had made with palmer and dorsey. we disagree. on december 11department applied for palmer and dorsey to obtain support from the california witness relocation and assistance program (calwrap). the next day, palmer and dorsey signed agreements promising to testify truthfully, among other requirements, as a condition for their participation in the program. the agreements did not contain any provision for payment to palmer and dorsey in exchange for their testimony, but they contemplated that palmer and dorsey would receive relocation assistance through calwrap. as part of the applications, the $10,050 to pay palmer for his relocation ace during october 2013. in november and december 2013, the calwrap program paid $8,385 for plane tickets, moving expenses, utilities, rent, and incidentals for palmer and his family. the record indicates that the program paid approximately $1,100 for do the prosecution did not disclose the relocation agreements to the defense during trial. in his cross-examination, palmer testified that on some papers palmer clarified later that he had moved to las vegas. on redirect, the prosecutor asked, 9 [sic]. duke argues that the agreements to join the calwrap program constituted impeaching evidence, which the prosecution was required to disclose under brady. in brady, the united states supreme court held accused upon request violates due process where the evidence is material either to guilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or bad faith brady, supra, components of a true brady violation: the evidence at issue must be favorable to the accused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is impeaching; that evidence must have been suppressed by the state, either people v. salazar (2005) 35 cal.4th 1031, 1043.) to establish prejudice, or the materiality of evidence, . . . his trial if the evidence had not been suppressed. (ibid.) in people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263 (verdugo), a case with facts similar to those at issue in this case, our supreme court rejected a claim of a brady violation on the basis of nondisclosure of relocation assistance. (id. at pp. 284-285.) in verdugo, the prosecutor obtained an ex parte order for up to $1,318 for relocation expenses on behalf of a witness who was under threat of retaliation. (id. at p. 284.) the court defense was not a brady its disclosure would have altered id. at p. 285.) the court noted that, even if the defense could use the existence of the payments to impeach the witness, the prosecution could have responded by showing that the witness relocated only because she was under threat. (ibid.despite justifiable concerns about safety arguably would have enhanced ibid.) 10 duke points out that this case differs from verdugo in that the prosecution had already presented evidence that witnesses testified in spite of threats of retaliation. consequently, duke argues, the defense could have used the cooperation agreements to impeach palmer and dorsey without fear of the potential negative consequences the court described in verdugo. we are not persuaded. evidence of the relocation agreements would not have merely been cumulative of the other evidence of potential retaliation against witnesses. it would have shown that the witnesses were so afraid of testifying that they were willing to leave their homes behind and move to a new state. furthermore, both dorsey and palmer made statements to before they received any offer of relocation assistance. if duke had introduced evidence of the relocation agreements at trial, the prosecution could have used those earlier statements to rehabilitate dorsey and palmer. (see evid. code,  791, subd. (b).) at best, the impeachment value of the payment to move would have balanced the prejudicial effect. or worse, developing the evidence that palmer and dorsey moved out of state out of fear of retaliation would have further supported their credibility. indeed, palmer testified about receiving assistance in moving at asking about the details of the relocation agreement would have most likely done his client more harm than good. we are not convinced that there is a reasonable probability that duke would have obtained a better result in the trial if the jurors had known more about the cooperation agreements.7 7 or even apparently to inform the prosecution about the existence of the agreements, until after the trial when defense counsel requested them. 11 ii. sufficiency of the evidence duke contends that the prosecution failed to present sufficient evidence to support his conviction for first degree murder. we disagree. [w]e review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant gu (people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578 . . . .) in determining whether a reasonable trier of fact could have found [the defendant] guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 139 . . . .)people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 550.) in this case, eyewitnesses testified that they saw duke take part in the murder of enriquez. duke argues that this evidence was insufficient because the witnesses were biased, had motives to lie, and were themselves criminals. but the credibility of witness testimony is a ony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) resses the basic content of the testimony itselfi.e., could that have happened?rather than the apparent credibility of the pe(people v. ennis (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 721, 729.) iii. jury instruction on natural and probable consequences duke contends that the trial court erred by instructing the jury that he could be guilty of first degree murder as an aider and abettor under a theory of natural and probable consequences. we agree, and accordingly reverse his conviction for first degree murder. generally, a defendant may be guilty as an aider and abettor either directly or through a theory of natural and probable consequences. in this case, the trial court instructed the jury with respect to both theories, 12 pursuant to calcrim nos. 401 and 403. direct liability applies when a and with an intent or purpose either of committing, or of encouraging or chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 161.) but a defendant may be guilty of aiding and abetting even if he did not intend to aid a perpetrator in committing that specific offense. a person who knowingly aids and abets criminal conduct is guilty of not only the intended crime [target offense] but also of any other crime the perpetrator actually commits [nontarget offense] that is a natural and probable c (ibid.) in chiu, decided after the trial in this case, our supreme court, rejected the natural-and-probable-consequences theory of aiding and abetting for first degree murder. [a]n aider and abettor may not be convicted of first degree premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. rather, his or her liability for that crime chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 158-159.) the court reasoned that the mental state required for first ly subjective and personal. it requires more than a showing of intent to kill; the killer must act deliberately, carefully weighing the considerations for and against a choice to kil(id. at p. 166.) the court accordingly held that when a defendant was probably, and foreseeably result in a murder under the natural and degree murder. (ibid.) decision in chiul and probable consequences in this case were virtually identical to those the supreme court rejected.8 thus, as the attorney general concedes, the 8 guilty of murder, the people must prove that: 13 which was legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in the record to find that the verdict was based on a valid ground. [citations.] must be reversed unless we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury based its verdict on the legally valid theory that defendant directly chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 167, italics addedjury actually rested its verdict on the proper ground [citation], but rather on proof beyond a reasonable doubt that a rational jury would have found people v. concha (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1072, 1087.) under this strict standard, reversal of dukin closing arguments, the prosecutor explained the law of natural and probable consequences and argued that it was an appropriate basis for convicting duke. in his final words to the jury, the prosecutor reiterated this alfred crowder ended up killing him (italics added). with this argument, the prosecutor implied that the jurors could convict duke of first degree murder so long as they believed he meant to help crowder commit some kind of crime against enriquez, even if the murder was an unintended consequence. that standard is viable for the natural-and-probable-consequences doctrine, but not for direct aiding and abetting. 1. the defendant is guilty of assault and/or assault with a deadly weapon; 2. during the commission of assault and/or assault with a deadly weapon a coparticipant in that assault and/or assault with a deadly weapon committed the crime of murder; and 3. under all of the circumstances, a reasonable person in the at the commission of the murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the see chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 160, for the almost identical instructions. 14 in addition, the evidence did not unequivocally show that duke intended for enriquez to die. palmer testified that he overheard either duke or crowder say, but they did not say that they planned to kill him. tatum told police that, based on the conversation he overheard involving duke and others, he did not expect anyone to kill enriquez. at first, tatum thought the intended about killing or nothing, they was talking about beating the shit [out] of tatum said that even when he saw duke and crowder armed with they was going to do nothi the jurors asked a series of questions indicating that they were unsure about whether duke himself had personally struck or stabbed enriquez. consequently, we cannot conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that a rational jury would have found duke guilty on a theory of direct liability. a reasonable jury could have concluded that duke went across the street with the expectation that he and crowder would only scare enriquez, or assault him, and that crowder alone decided to kill. because the instructional error prejudiced duke, his conviction for first degree murder cannot stand. a conviction for second degree murder, however, may properly be based on a theory of natural and probable consequences. (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 166.) e court is not restricted to the remedies of affirming or reversing a judgment. where the prejudicial error goes only to the degree of the offense for which the defendant was convicted, the appellate court may reduce the conviction to a lesser degree and affirm the judgment as modified, thereby obviating the necessity for a people v. thomas (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 630, 647.) on remand, therefore, the prosecution shall have the option to retry duke for first degree murder, or to accept a modification of the judgment to reflect a conviction for second degree murder. if the prosecution elects to accept the modification of the judgment, the trial court shall resentence duke in accordance with the modified judgment. 15 iv. use of information from fi card duke contends that the trial court erred by admitting evidence from an fi interviewing duke without reading him his miranda warnings. we agree, but we hold that the error was harmless.9 detective welle, who works in the gang unit of the los angeles gang primarily on the basis of an fi cadeputy, named nemeth. the card stated that duke identified himself as a . detective tattoo, which indicated that he was an enemy of the bloods on point gang, assisted him in identifying duke as a gang member, but detective welle stated that the fi card allowed him to identify duke as a member of the specifically. deputy nemeth created the fi card on december 12, 2012, nearly two months after the shooting, and while duke and crowder had already been in custody for some time. there is no indication in the record that deputy nemeth read duke his miranda rights before questioning him about his gang affiliation.10 deputy nemeth did not testify at trial. held in people v. elizalde (2015) 61 cal.4th 523 (elizalde) that routine questioning by jail officials 9 duke filed a supplemental brief in which he argues that the admission of evidence from the fi card also violated his rights under the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment to the united states constitution. if the trial court did err on this basis, the error was harmless for the same reasons articulated here. 10 the prosecution bears the burden of proving that authorities advised a defendant of his miranda rights prior to questioning him. (united states v. barone (1st cir. 1992) 968 f.2d 1378, 1384; tague v. louisiana (1980) 444 u.s. 469, 470-471.) because there is no evidence in the record regarding this, we must conclude that deputy nemeth did not read duke a miranda warning prior to questioning. 16 exception to miranda. (id. at p. 538.) because these are the protections of miranda. (ibid.) although jail officials may ask arrestees about their gang affiliation during the booking process, in the absence of a valid miranda -in-id. at p. 541.) deputy duke was indistinguishable from the questioning that occurred in elizalde. moreover, we reject the object at trial to the admission of the fi card. because the supreme court had not yet decided elizalde at the time ohad no reason to believe an objection would have been successful. nevertheless, we hold that the trial courtfi card was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see elizalde, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 542.) although detective welle relied primarily on the fi gang, there . palmer and that he had fought with enriquez because enriquez had been telling people that duke was not a true member of the gang. moreover, in order to prove the gang enhancement, it was not necessary for the prosecution to show that duke was a member of the rollin or any other specific gang. (see people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 132.) the prosecution needed to prove only fit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4).) was evidence that he was a member, if not of a specific gang, then at least some gang aligned against the bloods on point. palmer testified that, just a half hour before the murder occurred, duke had encouraged him to kill enriquez as retaliation for snitching. nesses testified extensively on the seriousness with which gangs treat snitching, and how they are willing to kill to eliminate snitches within their ranks. it is 17 difficult to understand the murder of enriquez as anything other than a gang-directed killing to eliminate a snitch. even without the fi card, no reasonable juror would have found otherwise. duke argues that the error was prejudicial because the prosecution used his membership in the to establish his identity and motivation for killing, but three different eyewitnesses identified duke as taking part in the attack on enriquez, and his motive for killing did not depend on being a member of specifically, but rather part of the community of gang members in the neighborhood. v. bad acts evidence duke contends that the prosecution committed misconduct by asking a defense character witness about whether the witness knew about specific bad acts that duke allegedly committed. duke failed to object to these questions, and, consequently, the issue is forfeited. (see people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1328.) even if we consider the argument on its merits, we perceive no prejudicial misconduct by the prosecutor. other attorneys because of the unique function he or she performs in representing the interests, and in exercising the sovereign power, of the people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820 (hill).) e standards governing review of prosecutor who uses deceptive or reprehensible methods to persuade the jury commits misconduct, and such actions require reversal under the federal constitution when they unfairness as to make the resulting conviction a (darden v. wainwright (1986) 477 u.s. 168, 181 . . . ; see people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 733 . . . .) under state law, a prosecutor who uses such methods commits misconduct even when those actions do not result in a people v. alfaro (2007) 41 cal.4th 1277, 1328 . . . must make a timely objection and request an admonition; only if an admonition would not have cured the harm is the claim of misconduct ibid.) when a claim of misconduct is based on the 18 question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 29.) to establish a claim of misconduct, on s part is not required. (hill, [supra, 17 cal.4th] at pp. 822-823 . . . a misnomer to the extent that it suggests a prosecutor must act with a culpable state of mind. a more apt description of the transgression is people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 666667.) duke called his employer emmett murrell, to testify asaid that he had never seen him act violently. on cross-examination, the prosecutor asked whether murrell was aware that duke might have been in a s gang member and that he had gang tattoos. the prosecutor also asked murrell if he would have hired duke had he known about his gang tattoos. under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), in most ait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or under evidence code section 1102, however, the defendant may introduce or a trait of his character in the prosecution may offer the same kind of evidence to rebut the defendantevidence. (id., subd. (b).) this has been interpreted to mean that when the defendant offers character evidence, prosecution may inquire of the witness whether he has heard of acts or conduct by the defendant people v. ramos (1997) 15 cal.4th 1133, 1173.) here, the defense s bad acts by asking whether he had ever observed instances in which duke had acted violently. nevertheless, duke argues that the prosecutor erred by [a] 19 whether burrell had heard about the bad acts. by phrasing the questions in this manner, duke contends that the prosecutor impermissibly assumed that duke was guilty. in people v. marsh (1962) 58 cal.2d 732 (marsh), our ally accepted that although the . . .d you k [citations.] the eputation in the community. the district attorney may ask the witness whether he has heard of some act of truthfully it has been reported to the here is a vast difference between inquiring about reports, rumors and the like, of a character witness and questions as to what the witness knows id. at pp. 745-746.) if the prosecmarsh, it did not prejudice duke. murrell was not a witness to the murder of enriquez, and moreover, the small alleged error in the wording of as we describe elsewhere in this opinion (see discussion part vii.c, post), the involvement in the stabbing was strong, and the character evidence would have made no difference in the outcome of the trial. included guilt-assuming hypotheticals. duke cites united states v. candelaria-gonzalez (5th cir. 1977) 547 f.2d 291, in which the fifth asked if [the defendant]would be affected if he were convicted id. at p. 294, italics omitted.) in this case, by contrast, the prosecutor did not ask burrell how he would respond if duke were convicted, but rather whether he was aware of specific factsthat duke had been in a fight with a gang member and had a gang tattoo. there was evidence in the record of both of those facts. 20 vi. questioning of expert witnesses duke raises two contentions regarding the of expert witnesses. first, he contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct by deliberately eliciting inadmissible hearsay while cross-e contends that the prosecutor erred by asking experts to comment on the veracity of other witnesses. a. eliciting hearsay from defense expert duke argues that the prosecutor erred by deliberately and repeatedly eliciting inadmissible hearsay in questioning the defense gang expert. in one instance, duke objected to the expert testimony, and the trial court overruled the objection. we need not decide whether fails on the merits. during cross-examination, the prosecutor asked the defense gang expert a series of questions regarding the facts of the case. for example, least two people with knives? at least there were at least two people the proseduke argues that these questions were improper because prosecutor failed to follow the procedure outlined in [people v.] vang[ (2011)] 52 cal.4th [1038,] 1048-1049 [(vang)]. the prosecutor did in vang, our supreme court held that an expert witness may not usurp the role of the jury and express an opinion regarding the vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1048.) instead, an expert that tracked the evidence, whether the assault, if the jury found it in fact occurred, would have ibid.) in this case, duke was guilty. instead, he asked the expert about what he understood 21 about the underlying facts of the case. nothing in vang bars this kind of questioning. testifying as an expert may be cross-examined to the same extent as any other witness and, in addition, may be fully cross-examined as to . . . the matter upon which his or her opinion is based and the reasons for his or courts have interpreted this provision to allow for a broad sufficiently considered matters inconsistent with the opinion.people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 434.) this allows a party to ask an expert witness about the underlying facts of a case, if the witness relied on those facts to form his or her opinion. (see id. at pp. 434-435.) we do not see how the prosecu11 b. questions on the veracity of other witnesses duke also contends that the prosecutor erred by asking expert witnesses to state their opinions on the veracity of the testimony of other witnesses. duke failallegedly improper questions at trial, and consequently, he forfeited any objection. (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1328.) regardless, rror was harmless. a witness is telling the truth, for the determination of credibility is not a would assist the trier of fact; in other words, the jury generally is as well (people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 82.) there were several instances in which the prosecutor asked expert witnesses questions that, at least by implication, asked the witnesses to 11 duke also alleges that targumentative, in that they were not designed to obtain information from the witness, but rather, to allow the prosecutor to argue to the jury that duke was guilty. we disagree. although the prosecutor of course attempted to present the facts in a way favorable to his side, the questions understanding of the facts at issue. 22 opine on other detective welle, who was the investigating officer in the case and who also testified as an expert witness regarding gangs, the following question: opinion, would a gang member from one gang, after their gang has committed a crime, come to court and lie and say that it was a different gang one. all right, they and their gang have committed, for example, a homicide. they then come to court and blame gang 2 and say: hey, it that crime and killed this, a particular snitch or another gang member, and so we are not convinced that these questions violated the rule that a ibility. the prosecutor did not ask directly if any particular witness had fabricated testimony. instead, he asked whether detective welle believed a gang in general would be willing to use the court system to accuse someone falsely of a crime. a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would assist the trier of facteven if judging credibility is generally part of common experience (people v. coffman and marlow, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 82), the practices of a gang are noagine a clearer need for expert explication than that presented by a subculture in which this type of mindless retaliation people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355, 1384, disapproved on another ground by people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 901, fn. 3.) the next instance in which duke alleges that the prosecutor asked a witness to opine on the credibility of another witness occurred during cross-. the expert had testified during direct examination that gang members often lie to police officers in order to implicate a rival gang in the hope of misdirecting attention away from their own friends and fellow gang members. the prosecutor attempted to test this assertion by asking if the expert had read a police report in which a detective wrote that dorsey had accused crowder and 23 particular police report where terrance dorsey said that to detective house, what information do you have that terrance dorsey misdirected after the expert opined that he did not believe that duke was a member of tthe prosecutor asked the same gang expert whether he had any reason to believe detective house made up or fabricated evidence in the police reports he filed in which detective house identified duke as a member of . finally, the prosecutor asked the same witness if he had any reason to believe any information on the fi cards was up on subsequent redirect questioning, defense counsel attempted to rehabilitate the expert by asking him about specific facts that supported his conclusions on these issues. in these instances, the prosecutor did not ask the witness if he believed dorsey or detective house were lying when they testified, but rather whether he had any information that would cause him to disbelieve either witness. the purpose of these questions was to test the bases of the ng members. the prosecutor was attempting to question consipeople v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 434.) as we have seen above (see discussion part vi.a, ante), this form of cross-examination of an expert is permissible. if there had been any error here, it would have been harmless under any standard. the jurors had several other ways of judging the credibility of the witnessesmost notably, they could listen to the witnesses speaking, compare the content of the statements against one another, and judge the probability of what each witness described and any bias he might have had. the court correctly instructed the jury that and the defense argued vigorously that there were reasons to disbelieve of evidence to the 24 contrary, we presume the jury understood and followed people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 635.) vii. prosecution closing argument duke contends that the prosecutor committed several instances of error in closing arguments. duke failed to object to any of these instances of alleged error at trial, and consequently, he forfeited any objection. (see people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1328.) nevertheless, we address each of his contentions on the merits, and we hold that even if the arguments were properly preserved, they would not entitle duke to relief. a. guilt by association duke contends that the prosecutor impermissibly argued that he could be guilty by association with crowder. it is improper to argue guilt by association: [e]very defendant has the right to be tried based on evidence tying him to the specific crime charged, and not on general facts accumulated by law e(people v. castaneda (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 1067, 1072.) [palmer, tatum, thomas, and dorsey] rightfully identified [crowder as] the guy who stabbed and killed victor enriquez, then you can believe them when they say, in so arguing, the prosecution did not attempt to persuade the jury to convict duke because he was associated with a murderer. instead, the prosecution argued that if the jurors found the witnesses were credible and accurate with respect to their identification of crowder, they should find the same witnesses equally reliable with respect to duke. in another instance, the prosecution argued about how the jury should interpret the lack of a signature on noted that crowder had not signed his fi card either, in spite of overwhelming evidence that crowder was a member of the fruit town piru gang. in light of this, the prosecutor argued that the jury should infer that duke refused to sign the fi card simply because it was common practice to refuse, not because the fi card contained false information. in making this argument, the prosecutor was not attempting to convince 25 the jury that duke was a member of a gang because he associated with b. duke contends that the prosecutor misled the jury by arguing that the defense gang expert should have attempted to contact crowder and gang. duke argues that it would have been impermissible under the california stat expert to have contacted crowder without the consent of his attorney. (see rules of professional conduct, rule 2-100(a).) he further argues that it would have been impossible for the expert to contact two of the other witnesses, as they had already been relocated by the defense. we need not decide whether this constituted prosecutorial error because aintention in this portion of the rebuttal argument was to challenge the credibility of the by pointing out that he had little specific knowledge of gangs in palmdale. the prosecutor argued as follows: at [the defense expert] says is, look, i am a sociologist. i know how they exist down in like that up here in the antelope valley. that is not true. . . . what hasn calls to any of the local gang patrol deputies regardin admitted that those guys are the ones who would have the most knowledge . . . . contacted any gang members from any of these gangs up here in the after pointing out other research that the defense nose out of the binders, making a call. call the defendant. call crowder. call crowder and say, hey, you know what? i am not here on your case. i want to know about the guy who people allege are saying helped you. is work, but at least one call. . . . t he have 26 the references to crowder and the two witnesses who had been argument. duke does not argue that the overall thrust of the argumentto challenge the expand research into specific conditions of gangs in palmdalewas improper. nor does duke contend that it was improper for the prosecutor to argue that the defense expert should have attempted to contact other witnesses, police officers, or other figures in the neighborhood. even if we assume for the sake of argument that it was improper for the prosecutor to suggest that the defense expert should have contacted crowder, this error was too insignificant to prejudice duke. c. implication regarding the attack on dorsey duke contends that the prosecutor committed error or misconduct by referring to unproven and uncharged offenses, and by referring to facts not in evidence, when he argued regarding a drive-by shooting that targeted dorsey. because duke failed to object to this argument, it is forfeited. in any case, even if duke had preserved the argument, the overturning his conviction. dorsey testified that, after he testified against crowder and duke in preliminary hearings, his house was the target of a drive-by shooting. the prosecution produced no testimony or physical evidence linking duke to this attack. in closing arguments, the prosecutor argued that the dime block gang had no reason to commit this act because none of their members . why? because he is snitching on crowder [a member of fruit town piru] and duke [a ]. they are the only ones with the motive to try to kill terrance dorsey. we agree with duke that the prosecutor committed misconduct by making this argument. -by shooting was relevant and admissible afraid to testify is relevant to the credibility of that witness and therefore 27 (people v. warren (1988) 45 cal.3d 471, 481.) during closing argument, however, the prosecutor encouraged the jury to infer that duke and his gang or crowder and his gang were responsible for the shooting. this was improper: [e]vidence that a defendant is threatening witnesses implies a consciousness of guilt and thus is highly prejudicial ibid.) here, there was k on dorsey. although duke had a motive to try to silence dorsey, crowder did as well. furthermore, attempt to protect their friends, or simply to obtain revenge against a snitch. yet it would be difficult for a jury to hear the evidence and fail to make the connection that duke himself had been involved with the out of a consciousness of guilt for killing enriquez. ion, however. as we have noted above (see discussion part v, ante), in order to preserve an argument of prosecutorial error or misconduct on appeal, a defendant must make a timely objection at trial. here, duke failed to do so. furthermore, even if duke had preserved the argument of prosecutorial misconduct by objecting at trial, his claim would fail because the error did not prejudice him. that it infect[ed] the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841). nor would his claim establish prejudice under the state law standard because robable that a result more favorable to defendant (people v. turner (1994) 8 cal.4th 137, 194, abrogated on another ground by people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 536, 555, fn. 5.) although it was improper for the prosecutor to imply a link between duke and the drive-by shooting of dorsey, that was an ancillary aspect of the case. the evidence that duke was guilty of at least second degree murder was strong. four different witnesses said that they saw duke participate 28 in the killing of enriquez. tatum heard duke and crowder talk about harming or killing enriquez, and saw them playing with knives in preparation. palmer and dorsey stated that they saw duke at least assisting crowder in the murder. d. commenting on the thomas recording after tatum testified that he did not remember any relevant information regarding the stabbing, the prosecutor impeached him by about the shooting. when thomas also testified that he could not remember anything about the stabbing, the prosecutor did not play his recorded police interview. instead, the prosecutor called detective house, who recounted the contents of the interview to the jury. in closing argument, defense counsel pointed out that the jury had not heard the interview. he argued as follows: what was interesting was that the detective, you notice they played you deon so what had to be done is i had to ask each and every time that kenneth thomas made a statement that was significant, i had to ask the detective line by line. during rebuttal, the prosecutor told the jury that the rules of evidence barred him from playing the recording at trial. , a couple of things. first of all, there is something called the rules of evidence. there are certain things you can and cannot do; even though you have an audiotape recording, you can and cannot [play it] in certain instances. deon tatum, his tape is item of evidence, it is called reciprocal discovery. everything i have, i am obligated to give to him. i must. it is the law. given the tape of kenneth thomas. and if he wanted to, because he says nd there was something in there that clearly showed something favorable to his client, he had the 29 duke contends that the prosecutor committed error by making this argument. as with the issues of prosecutorial misconduct described above, duke forfeited this argument by failing to object. even if the argument was preserved for appeal, duke forfeited it again by providing only a bare assertion of misconduct in his opening brief, with no legal argument or citation to authority to support his contention. (see people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793.) contention that it was prosecutorial misconduct to argue the rules of evidence and to explain to the jury why certain evidence had not been introduced. nevertheless, we do not see, and duke does not explain, how s prejudiced him. e. reasonable doubt standard duke contends that the prosecution erred by misleading the jury regarding the standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. the prosecution argued as f one is reasonable. one is unreasonable. if one is unreasonable, you throw it out because it is unreasonable, and then you are left with the reasonable inter . . . . . . has the obligation. they have the obligation. it is not just a desire. it is that video, that is notat anthony palmer committed the duke argues that this argument diluted the burden of proof by account of the evidence was reasonable. we disagree. although the lear, we interpret his argument as positing that there were only two possible theories of who iontheory was reasonable. a prosecutor is allowed to argue that the jury in evaluating the evidence. (people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 416.) the prosecutor did not imply that he had satisfied his burden because 30 his theory was reasonable, but rather because it was the only reasonable theory of what happened. f. addressing individual jurors duke contends that the prosecutor erred by addressing an individual juror, rather than the jury as a whole. the prosecutor created a hypothetical argument to demonstrate the concept of implied malice, as juror number 2 . . . . [b]ecause of that, . . . i shoot near him. i just want i shoot near him thinking i am going to miss. but what happened is, accidentally, that bullet ends up ricocheting and ends up hitting juror number 2 and actually kills him. that is implied malice murder. . . . and although it is true that a prosecutor should argue to the jury as a whole, rather than to individual jurors (see people v. wein (1958) 50 cal.2d 383, 395-396, overruled on other grounds by people v. daniels (1969) 71 cal.2d 1119, 1140), we do not see, and duke does not explain, hod of argument prejudiced him in this case. viii. failure to present exculpatory evidence duke contends that he received ineffective assistance of counsel because his trial attorney failed to present exculpatory evidence from potential alibi witnesses. we disagree. ld the jury that would testify that she and friend avram peters were with duke at the time of the murder. ultimately, the defense called neither williams nor peters to testify. in a motion for a new trial, duke argued that this constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. in a s trial attorney explained that his investigator had interviewed peters and e would make a weak witness and could be tripped up easily.attorney initially intended to call williams but decided that the trial was going so well for the defense that did not want to risk putting up anyone p and she had diverted from 31 her previously recorded statement then the prosecution would use that in order to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must establish, first, that his deficient, and second, that those errors prejudiced him. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687 (strickland).) to demonstrate ional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to underm(id. at p. reasonable tactical decisions in examining a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel [citation]s conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1254.) ecision not to call williams or peters was exactly the type of tactical decision that we are not in a position to second guess. duke cites three ninth circuit cases in s conviction on the basis of ineffective assistance of counsel after trial counsel failed to call potential alibi witnesses: luna v. cambra (9th cir. 2002) 306 f.3d 954, 961-962, brown v. myers (9th cir. 1998) 137 f.3d 1154, 1157-1158, and alcala v. woodford (9th cir. 2003) 334 f.3d 862, 870. in each of these cases, however, trial counsel failed to contact the potential witnesses. (see brown v. myers, supra, 137 f.3d at p. testified that they had not been contacted by defense counsel, and would luna v. cambra, supra, 306 f.3d at p. 961 sses]; alcala v. woodford, supra, 334 f.3d at p. 871 [trial counsel reaffirmed that but could not recall why she was no.) counsel did contact peters, by means of his investigator. trial counsel stated that he spoke with williams in person and had heard her previously recorded statement. thus, trial counsel appears to have made a judgment call not to call these 32 alibi witnesses. we cannot conclude that the counsel fell below reasonable professional standards. ix. sufficiency of the evidence of the gang enhancement duke contends that the prosecution failed to present sufficient evidence to prove that he committed the offense to benefit a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b).) in particular, he argues that the evidence failed to establish that the organizations he was accused of benefiting fell within the statutory definition of a criminal street gang. we review the sufficiency of the evidence of a gang enhancement under the same standard as the sufficiency of the evidence of any criminal conviction. (people v. mejia (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 586, 614.) we conclude that there was sufficient evidence in this case to support the gang enhancement. section 186.22, subdivision (f) defines a criminal street gang as ongoing organization, association, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in [certain paragraphs of section the criminal acts enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e) are known as predicate offenses, and they include, among others, assault with a deadly weapon, robbery, unlawful homicide, the sale of narcotics, and threats to commit crimes resulting in death or great bodily injury. (see  186.22, subd. (e)(1), (2), (3), (4) & (24).) to satisfy this definition, the prosecution must show that the members of the grouone of the chief or principal occupationsoccasionally. (people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 323.) t this standard. (id. at p. 324.) here, the evidence showed that duke aided and abetted crowder in committing the murder, and that crowder was a member of the fruit town piru gang. the prosecution presented testimony from two expert witnesses, detectivey both testified that the crime benefitted the fruit town piru gang, and further, that the 33 primary activities of the fruit town piru gang included narcotics sales and assaults. we disagree with duke assertion that this evidence was insufficient because it was conclusory. unlike in in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605, 611, where the court held that there was , in this case, detective welle testified that he had personal knowledge of specific cases that formed the basis of his opinion of the fruit town piru gang. duke filed a supplemental brief arguing that detective testimony should have been excluded because it was introduced in violation of the sixth amendmenconfrontation clause. although duke did not object to the testimony at trial, he now argues that this was not necessary to preserve his claim because the validity of his confrontation clause argument was not established until after his trial, when our supreme court decided people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez). was forfeited because it fails on the merits. in sanchez, the court held that when an expert testifies regarding hearsay that formed the basis of his opinion, the hearsay is inadmissible unless it both falls within an established exception to the hearsay rule and does not violate the confrontation clause. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 684.) duke contends that detective violated his rights under the confrontation clause. but the confrontation clause bars the admission only of hearsay statements that are testimonial in nature. (id. at p. 685.) these are -of-court analogs, in purpose and form, of the testimony given by ibid., quoting people v. cage (2007) 40 cal.4th 965, 984.) although the united states supreme court has not fully delineated what statements are testimonial for purposes of the confrontation clause (see id. at p. 687), the doctrine is clear enough for us to conclude that the statements detective welle made about other cases involving fruit town piru are not testimonial hearsay. detective welle described minute orders of the two earlier cases, stated the names of the investigators in those cases, and briefly described the circumstances involving those crimes. at no point did he purport to quote from a hearsay 34 declaration that was testimonial for purposes of the confrontation clause. consequently, the introduction of these statements did not violate rights under the confrontation clause. x. prosecution gang expert testimony duke contends that the trial court erred by allowing prosecution gang experts to speculate about gang memberss during their testimony. duke failed to raise an objection at trial, and consequently, he forfeited the claim on appeal. (see people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1328.) on numerous occasions, the prosecutiothat the gangs at issue in this case had a motive to attack a snitch either within their own ranks or in another gang, and that they would likely do so. duke contends that this testimony was improper because it involved people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644, 658 (killebrew), disapproved of on another point by vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1048, in which the court held that it was improper for an expert witness to testify about the subjective knowledge and intent of gang members in a particular situation. in killebrew, police officers stopped a car and observed one of its four occupants put a handgun under the front seat. (killebrew, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 648.) an expert witness testified member in the car knows of the gun and will constructively possess the id. at p. 652.) the court held that this testimony was improper appropriate for a gang expert. (id. at p. 654.) by stating what he believed about what the passengers in the car subjectively believed, the expert went beyond the appropriate role for expert testimony and usurped the role of the jury. (id. at p. 658.) opinions about what duke and crowder actually believed. instead, they testified about the attitudes of gang members toward snitches and how they would likely respond upon finding a snitch in their community. this testimony was very different from what the court in killebrew found 35 objectionable. the expert testimony in this case was nothing more than gang expert. (killebrew, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 654.) consequently, the trial court did not err by admitting this testimony. xi. cumulative prejudice duke contends that, even if no individual error in this case was sufficiently severe to warrant overturning his conviction, the cumulative effect of the errors deprived him of a fair trial. conviction was based primarily on the statements of four eyewitnesses. there was strong evidence of his guilt of at least second degree murder. the errors that occurred in this case were not pervasive. this was not a case effect, rendering the degree of overall unfairness to defendant more than that flowing from the sum of the individual errorspeople v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 847, overruled on another ground by price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) except for the instruction on the probable and reasonable consequences doctrine, the errors discussed above, considered separately or together, were not sufficiently prejudicial to call that verdict into doubt. 36 disposition the judgment of the trial court is reversed. on remand, the prosecution shall have the option to retry duke for first degree murder, or to accept a modification of the judgment to reflect a conviction for second degree murder. if the prosecution elects to accept the modification of the judgment, the trial court shall resentence duke in accordance with the modified judgment. conduct in this case, the clerk of this court is directed to forward a copy of this opinion to the prosecutor and to the state bar of california. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 