filed 4/7/16 p. v. young ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael clifford young, defendant and appellant. b264878 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba411151) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig j. mitchell, judge. affirmed. law office of david carico and david d. carico, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and john yang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant michael young (defendant) of the murder of james wilder and the attempted murder of mauricio flores. we are asked to decide if the trial court prejudicially erred proposed expert witness on shooting incident reconstruction and vehicle identification unqualified to testify, while e identification qualified. we also consider claims of instructional error and prosecutorial misconduct. i. background a. the shooting late in the evening on october 29, 2012, james wilder and mauricio flores were man who drove up in an infiniti vehicle. wilder, a black man, was hit four times; one shot was fatal. flores, a hispanic man, was grazed on his hip by a bullet. the shooting occurred in territory claimed by the 18th street gang, which is primarily hispanic. there was no evidence that either victim was a gang member. -wilder (jackson), witnessed the shooting. the couple had driven from their home in the south bay to mid-city los angeles to pick up lores, who repaired vehicles from his home in the 2500 block of spaulding avenue. this block of spaulding is narrow, and it lies between adams on the south and 25th street on the north. viewed from adams, however, spaulding appears to be a dead end, truncated by the 10 freeway. prior to the shooting, flores noticed what he described as a white bmw drive past him going north on spaulding. he also noticed a gray infiniti drive past going north. the infiniti made a u-turn and drove back towards flores and wilder. jackson also noticed the infiniti on its return because it almost sideswiped her jeep. she described it as a metallic infiniti suv. the infiniti drove past flores and wilder and stopped. a man got out of the infiniti and walked to its rear. 3 the man took out a gun and looked around. ,and attempted to pull wilder by his sweater to cover, but wilder could not or did not move with flores. the man with the gun fired twice. there was a pause, which flores believed was caused by the gun jamming. jackson, who was sitting in the jeep facing north, looked into the rear-view mirror, toward the shooting. she saw the back of a man who was pointing a gun at flores and wilder. she described the man with the gun as a short black man with a medium build who may have been wearing braids. jackson also noticed that a black mercedes sedan or bmw was stopped near the north end of spaulding, facing south toward her. according to flores, after the initial two shots, the shooter fired about eight more shots. the infiniti left after the second round of shots, driving fast towards adams. at adams, the infiniti turned right to go west. the mercedes or bmw backed up and made a u-turn, hitting another car in the process. jackson got out of the jeep and found her husband lying on his back on the ground. armando herrera came out of his house to help and called an ambulance. herrera told police that he had heard gunshots, looked outside and saw a light-colored infiniti suv on spaulding going towards adams. wilder was taken by ambulance to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. autopsy results showed that wilder died from a fatal gunshot wound to his back which penetrated his heart, spleen, and kidney. wilder also suffered two non-fatal gunshot wounds and a graze wound. 4 b. the 911 call and subsequent investigation flores called 911 after the shooting. he told the operator that the infiniti from which shots were fired was an infiniti two-door coupe. flores gave the same description to police several hours after the shooting, adding that it was a g35.1 los angeles police department detective paul funicello obtained surveillance video footage from a furniture store on west adams, a beauty shop on adams, and a liquor store on rodeo road. the furniture store video shows a light-colored vehicle travelling in the direction of spaulding avenue about 9:57 p.m. the beauty shop and liquor store video footage shows a similar looking vehicle travelling west on adams and east on rodeo, and thus away from spaulding, between 10:00 p.m. and 10:03 p.m. at trial, prosecution expert stephen ferrara testified the vehicle in the beauty shop and liquor store videos was an infiniti fx suv manufactured sometime after 2004. suspicion for the killing focused on the black p stone gang, which was a rival of the 18th street gang. detective funicello learned that on october 21, 2012, about a week before the shootings in this case, casey salazar was shot in the head in territory claimed by the black p stone gang. the suspects were hispanic.2 he also learned that salazar was defendan defendant is a member of the black p stone gang. a search of police databases revealed defendant occasionally drove an infiniti fx which belonged to nicole plain, his girlfriend. in april 2013, a tion, photographs the traffic ticket showed that defendant was driving plain 2004 infiniti fx 35. when 1 at the preliminary hearing, flores similarly testified that the vehicle was a two-door infiniti g35 coupe. 2 on october 30, 2012, police executed a search warrant at the home of an 18th street gang member who was believed to store weapons for his fellow gang members. the police found a hidden 9 millimeter handgun. the parties stipulated that forensic analysis demonstrated the gun was the one that produced the casings found at the scene of the salazar shooting. 5 shown a photo of infiniti, jackson stated that it appeared identical to the infiniti suv she saw on spaulding avenue. plain had an alibi for the time of the shooting. she supermarket in pacific palisades. defendant drove her there in the infiniti and dropped her off. in may 2013, police searched an apartment on gelber place.3 defendant was in the apartment with sheldia ellerbe and her two sons. police found six 9 millimeter rounds in a toilet in the apartment. detective funicello learned that ellerbe drove a brown-gold mercedes. there was collision damage to the rear bumper. police obtained cell tower data from verizon for a phone number associated with defendant. federal bureau of investigation agent michael easter, a cellular analysis expert, examined the data. the data revealed that the cell phone assigned to the number associated with defendant used two towers in pacific palisades at 4:50 p.m. and 4:58 p.m. on october 29, 2012. at 9:54 p.m., the cell phone began a seven-minute call which ended using a tower on washington boulevard facing spaulding avenue. at 10:49 p.m. and 10:58 p.m., the cell phone again used two towers in pacific palisades. c. trial at trial, los angeles police department detective brian thayer testified as a gang expert for the prosecution. in response to a hypothetical question reflecting the facts of this case, detective thayer opined the shooting was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with the black p stone gang. the shooting benefited the black p stone gang because it was committed in rival territory and aimed at suspected 18th street gang members. the 18th street gang did have a few black members. detective thayer opined that if hispanic males had previously shot a member of the 3 detective funicello connected a cell phone number provided by plain with an photographed in the 4000 block of gelber place on october 28, 2012. 6 black p stone gang, the shooting in this case would be retaliation. it would also maintain respect and fear toward the black p stone gang. vehicle was an infiniti g35 coupe, not an suv. valentin martinez, a resident of spaulding avenue, testified that he looked out his window after hearing gunshots, and saw a silver two-door coupe which traveled in reverse northwards, made a turn, hit a car and drove away on 25th street. los angeles police department officer peter argueta testified he investigated a traffic collision at the intersection of 25th and spaulding. martinez told him the vehicle that caused the collision was a silver 2004 infiniti g35. at trial, flores waffled about whether the infiniti was a coupe or a suv. he implied his earlier identification was based on the sound of the exhaust, but that the g35 coupe and the fx suv sounded the same and that after the shooting he came to believe that the x suv. alternate public defender possibly an infiniti g35. defense investigator julie valencia obtained photographs of several vehicles which resembled an infiniti fx, including a 2012 nissan rogue, a 2012 lexus, and a toyota rav 4, and these photographs were admitted in evidence at trial. the defense also pursued a third party culpability defense, based almost entirely on testimony from prosecution witnesses. the defense elicited testimony that, unbeknownst to jackson, the car flores worked on for wilder was not registered to wilder. jackson also testified that her husband had had problems with someone at work. jackson and flores each testified that the other said wilder was being followed, although both denied making the statement themselves. defense investigator kawai testified that flores told him the shooter took a couple of steps towards wilder, who was lying on the ground after firing the first shots; the shooter then fired one or two more shots at wilder. the defense argued that this showed a personal motive, not a gang-related motive, for the shooting. defendant sought to have an expert, dr. bruce krell, testify on the identification of the vehicle shown in the surveillance videos and the position of the shooter when he 7 fired the fatal shot at wilder. krell enhanced the surveillance videos, and would have testified that the videos showed an infiniti coupe, not an suv. krell also would have testified reconstructed the shooting and it was reasonable to infer that the shooter was standing the trial court excluded this testimony on the ground that krell was not qualified to testify as an expert. the jury convicted defendant of one count of second degree murder in violation of penal code section 187 and one count of attempted murder in violation of sections 187 and 664. the jury found the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated. the jury found true the allegation defendant committed the crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang within the meaning of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4) and also found true various firearm enhancement allegations, including the allegation that a principal discharged a firearm causing death within the meaning of penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 80 years to life in state prison, consisting of 15 years to life for the murder conviction, plus 15 years to life for the attempted murder conviction, plus two 25-to-life enhancement terms pursuant to section 12022.53. ii. discussion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in finding his proposed expert was not qualified to testify on shooting incident reconstruction, photograph and video enhancement, and vehicle comparisons. he asserts the exclusion of his proffered expert testimony violated his sixth and fourteenth amendment rights to due process of law, to present a defense, and to a jury trial. defendant further argues the trial court abused its discretion in finding that a prosecution witness was qualified to offer expert vehicle comparison testimony. he also combines these two expert testimony contentions of error into a third claim rulings constituted unequal treatment that violated his constitutional right to due process. apart from his arguments efendant also argues the 8 prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument and the trial court erred in partially instructing the jury on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. we hold the trial court did not commit prejudicial error when it excluded the or when it admitted the testimony of court did err in giving a partial instruction on the natural and probable consequences doctrine, the error was harmless because the prosecution did not rely on that doctrine. finally, defendant forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct by failing to object in the trial court. affirm the judgment of conviction. a. defense expert witness shooting incident reconstruction the trial court precluded defense witness dr. bruce krell from testifying as an expert about his shooting incident reconstruction. krell would have testified that based and testimony, krell believed that wilder was flat on the wounwilder when he fired the fatal shot. 1. applicable law a person is qualified to testify as an expert if he has special knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education sufficient to qualify him as an expert on the subject to which his testimony relates. against the objection of a party, such special knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education must be shown before the witness may testify as an expert. the trial courts determination of whether a witness qualifies as an expert is a matter of discretion that will not be disturbed absent a showing of manifest abuse. 9 (people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 57; people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 128-129.) 2. ruling after holding an evidence code section 402 hearing, the trial court ruled krell was not qualified to testify as an expert. the trial court explained its ruling as follows: e in determining the likely position of the decedent at the time that he was shot. this is based on the following factors that were deduced in the 402 hearing: first, dr. krell admitted that he had no expertise in the area of crime scene reconstruction; two, he indicated his entire analysis was based solely on mathematical calculations; three, he acknowledged that the text he relies on for guidance in this area, the haag text, specifically stated that it is impossible to determine the position of the victim when shot based on wound analysis alone; four, the court finds that he arbitrarily a ground; and lastly, he acknowledged during the 402 hearing that he mismeasured the location of the exit wound. consequently, based on all those enumerated deficiencies, the court finds that dr. krell simply is not an expert in the area of crime scene reconstruction that would be a predicate for him being able to testify as to the position of the decedent when shot. i should note for the record in its entirety the cof his foundational obligation to testify is not a close call by this court. ed to note, and i missed a very critical point, his whole approach to his obligation as an expert was most clearly revealed for its 10 deficiency with respect to his constructing an opinion as to the exit would of the fatal gunshot where he was given a definitive measurement in the autopsy report, and he mismeasured. [] i have to ask myself, how in the world can a mathematician be so 3. analysis testimony (florestranscribing a measurement from the autopsy report. and krell also acknowledged that the haag treatise indicated the path of a projectile (here, a bullet) may deviate as it passes through tissue, organs, and other structures such that wound path cannot reveal what a victim was doing or what position a victim was in seconds before the arrival of a bullet. these are facts that a court could rely on to doubt whether testimony was supported by a sound scientific basis. on the other hand, one of the primary reasons on which the trial court relied to exclude the testimony was its observation that krell was not qualified as an expert in the area of the court emphasized this point after summarizing the five reasons quoted aboved deficiencies, the court finds that dr. krell simply is not an expert in the area of crime scene reconstruction that would be a predicate to him being able to testify as to the position of the decedent this is correct, as krell himself acknowledged, but krell was not offered as an expert on crime scene reconstruction; he was offered as an expert on shooting incident reconstruction, a narrower field of expertise. she submitted a list of qualifications from the haag treatise that she asserted were she also submitted. the court stated it would review the material carefully and revisit its decision if warranted, but the court at no time reconsidered its ruling, nor did it indicate it had previously misspoken and instead meant to rely shooting incident reconstruction. 11 although the court acknowledged that there were differences in the two types of reconstruction expertise, the record contains no description of those differences, and the court did not explain in its ruling how or why a lack of expertise in crime scene reconstruction disqualifies a witness from being an expert in shooting incident reconstruction.4 as we explain below, however, even if the lack of such an explanation harmless. an error in excluding expert testimony may be found harmless. (people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, 376, overruled on other grounds by people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896.) we examine the whole record to determine if there is a reasonable probability that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result in the absence of the error. (ibid., citing people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) . . does not impermissibly infringe on a defendants right to present a defense (people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1102- (people v. mcneal (2009) 46 defense, and [does] not preclude defendant from presenting a defense, any error is one of state law and is properly reviewed under people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at page 836. (people v. fudge, supra, people v. mcneal, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 1203.) evaluate the error to determine whether it is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 4 generally, speaking, crime scene reconstruction is a broad specialty that includes every aspect of the crime scene. (see, e.g., people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 161-tality of the physical physical evidence including blood stains and bodily fluids was admissible].) the haag treatise on shooting incident reconstruction, referenced in the trial court, contemplates a much dual who is both firearms 12 (chapman v. california (1967) 368 u.s. 18, 24; people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 998 [the complete exclusion of evidence intended to establish an accuseds defense may impair his or her right to due process of law, but the exclusion of defense evidence on a minor or subsidiary point does not interfere with that constitutional right].) show that the shooter targeted wilder for personal reasons, rather than gang-related ones. the defense believed evidence that the shooter stood directly over wilder as he lay on the ground and fired the fatal shot supported this theory. even assuming the position could show a personal motive, there was no other substantial evidence to support the theory that wilder someone else is not suspicious. jackson testified that wilder was having difficulties at believed wilder was being followed. in any event, nding over wilder and firing at him was as consistent with a gang motive as with a personal motive. defendant believes that wilder was not a likely target for a gang retaliation murder because he was black and middle-aged, and the 18th street gang was almost entirely hispanic and young. he further over him. we do not find the argument persuasive. the street was dark, and the shooter may not have been able to tell flores and wilder apart, or the shooter may not have been in addition, flores ran and wilder did not, and the shooter may simply have decided to kill the more accessible victim. thus, there is no reasonable probability or possibility that defendant would have received a more favorable outcome if b. defense expert witness vehicle identification defendant also sought to have krell testify about his enhancements to surveillance video still photos and his comparison of the vehicle in the enhanced images to stock 13 photos and specifications for an infiniti g35 coupe and an infiniti fx suv. defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in finding that krell was not qualified as an expert in either area. 1. ruling the trial court ruled it would not allow dr. krell to testify as to the type of vehicle used in the crime for the following reasons: readily krell indicated that he used a computer program. that computer program would be termed amped, a-m-p-e-d, and in supporting such proffered testimony, dr. krell indicated it was the first time he had ever used this computer program with respect to discerning one vehicle from another, and this court was not satisfied at all with respect to his familiarity with the program, how it processes data, anything that would justify him being able to simply offer unsupported positions based on a computer program that was not fully explained. when the court inquired of dr. krell as to whether features such as ground clearance between the vehicle that the defense is asserting was likely to have been used as opposed to one the prosecution has used, these are fundamental, basic questions that any expert in the field of vehicle comparison is going to be very familiar with. dr. krell had absolutely no knowledge of these basic components. assertion that the vehicle was likely an infinity g35 as opposed to an infinity fx35, when the supposed corrected image was markedly different from the image of the g35 containe tint of the suspect vehicle, again, dr. krell possesses absolutely no expertise in this area. when the court asked him to explain what his opinion was based on, it became clear that 14 he simply eyeballed the picture in the documents and did nothing more than what is properly to be left in the hands of the jury to determine. he could count the pixels, but what the court finds very disturbing is his willingness to come into court, represent himself as an expert in this area, ready to render an opinion, having not done the basic homework that an expert is expected to do, for him to tell this court that he was going to count pixels only when his opinion was challenged by the court and counsel, again, i find very troubling. under evidence code section 402 finds that testimony is inadequate and without foundation within the language of 402, the preliminary fact as it pertains to the proffered testimony is as the court has 2. analysis there is no doubt that krell lacked any expertise in vehicle recognition or identification. still photographs from the surveillance videos. thus, dfinding that krell was not qualified as an expert on image enhancement. we hold the record demonstrates the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding that krell was not qualified as an expert in the amped software. krell testified that he had used the amped program before, but did not testify that he had received any training in the program or had any certifications in its use. he also did not claim that he had ever testified about amped-enhanced photos before or qualified as an expert in the use of amped. krell did testify that he had built a lot of video analysis systems that included corrections for distortions from lens angles. he 15 gave no further details on those systems or if they were somehow related to or used amped.5 and capabilities of the amped program. during the 402 hearing, the trial court looked at slide 34, which contains two photos: a stock photo of an infiniti g35 and an image of a vehicle from the surveillance cameras at the beauty shop. the court remarked that from a ed to be markedly different in the two images. camera relative to the vehicle, b as the prosecutor later brought out on cross-examination, the surveillance video image on slide 34 was in fact a corrected image, as shown on slide 31. krell later acknowledged that because the front of the side window was so dark, the program could not correct the elongation of the window as a whole. krell explained this was why he focused on the back of the car. it is not obvious, and krell did not explain, how the side window elongation could not be corrected due to missing data, but the rear shape of the car could be. well-detection, specifically adobe photoshop. krell only used the edge detection with the amped enhanced images, however, and those images were not admissible. thus, it is not clear whether the defense intended to have krell testify as an expert specifically about vehicle window tint, as opposed to considering that part of his image enhancement expertise. the court, however, elected to treat it as a separate area of 5 target acquisition from infrared video[;] processing x-ray videos for heart defects[;] reticle defects analysis for computer chip manufacturing[; and] electrophysiology station do not demonstrate an expertise in the amped software. none of these systems appear to involve processing images remotely comparable to video surveillance cameras. 16 expertise. krell noted in slide 35 that ide untinted (that is, it was tinted). when questioned by defense counsel about the tint of the of the surveillance video vehicle the court then stated, and make a discernment. obviously, as an expert, you better be doing better than that. t in this case, but i could look at the raw pixels in there and see the level of the pixels, whether the pixel values were black or white, or whatever. i d the trial court therefore did not abuse its discretion in finding that krell was not offering expert testimony. c. prosecution expert witness vehicle identification defendant contends the trial court erred in permitting the prosecution to call stephen ferrara as an expert witness on infiniti vehicles. he contends the court had previously determined that a comparison of plain infiniti with the vehicle in the surveillance videos was not a proper subject for expert testimony. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting expert testimony by ferrara.6 defendantcontention that the court had previously determined vehicle comparison was not a topic for expert testimony is based on the courtit was excluding eyeballed the picture in the documents and did nothing more than what is properly to be comparison of the window tints in the two vehicles, and prefaced its comment with the thus, the trial court was not saying that vehicle comparison was not a proper subject for expert 6 should be excluded as well. the trial court did rule on this objection. the court stated on what basis i would rightfully exclud defendant was not required to do more. 17 testimony, the court was saying that krell was not an expert in this topic and so could do nothing more the jurors in comparing the vehicles. ferrara possessed the expert knowledge of infiniti vehicles that krell lacked. ferrara was the general manager of an infiniti dealership owned by auto nation. he had worked there for a year and a half. thus, ferraviewing a website. ferrara was clearly qualified to opine on whether a particular vehicle was an infiniti. in the record before us on appeal, such identifications comprised the bulk of ferradetective testimony identifying defense exhibits w through ii as still images from surveillance videos, ferrara opined on direct examination that the vehicle in defense exhibits w, x, y, and aa (beauty shop video) and the vehicle in defense exhibits hh and ii (liquor store store video) was an infiniti fx. he could not provide a precise model year, noting that the fx e very on redirect examination, the prosecutor showed ferrara a photo of vehicle. ferrara identified the vehicle as an infiniti fx suv with a model year between 2004 and 2008. he testified that s characteristic of the fx models. he also opined that the vehicle in the beauty shop video still had the same distinct window feature. he did not opine that the vehicle in the video was vehicle. even assuming that an overall vehicle-to-vehicle comparison is not a proper subject for expert testimony, the only direct vehicle-to-vehicle comparison occurred during cross-examination by defense counsel, when ferrara opined that the vehicle in defense exhibit dd (beauty shop video) looked like the same car as the vehicle in defense exhibit ii (liquor store video). he acknowledged, however, that he could not tell in fact, ferrara acknowledged that he could not tell if the vehicle in the liquor store video was silver or white. 18 d. unequal treatment defendant contends the trial court treated the proposed defense expert on vehicle identification differently than the prosecution expert on this subject. defendant argues this difference deprived him of his fifth and fourteenth amendment right to due process and a fair trial.7 disparate treatment in admission of defense and prosecution evidence can violate people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 474, citing wardius v. oregon (1973) 412 u.s. 470, 476.) comparison and properly admitted ferrathus, the court did not favor the prosecution over the defense. to the extent that defendant contends that the court improperly took an ferrara, we do not find any differences significant. there are some indications in the record that the trial court may not have been pleased that the defense was presenting a witness who the court believed was not qualified. the jury was not present during the hearing, however, and there is noanimosity towards the defense. the trial court was ra. the court did question ferrara in an attempt to clarify the basis for ferraidentification of the vehiclpotential to hurt the prosecution as much as help it. in fact, ferrara was able to point to 7 one of general or overall judicial bias. defendant points to a specific instance of what he claims is disparate treatment, which involves experts on a key issue, vehicle identification. defendant did object that if his expert krell were disqualified, the under the treatment. 19 e. instructional error natural and probable consequences doctrine defendant contends, and respondent agrees, that the trial court erred in giving the full version of calcrim no. 400 on aiding and abetting, which includes a paragraph describing the natural and probable consequences doctrine. defendant contends the prosecution relied on that doctrine, and that the paragraph of the instruction permitted the foreseeable consequence of the attempted murder of flores. 1. instruction the court instructed the jury with the full version of calcrim no. 400 on general principles of liability for a crime, including the last bracketed paragraph. that instruction provides: one, he or she may have directly committed the crime. i will call that person the perpetrator. two, he or she may have or aided and abetted the perpetrator. abetting of one crime, a person may also be found guilty of other crimes that occurred during the commission of the first crime.] the bench notes for the instruction state that the bracketed language is to be given if the prosecution is relying on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. (bench notes to calcrim no. 400 (2011) p. 167.) in addition, calcrim nos. 402 or 403 explaining the natural and probable consequences should be given. 2. law giving the bracketed portion of calcrim no. 400 without also giving calcrim nos. 402 and 403 is error. (people v. rivas (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1410, 1433.) the bracketed luous and, without clarification through 20 ibid.) any error in giving the bracketed language, is harmless, however, if the prosecution does not rely on the natural and probable ilt. (idour supreme court has observed that when the parties make consequences doctrine in their arguments to the jury, it is highly unlikely that the jury [will have] relied upon that rule . . . . (people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 273people v. rivas, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at p. 1432.) 3. analysis defendant contends the prosecutor obliquely referred to the natural and probable consequences doctrine in two different ways during closing argument, and so the misinstruction with calcrim no. 400 was not harmless. we place the prosecuto thus, the instructional error was harmless. (people v. rivas, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at pp. 1432-1433.) a. collateral damage argument probable consequence of the attempted murder of flores. defendant notes that the prosecutor later argued wilder was not the target of the killing, further hinting at the natural and probable consequences theory. interpretation of the collateral damage reference is not a reasonable one. the prosecutor argued: malice aforethought . . . . express malice means he intended to kill. this was something that was set out. how do we know it was set out? the car was circling . . . . hunting for his prey. that is what the defendant was doing. [] he was looking for that male tats and let me figure this out. mr. wilder, i submit to you, was collateral damage. 21 collateral damages, wrong place, wrong time . . . . [] and mauricio gang member. he, unnecessary, random act of street violence kill but instead found wilder and flores, who were not gang members, but who happened to be outside in an area where defendant was looking for someone to kill, and one of whom was hispanic. nothing in this argument suggests that defendant was responsible the intended as defendant acknowledged, this was a response to the defense theory that the shooter had a personal motive to kill wilder and that wilder was the target of the killing, not flores. it cannot be reasonably be understood as an oblique reference to the natural and probable consequences theory. b. foreseeability argument with respect to the killing of wilder was irrelevant and liability attached because his death was an unintended but reasonably foreseeable consequence of the attempted murder of flores and (2) the prosecutor misstated the law by saying that it did not matter whether the shooting of wilder was a foreseeable consequence of the intentional killing of flores. he views both arguments as referring to the natural and probable consequences doctrine. the prosecutor argued, [abetting] to you. [] some of you may be sitting here thinking, well, i know he was there, i know he drove . . . . agree as to whether or not he was the shooter or the driver. all you have to agree to is was he there and did he play any role by using the car. [] . . . [] 22 under our law. . [w]e know from the defendant and his that the work gets done. [] ngage and be successful if others are there to encourage the conduct and others help accomplish the conduct. you and encouraging you and helping you in some way, because its difficult to drive a car and shoot at the same time, it makes sense. said, he may be guilty in one of two ways. you either think that he committed the crime by being the shooter, or that he helped somebody else, but as long as you all agree tha shooter committed the crime, that he knew the shooter was going to do the crime, and before or what was going on . . . [] and this, again, he aided. it was his car . . . he was the one nothing in these remarks refers to foreseeability in any way. nothing in this argument suggests that defendant only intended to aid and abet the killing of flores. the if defendant was not the actual shooter, he driving the car was such assistance. this argument expressly tells the jury that did matter. it cannot be reasonably understood as a reference to the natural and probable consequences doctrine, or as misstatement of that doctrine or the law. 23 f. prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by arguing there was no evidence to support a finding that wilder was shot while laying on the ground and also by making numerous appeals to passion and prejudice, including asking the jury to consider the emotional impact of civic duty to convict. 1. forfeiture he has not shown that such efforts would have been futile or ineffective. accordingly, he has forfeited this claim. (people v. gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 217; people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 159 [noting exceptions to forfeiture rule where objections would have been futile or admonishments ineffective].) defendant urges us to adopt the federal practice of conductacknowledges, the california supreme court has previously declined such requests. (see people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 731, fn. 19, and cases cited therein.) we are bound by that decision. 2. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant contends that if his claim is forfeited , his attorney was constitutionally ineffective. in assessing claims of ineffective assistance of trial counsel, we consider whether counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217.) (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189.) we presume that counsels performance fell within the wide range of professional competence and that counsels actions and inactions can be explained as a matter of 24 sound trial strategy. defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate assistance of counsel.ibid.) as the defendant claims he should have, a reviewing court on direct appeal must reject an lanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. otherwise, (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1189, citation omitted [rejecting claim on direct appeal that counsel should have presented defense witnesses]; in re arturo a. (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 229, 243 [because ims].) here, counsel was not asked for an explanation. there are potentially satisfactory s of ineffective assistance of counsel fail. a. argument concerning excluded evidence it is misconduct for a prosecutor to tell the jury there is no evidence to support a defense point if the prosecutor knows such evidence exists and previously obtained its exclusion. (people v. varona (1983) 143 cal.app.3d 566, 568-570.) defendant contends the following argument by the prosecutor constitutes such misconduct: ground . . . . [t]o say that he had to be lying down when he was shot in the back, where is the evidence of that? . . . he could have been falling. he could have been turning to excluded. any objection by defense counsel to this argument would have been without merit. the testimony. the prosecutor sought to exclude this evidence precisely because she 25 believed that there was no pretrial statements and testimony position. [a d]efense counsel is not required to advance unmeritorious arguments on [a] defendants behalf. (people v. mcpeters (1992) 2 cal.4th 1148, 1173; see also people v. grant (1988) 45 cal.3d 829, 864-865 [to prevail on ineffectiveness claim based on counsels failure to make a motion, defendant must show that such motion would have been successful].) b. appeals to passion and prejudice it is improper for a prosecutor to argue that the jury in a non-capital case should consider the impact of people v. jackson (2009) 45 cal.4th 662, 691-692.) similarly, an appeal for sympathy for the victim is out of place during an objective determination of guilt. (see people v. pensinger (1991) 52 cal.3d 1210, 1250.) the beginning of a foray into the forbidden territory of victim impact evidenc the prosecutor argued: was being followed or that mr. wilder was guarded and kept secrets, [] meant. [] mr. wilder had a family. he had a wife and children. mr. wilder left his home with his wifesupposed to believe this logical fallacy that somebody just happened to be waiting outside at night at 9:30, outside the wilder residence, just figuring that they were going to leave at some point, and then drove from the south bay, just happened to know where they were going when nobody else knew, including mauricio, and then at some point the car goes invisible, because you see it on the video, and then shoots mr. wilder, and . . . [] . . . [] 26 . his family. his family. the italicized portions of the argument are not reasonably understood as victim impact evidence. the argument as a whole is responding to the defense claim that mr. wilder had something to hide, and his secrets were the reason he was killed. the prosecutor is in effect arguing that mrwith picking up the car if he had secrets because he would not want to endanger them. an objection that the argument was victim impact evidence would have lacked merit. the failure to make such an objection does not show ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. mcpeters, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1173; see also people v. grant, supra, 45 cal.3d at pp. 864-865.) defendant contends the prosecutor next invited the jury to speculate about the emotional damshooting, and asked the jury to consider the case from jackson perspective. the prosecutor argued: murder. you heard that from ms. wilder. he was going to go, but it was late, and even . so as horrible as it is that she had to watch her husband gunned down and a friend of theirs, mauricio, shot at, you her and not them? and then to be told that somehow, and to sit here and have to listen over and over again that somehow she had something to hide, that her husband created this situation, that her husband was the victim? he was a victim alright. he was a victim of what that coward did when he rode up to a vehicle, some crazy gang retaliation that these two menthese two men had nothing to do with. nothing at all. absolutely nothing. and then she had to drive home that night and tell her children. and then sit in court and be told who? what did mr. wilder ever do? what evidence did you ever hear that he deserved to suffer the indignity of dying on a dirty street? 27 die with dignity, and that man robbed him of that. that man. because his cousin was the argument as a whole is a response to the defense theory that wilder had something to hide and was the intended victim. but there are what might be seen as attempts to appeal for sympathy for the wilders scattered throughout the argument. e, for example, are not relevant to any issue in this case. the remarks are not especially inflammatory, however, and they are unlikely to have stirred up much, if any, passion. an attorney could make a reasonable tactical decision not to object to these remarks to avoid drawing attention to them. [w]e accord great deference to counsels tactical decisions (people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 979), and we have explained that courts should not second-guess reasonable, if difficult, tactical decisions in the harsh light of hindsight (people v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1212). tactical errors are generally not deemed reversible, and counsels decision making must be evaluated in the (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 333.)people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 925-926.) c. civic duty defendant contends the prosecutor ended her closing argument by telling jurors they had a civic duty to convict. this country has always been a beacon to the world for and we rely on the laws to protect us from them. is it enough? do we need more laws? . the answer is that each of us is responsible for the other and not one of us can afford to turn a blind eye. by respecting the laws that we do have and the oath that you took and living up to the true meaning of engaging in this continuing game of retaliation that cost the life of one innocent man and 28 almost took the life of another, he allowed a criminal enterprise to flourish and a cancer to grow. [] this is where it has to stop in this courtroom with you. find the defendant this is an oddly dramatic argument, one that appears to have been lifted at least in part from a legal television show.8 although concluding argument with this short soliloquy strikes us as a curious choice, we do not believe jurors understood it as an exhortation that they had a civic duty to convict defendant. instead, the argument expressly told the jurors that we do have and the oath that you although dmight have objected, the effect of the argument had no real prejudicial impactthe prosecutor did not, for example, misstate the evidence, vouch for witnesses, or imply there was additional evidence of guilt not presented at trial. under the circumstances, an attorney could make a reasonable tactical decision to refrain from objecting, and such a decision is not grounds for reversal. (see people v. weaver, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 925-926.) g. cumulative error defendant contends that the cumulative errors at trial combined to create a miscarriage of justice requiring reversal of his conviction. we have rejected nearly all of rrors that were made to be cumulative error claim therefore fails. 8 argument made by fictional prosecutor jack mccoy on an episode of the law and order television show. the similarities are striking. 29 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. kumar, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 