filed 9/1/16 p. v. robinson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kenyun robinson, defendant and appellant. b264801 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na051400) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county. laura laesecke, judge. affirmed. center for juvenile law and policy, sean kennedy, lindsey cerny and patrice corpus for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and william n. frank, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 in 2003, defendant kenyun robinson was convicted of a special circumstance murder he committed while 16 years old. defendant was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole (lwop), plus four years for personal weapon use. in 2013, defendant filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus, seeking resentencing pursuant to miller v. alabama (2012) 132 s. ct. 2455 (miller) and people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354 (gutierrez). the trial court held a hearing, considered the sentencing factors outlined in millerwas appropriate. we affirm. background the events of october 18, 19921 on october 18, 1992, defendant, who was 16 years old, was standing with several others near a liquor store in long beach, when two teenage twin brothers, jason and robert kennedy, approached the store. defendant walked up to jason, put a gun to his back, and told jason to give him all of his money or he would blow him away. jason leaving the liquor store, jason was again threatened by defendant, who put the gun to the that afternoon, jason and robert were at home when they heard a gunshot. they ran toward the front of their house and saw defendant take a purse from a lady who was holding her neck. defendant ran away and the woman, who was later identified as matilda martinez, struggled to walk and then fell. martinez died from a gunshot wound to the neck. defendant was apprehended later that night by long beach police officer jacinto 1 these facts, and the facts relating to the underlying conviction and sentence, are people v. robinson (jun. 2, 2004, b166845) [nonpub. opn.]), of which we take judicial notice. 3 involved in the attempted robbery of jason and the shooting of martinez. officer ponce, however, believed the kennedys were merely identifying the person who attempted to rob jamartinez or that defendant was a suspect in the murder. defendant was committed to the california youth authority in connection with the attempted robbery. underlying conviction and sentence in 2000, detective paul edwards began looking at the unsolved killing of martinez. he contacted jason kennedy, who told him that the person who tried to rob him was the same person involved in the shooting of martinez. in 2001, defendant was questioned about the incident. he said he did not shoot anyone, and could not remember anything from 1992 because it was such a long time ago. he later said that he was ould not remember anything else about the attempted robbery because, back in 1992, he was high -laced cigarettes) and other drugs. detective john boston testified that he interviewed trinidad bedolla around the time of the murder. bedolla was 11 or 12 years old at the time and knew defendant. according to detective boston, bedolla said that defendant showed him a small gun shortly before accosting jason kennedy. later that day, bedolla was walking with defendant and another individual wdefendant approached a lady, grabbed her purse, and started to pull it. she pulled back and he shot her and then ran away. bedolla later said that everything he told boston about the shooting was a lie and he had not really seen it. at trial, bedolla only testified that he heard a gunshot and saw a woman lying on the ground, not that he saw defendant shoot her. 4 in 2003, defendant was convicted of the murder of martinez in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a).2 the jury found true allegations of personal weapon use ( 12022.5, subd. (a)) and the special circumstance of robbery ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)). the trial court sentenced appellant to lwop plus four years for the weapon use. we affirmed the judgment in 2004. resentencing memoranda defendant, acting in propria persona, filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus with the trial court in july 2013. the court set a resentencing hearing. in april 2015, defendant, having obtained counsel, filed a sentencing memorandum urging the trial court to resentence him to 29 years to life, in light of miller and gutierrez. the memorandum argued that robinson was exceedingly immature at the age of 16, that he was a heavy pcp user at the time, that he was unable to deal with police and assist his counsel, that he suffered physical and sexual abuse at the hands of his family, that his family members revered criminal lifestyles, that he lacked criminal sophistication, and that he had demonstrated he was amenable to rehabilitation. in support of his memorandum, defendant attached a number of documents relating to his upbringing, including: an undated and unsworn statement from dannie nd defendant marijuana and forced them to perform oral sex; an undated and unsworn statement from they would sit around listening to their relatives glorify the gang lifestyle, and that the also recounting how family members used drugs and how the children, including arles hammond, stating that hammond was constantly in trouble with the law when younger and would reminisce with relatives in front of the children, including defendant, how they 2 unless otherwise specified, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 5 not favored by had been incarcerated, that much of the family had mental health problems, that defendant was easily influenced by peers, that he was low-functioning educationally, and that he frequently smoked marijuana. defendant also submitted a declaration by r snatching purses in 1992, but the purses found by poli, and a declaration by bedolla, who stated he was pressured by the police to say he witnessed the shooting of martinez, when he really did not. in addition to these documents, defendant attached a neurocognitive evaluation summary prepared by a licensed psychologist, based on interviews with defendant and review of relevant records. according to the evaluation, defendant began using marijuana and pcp by the age of 12 or 13. he stopped attending school regularly in the seventh grade and frequently stayed away from home. the evaluation noted that test of intellectual functioning and performed in an unimpaired fashion on a reading comprehension and accuracy test. the psychologist concluded that defendant did not have an intellectual disability, but could suffer from a mild neurocognitive disorder caused by substance abuse and multiple head injuries. the psychologist further opined that defendant did not exhibit diagnosable levels of depression, but may experience post-traumatic stress disorder due to witnessing, at a young age, his grandmother stab his grandfather and other violent acts, being sexually abused by his older brother, and undergoing strict corporal punishment. defendant also submitted exhibits relating to his criminal history and experience in the justice system. defendant had an extensive juvenile arrest record. a lengthy november 1992 probation reportpertaining to the october 18, 1992 attempted robbery 6 of jason kennedyany problems with alcohol or drugs. the report stated that defendant had not made school over the previous two to three years. according to a 1993 report, defendant had tried pcp two to three times, and he denied being under the influence of drugs or alcohol his childhood ially dangerous -esteem, little motivation, and little awareness of his responsibilities to himself and society as a law-ms of the nature of the current offense . . . sentencing memorandum agreeing that defendant was entitled to a new sentencing hearing, at which the trial court was required to consider the analysis set forth in miller, gutierrez, and similar authority. the prosecution argued, however, that under the controlling legal authority, a sentence of lwop, plus four years, was still appropriate. -conviction conduct could be considered, according to the prosecution, it did not weigh in favor of a lesser sentence, as defendant had been found guilty of at least six rule violations while in prison, including fighting, battery on a prisoner, and possession of an inmate-made weapon. resentencing hearing at the hearing, the trial court noted that it read and considered all materials presented with the sentencing memoranda. in announcing its tentative ruling to reimpose miller 7 bers in interviews. and dysfunctional family situations that i have read aboutphysical abuse. according to sharony, defendant used p the defense then argued that defendant had diminished culpability at the time the homicide was committed based on his age, educational difficulties, the abuse by his older brother, and his use of pcp. the trial court expressed skepticism of the recent evidence submitted by defendant, noting that essentially none of the facts recently attested to was present in the probation reports generated when defendant in the juvenile justice system. after hearing argument, the trial court determined that lwop, plus four years, was the appropriate sentence. it found that, at 16, defendant was able to appreciate the risks involved in committing the crime. defendant already had a background with the earlier that day had pointed a gun at and tried to rob someone else. the court stated that shoot. the court also found that defendant knew to withhold information and would not admit to things that he thought would hurt him. it did not find support for claims of extreme abuse or neglect in the family environment; instead, according to the probation reports, when defendant was outside of the family home and in a suitable placement, he continued with criminal behavior and refused to go to school. the court further found that defendant did not have a problem with pcp, as the probation reports stated he only tried it a few times, and defendant had stated he was not on pcp on the day of the murder. the court determined there was no support for the assertion that the homicide 8 brother or by fellow gang members. it saw no possibility that defendant could have been convicted of a lesser crime, and he was well experienced with the justice system by the time he went to trial. finally, the court found no possibility of rehabilitation, stating that defendant timely appealed. discussion r a punishment is cruel and/or unusual is a question of law subject to our independent review, but underlying disputed facts must be viewed in the light most people v. palafox (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 68, 82 (palafox).) upon considering the factors enunciated in miller and the relevant evidence, the trial court has discretion to determine whether lwop is an appropriate sentence for a juvenile offender. (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th 1354, 1380; palafox, at p. 91 [trial court did people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 847 [sentencing decisions subject to abuse of discretion review].) i. applicable legal principles in miller, the united states supreme court held that laws imposing mandatory miller, supra, 132 s.ct. 2455, 2460.) this holding built on other supreme court decisions examining the often lower level of culpability present in youthful offenders, including roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, in which the high court determined the eighth amendment prohibits imposition of the death penalty for a crime committed by a person under the age of 18 (roper, at p. 568), and graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48 , where the court concluded the eighth amendment forbids sentencing a non-homicide juvenile offender to lwop (graham, at p. 82). the miller court, in explaining its holdinggraham, roper, and our individualized sentencing decisions make clear that a judge or jury must have the opportunity to consider mitigating circumstances before imposing the harshest possible 9 miller, supra, 132 s.ct. 2455, 2475.) the court did not juvenile who commits murder. (id. a sentencer follow a certain processconsidercharacteristicsid. at p. 2471.) that process hallmark featuresamong them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and from which he cannot usually extricate himselffense, including the extent of his participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer pressures may have affected himmight have been charged and convicted of a lesser offense if not for incompetencies associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or id. at p. 2468.) in gutierrez, the california supreme court deterscheme for sentencing 16- and 17-year-olds convicted of special circumstance murder does not violate the eighth amendment because a sentence of lwop is discretionary, not mandatory. (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th 1354, 1360-1361 [construing  190.5, subd. (b)].) properly construed, the sentencing standard created by section 190.5, subdivision (b), allows a sentence of either 25 years to life or lwop, with no presumption in favor of lwop. (gutierrez, at pp. 1360-1361.) threquires consideration of the distinctive attributes of youth highlighted in miller(id. at p. five miller factors. (gutierrez, at pp. 1388-a sentencing court has discretion under miller to decide on an individualized basis whether a 16- or 17-year-old offender is a rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruptio (gutierrez, at p. 1380.) 10 in considering the miller particular factor, relevant to the decision whether to impose lwop on a juvenile who has committed murder, prepalafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th 68, hence, as long as a trial court gives ds youth and attendant characteristics . . . it may, in exercising its discretion . . . , give such weight to the relevant factors as it reasonably determines is appropriate under all the circumstances of the case.ibid.) ii. analysis unconstitutional, and the trial court did not abuse its discretion in sentencing defendant to lwop. defendant argues that the trial court did not consider evidence he presented. the hearing transcript makes clear, however, that the trial court closely reviewed and was familiar with all of the submitted evidence. at the hearing, the court engaged in a lengthy discussion with defense counsel regarding the evidence relevant to the miller factors. in its ruling, the trial court explained, based on its consideration of the evidence and its analysis of the five miller factors, why it determined lwop, plus four years, to be the appropriate sentence. it found certain evidence not credible, and gave greater weight to evidence present at the time of the murder, in 1992, than more recently created declarations and statements. these determinations of credibility and weight were palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th 68, 82.) simply because the trial court found certain evidence more compelling than other evidence does not mean that the trial court failed to consider all relevant evidence. defendant asserts that the trial court erred by relying on disputed evidence that discretion to weigh the evidence as it saw fit, and there was substantial evidence that defendant did make such a statement prior to the murder. in any event, this statement was not the only evidence relevant to the third miller (see miller, supra, 132 s.ct. 2455, 2475.) as the trial court noted, 11 earlier the same day, defendant held a gun to the back of jason kennedy. it further relied on evidence that defendant acted alone in the murder of martinez, without any apparent peer defendant further argues that the trial court improperly disregarded statements that defendant suffered sexual abuse as a child. at the hearing, the trial court noted that the probation reports (generated in 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1996) contained no indication that defendant had ever suffered sexual abuse. instead, at the time, defendant described his defendant might not have previously revealed the abuse because of shame, the trial court approximately 20 years later, when defendant was asking to be resentenced. the court original sentencing for the murder in approximately 2003, but the record of those proceedings contained no evidence of abuse. significant weight to the allegations of sexual abuseof which there were no firsthand accounts, other than the recent unsworn statement by mckinleywas not an abuse of discretion. the trial court also did not erfactor in the homicide. a probation report completed shortly after october 1992 stated that defendant had only tried pcp two to three times, and defendant denied being under the influence of drugs at the timnot use pcp in 1992. gravating rather than mitigating. the record does not support this assertion. 12 cts of defendant was not around his family, he continued to engage in criminal behavior. its decision not proper exercise of its discretion. (palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th 68, 73.) defendant next contends that the trial court should have given greater weight to gical reports this many years later [are] a snapshot of his current psychological state. it does not tell me what his psychological state would have been at the time he was 16 or at the time of the trial. i rely more heavily on the probation reports, especially those generated because of the attempted robbery. . . . and that tells this court a lot more than any analysis now mproper because mitigation that postdates the original trial proceedings is relevant. in support of this assertion, defendant cites to montgomery v. louisiana (2016) 136 s.ct. 718, 736, in which the supreme court found rehabilitation. rather, as the trial court nopsychological and cognitive state, primarily around the time of the resentencing hearing. moreover, the trial court did not err by declining to give more weight to the 1992 nor appears very low-functioning psychologist who prepared the neurocognitive evaluation concluded defendant did not have an intellectual disability. and the trial court note 13 difficulties may have been caused by his lack of interest in attending school. the 1992 the previous two to three years, a period that included time when defendant was in a finally, defendant argues that the trial court disregarded milleradmonition in regard to lwop that appropriate occasions for sentencing juveniles to this harshest possible penalty will be uncommon, because of the difficulty of distinguishing between the juvenile offender whose crime reflects unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruption. (miller, supra, 132 s.ct. 2455, 2469.) the trial court considered all of the miller factors, however, and complied with miller id. at p. 2471.) its conclusion lies within the bounds of reason; therefore, it is affirmed. (see palafox, supra, 231 cal. app. 4th 68, 91 was unfit ever to reenter society. we cannot say it exceeded the bounds of reason, all of disposition appropriate, is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. hoffstadt, j. 