filed 9/1/16 p. v. ward ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ronald art ward, defendant and appellant. b264117 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba425485) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, richard s. kemalyan, judge. affirmed. roberta simon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________ 2 introduction defendant and appellant ronald art ward order revoking probation, arguing that the court abused its discretion in revoking probation probation was imposed. we affirm as the trial court reinstated probation on two separate occasions before determining that ward was not a suitable candidate for probation. facts and procedural background on september 15, 2014, ward pleaded no contest to selling a controlled substance in violation of health and safety code section 11352, subdivision (a), and misdemeanor resisting, obstructing, and delaying a peace officer in violation of penal code section 148, subdivision (a)(1). the court sentenced ward to six years in local custody, suspended execution of sentence, and imposed five years of formal probation on the condition that he complete a one-year residential treatment program. the court advised ward that if he left or was terminated from the program, he must report to the court within 48 hours. the prosecutor likewise advised ward of the terms of his plea and the consequences of violating the probation terms, and ward said he understood them. as to the residential treatment program, the court ordered ward to enroll in, comply with all program terms and conditions of, and complete a 365-day residential treatment program at in2rekovery. ward stated that he understood, acknowledged and accepted the terms and conditions of his probation. when in2rekovery asked ward for a $700 fee, ward walked away from the program. ward did not report back to court. the probation department referred ward to other programs; ward failed to enroll and did not report to court. on october 27, 2014, the trial court was advised that ward left in2rekovery program and it summarily revoked probation. 3 at the next hearing on november 7, 2014, the court remarked th[i] program on november 12, 2014, ward admitted he was in violation for failing to enroll in and complete the in2rekovery program. the court revoked and reinstated probation on the same terms and conditions, but this time required ward to enroll in and complete a 365-day residential treatment program at second chance recovery. again, the court advised ward that if he left the program voluntarily or was terminated, he must appear in court within 48 hours. transported ward was to second chance recovery. that day, ward left second chance recovery and did not report back to court. when so advised on december 12, 2014, the trial court again summarily revoked probation. at the next hearing on january 16, 2015, ward claimed that he left the program in fear for his life because he was approached by some men at the program who threatened him and his family. ward stated that he did not appear in court within 48 hours because he was admitted to a hospital and treated for ulcers. defense counsel indicated that ward may have a mental health problem and suggested that he needed a argued that since ward failed to take advantage of the two previous programs, another chance to complete a drug program would probably end in failure, and that the court should impose the previously suspended sentence. the court noted that it could very easily impose the previously suspended sentprogram. the court nonetheless gave ward another opportunity to participate in a residential treatment program. ward admitted his violation. the court revoked and -diagnosis program for one year at second chance recovery. indicating that this was his last chance, the court reiterated that ward was required to return to the court within 48 hours if he left or was terminated from the program. concern, sir is that the last time you were in violation, i told you that if you left the 4 program you were to return to this courgoing to again be one of the terms t three weeks later, on february 26, 2015, the court again learned that ward was not enrolled in second chance recovery and it summarily revoked probation. at the march 9, 2015 hearing, defense counsel explained that ward completed the intake process at second chance recovery, and then became hungry and was granted permission to leave and obtain food. counsel stated that when he left, ward suffered a psychotic episode and experienced some auditory hallucinations that compelled him to ward did not return to the program or report to the court due to the episode. at the hearing, ward sought another opportunity to participate in the program. the trial court in which mr. ward has left the program and likewise, the third occasion that he has failed to return to court within the time period provided by the court. i believe in my considered judgment in this matter that probation should be terminated at this time. the defendant does not appear any the trial court imposed the previously suspended six-year sentence. five months had passed since ward had been granted probation. discussion ward challenges the termination of his probation, arguing that the trial court abused its discretion when it terminated probation based on a minor violation which occurred shortly after [ward] was placed on probation[,] thus denying [ward] an (capitalization omitted.) we disagree. a court may, in the interest of justice, revoke probation if it has reason to believe the defendant has violated any condition of probation. (pen. code,  1203.2; people v. urke (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 766, 772.) the facts supporting a revocation of probation need only be proven by a preponderance of the evidence (people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 439), but the evidence must support a conclusion that the probationer willfully violated the terms and conditions of probation. (people v. cervantes (2009) 5 175 cal.app.4th 291, 295; people v. zaring (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 362, 378379 (zaring).) noncompliance is not willful when it is attributable to circumstances beyond a probationers control. (ibid.) revocation lies within the s broad discretion (people v. self (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 414, 417), s discretion will not be disturbed in the absence of a show (people v. silva (1966) 241 cal.app.2d 80, 84.) here, the court informed ward on three separate occasions that he had to enroll in and complete a 365-day residential treatment program and appear in court within 48 hours if he left the program. ward verbally acknowledged and agreed to these terms three times. nonetheless, as ward himself admitted, he failed to complete the treatment program and to report to court as ordered. ward makes two arguments. first, relying on zaring, ward argues his violations were not willful as they were associated with medical and psychological problems. in zaring, the trial s explanation she was 22 minutes late because she had to take her children to schoocourt on time. (zaring, supra, 8 cal.app.4th 362 at p. 379.) the court of appeal concluded the trial court abused its discretion because there was no evidence that the (ibid.) in contrast, the case at bar does not involve circumstances that made compliance ward was transported to the treatment programs, chose to leave the programs, and did not report to the court thereafter. the court im twice, specifically noting 6 ward asserts his probation violations were the product of mental illness and thus not willful. the record includes, at best, oblique evidence of a mental health problem, to wit: (1) in a pitchess motion prior to the plea, defense counsel stated, without foundation, that ward suffered from paranoid schizophrenia; (2) at a marsden hearing prior to the plea, ward stated he had mental health problems and wanted his attorney to obtain his cdc records, and defense counsel testified that she had reviewed the records which contained no helpful information on the issue; (3) on january 16, 2015, defense counsel pointed out that ward was in yellow county jail garb, indicating that he may be receiving mental health treatment; (4) at the same hearing, ward stated he was now taking risperdal; and (5) when the court reinstated probation the second time, it noted that other issues that may involve some medication that we all probably think you shoul this evidence, taken together, does not support the conclusion that a mental illness prevented ward from willfully complying with the terms and conditions of probation, particularly the requirement that he return to court if he left the program. not give ward enough time to benefit from the dual diagnosis program. a prevoke or modify probation. (people v. breaux (1980) 101 cal.app.3d 468, 474.) here, the trial court sympathetically attempted to fashion a residential program that addressed if not verified, mental health issues. in reinstating probation twice, the trial court emphasized to ward the importance of reporting to court if he left the program. ward never did so and never explained why he failed to return to court at anytime following his exit from the program, even outside of the 48-hour reporting period. based and execution of sentence did not constitute an abuse of discretion. 7 disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports stratton, j.* i concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 