filed 4/5/16 p. v. ponce ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arturo ponce, defendant and appellant. b264868 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba421616) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, douglas w. sortino, judge. affirmed. david b. cohen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 following a jury trial, defendant and appellant, arturo ponce, was found guilty of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211) and sentenced to a term of five years in prison. we affirm. factual summary viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. on april 24, 2013, michelle pardew was parking her car on bonnie brae avenue when she heard two men in a car next to her start yelling obscenities, calling her at themproblem is. keep fucking goiir car was leaving, pardew walked around to the back of her hatchback to retrieve some items. the other car did not leave, however, and there was further yelling back and forth, and then defendant ponce got out of the passenger seat of the other car and walked over to pardew. pardew had her wallet and iphone in her hand. walking up to me, i was telling him to fuck off and get the fuck out of my face because i knew something bad was going to happewalked up to her and punched her several times in the head and the neck. pardew grabbed a platform shoe from the back of her car and tried to hit ponce with it. during this struggle, pardew dropped her wallet and cell phone on the ground. ponce immediately picked them up and returned to his car. pardew ran after him and tried to grab her phone back, but ponce held it high over his head where ponce return her phone, he insisted it was his ipod. ponce pushed pardew away and dumped a large soda over her head. he then got back into the car and closed the door. pardew grabbed his shirt through the open window in an attempt to prevent him from leaving, but the car started driving so she had to let go. meanwhile, a bystander had called 9-1-1 to report that a woman was being attacked. the caller told the 9-1-1 operator that two guys had jumped a woman who nded to the 3 scene and found pardew in the middle of the street, distraught and crying, with the kind of would receive . . . during [a] 2. defense evidence. ponce teponce was listening to his ipod and not really paying attention to what was going on. he heard marco pounding on the passenger-side window of marcomarco was yelling back at the woman. the woman opened the passenger door and ponce got out to try to calm her down, but she started hitting him. the woman went to the trunk of her car and returned with a high-heeled shoe which she used to hit ponce repeatedly. ponce put up a hand to defend himself, and he tried to push the woman away. he threw the soda at her to try to get her to stop hitting him. ponce picked up what he thought was his ipod from the ground and got back into the car. marco drove off. ponce then realized that what he had picked up was not his ipod but an iphone. he assumed it belonged to the woman, but instead of going back and returning it to her, he threw it into the trash. 3. trial outcome. the jury convicted ponce of second degree robbery, for which the trial court arising from an independent drug offense was revoked and a two-year prison term was imposed for that offense, to be served concurrently with his five-year term for the robbery.1 we appointed counsel to represent ponce on appeal. after reviewing the record, counsel filed an opening brief requesting this court to independently review the record 1 the trial court did not find that ponce had violated his probation, however, because the instant robbery took place prior to the drug offense. 4 pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441. ponce has filed a supplemental opening brief. discussion we have examined the entire record and are satisfied appellate counsel has fully complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable appellate issues exist. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278 [120 s.ct. 746]; people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 443.) in his supplemental brief, ponce asserts that counsel because: (1) he had a witness, marco martinez, whom defense counsel interviewed but did not call at trial, and (2) the 9-1-1 caller (who did not testify at trial) provide an adequate record to permit review of a claimed error, and failure to do so may people v. akins (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 1376, 1385.) there is nothing in the record indicating that the 9-1-1 caller threatened ponce or his friend. indeed, ponce testified that he and marco drove off to get away from pardew, not because they were being threatened by a knife-wielding bystander. the record demonstrates that defense counsel was prepared to call someone named marco martinez to testify, but for some reason a decision was made not to put him on the stand.2 if ponce desires to pursue either of these claims, he must do so by means of a habeas corpus petition in which he supplements the record to include an appropriate factual basis demonstrating that he was denied effective assistance of counsel; as the record currently stands, no such showing has been made. 2 during pretrial discussions, defense counsel informed the trial court she might call scene that the [9-1-firmatively, the prosecutor and the trial court noted that before allowing this witness to testify, independent counsel would have to be appointed to advise him regarding his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination. 5 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: aldrich, j. lavin, j. 