filed 5/5/16 p. v. guevara ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. julio cesar guevara, defendant and appellant. b264141 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka 106687) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for the county of los angeles. salvatore t. sirna, judge. affirmed. michelle t. livecchi-raufi, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, timothy m. weiner and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 summary a jury convicted defendant julio cesar guevara of possession for sale of a controlled substance and transportation of a controlled substance for sale (both felonies), and of resisting a peace officer (a misdemeanor). defendant waived his right to a jury trial on his prior convictions, and admitted a prior strike conviction for robbery in 2003. he was sentenced to six years in state prison. on appeal, defendant raises four issues. he contends his conviction for resisting arrest should be reversed because the trial court failed to instruct, sua sponte, on excessive force. he contends the trial court erred when it instructed with calcrim no. re to explain or deny adverse testimony). he contends his admission of his prior conviction was not knowing and voluntary because, although the trial court advised him of his right to a jury trial, the court did not advise him of his confrontation right and of his privilege against compulsory self-incrimination. and he contends the court abused its discretion in the admission of certain evidence. we find no reversible error and affirm the judgment. facts on july 18, 2014, police officers michael lee and mark medellin observed defendant, driving alone in a white ford explorer, make a u-turn over a double yellow line and park at a red curb in front of a fire hydrant. the officers were in an unmarked ck polo shirt with a cloth badge, side patches and the word radio holder, holster, extra ammunition, handcuffs and a taser. officer lee made a u-turn to effect a traffic stop, and parked behind the white explorer. as he did so, he observed defendant throw an object out of the passenger officer medellin also used, but there was nothiofficer medellin got out of the car and approached the driver (defendant), and saw him 3 rummaging through the centoth his hands and started then defendant started what he was shouting other than i heard him say something like throwing, throwing, he what i thought he was trying to say was that he threw something and the police are contacting him. and it sounded like he was saying it -- [] . . . [] . . . -- and s officer lee had endant had his foot on the brake. after he took the keys out of the explorer, officer lee ran around to the passenger side, and climbed into the car. post), and officer lee over and over again . . . . had been involved in numerous investigations involving narcotics at that location.) 4 a defendant complied and officer lee and another officer took defendant into custody. meanwhile, officer medellin the baggie that had the contents in it. the woman looked at officer medellin and , who had been trying to gain control with the neck hold, . . . retrieve it before the woman got to it. (officer lee said that, because of the crowd that was coming from the apartments [officer medellin] went around and he had to recover the evidence that was thrown out of the vehicle and keep the crowd away from [officer lee] while i [(officer lee)] continued attempting to detain the [defendant] inside the ) after officer medellin grabbed the baggie and the needle and syringe defendant had tossed from the car, the woman kept coming towards him, and a crowd 15 was forming behind her. shouting at us, and then off to my right-hand side i could see my partner struggling with [defendant] to try to take him into custody . . . .statements towards the police, and my state of mind was that this group was coming out to assist [defendant], possibly try to lynch him away from us. and then there was a several other officers (at least eight) would say it took a good two minutes or three minutes before we could actually get officer lee later searcscale in a black tool bag, and $131 (six $a $10, and a $1 bill) 5 both bags were in the rear seat on the passenger defendant was charged by information with felony violations of health and safety code sections 11378 (possession for sale of methamphetamine) and 11379, subdivision (a) (transportation of methamphetamine for sale), and with a misdemeanor violation of penal code section 148, subdivision (a)(1) (resisting a peace officer). the information also alleged defendant had one prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(j),  1170.12), and alleged defendant had served two prior prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). his prior convictions and, before the jury was selected, defendant waived his right to a jury trial on his prior convictions. at trial, a criminalist testified that the substance recovered by the police was that are submitted to me for analysis with respect to methamphetamine are well under a officer lee opined, based on his background, training and experience, that typical one-quarter gram bags that cost about $20. a seller could break down the 6 grams into 24 one-quarter gram bags in the crumpled bills police found were consistent with someone that is selling methamphetamine. defendant testified in his own defense, maintaining that he used but had never sold methamphetamine, and had no prior convictions for sales. he testified that on the to eat 6 and . . . methamphetamine the police found. he was using becaudefendant normally purchased 6.5 grams of methamphetamine, and seller, for approximately five months. defendant said he has used methamphetamine off and on since he was 15 years old. the scale found in his work bag belonged to him. he used the scale to weigh his 6.5, i used some before i left. before i drive off with the material, with the substance, i my money. so i weigh i did m defendant said that when he made the u-turn, he was stopping outside his had stopped in front of the apartments. . . . se i asked somebody to call . . . brake and i noticed that the officers were passing by next to me like this. at that moment i seen them and . . . i grabbed the substance and i reached over and i threw it out the defendant did not hear the officers say anything to him before an officer grabbed and the car started rolling forward, he had me like this, on my tippy toes, i pushed the defendant said he was trying to put the car in park when the 7 police grabbed his arms, but he could notme and pull me to the back to the side of the car like this. he had me pinned against my door and at the same time i was leaning back and my tippy toe i was barely holding onto defendant said his maneuver me like they wanted to, or else they would have got me right out. i told them the seatbelt was on so they got -- they booked me out [sicy with ) defendant did not try to strike any officer, or to spit on any officers, or to run, or to drive away. nothing. i just got yanked, boom. times . . . .defendant denied that he was yelling for his girlfriend to come and pick up the drugs. he testified the jury convicted defendant on all three counts. at a hearing three weeks later, defendant admitted that he suffered a prior conviction for robbery, and counsel joined in the admission. the court accepted romero motion to dismiss the strike in the interest of justice (people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero)), observing that the case was of the three strikes sentencing scheme, especially given defen the court sentenced defendant to six years in state prison, and made other orders not at issue in this appeal. discussion defendant raises several claims of error. none of them has merit. 8 1. the lack of instruction on excessive force the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 2656, telling the jury that to prove defendant was guilty of resisting, obstructing, or delaying a peace officer, the esisted, obstructed, or those duties; and that defendant knew or reasonably should have known they were peace officers. as people v. ghebretensae (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 741, 759 (ghebretensae) confirms, this is a proper instruction on the legal elements of resisting arrest (pen. code,  148, subd. (a)). defendant requested no further instructions at trial, but on appeal he contends there was evidence the officers used excessive force in arresting him, making his arrest unlawful, and so the court had a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on excessive force. (see people v. gonzalez (1990) 51 cal.3d 1179, 1217 [a defendant cannot be convicted of an offense against a peace officer unless the officer was acting lawfully at the time, italics omitted]; people v. castain (1981) 122 did not support an instruction on excessive force. it is settled that in criminal cases, even in the absence of a request, the trial court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and which are necessary for the jurys understanding of the case.included within this duty is the . . . obligation to instruct on defenses, . . . and on the relationship of these defenses to the elements of the charged offense . . . . . . it appears that the defendant is relying on such a defense, or if there is substantial evidence supportive of such a defense . . . .(people v. stewart (1976) 16 cal.3d 133, 140 (stewart); see ghebretensae, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 760 [discussing calcrim 9 no. 2656 and bench notes performance is an issue here, neither condition specified in stewart applied. defendant presented no claim or argument that the officers used excessive force or otherwise acted unlawfully in effecting his arrest; his theory of the case was simply that he did not resist their efforts to arrest him. and as described above, there was no an excessive force claim. (stewart, supra, 16 cal.3d at p. 140.) defendant insists on appeal from the physical force being placed on him; ; and he did not but the question is whether the evidence showed excessive force, not what defendant was thinking at the time and defendant himself yanking, just a few times. the cases defendant cites in both of which the theory of defense at trial involved excessive force do not support a different conclusion. (see people v. white (1980) 101 cal.app.3d 161, 169, 167-168 [the defendant proffered a combined defense of excessive force and self-defense; testimony from the defendant, corroborated by another witness, showed the police officer started choking and beating the defendant; instructions were incomplete in failing to tell the jury that if they found the arrest was made with excessive force, it was unlawful and they should find the defendant not guilty of resisting arrest]; people v. castain, supra, 122 cal.app.3d at pp. 141, 142-144 [defendant and a companion testified that arresting officer choked defendant, threw him against the side of the car, dragged him backwards into the street, and after their struggle ended twice going to be dead by morning abused its discretion in excluding evidence the officer used excessive force on another occasion].) in sum, because there was no substantial evidence of excessive force, the trial court had no duty to give an instruction the defendant did not request. (see 10 ghebretensae, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at pp. 760-761 instruct with calcrim no. 2670 (which explains that a peace officer is not lawfully performing his duties if he is using excessive force) in connection with charge of resisting correctly determined that the evidence did not support the instruction requested by the defense and t 2. calcrim no. 361 the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 361 (failure to explain or deny adverse testimony) as follows: if the defendant failed in his testimony to explain or deny evidence against him, and if he could reasonably be expected to have done so based on what he knew, you may consider his failure to explain or deny in evaluating that evidence. any such failure is not enough by itself to prove guilt. the people must still prove the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. if the defendant failed to explain or deny, it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that failure. defense counsel did not object when the trial court identified the instruction as among those to be given. on appeal, defendant argues the trial court erred in giving the instruction, because defendant did not fail to explain or deny any fact or evidence within his personal knowledge. the error, he contends, was prejudicial. we disagree. even without an objection, a defendant may challenge on appeal an instruction the substantial rights of the defendant . . . . (people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, 505-506, quoting pen. code,  1259; see people v. haynes (1983) 148 cal.app.3d 1117, 1120, 1122 [instruction on failure to explain or deny adverse testimony now challenged for the first time was not even discussed below nor was its subject matter mentioned by either counsel during his argument to the jurycircumstances showed that any theoretical error occasioned by [the instruction] was harmless; people v. arredondo (1975) 52 cal.app.3d 973, 978 [citing pen. code,  1259 and observing that substantial rights with reversible error, i.e., did the error result 11 in a miscarriage of justice?].) here, the instruction did not result in a miscarriage of justice. the relevant principles are described in people v. saddler (1979) 24 cal.3d 671 (saddler). saddler construed caljic no. 2.62, tentcalcrim no. 361. (people v. rodriguez (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 1062, 1066.) saddler found caljic no. 2.62 se there saddler, at pp. 681-682.) the court pointed out that structed that it may draw a particular inference, evidence must appear in the record which, if believed by the jury, [citation.]id. at p. 681.) the error, however, was harmless, even though a previous trial in which the instruction had not been given resulted in a hung jury. (id. at p. 68 circumstances of the robbery, the strength of the identification testimony, and the fact that the jury reached its verdict after one and a half hours of deliberation, persuade us that the instructional error was harmless. in this case, respondent asserts there was evidentiary support for the instruction. the prosecution presented evidence that defendant had $131 in his tool bag. when defens-examination, defendant testified the check he cashed from his employer was for roughly $500bought the methamphetamine for $250. the prosecutor thethe $120? because $250 plus the $131 found in your tool bag comes out to $381 . . . . ant . . . i was too 12 regardless of whether this testimony provides adequate evidentiary support for the instruction, any error in giving calcrim no. 361 was harmless. (see people v. lamer (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 1463, 1471 (lamerwe apply the harmless error standard adopted in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson)].) lamer is instructive. in lameralthough . . . courts have frequently found giving caljic no. 2.62 to constitute error, we have not found a single case in which an appellate court found the error to be reversible under the watson standard. on the contrary, courts have routinely found that the improper giving of caljic no. 2.62 constitutes harmless error.(lamer, supra, 110 cal.app.4th all concluding that caljic no. 2.62 was .) the court in people v. vega (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 484 (vega) made the same e evaluate the impact of calcrim no. 361 in the context of the instructions as a whole, starting with the carefully constructed internal balance to no. 361 itself. calcrim no. 361 does not direct the jury to draw an adverse inference. it instructs the jury that failure to explain or deny alone is not a sufficient basis upon which to infer guilt, and it highlights the s burden to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] ultimately, meaning and importance of the failure to explain or deny in hands. (calcrim no. 361.)vega, at pp. 502-503.) on the record here, we see no probability that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result if calcrim no. 361 had not been given. the evidence we have described in our recitation of the facts including the of methamphetamine involved, the crumpled currency and digital scale in the back seat of the car, and the expert opinion of officer lee strongly supported possession of the methamphetamine for sale, and the evidence defendant resisted police efforts to detain him was equally strong 13 ntion calcrim no. 361. in sum, no prejudice appears, and the evaluation of calcrim no. 361 described in vega is directly on point. further, as the court observed in vega, t is also notable that the trial court told the jury here that not all the instructions were necessarily applicable (calcrim no. 200), and advised jurors to follow the instructions that applied to the facmiti related to the giving of calcrim no. 361, if it were deemed to be improper. (vega, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 503.) again, the same is true in this case. 3. failure to advise on waiver of constitutional rights defendant contends his admission of his prior strike conviction was not voluntary and intelligent because, while he waived his right to a jury trial, he was not advised of his constitutional rights to confrontation and freedom from compulsory self-incrimination. we disagree a. the legal background and applicable principles in boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238 (boykin), the high court held it was error to accept a guilty plea id. at p. 242.) the court explained: several federal constitutional rights are involved in a waiver that takes place when a plea of guilty is entered in a state criminal trial. first, is the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination . . . . [citation.] second, is the right to trial by jury. [citation.] third, is the right to confront id. at p. 243.[w]e cannot presume a waiver of ibid.) in in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122 (tahl)of the three rights mentioned self-incrimination, confrontation, and jury trial must be specifically and expressly enumerated for the benefit of and waived by the accused prior to acceptance of his guilty id. at p. 132.) 14 in in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857 (yurko), the court held that the decisions in boykin and tahl (yurko, at p. 863.) in people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, the court recognized that, contrary to its holding in tahlboykin as requiring explicit admonitihoward, at p. 1177.) in howard, the court id. at p. 1178.) id. at p. 1175.) nonetheless, e only realistic means of assuring that the judge leaves a record adequate for review.(id. at pp. 1178-1179; see id. , . . . the prior conviction was voluntary and intelligent despite the absence of an explicit admonition on the privilege against self-.) finally, in people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353 (mosby), the court addressed a circumstance similar when, immediately after a jury verdict of guilty, a defendant admits a prior conviction after being advised of and waiving only the right to trial, can that admission be voluntary and intelligent even though the defendant was not told of, and thus did not expressly waive, the concomitant rights to remain silent and to confront adverse witnesses? if the totality of circumstances surrounding the admission supports such a conclusion.id. at p. 356.) mosby tells us if the transcript does not reveal complete advisements and waivers, the reviewing cothe entire proceeding to assess whether the s admission of the prior conviction was intelligent and voluntary in light of the totality of circumstances.(id. at p. 361.) b. the circumstances in this case consonant with mosby 15 the information alleged three prior felony convictions for various purposes: the robbery conviction in 2003, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon in 2005, and possession of a controlled substance in 2010. the information alleged defendant served prison terms for two prior convictions, and did not remain free of custody during the five years after completion of those prison terms. (port shows these convictions, as well as two sustained juvenile petitions in 2001 and 2002.) the record does not show whether the prior convictions were by plea or after trial. to right to have a jury trial on the issue of his priors. your client can waive that right and have a court trial on the want the court the handle everything, so court trial. the following day, before jury selection, defendant waived his right to a jury trial on his prior convictions in the following exchange: the court]: yesterday we talked about the issues of priors, and i know, [defense counsel], you indicated that defendant was going to waive his right to a jury trial in that regard and agree to have the prior -- the issue of the priors heard before the court only after the trial of the three charges. [] so mr. guevara, do you understand, sir, that you have a right to have the issue of the defendant: yes. the court: do you waive and give up that right and agree that the court may hear those issues of your priors after the trial on the three charges? the defendant: yes. the court: you join, counsel? defense counsel]: 16 on april 8, 2015, about three weeks after the ensuing trial and convictions, the court held a hearing to consider romero motion, as well as a trial on the priors, and . . . when the court asked defense counsel whether there was anything not in the romero motion that the court should consider, the prosecutor began this exchange: -- it is my understanding, your honor, that the defendant will admit the strike prior so that we can proceed with the romero motion. the court: . . . . thank you. the prosecutor]: mr. guevara, it is my understanding that you are going to admit to your strike prior; is that correct? the defendant: correct. the prosecutor]: and, pursuant to penal code section 667, subsection (d), and penal code section 1170.12, subsection (b), do you admit that you suffered a prior conviction for robbery, which is penal code section 211 in case no. ka062221, on june 23rd, 2003, from the los angeles superior court? do you admit to that? the defendant: yes. the prosecutor]: does counsel join in the admission? defense counsel]: join. yes. the prosecutor]: people join. and -- the court: okay. thank you [prosecutor]. [] the court accepts we are thus presented with the same question presented in mosby. while was not told of, and thus did not expressly waive, the concomitant rights to remain silent and to confront adverse witnesses(mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 356.) but, as in mosby, we conclude on this record that 17 under the totality of the circumstances, defendant voluntarily and intelligently admitted his prior conviction. in this case, before the jury trial on the substantive charges, defendant was told, and confirmed he understood, his right to trial on his prior convictions. on march 10, 2015, the prosecutor told him he had that right, and defendant confirmed his understanding the following day, march 11, when the court questioned him: mr. guevara, do you understand, sir, that you have a right to have the issue of your prior that same day, march 11, the jury was selected. defendant was present. the court told the prospective jurors absolute right not to testify. . . . the defendant . . . can simply sit here during the entire trial and not say a single word . . . . the following day (march 12), before testimony began, the court instructed the jnse may also present evidence, but is not required to do so. because he is presumed innocent, the defendant during the trial, the prosecution presented -examined both of them. then, three weeks after his march 16 conviction, defendant admitted his prior strike. in short, defendant expressly waived a jury trial on his prior convictions, and immediately thereafter underwent a jury trial on his substantive offenses. while defendant testified at the trial, on this record we think it impossible that defendant remained unaware of his right not to do so. and, as in mosby, because he had, through counsel, confronted witnesses at that immediately concluded trial, he would have mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 364.) while we recognize that in mosby, the defendant waived his right to trial on the priors immediately after (rather than as here, immediately before) the trial, we think the conclusion to be drawn that defendant understood his rights at a trial to remain silent and confront witnesses can be no different. 18 is . . . (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 365, quoting parke v. raley (1992) 506 u.s. 20, 37.) the record here does not show (as it did in mosbyconvictions were based on guilty pleas (at which he would have received boykin-tahl advisements). (mosby, eading guilty in three convictions, in 2003, 2005, and 2010, necessarily involved either pleas or trials and in either case it is hard to avoid the conclusion that, in the present case, defendant must have known that his trial rights included the right not to incriminate himself and the right to confront witnesses. defendant relies on people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, but nothing in cross in any way alters the principles we have described. in cross, a defendant charged with felony infliction of corporal injury stipulated at trial to a prior conviction under the same trial riid. at p. 168.) the court reiterated principles earlier expressed in howard and mosby, and concluded the record contain[ed] no indication that stipulation was knowing and voluntary, and the attorney general does not contend otherwise.cross, at pp. 179-180 [counsel read stipulation in open court during in the trialm [defendant] cross is in no way comparable to this case. we conclude, based on the totality of the circumstances, that defendant voluntarily and intelligently admitted his prior strike conviction. 4. claims of error in admission of evidence defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion when it overruled his objections, on relevancy or speculation grounds, to several questions. defendant describes the challenged testim 19 defendant cites the following: first, cabout what officer lee did after he entered the passenger side of the car. officer lee that time [over and over again which -- [] . . . [] . . . which attracted -- several people came out counsel objected on relevance and hearsay grounds, and the court overruled the objection on both grounds. second, officer medellin testified that 15 to 20 people were coming out of the police from [defendant], mainly. that was what brought -- court overruled the objection. third, after officer medellin testified he court sustained jection on relevance grounds. then the prosecutor askedmind in terms of the crowd statements towards the police, and my state of mind was that this group was coming out to assist [defendant], possibly try to lynch him away from us. and then there was a me closer so i finally g fourth, running at me. so i had the female on the ground and i was holding her down with my knees and a male came at me and i just grabbed him by his shirt, by the front of his shirt, 20 sidebar, which was not reported. no ruling on the objection appears in the record. the prosecutor then asked whether tstatements toward the polictestimony thereafter, officer medellin good two minutes or three minutes before we could actually get everybody under defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted the portions of the testimony just described to which he objected. we see no error. testimony about dethe testimony was not speculation; it was an entirely reasonable inference to draw. the evidence that the crowd was unruly and made derogatory remarks about the police thought was happening) in short, the testimony was relevant and it was not speculative. nor was [it] appear being conclusion. finally, in a related argument, defendant contends that the court was obliged to give a unanimity instruction. he is mistaken. as a general rule, when violation of a criminal statute is charged and the evidence establishes several acts, any one of which could constitute the crime charged, either the state must select the particular act upon which it relied for the allegation of the 21 information, or the jury must be instructed that it must agree unanimously upon which act to base a verdict of guilty.(people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 679.) the rule continuous-course-of-conduct exception, which when the acts are so closely connected in time as t[citation] . . . .ibid.) defendant offers the same defense or defenses to the various acts constituting the charged cribid.) acts that could have supported the charge of resisting arrest; the other was the struggle in the car. ithe prosecutor did not argue that defendant was trying to do so and defense counsel did not argue the contrary. even if the jury understood the evidence as indicating that defendant exception to the unanimity rule would apply. with the driver to the point where the driver was handcuffed . . . . in short, even if the jury believed that defendant tried to incite the crowd by yelling, that conduct was contemporaneous with and inseparable from his struggle with the officers. the unanimity rule has no application here. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 