filed 6/23/16 p. v. morales ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arnulfo aquino morales, defendant and appellant. b264358 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va041282) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, lori ann fournier, judge. affirmed. cabrera & hart, michael s. cabrera, kristen m. hart, tracy l. conaway for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________ 2 appellant arnulfo morales appeals from an order denying his motion to vacate his 1997 felony conviction for a violation of penal code section 237.5, obtained pursuant to a plea agreement. morales contends that the superior court abused its discretion in concluding that he was properly advised of the potential immigration consequences of his plea. we affirm. factual and procedural background on february 14, 1997, the people filed a felony complaint against morales, charging him with one count of willful infliction of corporal injury resulting in a cohabitant or former cohabitant, fianc, or parent of the offe 237.5, subds. (a), (b).) the complaint further alleged as an enhancement that appellant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), and that as a result the offense was alleged to be a serious felony (pen. code,  1192.7, subd. (c)(23)). he faced a potential sentence of five years in prison. on april 23, 1997, morales pleaded no contest to one count of felony domestic violence. he was sentenced to time served, totaling 90 days, and placed on formal probation for three years. on february 1, 2013, morales received a notice of hearing regarding removal proceedings, which was scheduled for june 10, 2014. morales filed his motion to vacate the plea on january 26, 2015, alleging that he was not informed by his counsel of the immigration consequences of the plea. in the motion he argues home that he has known for over 20 years, and abandon his family, he would have in opposition to the motion, the people produced a written waiver executed at the s plea pursuant to in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122, which contains the signatures of morales and his counsel, anna armenta-rigor. the tahl waiver contains do not apply. 3 citizen of the united states, the conviction for the offense charged may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of document filed with the superior court showed a mark in box 10 that was not, based on the scanned version, clearly a set of initials or an x. in opposition to the motion to vacate the plea, the people also out from what appears to be an internal system, as it does not look like a standard minute order or docket report and was not available to defense counsel through a records search the opposition to the motion to vacate the plea, including the minute order, was not provided as part of the record made available to this court. at the hearing, that the defendant was advised pursuant to [penal code section] 1016, verbatim, of the rights that are re the superior court, after reviewing the executed waiver and the minute order, found look like an x like the boxes that are cross the superior court concluded that with the tahl the motion was denied pursuant to a minute order entered on april 21, 2015. morales filed his notice of appeal on may 14, 2015. discussion an order of a trial court denying a motion to vacate a plea pursuant to penal code section 1016.5 is an appealable order, which is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. totari (2002) 28 cal.4th 876, 887; people v. superior court (zamudio) (2000) 23 cal.4th 183, 192.) s factual findings if people v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1254.) penal code section 1016.5 requires that, before accepting a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any criminal offense, the trial court must advise the defendant that if he or [the defendant has] 4 been charged may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united statescode,  1016.5, subd. (a).) the statute allows the defendant to move to vacate the a record that the court provided the advisement required by this section, the defendant shall be presumed not to have received the required advisement.pen. code,  1016.5, subd. (b).) in order to prevail on a motion to vacate pursuant to penal code a defendant must establish that (1) he or she was not properly advised of the immigration consequences as provided by the statute; (2) there exists, at the time of the motion, more than a remote possibility that the conviction will have one or more of the specified adverse immigration consequences; and (3) he or she was prejudiced by the nonadvisement. (people v. totari, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 884.) morales court or any of the attorneys present informing him that he would be deported, excluded from admission to the united states and denied naturalization at any point in the future as a he argues that his contention cannot be refuted by the people because the transcript of the hearing in which he pleaded no contest was destroyed pursuant to government code section 69955, that the minute order alone is insufficient to establish that the advisements were properly given, and that it is unclear whether box 10 on the tahl waiver is initialed. he also argues that a spanish language interpreter did not sign the form. a court may rely upon a defendants validly executed waiver form as a proper substitute people v. panizzon (1996) 13 cal.4th 68, 83.) even in the absence of advisement by the trial defendant and his attorney the trial court has reason to believe the defendant does not fully comprehend his rights, must the trial court conduct further canvassing of the (people v. castrillon (1991) 227 cal.app.3d 718, 722.) at the hearing, the superior court, reviewing the tahl waiver and comparing the markings to similar markings in other boxes, found that the 5 marks on the form appear to be s x. accordingly, since morales executed the form containing the requisite penal code section 1016.5 advisement, which was also acknowledged by his defense counsel, the form alone was sufficient to rebut the presumption of section 1016.5 that he was not adequately advised of the immigration consequences of his plea. in addition to the plea agreement form, however, the internal minute order of the court states that morales was advised of the potential immigration consequences of his plea. the trial court, based on its consideration of the minute order and the tahl waiver, concluded that the people satisfied their burden to overcome the statutory presumption that morales did not receive the required advisement. the trial court properly considered s initials on the waiver and his signature, along with the signature of his counsel indicating that she explained the waivers to morales. as such, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the motion to vacate the plea. accordingly, we affirm. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. 