filed 12/22/16 p. v. lopez ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edward c. lopez, defendant and appellant. b265350 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba425891) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen kennedy, judge. affirmed, as modified. patricia s. lai, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 edward c. lopez (defendant) appeals his two second degree robbery convictions. he argues that (1) his due process right to a fair trial was violated when the investigating police officer volunteered two statements alluding to defendantinteraction with police and a prior arrest, and (2) the trial court argument has merit. accordingly, we affirm his convictions but order that the custody credits be corrected. facts and procedural background i. facts one afternoon in june 2014, 19-year-old joseph villareal (joseph) and his 13-year-old cousin patrick were riding their bikes in grant rea park in the city of montebello.1 as they walked their bikes by a gazebo where several people were gathered, one of those peoplejerry raymond mascorro (mascorro)approached joseph and patrick, and although joseph responded there was no problemmascorro drew a pistol, pointed it at them, and ordered the two other mendefendant and his son, edward lopez, jr. (lopez, jr.)approached joseph and patrick from the gazebo and echoed the demand that . . . everything [they] defendant pushed joseph down onto his knees, and either defendant or lopez, jr. punched patrick in his ribs. from joseph, the three men took a hat, a backpack, an ipod, a samsung galaxy cell phone, some money, and a bike; from patrick, the three men took a green iphone and a bike. 1 because patrick is a minor, we refer to him by first name only and, for consistency, to joseph by first name as well. we mean no disrespect. 3 defendant instructed mascorro and lopez, jr. to leave the ikes. defendant then started walking behind joseph and patrick, pushing joseph and there,e defendant split away from joseph and patrick, and got into an older model tan chevy truck and drove away. joseph memorized the license plate number of the truck, borrowed a cell phone, and called 911 to report the robbery. the police ran the license plate number and learned that the truck was registered to defendant. the next day, police interviewed joseph and patrick and presented them with a six-person photospread containing an older photograph of defendant. during those interviews, joseph did not identify defendant from the photospread, but patrick picked defendant with the caveat was now gray (not black, as depicted in the older photograph). the next day, police went to the apartment where defe as they arrived, someone threw a green iphone (later identified as ) out of the inside the apartment, they found lopez, jr. police thereafter showed joseph a six-person photospread containing a more recent photograph of defendant; joseph picked defendant out of that photospread. 4 ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with (1) the second degree robbery of joseph (pen. code,  211),2 and (2) the second degree robbery of patrick (ibid.).3 the people further alleged that a principal (namely, mascorro) was armed with a firearm in the course of these robberies ( 12022, subd. (a)(1meaning of our three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) as well as a prior serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)); and that defendant had served six prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). both joseph and patrick identified defendant as one of the robbers at the preliminary hearing. both joseph and patrick identified defendant as one of the robbers at the trial. the jury found defendant guilty of both robberies and found true the allegation that a principal was armed with a firearm. defendant subsequently admitted his prior convictions. the trial court sentenced defendant to 18 years in state prison. for the first robbery, the court imposed a 16-year sentence comprised of a base term of 10 years (the high-end term of five years, doubled due to the prior strike), plus one year for the firearm enhancement, plus five years for the prior serious 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 mascorro and lopez, jr. were charged with the same crimes and convicted. they appealed separately, and we affirmed their convictions. (see people v. mascorro (may 19, 2016, b262793) [nonpub. opn.].) 5 felony. for the second robbery, the court imposed a consecutive two-year sentence comprised of a base term of two years (one-third the midterm of three years, doubled due to the prior strike). the court struck the enhancements for all six prior prison terms. the court awarded defendant 402 days of custody credit, comprised of 359 actual days and 43 days of good time/work time credit. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. evidentiary error defendant argues that the investigating police officer made two comments suggesting that defendant had a criminal history, and that these comments violated federal due process and necessitate reversal of his convictions. we review this claim de novo. (see people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 225, fn. 7.) a. pertinent facts during the proslocation to which the truck joseph saw was registered] the his son. i had knowledge thatl interrupted with a relevance objection. the trial court noted that . . . has ever been arrested or detainin however, the court answer and instructed the jury to disregard it. several minutes later, the prosecutor asked the officer whether the older photograph of def 6 photograph available to [him] at that the officer nonresponsive, and the trial court sustained the objection. no admonished to disregard it. however, the court told the officer that his answers about his prior dealings with defendant and his reference to a booking photo intimat[ed] and suggest[ed] things for the jury to speculate about at no point did defendant move for a mistrial on the basis of these statements. b. analysis as a threshold matter, we will assume that the investigating ofphotograph (which necessarily rests upon a prior arrest) and that inadmissible. (e.g., people v. anderson (1978) 20 cal.3d 647, 650 [evidence of a def is inadmissible]; people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 609-610 [same].) however, the question defendant raises is whether their admission violates due process. as relevant here, the erroneous admission of evidence can violate due process in one of two ways: (1) its admission can vmakes the trial fundamentally people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439; holley v. yarborough (9th cir. 2009) 568 f.3d 1091, 11014); or (2) its 4 this decision disagrees with an earlier ninth circuit decision cited by defendant, mckinney v. rees (9th cir. 1993) 993 7 admission can been ir [citation.]people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 703 (edwards); people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 683). defendant never asked for a mistrial on this basis, so he has forfeited any mistrial claim. (people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 3argue that the court should have granted a mistrial he did not request because the touchstone for either type of due process both types of claims. s comments about habout graph fundamentally unfair. to begin, these comments did not suggest that defendant had been convicted of any prior offenses: the booking photo comment implied that defendant had been (as the trial court observed). what is more, these comments were brief and isolated, taking up mere seconds within the context of a trial that lasted over a week. brief and isolated references to prior arrestsor, indeed, prior convictionsdo not render a trial fundamentally unfair. (edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 703 [so holding, as to prior arrest]; people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 123 [so holding, as to mention of defendant being in jail]; people v. franklin (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 938, 955-956 [so holding, as to f.2d 1378, 1384. we choose to follow the ninth circuit decision that accords with california law on this point. 8 mention of prior criminal convictions]; people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 197-199 [so holding, as to mention of defendant being incarcerated]; people v. harris (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1575, 1580-criminality].) the court also admonished the jury to disregard jurors heed such admonitions. ( (2016) 62 case[s]hich the inadmissible evidence may be deemed to be incurably prejudicial.edwards, at p. 703; people v. allen (1978) 77 cal.app.3d 924, 934-935.) but those cases are credibility of competing witnesses. (allen, at p. 935; people v. gibson (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 119, 129 [calling for greater the inference of identity is weakexplain next, this is not such a case. even if we assumed a due process violation, any such violation is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt in light of the (see chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) both joseph and patrick had ample time to see defendant during the robbery, and both victims repeatedly and consistently identified him as one of the three robbersin photospreads, at the preliminary hearing, and at trial. defendant argues that joseph identifications were not immune from impeachment. joseph and patrick disagreed over what color shirt defendant was wearing during the robbery; joseph initially said it was black, then said it was white, then said defendant changed his shirt, while patrick said the shirt was a brown, hawaiian shirt. joseph and patrick 9 incorre; joseph said he was five feet four or five inches tall; five five and defendant was actually 4 feet 10 inches tall. and joseph gave inconsistent statements about whether he saw after the robbery. based on these inconsistencies, defendant asserts that it is possible that joseph and patrick confused the third robber with the person they later saw get into the truck. we reject this argument for two reasons. first, assertion that joseph and patrick mistakenly identified him as registration led them to the apartment where lopez, jr. was staying and where was tossed out of the window as they approached. second, and more fundamentally, these gray-haired man who was one of the three people who robbed them. ii. custody credits defendant contends that the trial court miscalculated his good time/work time credits, the people conceded this is error, and we agree. a defendant with a prior serious felony conviction accrues good conduct time credits equal to 15 percent of his actual days in custody. ( 2900.5, 2933.1 & 4019.) it is undisputed that defendant had 359 days of actual custody credit on the day he was sentenced; this entitles him to 53 days of good conduct credit, not the 43 days he was actually awarded. disposition the abstract of judgment is ordered amended to reflect that defendant has 412 days of custody credit, comprised of 359 days 10 of actual custody credit plus 53 days of good conduct credit. the clerk of the superior court is ordered to forward the amended abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst _________________________, j.* goodman * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 