 filed 4/5/16 p. v. pando ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edward joel pando, defendant and appellant. b265711 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va137461) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, olivia rosales, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, and abtin amir, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant edward joel pando (defendant) on one count of committing a lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14, in violation of california penal code section 288, subdivision (a). the trial court sentenced defendant to the low term of three years in prison. we consider whether sufficient evidence a prison sentence rather than granting probation. i. background a. the offense conduct on the night of december 31, 2011, three sisters house where they lived with their parents, their younger sister hallie, and their younger brother. hallie was 13 years old at the time. defendant, who was 21 years old, attended the party. he had spoken with hallie on occasion during prior visits, their interactions had always been casual and brief. ht and into the next morning, with people gathering in the den. that night, but hallie socialized at the party with her sisters and their friends. many of the partygoers were drinking alcohol, hallie was not drinking. hallie remained behind in the den, as did defendant and another man. what happened next, which we will describe in greater detail, was the factual dispute resolved by the jury at trial. according to hallie, when the unidentified man left the den, defendant draped a blanket over himself and hallie and then fondled her breasts and touched her vagina while kissing her. according to defendant, hallie came to sit next to him on the couch, he fell asleep, and the next thing he remembered was one of his friends waking him up to leave the party. 3 after the party, a frie late that month, hallie pointed to her vaginal area to show rudy where she meant. rudy told hallie she should tell somebody, but she said she was afraid to tell her parents. b. the investigation hallie did tell her parents about the incident almost two years later, in december 2013. she explained she overcame her prior fear of revealing what happened because defendant had gone to a party with one of lice. detective eugene hatch was assigned to investigate the case. he suggested, and ve hatch described prior to making such calls, detective hatch discusses with the victim how best to approach the suspect: whether t the detective listens to the call between the victim and the suspect in real time, provides support and guidance to the victim, and records what transpires during the call. hallie made two pretext calls to defendant with detective hatch present. during defendant said he had heard rumors hallie told people friends. 4 started asking defendant said he did not remember hallie being in the den when she told him she had you get had happened years ago. would help [her] [to] like [him] if [he] would just be honest and tell [her] that [he] a hallie told defendant she wanted to ink about it now, i start to remember stuff because right now i remember it since you brought near the end of the call, defendant asked hallie for a picture of herself. she told him she would call him later, to give him time to remember. over the next day or two, defendant sent hallie text messages asking for a picture. she told hallie showed the messages to her parents and they called detective hatch. hallie then made a second pretext call to defendant. when defendant told hallie hallie said, after talking about other things, hallie asked if 5 defendant remembered anything else. after hallie sai hallie asked defendant why he told her not to tell people about what he had done, and defendant said it was because they both would have gotten in trouble. when hallie asked why, defendant replied, hallie asked if defendant remembered what questions he asked her, and he she asked if there was anything else, and he said, defendant asked whether hallie would want him to do the same things with her again. and nket 1 [f]eels like hallie said she would keep talking to him and that she was still a virgin. she y from [her] that he also asked when her parents would arrive home and again requested a picture of her, saying, sexy ass one after i she said she would try to send him a picture. defendant later tried to contact hallie again, but she had changed her phone number. 1 during the second pretext call, hallie also told defendant that he hurt her feelings you are the one that freaking left and tried to get me in trouble on so i was like, i was 6 after conducting the pretext calls, police arrested defendant. detective hatch read defendant his miranda2 rights, and he waived those rights and spoke to the detective at length. defendant initially denied anything improper happened between him and hallie he told detective cool, like, later in the interview, however, defendant admitted was hallie who put his hand on both areas before he pulled away. the district attorney in los angeles charged defendant in an amended information with: (1) committing a lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14 by use of force, in violation of penal code section 288,3 subdivision (b)(1); and (2) committing a lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14 without using force, in violation of section 288, subdivision (a). the information further alleged that defendant had substantial sexual contact with hallie. c. trial hallie testified at trial and explained what happened between her and defendant defendant were present, defendant grabbed her arms, told her to sit down, then positioned while holding her down by her shoulders, defendant asked he draped a blanket across his back and touched nder her bra. she told him to stop because he was drunk and 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 3 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 7 her vagina where she had pubic hair. defendant kept hallie never after 15 or 20 minutes, she heard the latch defendant quickly got up and told hallie not to tell anybody. she immediately went to her room. hallie further testified that she never wanted defendant to touch her and that she was not happy about what he did to her. she told defendant otherwise on the pretext calls in addition to calling hallie as a witness, the prosecution also played both pretext calls in full for the jury. about the incident shortly thereafter, and about her demeanor in january 2012. defendant testified in his own defense. he asserted he had no recollection of any sexual contact with hallie. he told the jury he was too drunk and tired to go to hallie, who was wrapped in a blanket, came and sat next to defendant on the couch. defendant fell asleep, and the next thing he remembered was his friend trying to rouse him so they could leave. defendant also offered an explanation for flirting with hallie over the phone dasked for her picture to see how she currently looked. y i can defendant said he asked [s]he kept making me try emember nothing, so i started trying to talk to her and see what supposedly happened through what she defendant said he made up the statement about hallie being hairy and that he 8 on. he claimed on cross-examination, defendant conceded that his testimony contradicted statements he made during his interview with detective hatch.4 he agreed that after initially denying he touched hallie in that interview, he then changed his story and said hallie had been the seducer and had put his hand on her chest and on her vaginal area. defendant said he lied among the lies defendant claimed to have told detectiwandered, and that he had flirted with hallie over facebook. although defendant testified he was scared during the interview, he admitted he did not feel threatened by detective hatch nor did the detective tell him what to say. the jury found defendant guilty of committing a lewd or lascivious act upon a child as charged in count two. the jury found not true the allegation that there was ulation, masturbation, or penetration). on count one, charging a forcible lewd or lascivious act upon a child, the jury did not reach a unanimous decision, being divided 11 to 1 in favor of guilt. concluding that the jury was hopelessly deadlocked, the court declared a mistrial on that count. d. sentencing in its sentencing memorandum, the prosecution asked the court to impose a six-hallie was particularly vulnerable, and because defendant abused a position of trust. 4 the full interview was not admitted in evidence during trial. rather, the prosecution used selected portions of the interview for purposes of impeaching defendant during his testimony. 9 according to the prosecutionlack of prior criminal conduct. at the sentencing hearing, the trial court stated it had considered six letters -assessment report, and the prosecution the court then heard in-court (read by the prosecutor). to eventually attempt suicide, resulting in a stay at a psychiatric hospital. her mother spoke of the damage defendant had done to their family and to hallie, who had gone imagined that someone [her] daughters called a friend and trusted in [their] home would the court also heard from a friend of other than defendant. grant probation, with a year in county jail plus conditions, instead of a state pdefense counsel further contended the collateral consequences of the conviction would impose harsh enough penalties because defendant would be required to register as a sex offender for life and he would suffer impaired employment and living opportunities. counsel additionally argued that the probation report wrongly identified violence and a position of trust as aggravating factors. in opposition to the defense request for probation, the prosecutor stated s position from a probation sentence to asking for state prison because he sat on that stand, he was cold, he was calculated. at no point did he show any remorse. at no point did he take any lack of criminal history to be a mitigating circumstance and found the crime should not be considered violent because the jury had 10 not found substantial sexual conduct or use of force. the court did find, however, that ot only throughout the act itself, but in response to the situation, to the act . . . and his behavior afterwards, his statements to the police in that he denied and eventually admitted it, and especially the callousness demonstrated during the taped statements with hallie during the investigation and during his also found defendant took advantage of a position of trust. defendant to the low term of three years in prison. ii. discussion defendant contends the evidence presented at trial is constitutionally insufficient to support conviction. he also maintains the trial court abused its discretion by imposing a prison sentence rather than probation. we statements . we further hold the trial court did not abuse its discretion in deciding a probationary sentence would be inappropriate in light of most prominently on display in his statements and demeanor during the pretext calls and the post-arrest interview with detective hatch. a. sufficiency of the evidence of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt., after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essentia (jackson v. virginia in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce 11 tation.] (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 701, original italics.) section 288, subdivision (a) makes it any lewd or lascivious act . . . upon or with the body, or any part or member thereof, of a child who is under the age of 14 years, with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of that person or the child . . . the elements of a violation of section 288, subdivision (a) are (1) willful touching of a child, (2) who is under 14 years old, and (3) with the intent to arouse or gratify the lust or sexual desires of either the perpetrator or child. ( 288, subd. (a); people v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 442; calcrim no. 1110; see also people v. olsen (1984) 36 cal.3d 638, 649 [no requirement that prosecution prove defendant knew the child was good faith, reasonable mistake as to the victims age [is not] a defense to a lewd or lascivious conduct charge with a child under 14 years of age.) conviction is supported by substantial evidence. hallie testified that defendant touched her bare breasts and vagina, and kissed her while asking if she had ,, after the incident, he told her not to tell anybody. of guilt, the jury would be entitled to rely on that testimony to convict defendant. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a ; people v. robertson (1989) 48 cal.3d 18, 44; calcrim no. 301.) of course, account was not the only evidence against defendant. dadmissions during the recorded pretext calls played for the jury both corroborated her testimony and provided additional evidence of guilt. among other statements during the hallie], grabbed [her] boobs, and played with [her] down there, friend rudy provided additional corroboration, specifically, his recollection that hallie told him shortly after the incident that d touched her 12 inappropriately and his observations about in january 2012 (and her anxiety during januarys thereafter). this was ample evidence in support of each element of a section 288, subdivision (a) charge and, thus, guilt. the scattershot challenges defendant offers to attack the evidentiary basis for the are all meritless. first, he claims there was insufficient evidence that he acted with lewd intent. to the contrary, the evidence established defendant made skin-to-the requisite intent from the nature of the contact alone. (people v. guardado (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 757, 761-762 [kissing victim and touching her breasts under her shirt was not only that, the jury also had before it statements during the pretext calls, including his admission that the reason attractive, and his repeated requests to hallie for a picture of herself. second, defendant argues there was insufficient evidence to prove he willfully touched hallie because he was drunk during the party. this argument, however, is belied by own trial testimony that he could control his actions even though he was under the influence of alcohol, as well as his statement to the same effect during his post-arrest interview. third, defendant argues there was no evidence that he knew hallie was under 14 years old at the time of the offense. this representation is contradicted by the record, and in any event, prove. (people v. olsen, supra, 36 cal.3d at p. 649.) on an eleventh circuit case to argue we should discard unbelievable is misplaced. (united states v. chancey (11th cir. 1983) 715 f.2d 543 (chancey).) the facts here are nothing like the facts that caused the chancey court to credible,5 and defendant has identified no 5 the court found there was insufficient evidence the victim was transported against her will because the victim had repeated opportunities to escape or seek help over several 13 sound basis on which we should depart from well-established california precedent people v. richardson it is well settled that, under the prevailing standard of review for a sufficiency claim, we defer to the trier of fs although defendant denied molesting hallie while testifying and sought to explain away his damaging admissions, the jury was entitled toand necessarily didreject his defense.6 substantial evidence . b. denial of probation the commission of a lewd or lascivious act under section 288, subdivision (a) is punishable by a prison term of three, six, or eight years. trial courts may also grant probation unless prohibited by statute (people v. aubrey (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 279, 282), and here, section 288 does not forbid a probationary sentence.7 denial or a grant of probation generally rests within the broad discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary or capricious manner. (people v. sizemore (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 864, 879.) in deciding whether to grant days, including when she was alone and when she was in the presence of a police officer. (chancey, supra, 715 f.2d at pp. 546-547.) 6 defendant did not challenge the admissibility of his post-arrest statements in the trial court nor does he mount such a challenge on appeal. he does assert in passing that we should not rely on his admissions during the post-arrest interview as evidence in support of the verdict because, he claims, they were made only as the result of cajoling by up to them to decide how much importance to give to the statements, and the jury was particularly because defendant admitted during the interview and while testifying that he did not feel threatened by detective hatch. 7 defendant was eligible for probation because the jury did not find any facts that would bar probation under section 1203.066, for example, use of force or substantial sexual conduct. 14 probation, a trial judge must consider various facts relating to the crime and the defendant including, among others, how to other instances of the same [w]hether ; future; . (cal. rules of court, rule 4.414.) reasonably related to the decision being madecal. rules of court, rule 4.408(a)), including aggravating and mitigating circumstances set forth in rules 4.421 and 4.423. one such aggravating circumstance is [by a defendant] disclosing a high degree of cruelt (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(1).) circumstances utilized by the trial court to support its sentencing choice need only be established by a preponderance of the people v. leung (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 482, 506.) defendant claims the trial probation, namely, its findings of callousness and a violation of a position of trust, are unsupported by the evidence. we hold, however, that the record establishes the trial court was well within its discretion in denying probation based on its finding not only throughout the act itself, but in response to the situation, to the act . . . and his behavior afterwards . . . especially the callousness demonstrated during the taped statements with hallie during the investigation and during his testimony. the trial court, which incorporates elements of a determination defendant lacked remorse, is well-grounded in the evidence. despite being told by hallie on the pretext calls that what he did to her gave her nightmares, defendant asked when he could see her and when her parents were coming home, hinted at future contact her. during the interview with detective hatch, defendant did not simply offer a general denial that he molested hallie or claim she must be mistaken; rather, he cast halliethe victimas the instigator of the sexual contact. while testifying at trial, defendant claimed to have lied on the second pretext call about what he did to hallie 15 in a sexual abuse case, these are callous actions. relying on them to deny probation is not the equivalent, as defendant argues, of (cf. people v. kronemyer (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 314, 366, overruled on another ground in people v. whitmer (2014) 59 cal.4th 733, 742 [although a defendant need not confess to avoid the inference of lack of remorse [citation], there is no clear implication the trial court rested its finding of no remorse upon that fact. rather, it appears to be predicated upon the totality of the circumstances of his viewing of [the defendant] and his criminal conduct we are therefore of the view that the court appropriately found at least one aggravating factor and one mitigating factor, his lack of prior criminal history. there is no indication in the record that the court misunderstood applicable sentencing principles or the facts of the offense. under the circumstances, the aggravating factor found by the court is sufficient to establish it did not abuse its discretion in refusing to grant probation. (people v. robinson (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 609, 615, disapproved on another ground in people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 353, fn. 16 [single aggravating factor may support denial of probation]; people v. castellano (1983) 140 cal.app.3d 608, 615.)16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: turner, p.j. kriegler, j. 