filed 10/25/16 p. v. resendez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. sebastian resendez, defendant and appellant. b265315 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba427599) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. paul richard kleven, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and ilana herscovitz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant sebastian resendez was charged with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 after he fatally stabbed his uncle during a dispute over a corvette motor. the centerpiece of was a recorded statement defendant made to detectives about eight hours after the incident, while he was in the hospital recovering from a stab wound inflicted by his uncle. defendant moved to exclude the statement, but the trial court admitted it after finding that defendant made the statement voluntarily. the jury found defendant guilty of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter. ( 192, subd. (a).) defendant now contends the trial court violated his fifth amendment rights by admitting the statement he made while in the hospital. he argues that the statement was not voluntary and therefore should have been excluded from his trial. defendant further argues that the statement was obtained in violation of miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda), and that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to raise the miranda issue. we find no error and affirm the judgment of the trial court. background a. call from his maternal uncle, peter gomez, on the morning of 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 july 23, 2014. gomez wanted to know the whereabouts of a defendant had sold the motor for $80 several months prior, and claimed he had told gomez about the sale at that time. defendant reminded gomez that he had sold the motor, and gomez became angry. defendant heard his mother crying in the background. safety because he knew gomez had a short temper, a sixth-subsequently sent him text messages assuring him that she was fine and directing him not to come home, he decided to leave work and drive to the house to make sure she was okay; he on the way, defendant placed a retractable magnet stick in his shirt he explained that when defendant arrived at the house, he was both furious and scared. van. gomez approached him from inside the garage. all three of them 4 wer she defendant and gomez argued verbally at first. then gomez gomez also stab defendant with it. at this point, defendant was pressed up against the side of the vapush gomez away from him. gomez either dropped the magnetic stick or threw it at defendant; somehow, it ended up on the ground. defendant bent down and attempted to retrieve the magnetic stick. gomez told defendanof his forehead. defendant wound up on the ground between the van and the truck. he had the magnet stick in his hand. the back doors of his van. defendant thought gomez was going to grab a knife or tool from the van. while still on the ground, defendant unsheathed his knife from his boot. gomez, who had only reached for the handles of the back van doors, saw defendant getting up with the knife and ran toward the front of the van. defendant chased him. gomez tripped and fell near the porch, 5 but got up right away. he lunged or charged at defendant, stabbed gomez in the stomach. gomez continued to come at defendant, gomez fell but somehow managed to gain control of the knife. tussle during which gomez stabbed defendant once in the right side of his chest before falling to the ground. defendant walked empty-handed. defendant realized he had been stabbed only when he saw blood all over himself and could not breathe. he thought he was going to die and walked over to a neighboring house to lie in the shade. near the conclusion of the interview, one of the defen after a long pause, he 6 2 he told the detectives several times that he chased and stabbed gomez in self-defense. defendant opined that had he not stabbed gomez, gomez b. circumstances of the interview detectives initiated the interview with defendant in the surgical observation unit of the hospital at 7:50 p.m., after calling if he was able to speak to them. department detective quilmes rodriguez testified that he and his partner, sergeant martindale, wore plainclothes with their a quasi seated position with his back kind of at maybe a 45-degree angle defendant had blood on his hands, redness or an abrasion on his forehead, and a stab wound defendant told the detectives near the beginning of the interview that he had tubes in both of his lungs. 2 defendant asserts that his response to the first query was, ,he does not dispute that his follow- we infer that the referring was the hospital. 7 at the beginning of the interview, before the detectives detective after introducing himself and sergeant martindale, detective you do? detective rodriguez also asked - - defendant detective rodriguez informed defendant that it was his job defendant proceeded to tell them about gomez and the altercation. -as the interview progressed, they asked more questions and ective rodriguez did not appear to be under the influence of any medication, defendant also questioned at least one of the 8 several times, defendant offered to take a polygraph test. he also invited the detectives to check his phone records or talk to his family members to confirm the veracity of his story. at one the interview was interrupted twice by medical personnel. approximately 25 minutes in, someone came to the room to perform a chest x-ray. then, about 15 minutes after that, someone from cardiology came by to draw blood from defendant. throughout the interview, defendant asked several times to see his mother or other family members. he also asked for ice or none of these requests was granted during the approximately 75-minute interview. the detectives also did not advise defendant of his miranda rights. c. relevant proceedings prior to the start of trial, defendant moved to exclude the statement he made at the hospital. was going to understand, a, that number one he was speaking to and, more importantly, the circumstances that he was in at the time, so - - 9 - - i think that everyone will agree with, that he sustained a stab injury. he had to go through surgery in order to recover from that injury. he was administered pain medication. and he was still under the constant care of a medical professional while the interview began and as it progressed. was at this point, but it was pain medication consistent with the trial court asked the prosecutor if he would stipulate to those facts. that with the exception of the pain medicine. he was on pain medicine. would have to assume that he further detail, i would submit to the court that under those conditions in total . . . the statement was not knowing and not the trial court disagreed. and while at even, i think, the possibility of drawing the inference that he was confused, the entire thing is just clear from the conversation he he makes statements that are totally coherent. he 10 responds appropriately at every juncture to everything that the detectives say. indication that he was mentally impaired. physically, well, - - going to switch to past tense here. he was alert. question about it. he was lucid. he was coherent. he was totally cognizant. command of his faculties, whatsoever. the prosecutor interview for the jury in its entirety. stabbing incident. indeed, the prosecutor remarked that with the case. witnessesdetective rodriguez, another officer who responded to the scene, a criminalist, and a coroneris largely irrelevant to the issues raised by this appeal and accordingly is not discussed here. defendant called his mother as his only witness. the jury acquitted defendant of murder but found him guilty of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter. ( 192, subd. (a).) the jury also found true an allegation that defendant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a 11 knife, within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). the trial court sentenced defendant to a total of four years: the low term of three years, plus an additional year for the enhancement. defendant timely appealed. discussion i. a. standard of review confession into evidence at trial. [citations.] [citation.] the test for determining whether a confession time he (people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1176.) when a defendant moves to suppress as involuntary statements he or she made to law enforcement, the prosecution bears the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the statements were made voluntarily under the totality of the circumstances. (ibid.) factors relevant to the determination include the duration, location, and continuity of enforcemcondition, and mental health. (people v. williams (1997) 16 12 cal.4th 635, 660, citing withrow v. williams (1993) 507 u.s. 680, 693-694.) in other words, we look at both the details of the interaction and the characteristics of the defendant. (people v. linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1176-1177.) surrounding an admission or confession are undisputed to the extent the interview is tape-recorded, making the issue subject to (id. at p. 1177; see also people v. perdomo (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 605, 614 (perdomo).) b. analysis voluntariness of statements a defendant made to law enforcement while an inpatient at a hospital: mincey v. arizona (1978) 437 u.s. 385 (mincey) and perdomo, supra, 147 cal.app.4th 605. in mincey, defendant mincey was shot during an afternoon police raid of his apartment. (mincey, 437 u.s. at p. 387.) he was taken immediately to the emergency room, where he was examined and treated. (id. at p. 396.) wound to the hip, resulting in damage to the sciatic nerve and partial paralysis of his right leg. tubes were inserted into his throat to help him breathe, and through his nose into his stomach 13 to keep him from vomiting; a catheter was inserted into his bladder. he received various drugs, and a device was attached to his arm so that he could be fed intravenously. he was then taken (ibid.) a detective came to the hospital to talk to mincey at about 8:00 p.m. (mincey, supra, at p. 396.) the detective told mincey that he was under arrest for the murder of a police officer, advised him of his miranda rights, and questioned him about the raid. (ibid.be in his (ibid.) even though mincey repeatedly asked for a lawyer, the detective questioned him for almost four hours. (ibid.) tintellect and a free will (mincey, supra, at p. 398.) wo (id. at p. 401.) unable to think clearly about either the events of that afternoon or the circumstances of his interrogation, since some of his (id. at 14 pp. 398-399.) the court also noted that mincey was questioned whil (id. at p. 399.) made numerous requests to stop the interrogation so that he could retain a lawyer. (ibid.) ma[de] clear that mincey wanted not to answer detective hust. but mincey was weakened by pain and shock, isolated from family, friends, and legal counsel, and barely conscious, and his will was simply overborn (id. at pp. 401-402.) perdomo distinguished mincey and found statements that a defendant made during a hospital interrogation were voluntary. (see perdomo, supra, 147 cal.app.4th at pp. 616-619.) perdomo -speed car accident. (id. at pp. 608, 610.) he had an emergency splenectomy, broken ribs, and bleeding in his brain. (id. at p. 610.) four days after the accident, hospital personnel granted two detectives permission to speak with perdomo in the intensive care unit. (id. at p. 611.) during the interview, which was tape-pain medication five and a half h (id. at p. 612.) 15 (ibid.) (ibid.) the interview lasted approximately 20 minutes. (ibid.) roughly two hours after the taken off intravenous pain medications, and thereafter given oral (id. at p. 617.) the perdomo court acknowledged that some of the facts were similar to those in mincey. for instance, the defendant was questioned while lying on his bed in an intensive care unit. no family members or friends were with him, he had intravenous tubes attached to his body, he was receiving pain medication, and (perdomo, supra, 147 cal.app.4th at p. 616.) the perdomo court concluded (id. at p. 617.) the court pointed out that perdomo was alert, oriented, and was not drifting in and out of consciousness. (ibid.) the interview occurred days rather than hours after his injury and surgery, and perdomo was downgraded to a regular hospital room shortly after the interview concluded. (ibid.) nothing on the recording o (id. at pp. 617-618.) the court 16 dicate any (id. at p. 618.) officers resorted to physical or psychological pressure to elicit ress distress or (id. at pp. 618-619.) based on our review of the interview recording, we conclude that the facts of the instant case are more in line with those of perdomo than those of mincey. the totality of the circumstances in this case reveal that defendant made his statement voluntarily. although officers came to the hospital on medical personnel gave them clearance to do so. when they arrived, defendant was alert, coherent, and did not express any reluctance to speak with them. to the contrary, when the interview was interrupted for a blood draw, defendant made sure defendant acknowledged that he was not under arrest and gave the outset of the encounter, with minimal prompting or interruption. though he still had tubes in his lungs and may have been on 17 some sort of pain medication, he was in a seated position and his voice was strong and clear for most of the lengthy interview. defendant also demonstrated an ability to think critically and strategically throughout the interview. he corrected himself about the location of the knife, which he initially said was in his 3 he mentioned self-defense several times, expressed he could not remember precisely, and told the detectives when he believed phone records or other third-party evidence would corroborate his story. that gomez had sold the motor and was at the house to pick it up, pointsichim to get the motor out of the garage. detective rodriguez the lung and in mental shock at being involved in the death of his despite the physical and mental trauma defendant undoubtedly suffered, the recording of the interview belies his 3 respondent argues that, like the defendant in perdomo, defendant was trying to deceive the detectives by telling them the knife was in his pocket. although defendant made the change unprompted, detective rodriguez testified at trial that he believed defendant had been attempting to deceive him about the location of the knife. 18 claim that his suffering placed him at the mercy of the detectives. the detectives told defendant at the beginning of the interview that he was not under arrest and that they wanted to learn what happened during the altercation. they spoke in calm, conversational voices and were not confrontational even when challenging details defendant provided. they also allowed medical personnel to attend to defendant, and told him they nothing on the recording suggests that they resorted to physical or psychological pressure to elicit statements from defendant. (see perdomo, supra, 147 cal.app.4th at p. 619.) for his part, defendant was forthcoming, coherent, and matter-of-fact. he did not complain of pain or call for a nurse to get ice, nor did he break down when informed that gomez was dead. he affirmatively sought to continue the interview after the blood draw and joked with the detectives about their resemblance to officers he had seen on television. in short, he did not express distress or otherwise indicate any unwillingness to speak to the officers. (see perdomo, supra, 147 cal.app.4th at p. 618.) his statement was voluntary and therefore admissible at trial. ii. counsel was not ineffective because miranda warnings were not required. defendant alternatively argues that his hospital statement should have been suppressed because he was not advised of his 19 miranda rights. defendant forfeited this argument because he did not seek to suppress the statement on that basis below. (see people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 482; people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 667.) defendant seeks to avoid forfeiture by arguing that his counsel was constitutionally ineffective by neglecting to raise this issue in the trial court. we conclude that counsel did not render deficient performance because no miranda warnings were required. to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must make a two-pronged showing. first, he or she below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009.) a performance, the outcome of the proceeding would have been different. when examining an ineffective assistance claim, a and there is a presumption counsel acted within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance (ibid.to make a futile or unmeritorious motion or request is not (people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 836; see also people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 387.) a motion to suppress on miranda grounds would have 20 been unmeritorious here, and counsel acted well within the bounds of prevailing professional norms by declining to bring such a motion. a defendant must be advised of his or her miranda rights (people v. mosley (1999) 73 cal.app.4th 1081, 1088 (mosley).) here, there is no dispute that the hospital interview was an interrogation, as it consisted of the police (other than those normally attendant to arrest and custody) that the police should know are reasonably likely to (rhode island v. innis (1980) 446 u.s. 291, 301, fn. omitted.) the issue is advisements under mirandacustody or otherwise deprived of his freedom of action in any [citation.] custody consists of a formal arrest or a restraint on freedom of movement of the degree associated with a formal arrest. [citations.] when there has been no formal arrest, the question is how a reasonable position would have understood his situation. [citation.] all the circumstances of the interrogation are relevant to this inquiry, including the location, length and form of the interrogation, the degree to which the investigation was focused on the defendant, 21 (people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 386, 394-395.) the bottom-line question is whether, given the circumstances surrounding the interrogation, a reasonable person in defendto end the questioning and leave. (ibid.) with law enforcement was initiated by the police or the person interrogated, and if by the police, whether the person voluntarily agreed to an interview; whether the express purpose of the interview was to question the person as a witness or a suspect; where the interview took place; whether police informed the person that he or she was under arrest or in custody; whether they informed the person that he or she was free to terminate the conduct indicated an awareness of such freedom; whether there interview; how long the interrogation lasted; how many police officers participated; whether they dominated and controlled the course of the interrogation; whether they manifested a belief that the person was culpable and they had evidence to prove it; whether the police were aggressive, confrontational, and/or accusatory; whether the police used interrogation techniques to pressure the suspect; and whether the person was arrested at the (people v. aguilera (1996) 51 22 cal.app.4th 1151, 1162; see also people v. pilster (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 1395, 1403-1404.) no single factor is dispositive. (people v. aguilera, supra, 51 cal.app.4th a p. 1162.) the circumstances in this case overwhelmingly demonstrate that defendant was not in custody for miranda purposes. although law enforcement initiated the interview, the detectives immediately told defendant that he was not under arrest and did not manifest a belief that he was culpable. defendant voluntarily consented to the interview, inasmuch as he almost immediately began telling the detectives about the events leading up to the stabbing of gomez. the detectives did not dominate or control the course of the interrogation; they allowed defendant to tell his story, then asked follow-up questions to clarify the details. their questions were open-ended and were neither aggressive nor particularly accusatory in nature, and there is no evidence that the officers had or drew weapons or otherwise employed threatening or intimidating interrogation tactics. defendant was confined to his hospital bed, presence or actions. (see mosley, supra, 73 cal.app.4th at p. 1091.) the officers did not arrest defendant. the interview, though in the presence of medical personnel who continued to treat (ibid.) 23 during the intethat other medical personnel or patients were present as well. leaving during his blood draw indicates that he wanted to talk to detectives and was aware that he had some control over the interview. this case is analogous in many ways to mosley. in mosley, the defendant was in an ambulance, in the custody and care of paramedics. (mosley, supra, 73 cal.app.4th at p. 1089.) an officer entered the ambulance and questioned defendant while he was being treated for a gunshot wound, but did not arrest him. , but the mosley court concluded a reasonable person in his position would not have believed he was in police custody. (id. at p. 1091.) the mosley (ibid.) mosley was not placed under arrest, the questioning occurred in the presence of medical personnel, and the officer did not know the full circumstances of the incident when he spoke to mosley. (ibid.) not accusatory or threatening, that defendant was not handcuffed, that no guns were drawn, and that defendant was 24 about to be transported to a hospital and not a police station or (ibid.) defendant contends these similarities are outweighed by differences. in mosley (mosley, supra, 73 cal.app.4th at p. 1089.) the officers there were unfamiliar with the events in question, and here, the interview went on for over an hour, occurred after the officers had d included challenges to and when considered in light of all the other circumstances of the case, however, these factors do not demonstrate that a reasonable person in r she was in police custody or otherwise deprived of his or her freedom. a motion to suppress on miranda grounds accordingly would have been properly denied, and defense counsel did not render ineffective performance by declining to make such a motion. 25 disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 