filed 9/16/16 p. v. neufeld ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. roger henry neufeld, defendant and appellant. b265952 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma065160) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. jenny m. brandt, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and abtin amir, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found roger henry neufeld (neufeld) guilty of second degree robbery in violation of penal code section 211.1 in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found that neufeld suffered two prior serious and/or violent felonies pursuant to section 667, subdivision (d) and suffered a prior serious felony pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero), the trial court dismissthe court dismissed the juvenile conviction for robbery, but not the adult conviction for voluntary manslaughter. the court sentenced neufeld to 11 years in state prison. on appeal, neufeld advances three arguments. first, he contends that there was insufficient evidence to prove that the robbery was accomplished through force or fear. second, neufeld argues that his conviction must be overturned because the prosecutor engaged in prejudicial misconduct during closing argument. third, neufeld claims that the trial court abused its discretion by failing to strike both of his prior convictions. we disagree with all three contentions and, accordingly, affirm the judgment. background i. the robbery on january 19, 2015, neufeld entered a 7-eleven store in lancaster, california. when neufeld entered the store, rajpal kahlon (kahlon) was one of the sales associates on duty. from behind the cash register counter, kahlon observed neufeld walk from one corner of the store to the other. eventually, neufeld walked down the candy aisle, which n had a candy bar. after grabbing the candy bar, neufeld walked to the end of the aisle and ought neufeld had simply forgotten to pay, as other customers sometimes do when they are distracted or are in a hurry. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 [e]reminded him to pay for the candy bar. instead of answering or even acknowledging kahlon, neufeld ignored him and walked out of the store. d called out to neufeld, who was roughly 40 to 60 feet away, by saying, [e]xcuse me. come when kahlon called out to neufeld from the door, neufeld responded. neufeld walked back toward the store and when kahlon told him that neufeld needed to pay for neufeld told kahlon that he purchased the candy bar at another store. then neufeld raised up both of his hands with clenched fists, between chest and shoulder height, saying, [c]ome on, by his words and his actions, kahlon believed that neufeld wanted to fight him. at one point during the confrontation between neufeld and kahlon another customer, a regular customer of the store named mark, offered to pay for the candy bar and encouraged . called the police. as kahlon walked back into the store, he also looked over his shoulder because he feared that neufeld as kahlon walked away, neufeld violently shoved or at the time of the incident, kahlon was [b]ut anger, kahlon was scared for himself and for others and, as a result, he called the policeme or with the customer maybe, because he was already upset. call law enforcement if something goes a little bit the way it was. not long after kahlon called the sdepartment directly (not 911) the police took neufeld into custody. ii. trial and sentencing the principal evidence offered by the prosecution at trial was the testimony of kahlon and the surveilla neufeld did not 4 offer any witnesses. instead, the defense argued that while a theft occurred, a robbery did not.2 the defense argued that a robbery did not occur because there was no force and . . . no scared on june 18, 2015, after less than three hours of deliberations, the jury found neufeld guilty of robbery. pursuant to romero, supra, 13 cal.4th 497, neufeld asked the court to strike his two prior felony convictionsa juvenile conviction for robbery and an adult conviction for manslaughteron the grounds that those crimes occurred a long time ago during a that time he has turned his life around, becoming a husband, father, valued employee and, for the most part, a law abiding citizenthe only two convictions since being released from prison for manslaughter were for driving under the influence in 2009 and 2012. neufeld asked the court to either put him on probation or, in the alternative, strike one of his prior convictions and sentence him to the low term, for a total prison term of nine years. with regard to the relatively recent driving under the influence convictions, the court noted that while those crimes are misdemeanors they are very serious misdemeanors and agreed with the prosecutor that over, neufeld committed the instant robbery while on probation for the driving under the influence convictions. while the court was and was willing to dismiss the juvenile robbery conviction, the court was not willing to dismiss the adult conviction for manslaughter. in reaching its decision, the court was 2 the court instructed the jury on robbery and, inter alia, the lesser included offense of theft. 5 over something as insignificant as a candy bar. specifically, the court noted that had neufeld simply kept walking away from the 7-eleven store, the crime would have been however, neufeld elected to return and on july 30, 2015, the court sentenced neufeld to 11 years in state prisonthe midterm of three years, doubled to six years pursuant to sections 1170.12 and 667, plus an additional five consecutive years for his prior adult conviction pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). neufeld timely appealed. discussion i. substantial evidence supports the robbery conviction neufeld maintains that not substantial evidence that the minimal fear experienced by mr. kahlon contributed to record shows only that a theft occurred, that a clerk was minimally afraid, and that this as discussed below, we disagree. a. standard of review (people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 576.) most reasonably deduce from it. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) we do not s credibility for that of the fact finder. (people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314.) uphold a judgment even if it is contradicted by other evidence, inconsistent or false as to (people v. leigh (1985) 168 cal.app.3d 217, 221.) 6 b. neufeld accomplished the robbery by fear robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of ( 211.) or fear caused the victim to (people v. smith (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 1586, 1595, italics added.) the force or fear element of robbery is stated in the disjunctive. is not (people v. winters (1958) 163 cal.app.2d 619, 623; people v. centers (1999) 73 cal.app.4th 84, 99.) use of fear or intimidation without force to induce the victim to part with property may constitute robbery. (people v. brew (1991) 2 cal.app.4th 99, 104; winters, at p. 623.) (people v. tuggle (1991) 232 cal.app.3d 147, 155; see people v. reeves (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 14, 52; people v. brown (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 1409, 1418, disapproved on another ground in people v. hayes (1990) 52 cal.3d 577, 628, fn. 10.) although the taking must be accomplished by force or fear, the defendant need not have intended the victim to experience force or fearonly to deprive the victim of the property permanently. (people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 995996.) to establish the element of fear, the victim need not testify that he or she was afraid. (see people v. mungia (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1703, 1709, fn. 2.) there need only be evidence from which it can be inferred that the victim felt fear and that the fear allowed the crime to be accomplished. (ibid.) [t]he fear necessary for robbery is allowed the crime to be accomplished. (people v. anderson (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 919, 946.) the element of fear need not arise from an express threat; intimidation of the victim is enough. (people v. morehead (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 765, 774775.) fear may be generated by words, actions, or the surrounding circumstances, and it may arise after the taking. (people v. flynn (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 766, 771772.) and while the 7 victim must actually become afraid, the fear need not be extreme: it need only be enough to cause the victim to comply with the demand for the property. (people v. cuevas (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 689, 698; morehead, at pp. 774775.) the fear element is satisfied when there is sufficient fear to cause the victim to comply with the unlawful demand for his or her property. (people v. davison (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 206, 212; people v. smith, supra, 33 cal.app.4th at p. 1595; morehead, at p. 775.) in short, the prosecutor must show that the defendant used fear, and the victim was compelled by fear. here, the people showed that neufeld used fear and intimidation to carry away the candy bar. he threatened kahlon with his actions and his wordshe raised both of his hands with clenched fists, saying, [c]ahlon turned away from the taunts and raised fistseople also showed that khalon was afraid. kahlon repeatedly testified that while he was not very scared he was, in fact, scared, scared for himself and others. neufeld argues scale of one to 10. however, the amount of fear is beside the point. what matters is not whether the victim experienced a high level of fear or a low level; the issue is simply whether the victim was afraid and whether that fear aided the defendant in accomplishing the crime. here, as noted above, kahlon was afraid. and, because he was afraid, kahlon elected to disengage from neufeld, thereby allowing neufeld to remain in possession of the candy bar. neufeld agues next that while kahlon may have been afraid, there is no express testimony by (italics omitted.) candy away only because . . . kahlon did not want to violate store policykahlon was afraid. during his direct examinationthe prosecutor asked mr. kahlon, anything, either physically or verbally, that gave you cause for concern, or if you had tried to get the candkahlon kahlon went on to explained that 8 -he customer; just to call law neufeld assert . . . testimony that . . . neufeld did neufeld attempts to bolster his legal argument by relying on people v. welsh (1936) 7 cal.2d 209. in that case, the defendant and another male seized the victim, threw her into their vehicle, placed her between them, and drove off. she had her hand on her purse, which held some cigarettes, money, and other items. the defendant took her purse, removed the cigarettes and returned it to her lap. the supreme court affirmed reversed a robbery conviction because orce was used in taking the cigarettes or and there was no (id. at p. 212.) here, in contrast, there was no evidentiary void about specific acts of intimidation in connection with a robbery, the fear generated by those acts, or the effects of the fear on the victim. the record shows that neufeld threatened force in order to carry off the candy bar by both words and deeds and that the threat of force caused kahlon to experience fear and to change his conduct. the evidence is clear that kahlon initially resisted the takinghe called out to neufeld as he was about to leave the store without paying for the candy bar; he then called again to neufeld from the door of the store, asking him to come back and pay for the candy bar. the evidence is also clear that kahlon stopped resisting the theft after neufeld engaged in threatening conduct. from these facts the jury could reasonably infer that kahlon called the police because of the company policy and because he was afraid for himself and others if he continued to resist the taking of the candy bar. following company policy and acting out of fear are not, as neufeld seems to assume, mutually and necessarily exclusive. testimonywhich was not only internally consistent, but it was also consistent with the 9 video from the surveillance cameras3 that neufeld was guilty of more than just theft, he was guilty of robbery. ii. no prosecutorial misconduct on appeal, neufeld asserts that he is entitled to a reversal because the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during closing argument by repeatedly engaging in specifically, neufeld alleges that the prosecutor made three sets of improper comments: comments that were based on facts extrinsic to the law and the facts of the case; comments that misstated the law; and comments that improperly asked the jurors to put themselves in the shoes of the victim. neufeld further contends that even though his counsel (with one exception) repeatedly failed to object to the alleged misconduct and never asked for a curative instruction he is, nonetheless, entitled to a new trial. neufeld argues that he is entitled to relief despite the failure to preserve fully the issue of prosecutorial misconduct for two reasons: (1) any failure to object and/or request a cure would have been futile; and, in the alternative, (2) the failure to object and request a curative instruction was due to the ineffective assistance of counsel. as discussed below, we are not persuaded by either argument. as a result, we hold that with one exceptionclosing argument waived. 3 interaction between the two of them in the parking lot with regard to when and how often neufeld raised his hands at kahlon. first, as discussed above, we cannot substitute our evaluatipurportedly inconsistent. as evidenced by the verdict and the swiftness with which it was reached, it is clear that the jury found kahlon to be credibletestimony was corroborated by the video surveillance evidence. although he had not months after the fact closely trackedgenerally and in detail those shown on the video. 10 a. preserving the issue of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal misconduct unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundthe defendant [requested] an assignment of misconduct and [also] requested that the jury be (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 284, italics added.) our supreme court has held that, when a defendant does not object to remarks in waived the objection and the point cannot be raised on appeal. [citations.] the reason foabuse and thus, if possible, prevent by suitable instructions the harmful effect upon the (people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 27, overruled on other grounds in people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225, 233237.) if an objection has not been only if an admonition would not have cured the harm (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 858, italics added.) here, neufeld chose not to address the effect a curative instruction may have had on the alleged misconduct. instead, he confined his argument to the issue of futilitythat is, he argues that any additional objection or any request for a curative instruction would have been futile. more than once establishes that he was denied effective counsel. b. no evidence that any further objections would have been futile as illustrated by people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800 (hill), overruled on another ground in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, footnote 13, to establish futility as an exception to the waiver rule requires compelling evidence of misconduct. in hill, . . . unethical conduct, including misstating the evidence, sarcastic and critical comments demeaning defense (hill, at p. 821.) moreover, hill occurred in front of 11 the jury. to rein in her excesses, created a trial atmosphere so poisonous that [defense counsel] was thrust upon the horns of a dilemma. on the one hand, he could continually object to [the took the form of comments before the jury suggesting [defense counsel] was an obstructionist, del objections. these comments from the bench ran an obvious risk of prejudicing the jury towards his client. on the other hand, [defense counsel] could decline to object, thereby forcing defendant to suffer the prejudice caused by constant misconduct.ibid.) under such attempts to object would have been all of the asserted grounds for misconduct were preserved for appellate review. (id. at pp. 821822.) wholly conclusory mannerthat is, with the exception of a single, lone objection that was overruled, neufeld fails to point to any instance in the record showing any conduct by the prosecutor or the trial court at any point during the trial which would show or even suggest that any further objections and/or requests for curative instructions would have been futile. put a little differently, with the exception of the one overruled objection, neufeld does not point to any instance where the conduct of the prosecutor or the trial court mirrored or even approached the improper conduct found in hill, supra, 17 cal.4th 800. neufeld does not point to any such evidence, because there is none. we have reviewed the trial transcript and we have found nothing that would suggest additional objections and/or requests for curative instructions would have been futile as that term is used in connection with the preservation of issues for appellate review. where there is nothing in the record indicating that a prompt objection to misconduct by the prosecutor would have been futile or that the misconduct was so extreme that it could not be cured by a prompt objection and a request for a curative 12 instruction, then the issue is forfeited on appeal. (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674.) c. no evidence to support claim of ineffective counsel a defendant whose counsel did not object at trial to alleged prosecutorial misconduct can argue os s constitutional right to the effective assistance of counsel. (people v. lopez (2008) 42 cal.4th 960, 966.) in order to establish a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel in a direct appeal, n objective standard of reasonableness [] . . . under [citations.] unless a defendant establishes the contrary, competence and that [citation.] counsel must [citations.] if o (people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 745746.) people v. padilla (1995) 11 cal.4th 891, 942, overruled on another ground in hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 823, fn. 1ment seldom s incompetence. (people v. ghent (1987) 43 cal.3d 739, 772.) here, counsel is wholly conclusoryjust one sentence with no supporting citations to the 13 record or to any applicable case law. in other words, neufeld simply assumes that the mere failure to object such an assumption ounsel may well have tactically assumed that an objection or request for admonition would simply draw closer attention to the s purportedly suspect comments. we have no sound basis to conclude otherwise. because neufeld ffell below an objective standard of reasonableness, we presume that his performance was within the wide range of professional competence and that his inactions can be explained as a matter of sound trial strategy. accordingly, we reject d. no misconduct with regard to the one alleged instance where an objection was made 1. prosecutorial statements at issue during his closing argument, the prosecutor made the following statements about the force used in the instant robbery and the notion of force generally down to this. the defendant used force in his physical gesturing, in his physical treating of the door, slamming it open. you saw it kind of bounce and do that; in his fists up. okforce. [] keep the property, keep the merchandise that he used his five fingers to receive the five finger discount with and keep the property. and what it really gets down to is; is it okay for us to expect a minimal amount of violence in our relationships with fellow citizens? [] when case; is it something that mr. kahlon should expect that there should be a minimal level ignore the fact that he was physically threatened over the candy bar? [] because if 14 . . . trial court overruled the objection.4 convict for reasons wholly extrinsic to the law and the facts of this case.at issue in this case and in any criminal case [is] whether the prosecutor guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. what is not legitimately at issue is whether a conviction might impact social problems in that an acquittal would somehow force people to tolerate future instances of violence perpetrated by peop 2. legal standard for prosecutorial misconduct prosecutorial misconduct requires reversal only if it results in prejudice to the defendant. (people v. fields (1983) 35 cal.3d 329, 363.) a violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible (people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 305.) comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks (people v. ayala, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 284.) the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefrom. (hill, supra, 17 4 was still properly preserved for an appeal due to the quickness with which the trial court does not immediately overrules an objection to alleged prosecutorial misconduct [and as a consequence] the defendant has no opportunity to hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) 15 cal.4th at p. 819.) . . . . (ibid.) in addition, during closing argument may state matters not in evidence, but which are common knowledge or are illustrations drawn from common experience, h (ibid.) words and phrases, or at most a few sentences, to demonstrate misconduct, we must view (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522.) the remarks, but must also take into account defense counited states v. young (1985) 470 u.s. 1, 12.) moreover, ii]n the context of the whole argument and the instructions [citation], there was a reasonable likelihood the jury understood -of comments [to the jury] in an improper or erroneous manner. (people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 667in conductdo not lightly infer that the jury drew the most damaging rather than the least damaging meaning from the proseibid.) 3. statements at issue were not improper when the statements at issue are read in context, they appear to be in response to a line of argument offered by neufeld throughout the trial, namely that there was no robbery because no force was used. for example, during opening arguments, neufeld had no weapon. he never swung at mr. kahlon. he never attempted to swing at mr. kahlon. he never made physical contact with mr. kahlon, whatsoever. [] the evidence is going to show that mr. kahlon was not [] the evidence is going to show you that mr. k lock the doors after mr. neufeld left. counter or hide-ed to the absence of forceanyth again argued 16 no wrestling, no pushing, no grabbing, no threatening statements, no scared customers, at issue, when viewed in context, can reasonably be seen as a fair comment on the evidence significance of that evidence. viewed in this context, and with the instructions given, there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied the complained-of remark in an objectionable fashion. we presume that the jury followed the instructions, not the arguments of counsel, in convicting neufeld. (people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 47.) [g]iven the myriad safeguards provided to assure a fair trial, and taking into account the reality of the human fallibility of the participants, there can be no such thing as an error free, perfect trial, and . . . the constitution does not guarantee such a trial. (people v. mcnally (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1419, 1433.) in other words, neufeld is entitled to a fair trial not a perfect one.ibid.) and that is what neufeld received here, a fair trial, one free of prosecutorial misconduct. iii. there was no abuse of discretion in striking only one prior conviction regularly commits violent crimes. therefore, the three strikes law is not meant for a. standard of review prior felony conviction (romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 529s discretion to strike [a] prior subject to review for aid,consideration both of the constitutional rights of the defendant, and the interests of 17 society represented by the people, in determining whether there should be a dismissal. id. at pp. 530531.) we apply the deferential abuse of discretion standard to the trto dismiss only one s prior felony convictions for sentencing purposes. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 162 (williams)although variously phrased in various decisions [citation], [the standard] . . . asks in substance whether the falls outsi under the applicable law and the relevant factsibid.) [citation.] a court also abuses its discretion by dismissing a case, or a sentencing allegation, simply because a defendant pleads guilty. [citation.] nor would a court act strikes law romero, supra,13 cal.4th at p. 531.) in williams, supra, 17 cal.4th 148, our california supreme court described the factors a court should consider when exercising its section 1385 discretion in a three strikes case. it noted that in decidinjustice . . . ,ruling, the court in question must consider whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of his [or her] present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his [or her] background, character, and prospects, the defendant ms spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he [or she] had not previously (id. at p. 161.) the sentence to be meted out . . . in fact, it is the overarching consideration because the underlying purpose of striking prior conviction 18 (people v. garcia (1999) 20 cal.4th 490, 500.) s burden as the party attacking the sentencing decision to show that it was arbitrary or irrational, and, absent such showing, there is a presumption that cretionary (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377.) such a discretionary decision will not be (ibid.) in other words, [i]t is not enough to show that reasonable people might disagree about whether to strike one or more of his prior convictions. where the record demonstrates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the law, s ruling, even if we might have ruled differently (people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 310.) because the extraordinary . . . by which a career criminal can be deemed to fall outside the spirit of the very scheme within which he squarely falls once he commits a strike as part of a long and continuous criminal record, the continuation of which the [citation], the circumstances where no reasonable people could disagree that the criminal falls outside the spirit of the three strikes scheme must be even more extraordinary.carmony, at p. 378.) b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion this is not the extraordinary case imagined by our supreme court where there can be no doubt that the defendant, although a career criminal, nevertheless falls outside the spirit of the three strikes law. (people v. carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 378.) there is little about case that suggests, much less compels, such a conclusion. the report stated that neufeld sustained three petitions as a juvenile, one of them for robbery. the report went on to state that was convicted of burglary, grand theft, and receiving stolen goods for which he was 19 sentenced to a year in jail and 60 months felony probation. in 2001, while on probation, neufeld was convicted of voluntary manslaughter for a killing that occurred in 1996; he was sentenced to 11 years in prison. after being released from prison in january 2008, was with numerous parole violations, the first of which occurred in april 2008, just months after being released from prison. in addition, following his release from prison, neufeld was convicted twice for driving under the influence, the first time in 2009; the second time in 2012. in light of his arrest for the 7-eleven robbery, the probation officer concluded that , he continues to engage in theft-related behaviors. moreover, there is a concern for current incident may seem somewhat insignificant as far as the stealing of the candy bar, neufeld argues that the remoteness of his prior adult strike and his current efforts at becoming a productive and responsible member of society since being released from prison put him outside of the spirit of the three strikes law. however, as one of the leading cases in this field makes clear, williams, supra, 17 cal.4th 148, such facts are not enough to put a defendant outside the spirit of the three strikes law. in williams, supra, 17 cal.4th 148, the defendant was charged with driving under the influence of phencyclidine (pcp) with three prior convictions for the same offense within the preceding seven years. (id. at p. 153.) the trial court had vacated one strike finding (attempted robbery) and sentenced the defendant to a total term of nine years. (id. at p. 157.) the court of appeal, finding an abuse of discretion in vacating the third strike, reversed; granting review, the supreme court affirmed the court of appeal. both neufeld and the defendant in williams had multiple juvenile convictions on their record. (id. at pp. 153154.) the defendant in williams, like neufeld, had a lengthy history of criminal offensesseventeen convictions or parole violationsas an adult, spanning the 15 years prior to his arrest for the instant offense. (id. at pp. 154, 163165.) however, as with neufeld, the more serious offensesthat is, the convictions for attempted robbery 20 and rape that were alleged to bring the case within the three strikes lawhad been committed by the defendant in williams many years before the instant crime. the defendant in williams, like neufeld, had struggled with a drug problem. like neufeld, the defendant in williams was still loved and supported by his family and evidently had a stable living arrangement. (id. at p. 163.) however, our supreme court found that was not enough to put the defendant in williams outside the spirit of the three strikes law. summing up, thfelony of driving under the influence, which he committed in 1995, and his prior conviction for the serious felony of attempted robbery and his prior conviction for the serious and violent felony of rape, both of which he suffered in 1982, and also in light of the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, which were not positive, williams cannot be deemed outside the spirit of the three strikes law in any part, and hence may not be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of those serious . . . or violent id. at pp. 162163, italics added.) at the time of the instant robbery, neufeld worked as an installer of solar power panels, which makes his theft of a $1.49 candy bar inexplicable. moreover, neufeld had been convicted and sent to prison for voluntary manslaughter, making his decision to turn and confront kahlon over the candy bar that he had just stolen even more inexplicable. if neufeld had truly turned a corner on his prior life as a violent criminal, he would not have stolen the candy bar and he certainly would not have elected to use fear and intimidation as a way to accomplish the theft. when the instant crime is voluntary manslaughter, we cannot say that the robbery was a completely aberrant act. since being released from prison, neufeld has not been a model citizenhe committed multiple parole violations and was convicted twice for engaging in activity that is dangerous not only to himself but to others, namely driving under the influence. like the defendant in williamswilliams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 163.) 21 in sum, we conclude on the record before us that the trial court did not abuse its . the court considered, weighed and balanced the instant ohistory and his background, character, and prospects. as in williams, supra, 17 cal.4th 148 the application of formal sanction, that [such] criminal conduct was unacceptablebut had failed (id. at p. 163.) because neufeld has failed to arbitrary or irrational, we must affirm. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. i concur: chaney, j. rothschild, p. j., dissenting: i respectfully dissent. not only use force or induce fear, but such force or fear must actually cause the victim to give up his or her property. (people v. welsh (1936) 7 cal.2d 209, 212; people v. mungia (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1703, 1709, fn. 2.) here, there is no evidence that neufeld used force to take the candy bar. he walked in to the convenience store unarmed, took the candy bar from a store shelf, and walked out. the store clerk, rajpal kahlon, stepped outside and called to neufeld. neufeld returned to the store and never hit or touched anyone. lowest level of fear that [he] is apparent in the video evidence of the incident. after kahlon called neufeld back to the store, they stood on opposite sides a customer had intervened and, by putting himself between neufeld and kahlon, invitation to fight was no more than a gesture. the neufeld then walked away. if this was the extent of the evidence, i might agree with the majority. ordinarily, a jury could reasonably infer from the inducement of fear followed by the taking of the (people v. franklin (1962) 200 cal.app.2d 797, 798.) here, however, that was not the extent of the evidence. specifically, kahlon testified that neufeld did nothing that gave him cause for concern about trying to get the candy bar back; and the only reason he did candy from 2 (see people v. welsh, supra, 7 cal.2d at p. 212 [the perpetrator must cause the victim to ].) ante, at p. 8.) first, they he called out to (ibid.) the testimony that he told explained that sometimes customers are in a hurry and forget maybe that is what happened with him; he forgot to pay for the cabelieved had simply forgotten to pay does not constitute resistance to the taking of property for purposes of robbery, nor does his subsequent call to neufeld to return to pay for the candy. led the police because he was afraid for himself and others. (maj. op. ante, at p. 8.) i disagree. although a reviewing court must accept all reasonable inferences in favor of the judgment, when, as here, the victim of a purported robbery affirmatively testifies that he declined to resist the taking of the property for a reason unrelated to any fear he experienced, the contrary inference that he acted because of such fear cannot be reasonably drawn. without that inference, there is no substantial evideexperienced caused him to not resist the taking. defendant did not, therefore, take the committed a crimethe petty theft of a candy barhe did not commit robbery. the majority relies on people v. brew (1991) 2 cal.app.4th 99. in that case, the (id. at p. 104.) the defendant then took $1,004 from the 3 register. (id. at p. 103.) siback from the register . . . because she was scared. (id. at p. 104, italics added.) based on such evidence, the court held that the evidence was sufficient to find that the crime against t(id. at p. 105.) here, by contrast, kahlon testified that the reason he stepped back, so to speak, was not stop thefts. unlike the theft of cash taken in brewbar was not the other cases cited by the majority confirm the view that the taking must be accomplished because of the force or fear. in people v. anderson (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 919and he victim gave . . . up willingly out of fearbecause of t(id. at pp. 926, 946, italics added.) in people v. davison (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 206, the defendant and an accomplice approached the the followed the instructions because she felt they meant business when they stand back, and she didnt know if they were going to hit [her] or pull a weapon on [her] or what was their plan.(id. at p. 210the record overwhelmingly establishes that [the victim] stepped back from the atm because appellants conduct induced fear in her.(id. at p. 217, italics added.) in people v. mungia, supra, 234 cal.app.3d 1703, purse by the use of force, but that the evidence was insufficient to show that the victim (id. at p. 1709, fn. 2.) in people v. morehead (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 765, the court affirmed robbery convictions as a result of actual and reasonable fear that arose from the implicit threat of harm contained in his demands(id. at p. 775, italics added.) none of the cited cases suppholding herethat a petty thief who gets away with a candy bar because store policy is not to stop such thefts has committed robbery. 4 i would therefore modify the judgment to reduce the conviction to the lesser included crime of theft, and direct the court to resentence neufeld accordingly. (pen. code,  1260; people v. enriquez (1967) 65 cal.2d 746, 749-750.) rothschild, p. j. 