filed 11/16/16 p. v. snyder ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. reychard snyder, defendant and appellant. b265391 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma061329) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles a. chung, judge. affirmed. pamela j. voich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and paul s. thies, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant reychard snyder appeals his convictions for first degree burglary and petty theft.1 the trial court sentenced him to 35 years to life in prison pursuant to the three strikes law. snyder contends there was insufficient evidence to support the convictions, and the trial court abused its discretion by denying his romero motion.2 we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background 1. facts a. the petty theft snyder and chastity nunn have a son together. nunn and her uncle, shaquille ivory, lived at a house on mentor court in palmdale. snyder often visited the house. on october 30, 2013, at approximately 3:00 p.m., 14-year-old jordyn v. was sitting on a brick wall near 27th street east in palmdale, texting a friend on her iphone 4. snyder rode up on a red mountain bike and asked to borrow her phone to call his did not respond. e, which frightened jordyn and caused her to loosen her grip on the phone. using , jordyn tracked her ip to the mentor court residence. she notified the s and accompanied deputies to the house. 1 although snyder purports to appeal his conviction for providing false information to a police officer, he does not advance any argument demonstrating reversible error regarding this offense. 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 3 the deputies entered the mentor court house and found nunn and ivory inside. jordyn saw the deputies bring the red bicycle and her iphone out of the house. deputies also brought ivory outside, and jordyn stated that he definitely was the culprit. her the red bicycle. ivory was arrested and held in jail. detective michael baker later showed jordyn two six-pack photographic lineups. in the first one, she identified ivory as the thief. the second six pack included a photograph of snyder, but jordyn did not identify him. at trial, jordyn identified snyder as the thief. jordyn told the deputies that the assailant had worn a dark beanie. at the preliminary hearing and at trial she stated that the perpetrator had worn a hoodie. the parties stipulated that when deputies searched the mentor court residence, they found a er prominent during the theft.3 jordyn did, however, notice a scar on the no evidence was presented that either snyder or ivory had such a scar. 3 statements or testimony in at least three other respects. she told deputies and testified at the preliminary hearing that snyder got off the bike during the incident, but stated at trial that he stayed on the bike during the theft. she told deputies and testified at the preliminary hearing that snyder was silent during the theft, in contrast to her trial testimony that snyder asked to borrow her phone. she testified at the preliminary hearing that snyder pointed the knife toward her chest, but told the prosecutor that snyder did not point the knife at her. 4 ivory spoke to several deputies while in custody. he initially told deputy schmoker that he did not know anything about the iphone. after schmoker or another deputy stated that the phone would be checked for fingerprints, ivory told deputy scott sorrow and detective baker, in separate conversations, that snyder had come into the house holding the phone and stated he had stolen or gotten it from a girl. nunn initially told deputies that she had purchased the phone from an unknown person for $50. after ivory was arrested, she told detective baker that snyder had come to the house with a cell phone. snyder said he had asked a girl if he could borrow the phone and, when she handed it to him, he took it from her. shortly alerted snyder and nunn that the police were outside. nunn answered the door, and when she returned to the room, snyder was gone. at trial, nunn admitted snyder was at the mentor court house on october 30, 2013. she denied telling detective baker that she had purchased the iphone, that snyder had arrived at the house five minutes before the deputies did, that snyder brought the iphone to the house, or that he stated he had taken it from a girl. she did not know whom the iphone belonged to or how it came to be in her house. she admittedly told snyder he needed to turn himself in, but did so only because a detective told her to. ivory testified at trial that on october 30, 2013, he, snyder, and nunn were at the mentor court house. [ed] up when ivory saw the police at the door, he notified nunn and snyder. 5 denied stealing the phone or bringing it into the house. he did not think nunn brought it into the house either; she had been inside the house with him that morning and afternoon. ivory admitted telling a detective that snyder had taken the phone, but denied stating that snyder said he had gotten it from a girl. b. the burglary slightly more than a year later, on the morning of november 4, 2014, richard boling left his palmdale house on robin lane for work at approximately 6:00 a.m. the doors and windows were locked and no one was inside the house. later that morning that an alarm had been triggered at the house, indicating someone had entered. deputy sheriff efrain godoy responded to the robin lane residence at 8:03 a.m., within two to three minutes of being notified of the alarm. godoy, who was wearing a uniform and driving a marked patrol vehicle, observed a car stopped on the street in front of e. snyder was seated in the driver snyder had his head out the car window and was then he looked forward and backward. upon seeing godoy, snyder drove around the corner into a cul-de-sac and pulled into a driveway approximately 300 feet from ouse. godoy followed and pulled in behind snyder. godoy testified that snyder exited his car, raised his hands in the godoy asked whether snyder lived in the house. snyder said he did, but then changed his answer and said his friend lived there. godoy no longer lived there. 6 while speaking to deputy godoy, snyder kept glancing when godoy looked toward bolinhouse he saw the garage door opening. a male juvenile, later identified as daveyon m., ducked from underneath the opening door, carrying a briefcase. it appeared daveyon was going to walk straight to daveyon looked around, looked toward godoy, and then ran. godoy detained snyder. boling returned home from work to find a window on the side of his house was broken and his briefcase was missing from his upstairs office. deputies located daveyon approximately two hours later, less than five miles from boli he directed a deputy to the location where he had dropped the briefcase, and deputies recovered it there. detective julia vezina spoke to snyder while he was seated in the patrol car at the scene. snyder gave a false name. snyder stated he had visited food 4 less by himself to purchase baby formula for his infant, and then left to go to another house to purchase marijuana. detectives vezina and arnold then interviewed snyder at th the interview was recorded and played for the jury. snyder at first denied participating in the burglary. using a ruse, vezina told snyder that he had been seen leaving the store with the burglar. eventually snyder admitted that he walking near the food 4 less. they went to the and then dayday directed snyder to the house. it was guys pick that house in the morning, or had . . . he seen it before, 7 and said . snyder replied, yeah, he just said like should i just take him right there real quick, and then i could just drop him back off, drop him back he got you snyder replied, felt stupid [] . . . [] . . . stupid, but its like what it felt like, man, a man snyder denied taking dayday did not hear the alarm going off and did not hear dayday break the glass. snyder him [d 2. procedure trial was by jury. snyder was convicted of first degree burglary (pen. code,  459),4 giving false information to a police officer ( 148.9, subd. (a)), and petty theft ( 484, subd. (a)).5 snyder admitted suffering two burglary, a serious felony ( 459, 667, subds. (a)(1), (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the trial court sentenced snyder to 35 years to life in prison, consisting of 25 years to life on the burglary conviction, plus two 5-year serious felony enhancements ( 667, subd. (a)(1).) it ordered 180-day jail sentences on the petty theft and false information convictions to run concurrently 4 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 5 snyder was additionally charged with shoplifting from a stater brothers market. 1118.1 motion to dismiss the charge because the people failed to establish the corpus delicti of the crime independent of sn 8 with the term on the burglary. it imposed a $10,000 restitution fine, a suspended parole revocation fine in the same amount, a court operations assessment, a criminal conviction assessment, a crime prevention fee, and related penalties and assessments. snyder appeals. discussion 1. sufficiency of the evidence snyder argues the evidence was insufficient to support the burglary and petty theft convictions. we disagree. a. standard of review when determining whether the evidence was sufficient to the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1104; people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 988.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) reversal is not warranted people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 106.) we must accept logical inferences the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if we would have concluded otherwise. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 811-812.) 9 b. sufficient evidence supported the petty theft conviction the elements of theft are that the defendant took possession of personal property owned by someone else, without ive the owner of it permanently; moved the property even a small distance; and kept it for a period of time, however brief. ( 484, subd. (a); people v. lawson (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 108, 113-114; people v. catley (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 500, 505; calcrim no. 1800.) there is iphone, without her consent, moved it to the mentor court house, and kept it there. the intent to permanently deprive may readily be inferred from the circumstances. snyder argues, however, that there was insufficient evidence to prove he was the thief. he points out that jordyn identified ivory as the culprit at the scene and in a photographic lineup; she failed to identify snyder in a photographic lineup in which his photo was included; she did not notice a prominent growth on such a growth; she stated the thief had a scar on his cheek, but there was no evidence snyder had such a scar; a dark beanie was found in wore a dark beanie; the red bicycle and the stolen phone were found at the mentor court residence, where ivory lived; ivory and nunn did not tell police snyder was the thief until after ivory was arrested, suggesting they lied to deflect blame from ivory; and at trial nunn and ivory denied making some of the statements implicating snyder. jordyn did not identify snyder as the thief until he was apprehended over a year after the crime, and the prosecutor or police likely influenced her to change her story. 10 snyder is correct that the evidence identifying him as the thief was in conflict. but the contradictions in the evidence merely presented the jury with a credibility determination that is not reviewable on appeal. (people v. mejia (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 86, 99.) the testimony of a single witness, unless physically impossible or inherently improbable, is sufficient to establish a fact and support a conviction. (evid. code,  411; people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181; people v. hampton (1999) 73 cal.app.4th 710, 722.) ivory and nunn told deputies that snyder arrived at the mentor court house with the iphone and stated he had stolen it from a girl. ivory admittedly told detective baker that snyder was the one who took the phone. ivory denied stealing the phone and testified that nunn could not have done so, since she was at the house with him that morning and afternoon. upon learning police were at the door, snyder fled through a back door, suggesting consciousness of guilt. this evidence supported the conclusion that snyder, not ivory, was the thief. this scenario was not impossible or inherently improbable. moreover, jordyn identified snyder as the thief -court eyewitness identification. that alone is sufficient to in re gustavo m. (1989) 214 cal.app.3d 1485, 1497.) that jordyn originally identified ivory did not preclude the jury from concluding snyder was actually the thief. of identity must be so weak as to constitute practically no people v. mohamed (2011) 201 11 s statements supporting the conclusion her identification of snyder was accurate. the incompatibility of and discrepancies in the testimony the weight of the evidence and the credibility of the witnesses, and are questions for the jury. (id. at p. 522.) although snyder had a distinctive growth on his ear at the time of trial, trial commenced over a year and a half after the theft; there was no showing the growth was present in october 2013preliminary hearing and at trial jordyn testified the thief wore a hoodie, not a beanie. subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of people v. jackson (2014) 58 cal.4th 724, 749; people v. cortes (1999) 71 c. sufficient evidence supported the burglary conviction the evidence was insufficient to support his burglary conviction fares no better. burglary is the entry into any building with the intent to commit grand or petty larceny or any felony. ( 459; e.g., magness v. superior court (2012) 54 cal.4th 270, 273; people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1255; people v. smith (2006) 142 cal.app.4th 923, 929.) there is no dispute daveyon committed burglary; he entered briefcase. 12 snyder was tried as an aider and abettor to the burglary. a person who aids and abets the commission of a crime is a principal in the crime. ( 31; people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 611.) a person aids and abets when he or she, (i) with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, (ii) with the intent or purpose of committing, facilitating or encouraging commission of the crime, (iii) by act or advice, aids, promotes, encourages or instigates its commission. (people v. smith, at p. 611; people v. delgado (2013) 56 cal.4th 480, 486.) among the factors that may be taken into account are presence at the crime scene, companionship, and conduct before and after the offense. (in re juan g. (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1, 5; people v. battle (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 50, 84.) abetting liability need not be a substantial factor in the offense. concern may be, for the law establishes no degree of the concern (people v. swanson-birabent (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 733, 743.) thus, lookouts, getaway drivers, and persons present to divert suspicion are principals in the crime. (id. at pp. 743-744.) fact, and on appeal all conflicts in the evidence and reasonable (people v. campbell (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 402, 409; in re juan g., at p. 5.) here, both direct and circumstantial evidence supported snyder was discovered stopped outside the boling residence, while daveyon was inside burglarizing it. it was undisputed daveyon broke a side window and entered the house through it. the jury 13 could infer snyder knew daveyon did not enter through the front door with permission, as would be expected if daveyon was visiting the house for innocent purposes. while waiting for daveyon, snyder was looking around, with his head out the window. when snyder saw deputy godoy he fled and then gave godoy a series of dishonest excuses for his presence, indicating consciousness of guilt. while speaking to godoy he kept glancing legitimate purposes, there would have been little reason for this behavior. daveyon appearemerged from the garage, indicating he expected snyder to be waiting for him. these facts strongly suggested snyder was burglary. when interviewed by detectives vezina and arnold, snyder implicitly, if not explicitly, admitted acting as an aider and abettor to the burglary. he agreed it was daveygo in the house. he admitted knowing daveyon had a history of committing burglaries. when vezina asked whether daveyon and snyder had preselected the house, snyder replied that daveyon had told him to then drop him back at home. he admitted he was supposed to he got you snydhe choice, fuck. felt statement suggested snyder knew daveyon was committing the burglary and snyder had agreed to act as the getaway driver because he, snyder, needed money. the jury could reasonably 14 infer from these statements that snyder knowingly agreed to assist in the burglary for financial gain. snyder argues that the evidence showed, at most, that he happened to run into daveyon, whom he barely knew, in the grocery store and agreed to give him a ride. he insists that several pieces of evidence support this hypothesis. a november 4, 2014 food 4 less receipt for eggs, juice, and pillsbury grands muffins, time stamped 7:36 a.m., was found in his possession. he urges that he would not have purchased perishable items immediately beforehand if he intended to participate in a burglary. but the food 4 less purchases were not necessarily inconsistent with an intent to aid and abet the statements to detective vezina indicated both he and daveyon anticipated the burglary would be quick. snyder also argues that there was no evidence he was in he coincidentally ran into him at the grocery store. there telephone indicating communications between the two, and no text message from snyder warning that the police had arrived on the scene as would be expected if he was serving as a lookout. but neither of these circumstances undercuts the sufficiency of the evidence. snyder might not have had time to text when deputy godoy arrived, or might not have wanted to have an incriminating message on his phone. that the burglary may have been planned on the spur of the moment after a coincidental encounter does not demonstrate insufficiency. knowledge is not a prerequisite for liability as an aider and sly as the criminal act people v. swanson-birabent, 15 supra, 114 cal.app.4th at p. 742.) here, the evidence demonstrated snyder formed the intent prior to driving daveyon eyon planned this activity minutes before carrying it out is immaterial. snyder further urges that his action of driving away from deputy godoy was attributable to the fact he had an outstanding warrant and was en route to purchase marijuana. but, as with the foregoing contentions, the evidentiary significance of these facts was a question for the jury. the evidence, a reviewing court resolves neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts. [citation.] resolution of conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181.) in sum, the evidence was sufficient to establish that snyder not only knew about and intended to facilitate the burglary, but took active steps to aid in its commission. 2. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying romero motion a. additional facts prior to sentencing snyder filed a romero motion requesting that the trial court strike one or two of his prior serious felony convictions for burglary. he argued that the two prior burglaries occurred within days of each other in 2011, during a single period of aberrant behavior; none of his current or past offenses involved violence or the use of a weapon; other than his two strikes and two prior juvenile adjudications, he had no criminal history; his criminal behavior had de-escalated in seriousness because he had gone from acting as a principal to an aider and abettor; the current offenses were not serious; he had rt contact until his arrest and 16 conviction in the instant matter in november 2014; and the sentence imposed was unjust. the trial court denied the romero considered the facts of the prior case. i recognize that he was an aider and abettor in one of the [prior] cases. the other one he was linked to the burglary by way of a latent print. [] i recognize that those all occurred within a very short period of time. [] i also recognize that his strike convictions, again, are from that same course of conduct. however, i ultimately note the following: [] he did pick up both of those strikes within the last 4 to 5 years. on the current case, ultimately the people did not proceed on a robbery count but there was testimony indicating that a knife may have been used against jordyn. . . . she acknowledged that during the preliminary hearing she testified to the fact that there was a knife. that the knife was held out in front of her and that it was pointed toward her chest. [] i also note that there was a burglary of the first degree that occurred in this situation. [] and so just as much as it pains me . . . due to the recency of the strikes, due to the fact that they were multiple strikes, due to the fact that they did involve very serious conduct in the current case, i find he falls within the spirit of the three strikes law and i decline to exercise my discretion. i will not b. discussion snyder contends the trial court abused its discretion by denying his romero motion. we disagree. in the furtherance of justice, a trial court may strike or dismiss a prior conviction allegation. ( 1385, subd. (a); people v. superior court (romero), supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 504.) a trial s ruling is reviewed under the deferential abuse of 17 discretion standard. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 375.) the party seeking reversal must clearly show that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. (people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977.) it is not enough to show that reasonable people might disagree about whether to strike a prior conviction. (carmony, at p. 378.) only extraordinary circumstances justify a finding that a career criminal is outside the three strikes law. (ibid.) the circumstances where no reasonable people could disagree that the criminal falls outside the spirit of the three strikes scheme must be even more extraordinar (ibid.) when considering whether to strike prior conviction allegations, the relevant factors a court must consider are whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant ms spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious and/or violent fel (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) the not only establishes a sentencing norm, it carefulls power to depart from this norm . . . . [t]he law creates a strong presumption that any sentence that conforms to these sentencing norms is both rational (people v. carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 378.) we presume the trial court considered all the relevant factors in the absence of an affirmative record to the contrary. (people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 310.) the record before us reveals no basis for concluding that, as a matter of law, snyder falls outside the spirit of the three 18 strikes law. was a juvenile and has continued into adulthood. in 2004 he suffered a sustained juvenile petition for theft. in 2010, another juvenile petition was sustained for burglary and theft. snyder was placed home on probation in both cases. in 2011 he was convicted of a burglary that transpired on august 25, 2011. he was subsequently convicted of another burglary that occurred on august 18, 2011. on may 14, 2012 he was sentenced to a two-year prison term in a disposition that apparently resolved both burglaries. according to his romero motion, he was released in mid-2012. 30, 2013, and the boling burglary on november 4, 2014. at the time of the boling burglary he was a parolee-at-large. none of the prior offenses were remote in time. all involved theft or burglary, demonstrating that snyder is unable or unwilling to follow the law and cease his criminal behavior. in short, despite his relatively young age, -door career criminal for whom the people v. gaston (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 310, 320; people v. pearson (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 740, 749.) persuade us any abuse of disprior crimes were not violent and did not involve use of a weapon is not dispositive. the fact a majority of the three strikes law when the defendant is a career criminal people v. strong (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 328, 345.) and, in any event, the evidence 19 showed he used a knife in the theft offense, at least displaying it to jordyn to facilitate the theft of her iphone. contrary to characterization, the two 2011 burglaries single course of criminal conduc they involved different victims and were carried out on different days. given the prior juvenile adjudications for theft and burglary, and the current crimes of theft and burglary, it is inaccurate to characterize the prior strikes as attributable to a single period of aberrant behavior. that snyder apparently served a single sentence for both 2011 burglaries pursuant to a plea negotiation does not alter this conclusion. we do not view the fact that he acted as an aider and abettor in the current crime as an indication his conduct is deescalating. the current offenses were serious. stealing from the person of a young teen by displaying a knife is not an insignificant crime. burglary carries a high risk of violence should the intruder and the property owner happen upon each of the dangers to personal safety created by the usual burglary situationthe danger that the intruder will harm the occupants in attempting to perpetrate the intended crime or to escape and the danger that the occupants will in anger or panic react viole (magness v. superior court, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 275.) snyder argues his involvement in the august 18, 2011 ,connecting him to the crime was a latent fingerprint. but the fact remains that snyder pleaded guilty to the charge, and the trial court was not obliged to assume snyder did not really commit it. 20 ever told at the combined sentenc[ing] hearing that this but even assuming arguendo this assertion is accurate, snyder fails to explain how it has legal relevance to the romero motion. snyder faults the trial court for failing to consider factors other than his criminal history. however, snyder failed to present the trial court with any additional information regarding favorable aspects of his background, character, or prospects. (see people v. williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 161.) in light of this failure, he cannot complain that the court relied primarily on his criminal record and the facts of the current and prior crimes. (people v. lee (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 124, 128-129.) snyder contends that his age, 23 at the time of sentencing, is a mitigating circumstance, and the trial court could have stricken one of the priors and still imposed a lengthy sentence. further, he complains that he received a mere two-year consolidated sentence for the two prior burglaries3 burglary. but the function of the three strikes law is to punish recidivists. nor the fact a more lenient sentence might have been imposed demonstrate an abuse of discretion. the authorities snyder cites do not stand for the proposition that if a prior may be stricken and a lengthy sentence imposed nonetheless, the trial court is required to grant the romero motion. aring indicate it demonstrates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the uling . . . people v. 21 myers, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 310; people v. cole (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 850, 874.) such is the case here. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. stratton, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 