filed 3/1/16 hall v. superior court ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one nick s. hall, petitioner, v. the superior court of los angeles county, respondent; the people, real party in interest. b265202 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba433026) opinion and order granting peremptory writ of mandate original proceedings; petition for writ of mandate. craig j. mitchell, judge. petition granted. ronald j. brown, public defender, albert j. menaster, robin ginsburg and dylan ford, deputy public defenders, for petitioner. no appearance for respondent. jackie lacey, district attorney, roberta schwartz, phyllis asayama and john harlan ii, deputy district attorneys, for real party in interest. ________________________________ 2 petitioner nick s. hall seeks a writ to reverse motion to suppress evidence of a sawed-off rifle the police discovered while searching his apartment. we hold that the search was unreasonable under the fourth amendment and therefore grant facts and proceedings below hall resided in south los angeles with his wife, melissa hall (melissa), and their infant child. facing eviction from their apartment, they planned to move to new york. shortly before the move, hall began to have second thoughts, and on january 17, 2015, the day melissa and the infant were scheduled to fly to new york, hall attempted to called 911 from out of state and reported that hall was mentally ill, in possession of a gun, and had threatened to kill himself. five los angeles police department officers responded to the call. at the door of the apartment, melissa met the officers and told them that, although hall had threatened to kill himself earlier that day if melissa left for new york with the baby, the presence was unnecessary and the situation was now under control. the officers decided that it was necessary to enter the apartment to evaluate the situation, and melissa agreed to allow the officers to enter. melissa ultimately signed a document consenting to the . inside, the officers found hall asleep in a bed near the baby. his hands, stand, and walk backward toward them. they handcuffed hall and removed him from the apartment. brandon flynn, the officer who testified at the suppression during this first entry into the apartment and did not notice any guns in the area. once outside the apartment, hall told the officers that he did not consent to the in his apartment. nevertheless, the officers re-entered the apartment and searched for weapons. according to flynn, the officers conducted the search pursuant to a los angeles police department policy that required the officers to search 3 for weapons within the wingspan of a person they encountered who appeared to be suffering mental health issues. during the search, the officers discovered an unlocked gun safe whose door was ajar containing a rifle whose barrel had been cut off. hall told flynn that he suffered from depression and anxiety, but claimed he was demeanor and behavior were inconsistent with his claims that he was capable of taking care of himself, and so the officers requested that the mental evaluation unit come to the apartment to when the mental evaluation unit learned that hall had been detained on a weapons charge, they before evaluating him. flynn testified that he did not know if the mental evaluation team ever evaluated hall. an information charged hall with one count of possession of a short-barreled rifle or shotgun, in violation of penal code section 33215. hall filed a motion pursuant to penal code section 1538.5 to suppress evidence of the rifle. after a hearing, the trial court found that the search of the apartment was reasonable because melissa had consented to it, and that search, his refusal of consent to a search was insufficient. the court further justified its weapons. discussion the lanterman-petris-short act (welf. & inst. code,  5000 et seq.) (lps act) governs the treatment of individuals with potentially dangerous mental health disorders. welfare & institutions code section 5150, allows government officials to take into id., subd. (a).) a separate code section, welfare and institutions code section 8102 ( 8102) requires law enforcement officials to seize dangerous weapons from individuals who fall within section 5150. it henever a person, who has been detained or apprehended for examination of his or her mental 4 condition . . . , is found to own, have in his or her possession or under his or her control, any firearm whatsoever, or any other deadly weapon, the firearm or other deadly weapon shall be confiscated by any law enforcement agency or peace officer, who shall retain custody of the firearm or other deadly weapon.ibid.) hall does not deny that this section justified the police in seizing the sawed-off rifle once they found it. instead, he contends that it was improper for the police to re-enter the apartment and search for weapons without a warrant after he objected to their presence. the fourth amendment to the united states constitution, enforceable against the states under mapp v. ohio (1961) 367 u.s. 643, 643-660), idence is presumed to be the prosecution can prove that the search fell within a recognized exception to the warrant requirement. (katz v. united states (1967) 389 u.s. 347, 357.) courts must exclude evidence that government officials fourth amendment rights. (mapp v. ohio, supra, 367 u.s. at p. 655.) seizure under a substantial evidence standard. (people v. lawler (1973) 9 cal.3d 156, constitutional standard of reasonableness. (people v. loewen (1983) 35 cal.3d 117, 123.) the district attorney contends consent to the search takes the district attorney argues that search the apartment for any weapons for his safety and that of the occupants. we disagree with both of these arguments and conclude rights. i. consent to search in georgia v. randolph (2006) 547 u.s. 103 (randolph), the united states supreme court established a rule that when multiple inhabitants share a residence and 5 -occupans stated refusal to permit entry prevails, rendering the warrantless search unreasonable and invalid as to (id. at p. 106.) in this case, melissa consented to the initial entry into the apartment. yet after the officers entered and awakened hall, but before the police in the apartment. the district attorney, however, points out that randolph recognized exceptions to the general rule if a household of parent and child or barracks housing military personnel of different randolph, supra, 547 u.s. at p. 114.) here, the district attorney argues such an exception applies, and the consent of melissa, an apparently mentally healthy individual, should take precedence over the refusal of hall, an apparently mentally unstable individual. we are not persuaded. emotional distress was so profound as to impair her capacity for self-determination or understanding 4 lafave, search and seizure (5th ed. 2012)  8.2(e), p. 125, quoting u.s. v. duran (7th cir. 1992) 957 f.2d 499, 503.) had been behaving erratically, he cooperated with police and showed no signs of failing to understand the nature of what was happening or the consequences of giving or withholding consent to a search. he may have been deeply and even dangerously depressed at the time of the incident, but he was able to express his disapproval of the police presence in his apartment clearly and vociferously. it would not be wise to establish a rule that a mere allegation of mental instability is enough to prevent an individual from asserting his constitutional rights. ii. societal interest in securing the weapon the district attorney next contends that the search was justified because of a impairment. that societal interest is undoubtedly important. for example, it is well 6 established that the police may enter a residence without a warrant or consent in case of an emergency. (people v. roberts (1956) 47 cal.2d 374, 377.) for such an action to be an emergency situation requiring swift action to prevent imminent danger to life or serious damage to property(people v. duncan (1986) 42 cal.3d 91, 97.) at the time the police re-apartment to search for weapons, no such emergency existed. hall was already in handcuffs surrounded by police officers. to avert any potential danger from the presence of weapons in the apartment, they could have secured the apartment and kept hall and others out pending the issuance of a search warrant. (segura v. united states (1984) 468 u.s. 796, 811.) furthermore, to protect hall from harming himself, the officers were entitled to keep him detained until the mental evaluation unit evaluated whether he presented a sufficient danger to himself or others to require his detention pursuant to welfare & institutions code section 5150. (see heater v. southwood psychiatric center (1996) 42 cal.app.4th 1068, 1080 the prior temporary restraint of [a person suspected to be a threat to himself or others] until professional evaluation could be obtained is inherent in the process contemplated by the provisions of the lps act authorizing detentions. in this situation, the police could have as equally protected the public and hall himself by obtaining as by searching without his consent. penal code section 1524 explicitly allows for police officers to obtain a search hen the property or things to be seized include a firearm or any other deadly weapon that is owned by, or in the possession of, or in the custody or control of a person described in subdivision (a) of [s]ection 8102id., subd. (a)(10).) with the ability to secure the apartment and the police officers to search the premises without a warrant. there was no need for the public. 7 disposition the petition is granted. a peremptory writ of mandate is issued directing the trial court to vacate and set aside its june 5, 2015 ruling denying the motion to suppress the suppress that evidence. not to be published. rothschild, p. j we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 