filed 7/29/16 p. v. bivens ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and appellant, v. sparkle sky bivens, defendant and respondent. b265917 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba413256) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county. michael e. pastor, judge. affirmed. jackie lacey, district attorney, phyllis c. asayama and cassandra thorp, deputy district attorneys, for plaintiff and appellant. ivie, mcneill & wyatt and chandler a. parker for defendant and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 the people appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county ordering defendant and respondent sparkle sky bivens to pay the state compensation insurance fund (scif) $4,000 in restitution. the people argue that the trial court $34,154.70 restitution and arbitrarily awarded only $4,000. we disagree and affirm. background in may 2012, an scif claims adjuster became suspicious bivens was submitting fraudulent disability claims after bivens failed to document attending certain required medical appointments.1 scif thereafter approved an investigation by its special investigative unit (siu) into the legitimacy of . the siu determined it needed to surveil bivens, but because it has no internal surveilling resources, it hired paul chance investigations (chance), a third party investigator, to surveil bivens and obtain evidence she was engaging in activities she claimed she could not perform. chance deployed a team of four investigators to surveil and videotape over several days. scif testified that although normally investigations require only one investigator, occasionally circumstances warrant a team of investigators. according to scif, chance recommended it surveil bivens with a team, rather than an individual investigator, because bivens lived in a crowded area of los angeles, heavy with traffic, and bivens was a fast driver, conditions which would make bivens a difficult target to follow. she alleged she could not do. scif submitted the film to a doctor who determined disability payments. requested scif reinstate her disability payments. scif spent at least an additional $11,000 looking 1 scif is the third party administrator for workers compensation insurance for various government entities, including the california department of justice. bivens worked at the department of justice when she filed her disability claims. 3 into reinstating the payments, but concluded its original decision to terminate the payments was correct. at the conclusion of the investigation, scif determined bivens had defrauded scif in the amount of $4,000. on july 10, 2013, the people filed a complaint for three counts of insurance fraud under penal code section 550, subdivision (b)(1) and one count of grand theft of personal property under penal code section 487, subdivision (a). bivens and the people reached a plea agreement whereby bivens pleaded guilty to one count of felony insurance fraud in exchange for the people reducing her felony to a misdemeanor if she completed 250 community service hours and repaid scif the $4,000 she stole. bivens completed her community service and paid scif $4,000, and the court reduced her conviction to a misdemeanor. at the scheduled restitution hearing, scif argued it was entitled to $34,154.70 in restitution, in addition to the $4,000 bivens already paid, due to the s claims. after hearing argument, the court found reducing stitution amount to $4,000. the people appealed. discussion on appeal, the people argue the court erroneously reduced requested restitution and arbitrarily calculated the restitution award. awarding reduced restitution for abuse of discretion. (people v. mearns (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 493, 498.) trial courts have broad discretion to order victim restitution and such an order will not be reversed if there is a factual and rational basis for the amount of restitutio people v. rubics (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 452, 462.) although the trial court is not required to make an order in keeping with the exact amount of loss, the trial court must use a rational method that could reasonably be said to make the victim whole, and may not make an order which is (people v. thygesen (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 988, 992.) facilitate appellate review of the trial courts restitution order, the trial court must take care to make a record of the restitution hearing, analyze the evidence presented, and make 4 a clear statement of the calculation method used and how that method justifies the (people v. giordano (2007) 42 cal.4th 644, 664.) its appeal because the prosecutor did not method of calculation. the record unambiguously demonstrates that the prosecutor objected at length to the trial , and we will not reject appeal of the reduced award merely because the prosecutor did not precisely identify an erroneous calculation as the reason for objecting to the reduction. (see generally people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 435 [an objectioparty of the basis for the objection].) a. scif was a victim constitutionally entitled to restitution the california constitution grants victims the right to restitution. article i, section 28, subdivision (b)(13)(b) requires estitution shall be ordered from the convicted wrongdoer in every case, regardless of the sentence or disposition imposed, in penal code section 1202.4, subdivisions (a)(1) and (g) extends that right to a result of the commission of a crime insurance code section 1871.4, subdivision (b) specifies that for insurance fraud, restitution the costs of investigation at the discretion of the court scif is a quasi-state entity. although a public agency generally may not recover law enforcement costs under section 1202.4 (people v. ozkan (2004) 124 cal.app.4th 1072, 10761077), a victim may recover out-of-pocket expenses for assisting with the investigation and prosecution of the victimy constitute conduct. people v. sy (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 44, 64.) a quasi-state entity like scif is properly considered when, as here, it unknowingly honors fraudulent claims. (pen. code,  the following: [] . . . [] (2) a . . . governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality . . (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 967, 970973 5 $10,000 in restitution, in part, for investigative costs associated with determining workers compensation claims were fraudulent].) b. reasonably did so although scif was entitled to request the restitution it did, the court also had the power to reduce the  1202.4, subd. (g)court shall determine the amount of restitution, italics added].)2 s full restitution request because the amount was unreasonably high. scif incurred $34,154.70 in investigative expenses, more than 8.5 times the $4,000 bivens stole. although scif presented some testimony supporting that documenting the necessary evidence to discredit bivens required a team of investigators tailing bivens over multiple days, as the trial court noted, this type of expensive, extensive r- is more appropriate for the likes of the medellin cartel. in addition, scif testified that , and as bivenswithout limiting parameters, n ask for a million dollarswe agree. allowing scif to recover economic losses it incurred from its own self-initiated and self-directed investigations, no matter how unreasonable, would give it a perverse incentive to expend unlimited funds investigating every claim to the highest degree. there is nothing in the governing statutes or case law which requires a court to reported losses, and the trial court may reduce the 2 one of the trial court stated reasonwas that it believed the investigative funds scif expended were taxpayer dollars. the court was mistaken, however. scif is a quasi-government agency, created by the legislature, but funded through private premiums. scif therefore was expending its own funds on the investigationdinary and compelling circumstances warranted lessening the award. 6 requested restitution. (people v. atkins (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 1376, 13811385.) in such a case, trial court is not required to order restitution equal to the exact amount of the loss, but it must employ a rational method that makes the victim reasonably (people v. garcia (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 612, 617, italics added.) here, the vast discrepancy between the amount bivens defrauded scif and the amount scif spent award to an amount that would make scif reasonably the people counter that scif is legally obligated to investigate fraud and expended what was necessary to uncover . it asserted that by reducing restitution, the court was essentially ruling scif could perform of the investigation it was required to undertake. we disagree. to start, scif did not prove it expended only what was necessary to uncover the fraud. for example, scif spent at least $11,000 ase after it determined bivens was no longer entitled to payments, stopped making payments, and turned the matter over to law enforcement. uncover the fraud or to more significantly substantiate it. as a quasi-state agency, scif has a duty not to create waste, and further investigating a case it already determined to be fraud and had turned over to law enforcement is wasteful. additionally, any directive scif has to investigate fraud does not entitle it to spend any amount imaginable and then expect that exact figure in restitution. while we agree scif must be made reasonably whole from the losses it incurred reducing an extraordinary request for restitution prevents scif from properly performing its investigative function. finally, scif does not appear to have taken care in its calculations. at trial, scif admitted on cross-examination that, due to a calculation error, its submitted payment schedule indicated that it had expended $27,862 even though 7 scif had actually incurred $34,154.70. as a general matter, such carelessness does not give us confidence scif was prudent in accurately representing its losses.3 the trial court did not abuse its discretion by reducing scif award to an amount more commensurate with the cost of investigating a $4,000 fraud claim. disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. 3 in addition, the people represented at one point in its appellate briefing that the however, that the trial figure was actually $34,154.70. the people also used the $34,154.70 figure at other points in its briefing. 