filed 5/24/16 p. v. johnson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. roberto eugene johnson, defendant and appellant. b265561 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma064092) the court:* appellant roberto eugene johnson his probation. we appointed counsel to represent appellant on appeal. after examination on january 7, 2016, we advised appellant that he had 30 days within which to personally submit any contentions or issues that he wished us to consider. while we granted appellant an extension to submit a response, to date, no response has been received. revoke probation. the record shows that on september 25, 2014, appellant was charged with failure to file a change of address by a mentally disordered sex offender (pen. code,  290.013, subd. (a)). appellant pled no contest. (a second count of violating a criminal * boren, p. j., ashmann-gerst, j., hoffstadt, j. 2 protective order was dismissed.) on february 4, 2015, the trial court sentenced appellant to a term of five years in state prison, and suspended execution of the sentence. appellant was placed on formal probation for five years, with various conditions to be met, including that he perform 60 days of community labor, complete a 52-week domestic violence counseling program, obey all protective orders, and register as a sex offender. the trial court entered a protective order regarding valerie w. (valerie), set to expire february 4, 2020. after reciting the order in open court, the trial court addressed appellant . . . for any reason. if she calls you up and wants to have a cup of put you in state prison for five years. it is not a defense, if she invites you to violate that on april 10, 2015, appellant and his attorney were back in the trial court seeking modifications of some of the probation terms, including the protective order, which valerie was willing to have lifted. the trial court stated: his domestic violence classes. so, for the moment, may [a]that right now. even if the cops stop you appellant responded . . . . well, . what do you want, me to at the subsequent probation violation hearing, appellant testified that he lied when he told the trial court he was living with valerie, and admitted that he did not attend the domestic violence sessions. the trial court found that appellant had violated several 3 terms of his probation, ordered probation revoked, and imposed the previously suspended sentence. all of his responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. 