filed 3/13/17 p. v. mcallister ca3/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andrew allen mccallister, defendant and appellant. b265666 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va138301) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lori ann fournier, judge. affirmed. john doyle and jennifer hansen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 andrew a. mccallister appeals from a judgment which sentences him to four years and four months in county jail for identity theft and grand theft of personal property. he contends the trial court erred in rejecting his motion to withdraw his plea of no contest. we affirm the judgment. facts1 in an information dated march 16, 2015, mccallister was charged with two counts of identity theft in violation of penal code section 530.5, subdivision (a) and one count of grand theft of personal property in violation of section 487, subdivision (a). at the preliminary hearing, the owner of harper air tool testified months before her death in 2013. while employed there, paychecks containing the routing number and account number. in december 2014, the owner noticed the payroll account was about to be overdrawn due to unauthorized deductions. she discovered checks totaling $3,879 had been drawn to pay for accounts at charter communications and southern california edison. further investigation by the police revealed the checks were paid to an account at charter belonging to morgan mccallister, and address. when the police interviewed him on february 10, 2015, mccallister admitted he used harper s accounts, but believed the company owed his late wife for unpaid overtime. 1 because the conviction was based on a plea, the following facts are derived from the probation report and testimony presented at the preliminary hearing. 3 on may 15, 2015, mccallisters pled no contest to the three counts alleged in an open plea which released him until sentencing, at which time he would be required to pay restitution in full in order to receive probation or a split sentence with time served. if he failed to appear at sentencing, it was agreed the court could impose the maximum sentence of four years and four months. if he appeared at the sentencing hearing, but was unable to pay the restitution, however, it was agreed he could receive something other than probation. mccallister indicated he understood the terms of the plea. mccallister failed to appear for the sentencing hearing on june 5, 2015, and a no bail arrest warrant was issued. he was taken into custody on june 29, 2015. at the july 1, 2015 sentencing hearing, he apologized for failing to appear on june 5, claiming he had no transportation from pasadena to the courthouse. mccallister then advised the trial court he wanted to withdraw his plea because he recently learned a man named william ware committed the thefts against harper air tool. according to mccallister, ware stole identity while he was in custody. when mccallister confronted him, ware purportedly admitted he committed the crimes. mccallister also informed the court he was unable to pay the restitution amount because his social security debit card had been frozen due to inactivity while he was in custody. the trial court denied the motion to withdraw the plea, finding mccallist not credible. the trial court sentenced mccallister to four years in county jail and four months of mandatory supervision after release. the trial court further ordered him to pay $300 to the victim restitution fund, a $40 court operations assessment fee, and a $30 criminal conviction 4 fee. mccallister timely appealed and we appointed counsel to represent him. discussion on appeal, mccallister contends the trial court erred when it denied his motion to withdraw his plea. he claims the newly discovered identity of the actual perpetrator demonstrated good cause for withdrawal of his plea. the trial court disbelieved discretion in this instance. in the alternative, he contends he received ineffective assistance of counsel, which rendered his plea invalid. we disagree and affirm. i. purported newly discovered evidence at sentencing, mccallister told the trial court there was newly discovered evidence which invalidated his plea. without any corroborating evidence, he claimed he discovered that the true perpetrator of the crimes was a man named william ware. mccallister first became aware of ware when he committed identity theft against mccallister. mccallister then claimed ware admitted to the thefts against harper air tool when he was confronted. the trial court did not believe self-serving statement. penal code section 1018 grants the trial court discretion to permit a guilty plea to be withdrawn at any time before judgment for a good cause shown.to effect these objects and to promote justice.the defendant has the burden to show, by clear and convincing evidence, that there is good cause for withdrawal of his or her guilty plea. (people v. breslin (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 1409, 1415-1416 (breslin)or any other factor overcoming the exercise of his or her free 5 judgment, including inadvertence, fraid. at p. 1416.) t must also show prejudice in that he or she would not have accepted the plea bargain had it not been for ibid.) discretion and adopt the tris factual findings if substantial evidence supports them. (breslin, supra, at pp. 1415-1416; people v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1254.) we thus pay considerable s factual findings in ruling on a section 1018 motion. and sufficiency of the evidence are addressed, in the first instance, to the trier of fact, in this case, the trial judge. (people v. harvey (1984) 151 cal.app.3d 660, 667 (harvey).) a trial judge is the judge of the credibility of the witness and is not required to accept as true the sworn testimony of a witness, even in the absence of evidence contradicting it. (people v. weaver (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 131, 146.) bargain should not be set aside lightly and finality of proceedings (ibid.) with these guidelines in mind, we find the trial court did not abuse its withdraw his plea for this purported newly discovered evidence. it ignorance, or any other factor overcoming the exercise of his or her free judgment, including inadver(breslin, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 1416.) he failed to do that. substantial evidence instead finding about william ware was not credible. the timing was suspect: he conveniently discovered the true 6 perpetrator of the crimes just as he faced the maximum sentence for failing to appear. moreover, he failed to provide any corroborating information about william ware, including who he is, where he lives, how he managed to obtain harper account information, and why he would use that information to the facts presented here are similar to those found in breslin, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at page 1414. there, the defendant sought to withdraw her guilty plea after submitting a sworn declaration from the victim which recanted his statements to the police about her assault on him. the defendant further argued that ineffective assistance of counsel prevented her from making an intelligent decision since her counsel failed to inquire whether the victim would recant prior to her guilty plea. (id. at affirmed on appeal. the appellas decision to place lits recantation was, in fact, relevant in determining whether [the defendant] met her burden of establishing a mistake of fact regarding the existence (id. at p. 1417.) disavowal to be suspect, coming just before the sentencing hearings with skepticism. (ibid.) the court ht be a different matter if there were actually persuasive, independent evidence the victim had committed perjury or if the prosecution had withheld critical evidence. but we emphasize that there is good reason to believe s new account was the product of latent misgivings 7 id. at pp. 1417-1419.) siample reason to disbelieve it. the only evidence of william -serving statements. as in breslin, it might be a different matter if there were actually persuasive, independent evidence that william ware committed the crimes at issue. mccallister, however, provided no corroborating evidence for the trial court, or this court, to consider. further, we are not persuaded by the cases cited by mccallister, none of which questioned the existence or credibility of later-discovered evidence. (see harvey, supra, 151 cal.app.3d at pp. 670-s report that potentially negated a required element of the crime to which she pleaded guilty]; people v. dena (1972) 25 cal.app.3d 1001, 1007-1008 [blood alcohol test report that could have supported a defense of diminished capacity]; people v. ramirez (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1501, 1504-1508 [supplemental police report that identified new defense witnesses and implicated another suspect].) ii. ineffective assistance of counsel mccallister next challenges the judgment on the ground he received ineffective assistance of counsel. he contends he was afforded ineffective assistance of counsel due to the alternate rmine whether he possessed the funds to pay the restitution amount before he entered his plea. we find his argument unpersuasive. to withdraw his plea, mccallister stated he lacked sufficient funds to pay the restitution agreed upon under the plea deal. 8 he explained a hold had been placed on his social security funds due to inactivity on his debit card. he claimed he asked his alternate public defender either to obtain the funds or determine whether the funds were available at the time he entered into the open plea. his alternate public defender explained he was unable discussed with the trial court the efforts he made to help mccallister, including contacting his daughter and two private attorneys to get the money. calls and one of the private attorneys was no longer in the area. the other attorney stated he would consider going to see mccallister, but apparently elected not to do so. the trial court disbelieved mccallister, stating, the time that we dealt with this case . . . [the alternate public defender] tried everything that he could. you never once mentioned that the money might not be there, or if there was inactive useyou never said it to me. you never mentioned that to show ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant has the burden to show (1) the s performance was below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and (2) the deficient performance prejudiced the defendant. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687, 691-692; hill v. lockhart (1985) 474 u.s. 52, 58 (hill).) plea process and enters his plea upon the advice of counsel, the voluntariness of the plea depends on whether counsel's advice ce demanded of attorneys in (hill, supra, at p. 56.) 9 and, focuses on whether s constitutionally ineffective performance affected the outcome of the plea process. in other words, in order to satisfy is a reasonable probability that, but for counsels errors, he would not have pleaded guilty and would have insisted on going to (id. at p. 59, fn. omitted.) mccallister contends the alternate public defender rendered ineffective assistance by failing to: 1) determine from the social security administration were placed on hold, 2) contact the social security administration with information that could release the hold, and 3) arrange for the release of the funds. mccallister presents no authority to support the proposition that it was type of assistance or outside the range of competence demanded of attorneys in criminal cases. even so, his counsel one of whom indicated he would call mccallister about the matter. there is no indication mccallister, on the other hand, made any efforts himself to ensure he had the necessary funds from the time he was released on may 15, to july 1, when he was brought in for sentencing. more importantly, mccallister has failed to show prejudice. although he claims he would not have pled no contest but for his show otherwise. mccallister admitted he knew a hold may have been placed on his account because he asked his counsel to confirm the availability of funds prior to his plea. he never received any assurance the funds were available, yet entered the plea anyway. further, it is 10 apparent from the terms of the plea agreement that the parties contemplated the possibility mccallister would be unable to pay. the trial court advised mccallister of the consequences of both failing to pay the full amount of the restitution or failing to appear at sentencing. mccallister indicated he understood. given these circumstances, even were we to assume the alternate public defender had a duhis social security funds, he has failed to demonstrate prejudice disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: grimes, j. sortino, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 