filed 9/22/16 p. v. gutierrez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. roger gutierrez, et al., defendant and appellant. b265994 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba409950) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frederick n. wapner, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded. charlotte e. costan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant roger gutierrez. matthew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant ernest michael ortiz. robert h. derham, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant rudy leonardo escarcega. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, connie h. kan, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 the jury convicted defendants and appellants roger gutierrez, ernest michael ortiz, and rudy leonardo escarcega of murder. (pen. code, 187.)1 it found true the allegations that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm which proximately caused great bodily injury and death ( 12022.53, subds. (d), (e)(1)); a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (c), (e)(1)); and a principal personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (e)(1)). the jury also found true the allegation that the murder was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5)).2 defendants were each sentenced to 50 years-to-life in prison, comprised of 25 years-to-life for the murder convictions, plus a term of 25 years-to-life for the section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1), enhancements. with respect to the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), gang enhancements, the trial court imposed and stayed 10-year sentences as to each defendant pursuant to section 654, and also imposed and stayed the remaining firearms enhancements. informant violated his sixth amendment right to confrontation and state evidentiary laws; (2) the trial court erred in failing to require the prosecution to establish it exercised excise statements made by the confidential informant impugning his character violated his due process rights; and (4) the trial court erred in declining to consider youth-related factors under miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455] (miller) when sentencing him, in violation of his rights under the eighth amendment. in the event that his conviction is affirmed, gutierrez requests that we either remand to the trial court for 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 it was also alleged that gutierrez suffered a prior conviction for a serious and/or violent felony under the three strikes law. tsustained juvenile petition did not qualify as a strike prior conviction. 3 consideration of the miller factors, or modify his sentence to include a specific provision for a parole hearing in his 25th year of incarceration. gutierrez also joins in the arguments of his co-defendants, pursuant to california rules of court, rule 8.200 (a)(5). ortiz separately contends: (1) insufficient evidence supports his first degree murder conviction; (2) the jury was incorrectly instructed on conspiracy liability; (3) constitutional right to confrontation and state evidentiary laws; (4) the trial court erred in failing to require the prosecution to establish it exercised reasonable diligence to produce the confidential informant; (5) the trial court erred in imposing and staying a 10-year gang enhancement; and (6) his presentence custody credits were miscalculated.3 ortiz also joins in the arguments of his codefendants to the extent that they benefit him. escarcega separately contends: (1) the trial court erred in failing to require the prosecution to establish it exercised reasonable diligence to produce the confidential informant; and (2) the trial court erred in imposing and staying a 10-year gang enhancement. he joins in any additional arguments made by ortiz and gutierrez with reasonable diligence to produce the confidential informant. the attorney general concedes that the 10-year gang enhancements were imposed disagrees with ortiz as to the number of credits earned. the attorney general opposes the remaining contentions. amendment is moot, we agree that the matter must be remanded to the trial court for the limited purpose of allowing gutierrez an adequate opportunity to make a record of information that will be relevant to his future youth offender parole hearing. we also agree with the parties that the 10-year gang enhancement sentences must be stricken as to all thr 3 ortiz requested correction of his custody credits by letter to the superior court, dated december 15, 2015, and received by this court on december 30, 2015. 4 credits must be corrected to reflect that he is entitled to 773 days of credit. in all other respects, the judgments are affirmed. facts prosecution the murder on the evening of march 11, 2010, hector gomez was sitting on a bench with six or seven other people at reggie rodriguez park in montebello, waiting to play basketball. david jimenez was playing on the court with approximately 10 to 20 other people. defendants wa4 and claiming the area as their with his brother, ), name or gang moniker. jimenez did not recognize the other two men. he did notice that one man was taller than the other twofive feet eleven inches, or six feet. he thought all three men were approximately 19 to 20 years old. gomez did not setoo saw that that one of the men was taller than the othersbetween five feet nine inches, and six feet tall. the other two men were considerably shorterpossibly five feet six inches or five feet seven inches tall.5 gomez thought the men appeared to be in their late teens or early twenties. jimenez and gomez saw all three men walk toward mines street, and then return after a few minutes. they walked up to raymond camberos, who was playing basketball, and asked him where he 4 vne is an acronym for the varrio nuevo estrada gang. 5 ortiz was six feet tall and weighed approximately 190 pounds. gutierrez was five feet seven inches tall and weighed approximately 160 pounds. escarcega was five feet nine inches tall. 5 thought the gang was a rival of vne. jimenez had not previously known camberos was in a gang, but camberos had tattoos on his forearms. escarcega and the other short man began fighting with camberos right after he identified himself as a king kobra. jimenez believed he saw escarcega throw the first punch. the tall man stood nearby, telling camberos ran, with defendants giving chase. the taller man was a little bit behind escarcega and the other short man. gomez heard two gunshots coming from mines street after the men were out of view. jimenez heard two or three gunshots. they went to the area where they heard the gunfire, and found camberos lying in a driveway, breathing, but unable to speak. gomez left, but he reported what he had seen to police the next day. jimenez also left. rafael rivera was at home at the time of the murder, when he heard three gunshots. when he went outside to investigate, he saw three men jumping over a fence -colored clothing. one of the men was not wearing a shirt. rivera walked down mines street to where camberos was the investigation montebello police department officer sergio andrade responded to the scene. camberos was lying on the ground, not breathing. office andrade heard over his radio that three males were seen running into the rio hondo riverbed. spent shell casings were montebello police department detective paul antista also responded to the crime scene and collected video footage taken from a surveillance camera at the park. the surveillance video showed a basketball game being played.6 three men entered a 6 the surveillance video was played for the jury. 6 restroom for a short time, and then returned to the basketball court. the video showed the men walking behind the basketball hoop. a man ran off the basketball court toward the parking lot, with the three men in pursuit. soon afterward, people began running out of the park. them often. on the night of the murder, garcia went to a party in a hotel room. several - gutierrez was lying on the bed intoxicated. ortiz had a chrome revolver tucked into his waistband, and was running s cell phone rang, he made everyone put their cell phones in a paper bag. senior criminalist manuel munoz analyzed the three spent casings found at the scene. he determined that all three of the casings were nine millimeter luger caliber, manufactured by winchester. munoz opined they were fired from the same firearm. he also analyzed a bullet retrieved from cambwinchester nine-millimeter luger caliber. the autopsy revealed that camberos was killed by a gunshot wound to the back. the medical examiner also observed a pattern of abrasions on multiple sides of operation sudden impact around the time of the murder there were many unsolved homicides in the montebello area. a task force called operation sudden impact was created to get information and resolve the cases. the task force included the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, and firearms, the 7 long beach police department, and the montebello police department. as part of the operation, a number of informants were utilized, including an informant who was used to obtain information from escarcega. the operation also involved listening to phone calls made by gang members in various prison facilities, including calls by all three defendants. recorded jail calls while in custody, escarcega called his girlfriend. he told her that the police had ortiz called his mother while in custody on other charges, and asked her several time to pay his bail. he wanted to be released before it became too expensive. he said, and raise [the amount of bail]. i want to get in now whi [t]hose gutierrez told her to write them down when she visited him. she said she was afraid of confidential informant escarcega was in custody on unrelated charges but was returned to california in the hope that he would reveal information about the murder of camberos.7 on july 29, 2011, detective omar rodriguez of the montebello police department asked escarcega 7 in the unrelated charge, escarcega was charged in california but being held in a facility located in mississippi. 8 if he knew anything about the murder in reggie rodriguez park. escarcega denied any knowledge of the incident. detective rodriguez placed a hidden transmitting device on an informant. the informant was taken to a jail cell, where officers pretended to search him before placing him in a cell with escarcega. detective rodriguez listened to the entire recorded conversation between escarcega and the informant as it occurred. escarcega and the informant had not previously met, but they immediately identified themselves to each other as vne members. the informant was a former vne member, but told escarcega he was currently in the gang, and had ew many length about other vne members, and gutierrez in particular. early in the conversation, escarcega volunteered that ortiz and gutierrez were his about the shit at the park? with that kit kat?[ he asked the s the only one escarcega said that he, gutierrez, and ortiz had been looking for rivals on the day sic], running all over the hood fucking, i remember there was some taggers right there and me and rival went up to them, i went dog. we hit them fools from, like, where you from? they were like, were [sic] not from nowhere and they started booking from us escarcega described th 9 looked suspicious though. you know, how some fool, like, and he has something right boom and thumper is right there to make sure nobody jumped in. [] . . . [] . . . and fucking that fool booked it and we hit him in the corner and we were booking it. pow . . . were running the informant asked escarcega who pulled the trigger. escarcega used his right y shot. i seen that hit too, right in the back of that fool. because camberos three times, but he was only hit by the third bullet. the gun belonged to ortiz, but he let other gang members use it, and gutierrez had it that day. when the informant . . . ibed -boy and chunky came to scoop us up r, after the jail cell conversation, detective rodriguez interviewed jimenez, who identified escarcega in a photo line-up. officers searched without success for the gun in the rio hondo riverbed. gang evidence detective rodriguez testified as a gang expert. he was assigned to the gang unit in montebello for seven years and was part of the three-year-long operation sudden impact investigation. detective rodriguez grew up around gang members in montebello. 10 he had made contact with over 1000 gang members, including members of the mexican mafia. in 2010, there was a rivalry between the vne and southside montebello gangs, involving numerous shootings and many unsolved gang-related murders. reggie rodriguez park is in vne territory, but southside montebello members would try to the king kobras were another rival gang of vne with a small presence in montebello. respect is a priority among gang members. venturing territory is not acceptable. it was important to vne gang members to look for rivals who dominate and gain respect by committing assaults; the gang was responsible for many shootings in the area. vne is known to be involved in shootings, possession of firearms, possession of narcotics, sales of narcotics, vandalism, auto theft, burglaries, and robberies. the gang members intimidated citizens within their territory to prevent them from reporting crimes. snitching, or providing information to law enforcement, was not tolerated by gang members. retaliation for snitching ranged from vandalism, assault, and murder. gang members often commit crimes in groups, with every member playing a role. it is common for the youngest member of the group to commit the most violence to prove themselves. gang members respond with their gang affiliation when asked where they are from. if they are from a rival gang the immediate response is an assault. it is very common for gang members to carry guns. the more violent an individual gang member then taken into the next level and actually murdering somebody, that is really sending a message to the community [that a rival gang member coming into their territory is not shooting gets immediate respect. detective rodriguez had numerous contacts with escarcega, whose moniker was 11 was an admitted vne member from d gang tattoos. detective rodriguez had seen escarcega in the company of gutierrez and garcia, as well as robinson, c-boy, and chunky. ortiz was from the primos clique. ortiz also had numerous gang tattoos. the detective arrested gutierrez for vandalism on march 27, 2010, for gang name on the sidewalk on lohart street near the park. detective rodriguez explained the meanings of several words and phrases used in fellow gang member who has committed a crime with him. if a gang member has ,affiliation. discussion admission of statements implicating codefendants proceedings prior to trial, gutierrez moved to sever his trial from his codefendants. he argued -of-court statements to the informant implicating him in the murder violated his sixth amendment right to confront witnesses under the aranda/bruton doctrine8 and his right to due process. gutierrez contended the statements escarcega made to the informant were testimonial in nature and therefore in violation of the sixth amendment, as they were made in a custodial setting by an informant who was an agent of law enforcement. he argued the statements were also 8 people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 (aranda) and bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 (bruton), referred to jointly as aranda/bruton. 12 inadmissible under state evidentiary law because they were not sufficiently trustworthy. ortiz grounds. ortiz also moved to sever his trial or exclude the portions of the statements that incriminated him on constitutional grounds. the prosecution argued that under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawford), the sixth amendment was only implicated if the statements were testimonial. it sought to have the incriminating statements admitted under people v. arceo (2011) 195 cal. app.4th 556 (arceo), people v. cervantes (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 162 (cervantes), and people v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298 (greenberger), which held that a statement made to a confidential informant is admissible if it is prosecutor argued that the statements were nontestimonial because escarcega made them in a casual conversation with a person he believed to be a fellow gang member, a setting that lacked the solemnity and formality that define testimony. further, the statements were admissible under california evidentiary laws because they were made in a noncoercive setting, by someone who did not objectively appear to be an agent of the police. an objective person in enforcement purposes. the statements were therefore sufficiently trustworthy to be admitted under the statements against penal interest exception to the hearsay rule. gutierrez distinguished arceo, cervantes, and greenberger in his reply, arguing that none of those cases involved custodial interrogation, whereas escarcega had been in jail and was interrogated by an agent of the police. the prosecutor explained penal interests, and were therefore trustworthy. escarcega admitted to gang membership, hunbeating the victim, chasing him when the shooting occurred, and then celebrating the killing afterward. even in the portions of the transcript that were not specific to the crime, defendant was referencing his gang membership and relationships within the gang. the attorneys for ortiz and gutierrez primarily relied on the arguments in their 13 written usion that the informant had never met before, so there was no basis to assume that the two would about the crime and use his statements for future prosecution. escarcega could not be expected to know the law of aiding and abetting, and would not understand that his statements were against his interests. to the contrary, his statements shifted responsibility for the actual shooting to appeared to be pumping escarcega for information, as would be expected by an agent of rustworthy. escarcega was not speaking to a friend or family member, but instead was talking to a fellow gang member he was meeting for the first time, and was motivated to advance his status within the gang. the prosecution responded that it was irrelevant whether escarcega knew the statements were against his penal interest. it was also irrelevant that the informant was not a friend or family member. case law establishes that a statement to a paid informant may be admissible if trustworthy and again the court ruled that the statements were not testimonial, because they were not the equivalent of a police interrogation. although the informant was an agent of the police and pumped escarcega for information, the relevant question was whether a reasonable use at trial. the court found that a reasonable person would not believe he was being interviewed by police and the statements were not the equivalent of testimony. although the statements were hearsay as to gutierrez and ortiz, they were subject to the exception for statements against penal interest. under the exception, the declarant must be unavailable and must make statements that a reasonable person in his position would not make unless he believed them to be true. escarcega was unavailable due to his privilege against self-incrimination. he told the informant what happened because they were from the same gang. it did not matter whether escarcega understood the law of aiding and 14 understood he could be subjected to criminal liability for what he had done. escarcega and the informanbut no police officers were present-did not narrating what happened to the informant. discussion gutierrez and ortiz contend that, absent the opportunity for cross-examination, the violated their constitutional right to confrontation under crawford, and the aranda/bruton doctrine. they also question whether admission of statements against -or alternatively, whether the statements were sufficiently trustworthy under evidence code section 1230. crawford prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . to be confronted with the witnesses agcrawford, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 42.) crawford held the sixth amendment right of confrontation is violated by the admission of out-of-court testimonial statements if the declarant is unavailable to testify at trial and the defendant has had no prior opportunity to cross-examine the declarant. (crawford, supra, at p. 68.) the crawford court abrogated ohio v. roberts (1980) 448 u.s. 56 (roberts), which had held that statements of an unavailable witness against a criminal defendant could be admitted at trial only when the evidence falls within a firmly rooted hearsay exception,particularized guarantees of trustworthiness, 15 reliability. (crawford, supra, at p. 66.) crawford the confrontation clause reflects this focus [on testimonial hearsay]. it applies to 2 n. is ibidcrawford, supra, at p. 51.) the crawford court declined to ers, it applies at a minimum to prior testimony at a preliminary hearing, before a grand jury, or at a former trial, and to police interrogations.id. at p. 68.) an accuser who makes a formal statement to government officers bears testimony in a sense that a person who id. at p. 51.) crawford held that testimonial statements were subject to the protections of the confrontation clause, noting design to afford the states flexibility in their development of hearsay law. . . .id. at p. 68.) in companion cases davis v. washington and hammon v. indiana (2006) 547 u.s. 813 (davis), the supreme court considered the constitutionality of the admission of statements made by unavailable witnesses. the davis court considered whether a police immediately following an attack produced testimonial statements, and concluded that it did not. (id. at pp. 826-witness; she was not testifyingtrial. . . .id. at p. 828.) the court concluded the 911 caller in davis was not attempting to establish past facts, but rather to describe an ongoing emergency. (ibid.) in hammonhome in the course of a police investigation following an attack. as to hammon the court held that the affidavit was testimonial because it was made under circumstances objectively indicating that the purpose of the statement was to establish past facts for the pu 16 course of police interrogation under circumstances objectively indicating that the primary purpose of the interrogation is to enable police assistance to meet an ongoing emergency. they are testimonial when the circumstances objectively indicate that there is no such ongoing emergency, and that the primary purpose of the interrogation is to establish or id. at p. 822, fn. omitted.) the court explicitly held that the confrontation clause applies solely to other hearsay that, while subject to traditional limitations upon hearsay evidence, is not id. at pp. 821.) in the course of its discussion of the parameters of testimonial statements, the davis court described id. at p. 825.) in michigan v. bryant (2011) 562 u.s. 344 (bryant), the supreme court the circumstances of an encounter and the statements and actions of the parties to it circumstances in which an encounter occurse.g., at or near the scene of the crime versus at a police station, during an ongoing emergency or afterwardsare clearly matters of objective fact. the statements and actions of the parties must also be objectively evaluated. that is, the relevant inquiry is not the subjective or actual purpose of the individuals involved in a particular encounter, but rather the purpose that id. at p. 360, fn. omittedvel non of an ongoing emergency is not the idother circumstances, aside from ongoing emergencies, when a statement is not procured with a primary purpose of creating an out-of-id. at p. 358.) r is . . . 17 formality[,] [which may] suggest[] the absence of an emergency and therefore an though] informality does not necessarily indicate the presence of an emergency or the lack of id. at p. 366.) ultimately, the question is whether, viewing all of the tement was to -of-id. at p. 358.) inadmissible under crawford because they were elicited by an agent of the police for the purpose of prosecution, while escarcega was in a custodial setting and would not have felt free to end the conversation. we disagree. analysis under crawford. that the statements were elicited by an agent of the police does not mandate that they be considered testimonial. in bourjaily v. united states (1987) 483 u.s. 171, 181-184 (bourjaily), decided before crawford, the united states supreme court held that admission of statements made unwittingly to a government informant did not offend the constitution. davis later noted that the statements in bourjaily were standard articulated in the repudiated roberts test. (davis, supra, 547 u.s. at p. 825.) the davis [of purposes of the opinion (id. at p. 823, n. 2.), yet held that a police interrogation conducted in the course of a 911 call is not testimonial in every circumstance (id. at p. 822). the intent of the informant and/or law enforcement is not considered in isolation also be taken into account. (bryant, supra, 562 u.s. at pp. 367-370.) here, although it is clear that the police and the informant intended to elicit statements for future prosecution, escarcega was entirely unaware of their intentions. he and the informant spoke in an easy, friendly manner, for a substantial time period. the two had many associates in common, and were catching up on what others in the gang were doing. the manner and 18 the tenor of the conversation strongly indicated it was a casual interaction, not a means to provide information to police for use in future prosecution. moreover, gang culture circumstances, a reasonable person would have believed the conversation would be kept in confidence. although he was in custody, escarcega was under no compulsion to speak with the informant. he initiated the conversation about the murder by telling the informant that he thought it was the reason he had been transferred back to california. as the trial conversation was lacking in the formality and solemnity that that are the hallmarks of xth amendment rights were not implicated. aranda/bruton defendants insist that, even if crawford they are inadmissible under the aranda/bruton doctrine, to which crawford testimonial requirement does not apply. this argument also fails. the aranda/bruton confession that is inadmissible hearsay as to the defendant at their joint trial under the sixth amendment. (bruton, supra, 391 u.s. at pp. 135-137; aranda, supra, 63 cal.2d at pp. 529-530.) bruton was decided well before crawford and davis, but was not amendment protections. although defendants argue that whether testimonial restriction applies to the aranda/bruton doctrine is an unsettled question, the issue was addressed by division eight of this court which [t]he confrontation clause has no application to out-of-court nontestimonial statements (whorton v. bockting (2007) 549 u.s. 406, 420 (whorton); people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 812), including statements by 19 codefendants. (united states v. figueroa-cartagena (1st cir. 2010) 612 f.3d 69, 85 (figueroa-cartagena) [bruton must be viewcrawford and davisapplication]; see also u.s. v. johnson premised on the confrontation clause, the bruton rule, like the confrontation clause itself, does not apply to non-arceo, supra, 195 cal.app.4th at pp. 571-572.) the arceo ccrawford have held that the admission of statements possessing sufficient indicia of reliability to fall within the hearsay exception for declarations against interest does not deny a defendant the right of confrontation guaranteed by the united states constitution. (cervantes [, supra,] 118 cal.app.4th [at pp.] 176-177 ; greenberger [, supra,] 58 cal.app.4th [at pp.] 330-331arceo, supra, 195 cal.app.4th at pp. 571-572.) crawford, davis, and whorton mean what they saythe confrontation clause applies only to testimonial statementsand nothing in the cases applying that principle to overrule brutonbruton, supra, 391 u.arceo, supra, at p. 575.) we agree with the analysis of the arceo courtnontestimonial statements did not implicate the aranda/bruton doctrine in this case. trustworthiness both before and after crawford and davis, california courts have upheld admission of statements against penal interest that meet the exception to the hearsay rule in evidence code section 1230, based on compliance with the statute, trustworthiness, which meets constitutional requirements. (arceo, supra, 195 cal.app.4th at p. 577; cervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th at p. 177; greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at pp. 330-331.) defendants argue that california cases upholding admission of statements against 20 penal interest under evidence code section 1230 based on their trustworthiness have roberts, supra, 448 u.s. 56, which required statements to possess sufficient indicia of reliability to meet constitutional requicases following davis acknowledge that roberts is no longer good law. in arceoclear that roberts . . . and its progeny are overruled for all purposes, and retain no relevance to a determination whether a particular hearsay statement is admissible under the confrontation clause . . . . thus, there is no basis for an inference that, even if a hearsay statement is nontestimonial, it must nonetheless undergo a roberts analysis people v. cage (2007) 40 cal.4th 965, 981-arceo, supra, 195 cal. app.4th at p. 573, fn. 8.) cervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th 162, the court, relying on crawford and greenberger, explained that crawford recognized that if the statement at issue is nontestimonial, the rules of evidence, including hearsay rules, apply; state courts may bility factors beyond prior opportunity for cross-examination when the cervantes, at p. arceo, supra, 195 cal. app.4th at p. 573.) thus, trustworthiness is a proper conrequirements. evidence code section 1230 finally, defendants argue that even if trustworthiness is a proper consideration, the statements at issue are not sufficiently trustworthy to be excepted from the bar on admission of hearsay evidence. [e]vidence of a statement by a declarant having sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the 21 hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made, . . . so far subjected him to the risk of . . . criminal liability . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unless he believed it to be true. ([evid. code,]  1230.) the proponent of such evidence must show that the declarant is that the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission despite its hearsay characpeople v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 610-611 (duarte).) here, we are concerned with whether the statements escarcega made to the informant were trustworthy, or made for the purpose of shifting blame to his codefendants. the parties agree that escarcega was unavailable as a witness because he exercised his right against self-incrimination, and defendants have not argued that he did not incriminate himself in his statements.9 erest] passes take into account not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, relationship to the broad and deep acquaintance with the ways human beings actually conduct themselves in the circumstances material under th [citation.]duarte, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 614.) and falls within the declaration against [penal] interest exception. the trial court must look to the totality of the circumstances in which the statement was made, whether the 9 defendants note the confidential informant, who was therefore unavailable for cross-he s statements, not the interrog [citation.] . . . s answers, do not assert (bryant, supra, 562 u.s. at p. 367, fn. 11.) 22 declarant spoke from personal knowledge, the possible motivation of the declarant, what was actually said by the declarant (greenberger, suprasaid by the declarant special attention must be paid to any statements that tend to inculpate the nondeclarant. this is so becthat portion which inculpates the declarant. it is least reliable in that portion which shifts responsibility. controversy necessarily arises when the declarant makes statements which are self-inculpatory as well as inculpatory of another. this is why evidence code section 1230 only permits an exception to the hearsay rule for statements that are specifica statement that incriminates the declarant and also inculpates the nondeclarant cannot be (id. at p. 335.) to the informant were trustworthy. escarcega had personal knowledge of the events. he participated in the murder and personally witnessed what he described. escarcega told determine whether he was from a rival gang, beat camberos when he learned that he was a king kobra gang member, chased camberos from the park, told gutierrez to shoot camberos, and celebrated the killing with other gang members afterward. his statements were facially self-incrimiguarantees of greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 329.) escarcega had no apparent motivation to lie. he was commiserating with someone he believed was a fellow gang member about the reasons for his incarceration. escarcega did not know the informant was working with police and did not know that their conversation was being recorded. he had no reason to believe that the informant would share the information with police. in gang culture, fellow gang members support each other and do not role in the murder. 23 gang members increase their reputations within the gang by committing crimes, and the more serious the crime, the greater the reputation of the member who commits it becomes. if anything, escarcega had incentive to exaggerate his part in the murder to impress the informant. viewed in context, his statements to the informant cannot be construed as shifting blame to either of his codefendants, because a reasonable person in s guilty for encouraging a murder and hunting down a victim than they would be for committing the actual shooting. as explained by the trial court, it did not matter whether someone in w of aiding and escarcega belonged to a notorious gang with a number of murders to its name. it is inconceivable that any member of vne would not understand that everyone who participates in a culpability when he asked the informant to tell ortiz he was the only one who was not 10 reasonable diligence in attempting to produce the confidential informant defendants argue that the trial court failed to require the prosecutor to show she used reasonable diligence to procure the attendance of the informant at trial. in their briefs, defendants provide what is, at best, a poorly-balanced and cursory account of the l 10 in determining whether the statements are trustworthy, we do not consider ed guarantees of trustworthiness, consideration of corroborating evidence is inappropriate since that would constitute (greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at pp. 335-336.) 24 implication that the prosecutor had the nefarious purpose of lulling them into believing that she intended to call the informant as a witness, and then depriving them completely of the opportunity to examine or cross-examine the informant. defendants describe her efforts at producing the informant after they requested to call him as a witness as we cannot locate him,as evidence that she was not diligent in her efforts and that the trial court abdicated arguments to those raised both before the trial court and in the opening briefs. we conclude the informant was not a material witness, the trial court properly ascertained that the prosecution exercised reasonable diligence to ensure his availability, and any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. proceedings in her opening statement, the prosecutor told the jury that an informant had been this particular murder. [] [] of it. [] [t]he conversation is a taped conversation between defendant escarcega and the informant ld be introduced to impeach his credibility as a witness. he requested arrest reports for the informant from the prosecution. the prosecutor stated that she did not have arrest reports for the informant. the trial court inquired whether she could obtain them, and the prosecutor responded that she did not know. the court requested that the prosecutor attempt to obtain the reports to avoid having the jury wait 25 for the defense to get them. the trial court asked if the prosecutor intended to call the informant that day and she responded that she did not. there was an off-the-record discussion, and when the discussion resumed on the record, the trial court summarized, know when [the informant] is going to testify. [] would like you to, please, try your best to get that information -- these arrest reports. you like for you at least to long that hearing is going to take and figure out a time to do it. [] informant] to show up here tuesday morning, and i have to keep the jury waiting while . . . [the informant] may testify that would be relevant for cross-examination if he testifies. [] beca intention to call detective rodriguez and not the informant to the stand. and i anticipate we may be done as early as tomorrow. [recording] in real time? he prosecutor:] correct. [] [] [if] [t]hat changes, [prosecutor], let the de 26 there were no further comments from defense counsel on the matter that day. on thursday, february 19, shortly after detective rodriguez took the stand, counsel, joined by counsel for both codefendants, objected to detective rodriguez testifying regarding the recorded conversation between escarcega and the informant. he argued that the prosecution needed to establish the relevance and foundation for issue with foundation because detective rodriguez put the wire on the informant, placed him in the . added that detective rodriguez could testify to what he heard escarcega say, if he heard anything. the issue was what the detective had heard. the prosecutor pointed out that the recording began with the detective wiring the informant, walking him to the cell, and releasing him to the jailer, which continued directly into the conversation between escarcega and the informant. the court instructed the prosecutor to resume examination, so that it could be determined how much of the converhe needs to say is i heard the whole thing, but if he was gone for five minutes, then that is detective rodriguez testified that he listened to the entire conversation between escarcega and the informant as it occurred over a speaker that had been wired for that purpose in the k-9 room next to the cell. he downloaded the recording afterward and listened to it several times, and confirmed that the recording accurately reflected the conversation in the cell. all counsel submitted on foundation, and the court ruled that the recording could grounds. he argued that neither ortiz nor gutierrez had been identified up to that point informant were crucial. the informant could not be cross-examined on his past, his would not have the opportunity to question the informant as to whether his statements were true, or 27 the trial court asked the prosecutor whether the informant would be available as a witness if the defense wanted to call him to testify. she responded that she had not asked, but that she would check with the montebello police department. she said she s suggested that the prosecutor ask detective rodriguez off the record to check on the t him. the prosecutor responded that it was her intention to play the entire recording with the exception of the portions that the court ordered be redacted. she intended to ask [,]informant before he was put in the cell, and that is essentially it. [] the tape speaks for had the effect of informant] to court so we can cross-that because of statements the prosecutor made in her opening statementa snitch and an informant, and that mr. escarcega made statements to him and was very the defense had been lead to believe that the informant would testify. since that time the defense had been requesting police reports for the informant but had not received any. -mailed the prosecutor following the requested that the prosecution keep the informant under subpoena if he was under 28 subpoena already, and if he was not, provide the informant to the defense so that they cross-were made in [sic] favors that were given to [the informant] whether [the informant] broke the agreement between him and the montebello police department by his actions, and his the [sic] prior convictions the prosecutor stated that she had already provided the defense with all the information she had on payments to the informant, but she objected to the defense cross-examining the informant on the payments because he was not testifying. she argued that the [] he [] the only thing he went in a jail cell where we already have a tape of it . . . . [t]o open the door to this informant or any other informant in any other case would be irrelevant unless he were testifying it is his credibility that were [sic] being impeached and i have not hidden from the jury or from anyone the fact that he was a paid informant . . . . [t]o broaden the scope and bring in all of this impeachment evidence on a witness who is not even taking the stand is not allowed under the law i have never seen it happen i would like to see [the case law defense counsel is relying the court responded that it would look at the case law but that in the meantime the prosecutor should make the informant available to the defense to call as a witness. if he was not available they would revisit the issue of impeachment. the court asked the conduct. she responded that she had spoken with her office about it but that she did not know if they would be able to get the information. the trial court stated that if the turpitude things that are listed in the prosecutor expressed confusion, to which the court res 29 available so the first thing i have to do is make contact with montebello [police department] to see if they can get [the informant] and make him available and then advise him [t]hat the defense may want to call him or may want to speak to him and that is the extent of what i can do . . . .subpoena the informant at this point in the trial. the [i]t subpoena because she subpoenaed him before the trial started. the court replied that any more time. [] so go make whatever . . . phone calls he needs to make or you need to make [before we resume direct examinationthat is what i want you to do now. [] we will take a recess for five minutes to get those wheels in motion. [] . . . [m]ake the phone calls you need to make as fast as you can the prosecutor office involved in this. [] i have to make calls with respect to montebello [police department] he is also a federal [informant] involved with federal work. [] know if the handlenot be a 5 minute phone call. [] this all just happened right now. [] if you are asking me to make this witness available i will make every effort to make the witness available to trumps any of this difficult[y] of getting office permission or talking to the montebello counsel stated that they had a name and birth date for the informant and prosecutor to have the informant in court the next morning for examination as a witness. the 30 tcounsel reported that the made. he was unavailab meaning the handler, to find out what unavailable meant to get more detail, and he court instructed defense counsel to cross- after testimony was concluded for the day, the court asked what defense counsel information. defense counsel then reiterated that if the informant was not available defendants would want access to arrest records for impeachment purposes. defense counsel stated they would still like to subpoena the informant. the court asked the prosecutor if that would be possible a . . . [t]he informant has been relocated four different times. the address is not something that we would be inclined to divulge. we are making efforts as the court has requested to get in contact with this witness. he is not responding to phone calls that are being made to him as of yesterday. [] so at this point, we are making our best efforts. if counsel had wanted him under subpoena, that should have happe[a]t that time, we would have handled either making sure that we had him under subpoena or we could have produced him and put him under subpoena to counsel. [] we had him at one point so that could have all been handled before this trial started . . . . we have not how else i -- object to the requests for arrest records on the ground that the informant was not a material witness. the court responded was to impeachment of kind of a 31 remedy if the witness is just not available[,] [] . . . rneys to ask the prosecution for contact information for a witness, and for the response to be that the relying upon if o cocourt. [] -counsel, that the people made, at that point, a tactical decision not to call [the say, well, we could have subpoenaed thsubpoena the witness[] available to th[] and when the court asked me yesterday to make efforts to make fort to [] expedition to me. . . . regardless, i would make him available and defense counsel could speak with him or call him to the witness stand if the court allowed that. [] get a already; and the only difference would be had they really wanted to call him as a witness in this case, they would have come to me before this trial started and said, do you have this witness, and are you for sure calling him; and if not, can you make him available. [] and not a single attorney here did that. . . . this is a situation where now all of a sudden 32 the prosecutor replieneeds to at least make the effort, if ounty or even in the state of california, to contact somebody in law enforcement wherever that person is, and drive out to that location where the person is, and see if they can find the person and try to make that person available because they want to call him. [] if they can find him . . . . on monday, february 23, the prosecutor asked the court for its ruling on what information could be admitted to impeach the informant. the court asked the prosecutor because the only relevance is to impeach the credibility. . . . [i]dirty up a witness who is not here to defevidence of incentives and payments to the informant to be admitted. the court permitted the prosecutor to be heard on the matter. his informant is not a material witness under the law. i know the court feels that he is an important witness, but under the law legally speaking a material witness would be someone who would either be present at the scene or has some or has some valuable information to provide. [] in this particular case the informant is simply someone who had been wired up and sent into a jail cell with for the jury. [] so any issues that the court has brought up regarding whether there was some bias or some motive would be irrelevant to the issue of whether or not defendant escarcega made this statement to the witness. [] any information regarding the informant whether he was paid, whether he had done other operations with respect to this case or anything else, would be relevant, and under 33 e would have called the confidential informant if the prosecution did not, and that we would be able to get a fair picture to the him with his prior convictions, and the fact that he has signed agreements for payment for this case and possibly others. [] and even if he is not send a false picture to the jury as to who the confidential informant is. i would ask that we be able to impeach or ask about any payments or relocation fees that were paid to this iknow, whether i think it was last tuesday, everyone was under the understanding that this witness would be here last week or today, and we were all under that understanding and all under the belief that we would be asking these questions of the witness, and to now be unable to do that, i think is unfair to my client, and i think it would violate his -counsel and submitted. have called this witness to the stand, i find very interesting. first of all, none of the lawyers ever inquired as to whether or not i was going to call this informant to the stand in this trial. none of the lawyers ever asked for me to make that witness available and no one ever asked if i was going to have that person under subpoena. [] now at this point i am sure that they have been waiting so that they could cross-examine that particular witness, but when he said he would have called that witness, i would be asking simply for an offer oarguments that i hear sounds like they would be wanting to call the witness simply to impeach him, and that would not be a material reason to call the witness to the stand. [] 34 as what becomes relevant and pertinent in a trial like this is the materiality of those who [the] one, calling [] who now claims that they so-called want to call him, which i donthey were really hoping for is cross- [t]his informant could verify or not the process by which this recording took place, how it was set up, whether or not he could give us information as to whether or not the testimony of detective rodriguez is true and accurate. there may be other variations if he was to testify as to exactly how this recording occurred. [] secondly, this particular informant seemed to have information about people out in the neighborhood that he was asking questions, and he may have been able to confirm or he may have been able to cast inconsistencies from some of the other informant would be called when the prosecutor provided his name, birth date, and impeachment information. defense counsel were not aware that law enforcement was conversation [he and escarcega] were in fact having, whether it was a truthful conversation or not allowed to testify about what certain y of that conversation - give any information that would go to the inconsistency of what other civilian witnesses [] the other it that evidence of whether or not this tape was done in real time, that particular informant would not be able to testify to that. he is not behind the mechanics of what is going on 35 with being wired up. he just gets wired up and goes and is about what detective rodriguez or the other detectives are doing while that individual is in the particular jail cell and the tape speaks for itself. [] so this informant the offer of escarcega doe the court ruled that the defense could question detective rodriguez about the payments made to the informant, but that he could not be asked about prior convictions. law a criminal defendant has the right under both the federal and state constitutions (u.s. const., 6th amend.; pointer v. texas (1965) 380 u.s. 400, 406.) eleazer v. superior court (1970) 1 cal.3d 847 [(eleazer)], the california supreme court held that due process requires that the police or prosecuting authority prosecution and defense to locate [an informer who is a material witness whose testimony might be helpful to the defense]people v. hernandez (1978) 84 cal.app.3d 408, 409-eleazer, supra, 1 cal.3d at p. 851, fn. omittedlikely that the informant cannot be located by merely providing the last known address, the trial court is under an obligation to ascertain whether the prosecution has more information and whether it has made reasonable efforts to obtain information useful in locating the informant. this obligation is necessarily required to implement the mandate 36 of our decision in eleazerthe information which the police know about a material witness informer without a further requirement that the police make efforts to obtain information useful in locating bear the burden of showing that it has made reasonable efforts to maintain contact with (twiggs v. superior court (1983) 34 cal.3d 360, 366-material witness on the issue of people v. goliday (1973) 8 cal.3d 771, 781.) people v. tolliver (1975) 53 cal.app.3d 1036, 1043.) [w]hen the informer is shown to have been neither a participant in nor a nonparticipant eyewitness to the charged offense, the possibility he could give evidence which might exonerate the defendant is even more (people v. lee (1985) 164 cal.app.3d 830, 836.) the defendant bears the burden of innocence. (theodor v. superior court discharged, however, when defendant demonstrates a reasonable possibility that the anonymous informant whose identity is sought could give evidence on the issue of guilt which might result in people v. garcia (1967) 67 cal.2d 830, 839-840.) efforts to locate an absent witness were reasonable. (people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 901.) any error is reviewed under the harmless-beyond-a-reasonable-doubt standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. (people v. thomas (1975) 45 cal.app.3d 749, 755.) 37 discussion witness include that: (1) informant induced escarcega to make false statements with his questions; (3) the informant could verify whether detective rodriguez accurately described the process he followed to record the jail cell conversation; and (4) the informant could provide information about people in the neighborhood and possibly discredit their testimony. we conclude that the informant was not a material witness, because there is no reasonable defendants of the criminal charges. truth, and to the extent that the jury may have believed any of the statements were true, this could have been remedied by a limiting instruction as the prosecutor suggested. none of the statements the informant made were related to the crime. he was not a percipient witness and did not indicate that he had seen anything or knew anything about the crime firsthand on the recording. he was attempting to induce escarcega to make false statements by trading lies, he was not in any better position than the jury to determine whether escarcega was lying or telling the truth. his lay opinion would be mere speculation. if defense counsels felt it was important to inform the jury that it is common to trade lies and exaggerate within gang culture, they could have provided expert testimony on gangs. the particular the informanthow the audio and video recordings were accomplished other than that he was personally wearing a wire, is irrelevant. he was in the cell, not in the k-9 room where the recording was being broadcast. the recorded conversation was shown clearly on the video. whether the informant understood the mechanics of this aspect of the investigation was not a matter of any importance. 38 there was no information that the informant could provide to discredit the testimony of witnesses at the scene, because he was not present. as the prosecutor repeatedly argued, the only role that the informant played was being wired and having a conversation with escarcega in the cell. that process was video- and audio-recorded from beginning to end. the jury could watch and hear the recordings and make its own findings regarding what occurred. the trial court required the prosecution to show it exercised due diligence in its attempts to secure the informant, and it ascertained what steps the prosecutor took in that process. above in great detail. the trial court could reasonably conclude there were no further steps that she could take because the , and our independent review of the record is consistent with this conclusion. assuming there was error in the process relating to production of the informant as a witness, the error is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. implicated all three defendants in the murder and were consistent with every other piece of evidence offered at trial. he corroborated witnesses who said that the three men was from, to which camberos answered he was from the rival king kobras gang. he also corroborated witness accounts of the fight between the two shorter men and camberos and the chase that ensued. escarcega indicated that there were three shots and that one hit camberos in the back and killed him. witnesses heard two to three shots, three bullet casings were found, and a single bullet to the back killed camberos. millimeter gun had been used in the murder. escarcega told the informant that defendants went out with a group of people to a hotel to celebrate afterwards. garcia placed defendants at the hotel party with the people identified by escarcega to the informant. escarcega said the gun belonged to ortiz. garcia testified that ortiz had a chrome pistol in his waistband at the party and was acting paranoid. in sum, the prosecution presented a compelling case, corroborated in detail by various facts. in light 39 of the infpurported error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. prior bad acts admitted at trial, alleged bad acts. as relevant here, gutierrez objected to statements that: (1) he was carrying a gun on a day other than the day of the murder; (2) he was hunting for rival gang members on a day other than the day of the murder; and (3) he and his 16-year-old girlfriend were in a high speed car chase in which the driver of age. day other than the murder, he objected to the following passage: ucking had me all over the place, dog, one night. i was just . . . . in the unredacted transcript, the informant also stated that he and gutierrez were argued it was too prejudicial for the jury to hear that he was walking around with a gun on a street that was identified in testimony as being close to reggie rodriguez park. the prosecutor countered that she was ninformant uses with defendant escarcega to get credibility with defendant escarcega so e informant was referring to a day other than the murder, but emphasized that she did not intend to argue the statement was true. she suggested that the court could rectify any perceived 40 problems with a limiting instruction. the court proposed redacting the statement that the hunting down rival gang members on a day other than the day of the murder, particularly in light of the fact that there was a reference to a rival gang shortly afterward. he did not request a limiting instruction. rolling around risk of prejudice because it refers to having a gun on a different occasion, it gives context to the jury to the later statement [that gutierrez was the shooter] so that it could be argued that if the informant is telling mr. escarcega that rival had a gun before, when mr. was not inadmissible under evidence code section 352 because it provided context. a derogatory reference to members of the rival white fence gangwhich closely followed the statement that gutierrez was carrying a gun: ant, he says . . . i guess chunky and those fools were having trouble with the waffles. [] and mr. escarcega says, why. [] and the informant answers, went -- they were f- the trial court ordered the statements redacted pursuant to evidence code section that if mr. gutierrez had a gun before, that mr. escarcega might feel like he could put it in his hands on this occasion. but -- and so for similar reasons, this might be admissible; but this is, under [evidence code section] 352, really pushing the envelope because the sic] so closely parallels this case, 41 chase that the informant said involved gutierrez: eh with rival in the car, fucking crazy . . . [.] [unintelligible.] defense counsel argued that this was inadmissible as a prior bad act. gutierrez was engaging in dangerous conduct by evading an officer in a vehicle. the prosecutor would not be prejudicial because gutierrez was approximately the same age.11 the trial court ruled: evidence code: e, it law character or a trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her prior conduct) . . . when offered predisposition to commit an act on the occasion at issue in the proceeding. (people v. 11 gutierrez was 17 years old at the time of the murder. 42 kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th 349, 369.) section 1101, subdivision (b), however, provides that sub[] the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident authorities considering the admission of other-act evidence under section 1101 speak in people v. nible (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 838, 847-850,), people v. harris (1978) 85 cal.app.3d 954, 958 .) the supreme court has articulated a three-part test in evaluating the admissibility of other-materiality of the fact sought to be proved or disproved; (2) the tendency of the uncharged crime to prove or disprove the material fact; and (3) the existence of any rule or policy people v. thompson (1980) 27 cal.3d 303, 315 (thompson), superseded on other grounds as stated in clark v. brown (9th cir. 2006) 442 f.3d 708, 714, fn. 2.) even if evidence is relevant for purposes of evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), it may not be admitted if doing so would contravene the policies limiting admission, such as those contained in evidence code section 352. (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 404.) the court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.evid. code,  352; people v. lenart (2004) 32 cal.4th 1107, 1123.) such evidence may also be excluded if it is cumulative of other evidence offered to prove the same fact. (people v. balcom (1994) 7 cal.4th 414, 423; thompson, supra, 27 cal.3d at p. 318.) process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair. (estelle v. mcguire (1991) 502 u.s. 62, 70; spencer v. texas (1967) 385 u.s. 554, 563-564; people v. falsetta 43 trial duncan v. henry [(199)] 513 u.s. [364,] 366.) absent fundamental unfairness, state law error in admitting evidence is subject to the traditional watson test: the reviewing court must ask whether it is reasonably probable the verdict would have been more favorable to the defendant absent the error. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 878; people v. watson [(1956)] 46 cal.2d [818,] people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) discussion gutierrez conthat he was carrying a gun on a day other than the day of the murder, that he was ,-year-old girlfriend had been in a vehicle in a high speed car chase in which the driver was charged with child endangerment. gutierrez claims the errors are so serious as to violate his due process rights. we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion. for the reasons explained by the trial court, the admitted statements had important probative value that was not substantially outweighed by their tendency to prejudice the jury. even if we were to conclude that the trial court erred, it is not reasonably probable the verdict would have been more favorable to gutierrez absent the error, and the admitted evidence was not so due process. otential to prejudice the jury, but that potential was limited breference to lohart and exclusion to all mention of gutierrez hunting for rival white fence gang members on a day other than the day of the murder. without these or to a hunt for rival gang members. absent these concerns, the only other basis for ing a gun on a day 44 other than the day of the murder. the limitations imposed by the trial court substantially decreased any potential for prejudice, and taking into account the wide discretion afforded the trial court, we cannot say as a matter of law that the probative value of evidence that gutierrez had a gun other than on the day of the murder was substantially outweighed by its potential for prejudice. gun implied thaargument at trial, and has therefore forfeited the issue on appeal.12 (people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 503 [claim is forfeited where defendant fails to make a proper and timely objection on the same ground he raises on appeal].) does not favorably portray gutierrez. but the fact is that he was not driving, and being a passenger in a vehicle involved a chase is not particularly prejudicial in a case involved a gang-related murder, as the trial court reasonably concluded. in contrast to this potential for prejudice, the trial court could reasonably find that he car chase had significant probative value. both statements showed that the informant was well-acquainted with gutierrez, which the jury could reasonably conclude would encourage escarcega to open up to him. one of the more important issues the jury had to resolve in comfort with the informant was crucial to that determination. evidence of the personal knowledge of gutierrez escarcega would have good reason to trust the informant and be honest with him. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining that their probative value was not substantially outweighed by their potential for prejudice. moreover, the statements potential for prejudice was minimal in contrast to the 12 the prosecucontinuously at the hearing. 45 have discussed, the circumstances. it is highly unlikely that the jury would have rejected statements to the informant as untrue, because in addition to bearing strong indicia of -tailed exactly with the other evidence presented at trial. jimenez described escarcega and another short man onged to a rival ran after camberos and the two shorter men as they left the park. gomez described the same scene, except that he was unable to identify any of the assailants. after the four men ran from the park, jimenez and gomez heard two to three gunshots. when they went to investigate they found camberos lying in a driveway with a gunshot wound. garcia testified that she attended an all-night party with all three defendants. ortiz had a gun tucked into his waistband and was acting paranoid. when officers arrived on the scene they discovered three shell casings, which an expert later identified as nine millimeter caliber. camberos died of a single gunshot wound, and the bullet retrieved from his body was also of nine millimeter caliber. all three defendants made implicating statements in jail calls. gutierrez told his sister he would give her a list of 15 witness names. approximately 20 people had been on the basketball court on the evening of the murder and had potentially witnessed the beating and subsequent chase. ortiz was very about gang culture and vne in particular, noting that gang members work in groups with each person playing a role, and that the youngest member is often the shooter in such instances because older gang members have already put in their time. in light of the evidence presented, gutierrez has failed to establish that any error in admitting the 46 unfair, or that it is reasonably probable that the outcome would have been favorable to him had the statements not been admitted. sufficiency of the evidence in support of first degree murder ortiz contends the evidence is insufficient to support his conviction for first degree murder. he asserts that uncontradicted evidence was presented to establish gutierrez shot camberos. as an aider an abettor, he could only be found guilty of murder in the first degree if he knew gutierrez intended to kill camberos, and acted with the purpose of committing, encouraging, or facilitating the murder. he argues that the evidence was not sufficient for the jury to find that he knew that gutierrez intended to kill camberos. we 13 law in determi 13 rguments to the extent that they benefit him, he does not supply any additional argument on the issue of aider and abettor liability as it applies to his unique circumstances. joinder may be broadly permitted (cal. rules of court, rule 8.200(a)(5)), but each defendant has the burden of demonstrating error and prejudice (people v. nilsson (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1, 12, fn. 2; paterno v. state of california because of the need to consider the particulars of the given case, rather than the type of error, the appellant bears the duty of evidence was sufficient to support his conviction as an aider and abettor, his reliance gutierrez waived the specific arguments raised for the first time in his reply brief. (see habitat & watershed caretakers v. city of santa cruz (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 1277, rguments presented for s reply brief are considered waived accordingly, we consider whether the evidence was sufficient to establish liability as an aider and abettor only as to ortiz. 47 whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] . . . es (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357 (zamudioible or inherently improbable. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181; see evid. code, one witness who is entitled to full credit is sufficient for proof of any zamudio, supra, at p. 357.) misdemeanor, and whether they directly commit the act constituting the offense, or aid and abet in its commission . . . aperpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of committing, or of encouraging or people v. beeman (people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 161.) when a charged offense is a specific intent crime, and the theory of accomplice liability is that he or she directly encouraged or facilitated the crime, the accomplice must shasame extent as the actual perpetrator. (people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1164-are 48 the murderous int [citation.]id. at p. 1164) other kinds of murders are of s upon as a result of careful thought and weighing of considerations for and against the people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767 (mayfield), overruled on other grounds in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 390, fn. 2.) in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence as to the element of premeditation and s it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly, but the express requirement for a concurrence of deliberation and premeditation excludes . . . those homicides . . . which are the result of people v. velasquez (1980) 26 cal.3d 425, 435, vacated and remanded on other grounds in california v. velasquez (1980) 448 u.s. 903; people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 370-371.) discussion were beating him, but contends the finding that he aided and abetted premeditated murder is mere speculation. we disagree. testified that the park was vne territory, and that a rivala showing of disrespect, which requires retaliation. gang members earn respect by committing crimes, including by primary activities. evidence was presented that defendants were all members of vne. they came to reggie rodriguez park to search for rival gang members. escarcega told the informant 49 gutierrez his own loaded gun for use that night. defendants entered the park declaring tattooswhich the gang expert testified are often used to indicate gang membership court, defendants went into the bathroom for a few minutes and then returned, from which it could be reasonably inferred that they mutually agreed to go back to confront camberos. they interrupted the play on the basketball court to approach camberos as soon as they was a member of the king kobras, a rival of vne. ortiz directly participated by guarding the area and making sure no one was able to interfere while gutierrez and escarcega fought camberos. he ran closely behind gutierrez and escarcega when they chased camberos off the court, and was seen fleeing the area with them after gutierrez the murder with other vne members later that night. under the circumstances, it was reasonable for the jury to find that ortiz knew gutierrez planned to kill camberos with the gun he had given him, and shared s. the evidence tends to show that ortiz intended and planned to kill a rival gang member, and specifically decided to kill camberos when it was verified that he was a member of a rival gang. ortiz had ample time to reflect on his decision, and did not afirst degree murder conviction. conspiracy instruction ortiz contends that the trial court misinstructed the jury on conspiracy liability because it led the jurors to believe that he cconspired to kill a southside montebello gang member, although camberos, a member of the rival king kobra gang, was killed instead. he argues that to sustain a conviction for 50 first degree murder, the prosecution had to establish that ortiz conspired to kill camberos. ortiz contends that his due process right to have a jury determine each element of the charged offense was violated because the instruction allowed the jury to convict him of first degree murder regardless of who he conspired to kill.14 we disagree. proceedings at trial, gutierrez objected to instructing the jury regarding conspiracy to commit murder under calcrim no. 416. ortiz and escarcega joined in the objection. defense ypically, conspiracy to commit murder is directed towards a there was any agreement to kill camberos. the prosecutor responded that proof of a conspiracy does not require a formal agreement, and may be established through conduct. defendants brought a loaded gun to the park, and testimony had been presented that gang members work together in groups with every person filling a role. the trial court identified the evidence supporting the instruction, including: them talking in the bathroom, which confirmed that defendants conversed in the bathroom; the fact that they came out of the bathroom and immediately engaged in gun to the park with them in the first place. the court concluded that even if some evidence mitigated against finding that defendants conspired to commit murder there was substantial evidence to support giving the instruction. 14 gutierrez joins in s contention, but makes no separate particularized arguments in support of it in his opening brief. applicable to gutierrez, as there was ample evidence that gutierrez shot at camberos three times, and thus intended to kill him. gutierrez has failed to meet his burden on appeal of demonstrating error and prejudice in his individual circumstances. (see footnote 14, supra.) 51 the trial court instructed the jury on conspiracy to commit murder under calcrim no. 416 as follows: cy. a member of a conspiracy is criminally responsible for the acts or statements of any other member of the conspiracy done to help accomplish the goal of the conspiracy. [] to prove that a defendant was a member of a conspiracy in this case, the people must prove that: 1. the defendant intended to agree and did agree with [one or more of] (the other defendant[s] to commit murder; 2. at the time of the agreement, the defendant and [one or more of] the other alleged member[s] of the conspiracy intended that one or more of them would commit murder; 3. one of the defendant[s][,] [or all of them] committed [at least one of] the following overt act[s] to accomplish murder: - brought a loaded gun to reggie rodriguez park; - confronted the [sic] raymond camberos; - assaulted raymond camberos; - prevented others from defending raymond camberos; - chased raymond camberos; - - fired 3 shots at raymond camberos and 4. [at least one of these] overt act[s] was committed in california. evidence presented about the act[s]. of the conspiracy intended to commit murder, please refer to the separate instructions that i have given you on that crime. agreement and intent to commit murder. the people do not have to prove that any of the 52 members of the alleged conspiracy actually met or came to a detailed or formal agreement to commit that crime. an agreement may be inferred from conduct if you conclude that members of the alleged conspiracy acted with a common purpose to commit the crime. act is an act by one or more of the members of the conspiracy that is done to help accomplish the agreed upon crime. the overt act must happen after the defendant has agreed to commit the crime. the overt act must be more than the act of agreeing or planning to commit the crime, but it does not have to be a criminal act itself. [you must all agree that at least one overt act was committed in california by at least one alleged member of the conspiracy, but you do not have to all agree on which specific overt act or acts were committed or who committed the overt act or acts.] [you must decide as to each defendant whether he or she was a member of the alleged conspiracy.] [you must also all agree on the degree of the crime.] [someone who merely accompanies or associates with members of a conspiracy but who does not intend to commit the crime is not a member of the conspiracy.](italics added.) law we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1210 (cole)the proper test for judging the adequacy of instructions is to decide whether the trial ully and fairly instructed on the applicawhether error has been committed in giving or not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which are given. 53 support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such people v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1111-1112.) people v. andrade (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 579, 585.) discussion preliminarily, ortiz forfeited his claim by failing to object to the instruction at to support giving the conspiracy instruction, he did not challenge the accuracy or responsiveness of calcrim no. 41on appeal that an instruction correct in law and responsive to the evidence was too general or incomplete unless the party has requested appropriate clarifying or amplifying people v. lang (1989) 49 cal.3d 991, 1024, abrogated on another ground in people v. diaz (2015) 60 cal.4th 1176, 1190; people v. spurlock (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 1122, 1130.) the trial court is not required to give such a pinpoint or amplifying instruction on its own init(mayfield, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. amplifying instruction at trial forfeits any argument on appeal that the instruction given was ambiguous or incomplete. (cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1211.) even if the claim was not forfeited, it fails on the merits. the instruction was both correct in law and responsive to the evidence. it is highly unlikely that the jury would calcrim no. 416 states in part, overt act is an act by one or more of the members of the conspiracy that is done to help accomplish the agreed upon crime. the overt act must happen after the defendant has agreed to commit the crime 54 added.) the clear implication of this language is that the jury is not permitted to find a defendant guilty unless the crime that the defendant agreed to is the same crime advanced by the overt acts. the agreed-upon crime in this case was either murder of a rival gang member generally or camberos in particular. the evidence does not suggest that defendants commit murder does not require that the conspirators agree to kill a particular individual. the specific crime the conspirators agree to commit may be as general as murder of a rival gang member. (see, e.g. people v. johnson (2013) 57 cal.4th 250, 267 g a [member of a] rival [gang] in retaliation].) here, it was sufficient that defendants agreed to kill a rival, and that they killed camberos shortly after ascertaining that he was a rival gang member. in his statement to the informant, escarcega indicated numerous times that he, preference would have been to kill a southside montebello gang member. the evidence surrounding the murder, which we have set forth earlier in this opinion in detail, strongly suggests that ortiz and gutierrez agreed this was the plan. all of the facts indicate that defendants agreed to kill a rival, and agreed to kill camberos once it was determined that he was a rival. in her closing argument and rebuttal, the prosecutor emphasized no less than eight southside montebello members. she also emphasized the language of calcrim no. 416, pointing agreed-upon crime . (italics added.) the prosecutor explained that although southside montebello may have been they work together in the gang world, that is the intent that they informed [sic] before they went to that park was to kill a rival. and when you listen to the recording, when 55 escarcega talks about what was going on that day and what they were looking for, it was sict matter. in light of the wording of the instruction, the strong factual support for the conclusion that defendants agreed to kill a rival and intended to kill camberos in particular, rival and did not limit their sites to a rival in a specific gang, it is not reasonably likely that the jury misunderstood the import of calcrim no. 416. cruel and unusual punishment gutierrez, who was 17 years old at the time the murder was committed, contends that his sentence of 50 years-to-life is the functional equivalent of a sentence of life without parole, and violates his right to be free of cruel and unusual punishment under the eighth amendment. gutierrez argues that the trial court erred in failing to consider youth-decision in miller, supra, 567 u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455], which could entitle him to a meaningful opportunity for parole within his lifetime. gutierrez requests that if his conviction is affirmed we either remand for resentencing with directions to the trial court to consider the factors set forth in miller and sentence him to a straight life sentence or a sentence of 25 years-to-life, or order such a modification and instruct that the abstract of judgment reflect that gutierrez shall be given a parole hearing in his 25th year of and unusual punishment is moot in light of section 3051, which entitles him to a parole hearing in his 25th year of incarceration by operation of law. remand is necessary, however, to give gutierrez the opportunity to present evidence relevant at his eventual youth offender parole hearing, and to allow the prosecutor to respond. 56 proceedings gutierrez filed a sentencing memorandum requesting the minimum sentence of consecutive terms of 25 years-to-life for the murder and firearm use. the memorandum conceded that gutierrez was convicted of a homicide offense, but he would not be sentenced to life without parole. the memorandum agreed that the trial court had no obligation to consider all relevant information regarding his youth. the statutory punishment would result in a sentence that would make him eligible for parole within his lifetime under the holdings in miller, supra, 567 u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455] and people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 267-268 (caballero) [imposition of a sentence to a term of years that amounts to de facto life without parole also constitutes cruel and unusual punishment in homicide cases involving juvenile offenders].) the prosecution agreed that miller and caballero were inapplicable, and sought a sentence of 80 years-to-life. gutierrez replied that a sentence of 80 years-to-life was the functional equivalent of life without the possibility of parole, and moved for consideration of the miller factors. the trial court imposed the statutory minimum sentence of consecutive terms of 25 years-to-life, making gutierrez eligible for parole after serving 50 years in prison, at approximately 70 years of age. the trial court agreed that the sentence was not the equivalent of life without parole. the court declined to consider the miller factors in light of the fact that defense counsel had conceded that 50 years-to-life was not the sentence required by law. law in people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261, our supreme court recently reviewed the pertinent series of united states supreme court cases dealing with the eighth . (see miller, supra, 567 u.s. 57 at p. ___ [132 s.ct. at p. 2469] [juvenile offenders may not be subjected to mandatory life without parole]; graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, 74 (graham) [life without parole may not be imposed on juvenile offenders in non-homicide cases]; roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, 568 (roper) [juvenile offenders may not be subjected to capital punisment.]) the franklin amendment jurisprudence, and the impact of the 2014 enactment of sections 3051, 3046, and 4801, to a sentence identical to that imposed on gutierrez. the holding in franklin franklin held that imposition of a term of 50 years-to-life in a homicide case did not amount to a de facto sentence of life without parole, where the juvenile defendant was entitled to a parole consideration hearing during his 25th year of incarceration pursuant to e passed senate bill no. 260, which became effective january 1, 2014, and added sections 3051, 3046, subdivision (c), and 4801, subdivision (c) to the penal code. . . . [t]hese new provisions entitle franklin to a parole hearing during his 25th year in prison and thus renders [sic] miller. . . . [s]ection 3051 has uring the 25th year of his to adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent growth and increased those juvenile offenders eligible for youth offender parole hearings, the provisions of senate bill no. 260 are designed to ensure they will have a meaningful opportunity for franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 276-277.) the defendant in franklin has changed the manner capping the number of years that he or she may be imprisoned before becoming eligible 58 for release on parole. the legislature has effected this change by operation of law, with no additional refranklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 278-279.) although the court affirmed his sentence, because franklin had been sentenced prior to miller and caballerodetermination of whether franklin was afforded sufficient opportunity to make a record franklin, supra, 63 cal.app.4th not have sufficient opportunity, then the court may receive submissions and, if appropriate, testimony pursuant to procedures set forth in section 1204 and rule 4.437 of the california rules of court, and subject to the rules of evidence. franklin may place on the record any documents, evaluations, or testimony (subject to cross-examination) that may be relevant at his eventual youth offender parole hearing, and the prosecution likewise may put on the record any evidence that demonstrates the juvenile offenculpability or cognitive maturity, or otherwise bears on the influence of youth-related factors. the goal of any such proceeding is to provide an opportunity for the parties to ircumstances at the time of the offense so that the board, years later, may properly discharge its -related factors ( 4801, subd. (c)) in committed a of the lawgraham, supra, 560 u.s. at p. 79).franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284.) discussion like the defendant in franklin, gutierrez is eligible by operation of law for parole consideration in his 25th year of incarceration, as he is not excluded for any reason enumerated in section 3051, subdivision (h). in light of the holding in franklin, and unusual punishment is moot 59 because he will have a meaningful opportunity for release within his lifetime under section 3051. gutierrez must be afforded an opportunity to present evidence of youth-related factors for consideration at his future youth offender parole hearing in his 25th year of incarceration. franklin had been sentenced prior to miller and caballero, so it was unclear whether he had an opportunity to make a record of the youth-related factors to be presented at his youth offender parole hearing. (franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 269.) sentencing gutierrez to the shortest sentence with the earliest opportunity for a parole hearing that it was authorized to impose by law. absent franklin, it is reasonable to assume that the court believed consideration of the miller following the approach in franklin, gutierrez is entitled to the opportunity to present evidence that may be relevant at his future youth offender parole hearing. gang enhancements defendants contend that the trial court erred in imposing and staying 10-year gang enhancements as to each of them. the attorney general concedes the issue. we agree, and order the trial court to modify the abstract of judgment to reflect that the gang enhancements are stricken as to all three defendants. calculation of custody credits the trial court awarded ortiz credit for 764 days in presentence custody credits, 2013. the abstract of judgment and the july 13, 2015 minute order also reflect the credit for ortiz as 764 actual days in custody. but, as the attorney general points out, ortiz was arrested on june 11, 2013, and remained in custody until sentencing on july 13, 60 2015, a total of 763 days. generally, it is the duty of the trial court to determine the periods of a dcustody and the number of days to be credited. ( 2900.5, subd. (d).) when the facts are urt has no discretion in awarding custody credits. (people v. shabazz (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 468, 473-474.) we may correct clerical errors at any time so that the record reflects the actual facts. (in re candelario (1970) 3 cal.3d 702, 705; in re roberts (1962) 200 cal.app.2d 95, 97.) because the error is clerical in nature, the abstract of judgment must be corrected to accurately reflect ortiz is awarded 773 presentence custody credits. 61 disposition we remand the matter to the trial court for the following limited purposes: to allow gutierrez an adequate opportunity to make a record of information that will be relevant to his future youth offender parole hearing; to amend the judgment to reflect that the 10-year enhancement imposed as to each of the defendants pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), is stricken; and to correct the judgment to show that ortiz is awarded 763 days of presentence custody credit. corrected abstracts of judgment shall be forwarded to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgments are affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p.j. raphael, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 