filed 12/28/16 p. v. robles ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. elvis aaron robles, defendant and appellant. b265889 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta136854) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john j. lonergan, judge. affirmed. david l. annicchiarico, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and paul s. thies, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________ 2 introduction elvis aaron robles was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon and making criminal threats against his brother. he contends that there was insufficient evidence to support the assault conviction, that the prosecutor misstated the law of assault during closing argument, and that the felony assault conviction should be modified to misdemeanor brandishing of a deadly weapon. for the reasons stated below, we reject statement of the case appellant was charged with one count of assault with a deadly weapon on jesus robles (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1); count 1),1 one count of making criminal threats against jesus ( 422, subd (a); count 2), and one count of possessing a controlled substance (health and saf. code,  11377; count 3). appellant pled no contest to count 3, but pled not guilty to the other charges. after a jury convicted appellant of counts 1 and 2, the trial court sentenced him to the low term of two years in state prison on count 1. it imposed an eight-month sentence on count 2 and a 365-day county jail sentence on count 3, but stayed the execution of those sentences. appellant timely appealed. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 statement of the facts a. prosecution case on april 1, 2015, appellant had a physical altercation with his brother, jesus robles, following an argument with separated by their mother, appellant continued yelling at his brother, who walked away. appellant repeatedly told jesus he was going to kill him. appellant ran into the kitchen and grabbed a knife. he jumped on and ran over a kitchen table and some chairs to get around other family members in order to reach jesus. when sanchez saw appellant running with a knife toward jesus, she took out her cell phone and started calling the police. seeing sanchez, appellant told her to stop, then ran back to the kitchen and threw the knife away. meanwhile, the sister, abigail, pulled jesus into her bedroom and locked him inside. jesus called 911, and remained in the locked bedroom until police officers arrived. , was present during the entire incident. she testified that after appellantappellant went into the close. he stayed at least seaway from jesus. nichols further testified that appellant had not left the kitchen area with the knife before jesus had been pushed into the bedroom. los angeles county sheriff deputy wilfredo sibrian testified he interviewed nichols that night. nichols told him 4 boyfriend . . . run to the kitchen, grab a knife and run around the table, jump over a couple chairs towards the victim and just charge him and stated he was going to kill him. b. defense case appellant did not testify or call any witnesses in his defense. discussion a. substantial evidence supported aconviction for assault with a deadly weapon present ability, to commit a violent injury on the person of mpeople v. wyatt (2010) 48 cal.4th 776, 780.) the attempted act must be coupled with a present ability to commit a violent injury, that is, the defendant muattained the means and location to strike immediately.people v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, 1168 (chance), quoting people v. valdez (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 103, 113.) it simply means that the defendant must have the ability to inflict injury on the present occasion. numerous california cases establish that an assault may be committed even if the defendant is several steps away from actually inflicting injury, or if the victim is in a protected position so that 5 in the strictest sense of that term.chance, supra, at p. 1168, fn. omitted.) appellant contends there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon. he argues the evidence showed he stopped several feet away from jesus and did not commit any act likely to inflict injury on jesus. additionally, appellant contends, he lacked the present ability to commit a violent injury, as he was several feet away from jesus when he stopped. whether the evidence is sufficient to support a conviction . . . viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the criminal case . . . does not ask itself whether it believes that the evidence at the trial established guilt beyond a the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence -- that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1224, italics omitted.) the factual circumstances of this case are similar to those in people v. yslas (1865) 27 cal. 630 (yslas). there, the defendant approached within seven or eight feet of the 6 victim with a raised hatchet, but the victim escaped injury by running to the next room and locking the door. (id. at p. 631.) as our supreme court noted, the defendant committed assault, even though he never closed the distance between himself and the victim, or swung the hatchet. (chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1174, citing yslas, supra, 27 cal. at pp. 631, 633-634.) here, the evidence showed that after threatening to kill jesus, appellant grabbed a knife from the kitchen and charged at jesus. although appellant did not reach jesus, it is likely that had appellant would have reached jesus and stabbed him. (see chance, supraan assault may be committed even if the defendant is several steps away from actually inflicting injurypeople v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, one may commit an assault without making actual physical contact with the person of the victimthis record, there was substantial evidence to support the conviction for assault with a deadly weapon. b. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct during closing argument appellant contends the prosecutor engaged in misconduct by misstating the law of assault during closing argument. he further contends his trial counsel was comments. 1. relevant factual background during closing argument the prosecutor told the jury that although 7 to prove to you anyone actually made contact with each the prosecutor analogized the case to a situation [raises] their hand, you know, how like they are going to hit you or they raise their hand at another person like they are going to hit that person and that person reacts, they do that natural flinch or they duck because they he further stated: we] moved from assault right at the moment where a person realizes something is coming and it makes them apprehensive. immediately after making these comments, the prosecutor explained the elements of assault with a deadly weapon: that would result reasonably, probably result in the application of force to someone. and we know what that act was in this case: grabbing that knife out of the drawer, charging past his mother, jumping over tables and chairs he further stated: so the defendant had to be aware of facts that would alert a react or move, that application of force is coming. 2. analysis methods to persuade the jury commits misconduct . . . .(people v. friend 8 order to preserve a claim of misconduct, a defendant must make a timely objection and request an admonition; only if an admonition would not have cured the harm is the claim of ibid.) reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-ibid.) statements regarding the law of assault. thus, his misconduct claim is forfeited. moreover, there was no misconduct. appellant comments could be reasonably interpreted as stating that an assault occurs when a person raises his or her hand at another and the other person reacts by flinching or becoming apprehensive and fearful. when viewed in context, however, the prosecutor did not misstate the law of assault. first, the conduct was not in raising his hand at jesus, but in grabbing the knife and charging at jesus. st has long been element of the assault statute is satisfied by any attempt to apply physical force to the victim, and incs feelings. (chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1168, fn. 2.) thus, there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury misconstrued the comments as stating that it could convict appellant of assault merely for raising a hand at jesus. in 9 short, there was no misconduct, and trial counsel was not ineffective c. there is no basis to modify afelony conviction for assault with a deadly weapon to misdemeanor brandishing a deadly weapon finally, appellant contends that his felony conviction for assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)) should be modified to a misdemeanor conviction for brandishing a challenge is premised on a doctrine often referred to as the williamson rule, based on [the california decision in in re williamson (1954) 43 cal.2d 651, 654 (williamson). under the williamson rule, if a general statute includes the same conduct as a special statute, the court infers that the legislature intended that conduct to be prosecuted exclusively under the special statute. in effect, the special statute is interpreted as creating an exception to the general statute for conduct that otherwise could be prosecuted under either statute.people v. murphy (2011) 52 cal.4th 81, 86.) [t]he williamson preemption rule is applicable (1) when each element of the general statute corresponds to an element on the face of the special statute, or (2) when it appears from the statutory context that a violation of the special statute will necessarily or commonly result in a vi (people v. watson (1981) 30 cal.3d 290, 295-296.) here, the general statute -- section 245, subdivision (a) -- assault upon the person of another with a 10 deadly weapon or instrument other than a firearman unlawful attempt, coupled with a present ability, to commit a violent injury on the person of another.al statute -- section 417, subdivision (a) -- provides: every person who, except in self-defense, in the presence of any other person, draws or exhibits any deadly weapon whatsoever, other than a firearm, in a rude, angry, or threatening manner, or who in any manner, unlawfully uses a deadly weapon other than a firearm in any fight or quathe elements of section 245 do not correspond to the elements of section 417. an assault with a deadly weapon may be perpetrated without drawing or exhibiting it in a rude, angry, or threatening manner, or using it in a fight or quarrel.(people v. escarcega (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 391, 398; see also people v. torres (1957) 151 cal.app.2d 542, 544- deadly weapon can be committed without violating any provision of penal code, section 417, as by firing a gun through a coat pocket without either drawing or exhibiting the weapon and without then being engaged in a fight or quarrel.moreover, a violation of section 417 will not necessarily or commonly result in a violation of section 245. a person may brandish a deadly weapon in the presence of another without any intent to use the weapon on the other person. (see in re peter f. (2005) 132 cal.app.4th 877brandishing a deadly weapon in the presence of another person is not a crime of violence that perss presence11 cf. people v. hall (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 1084, 1crime of brandishing a firearm does not require an intent to harm or the commission of an act likely to harm othersin short, conduct here to be prosecuted exclusively under section 417. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. collins, j. 