filed 3/13/17 p. v. ocallaghan ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. macallaghan, defendant and appellant. b265928 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba417095) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. sam ohta, judge. affirmed. michele a. douglass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, and noah p. hill, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 by a public officer for her use of excessive force in arresting a person who died minutes later. on appeal, defendant argues that (1) her trial counsel was constitutionally ineffective for not movinsubsequent death, (2) there was insufficient evidence of excessive force, and (3) the trial court abused its discretion in treating this wobbler offense as a felony rather than a misdemeanor. we conclude that these arguments are without merit, and affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts in july 2012, defendant was an officer of the los angeles police department. in the early morning hours of july 22, she and her partner were dispatched to assist with the arrest and transport of alesia thomas (thomas). thomas was six feet one inch tall, weighed 228 pounds, was exceptionally strong, and appeared to be under the influence of a central nervous system stimulant due to her enlarged pupils, heavy breathing, fidgeting, sweating and somewhat incoherent demeanor. three other officers and one reserve officer were at the scene when defendant and her partner arrived. by that time, thomas was already in handcuffs, with her hands behind her back. defendant and her partner supplied one of the other s ankles together; although thomas ignored that her feet still, he managed to apply the device. the officers then attempted to place thomas in the back of a patrol car. three of the officers carried thomas to the rear passenger side of the car. defendant went around to thside to lift and pull thomas into the back seat; this did not work. [her] 3 did not; instead, thomas , another offi place and was able to pull thomas onto the rear seat of the patrol car. however, after the officers closed the rear passenger side door, thomas kicked against the door with her feet, and was able to push her head and upper body out of the still-open driv defendant then opened the passenger side door to readjust the hobble device, warning thomas fucking when thomas tried to sit up and push her t told her to k into the car. when thomas did erself with one hand on the open door frame and the other on the roof of the patrol car, and proceeded to kick thomas three times in her lower immediately thereafter, another officer whistled and pointed to the video camera that was recording what was happening inside the patrol car. defendant then again directed thomas to lift her feet back, but she did not, repeating, then another officer attempted to pull thomas into the back seat. as he did so, defendant kicked or shoved her foot three or four times s genital area and upper legs. defendant sat up. when she did, defendant kicked her repeatedly in the genital area. thomas cried out in pain. at that point, another , 4 by that time, the officers were able to close both car doors with thomas in the back seat. defendant then remarked within minutes, however, two of the other officers noticed that thomas did not appear to be breathing. an ambulance was summoned, and thomas was transported to a hospital. she was pronounced dead within 10 minutes after the ambulance left the scene. the coroner fixed her intoxication with agitated behavior need[ing] restraintwas enforcement officers by resisting arrest contributed to her physician, s behavior and statements in the patrol car were consistent with cardiac impairment, but could also be viewed as defiance or a failure to comply. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with a single count of felony assault by a public officer (pen. code,  149).1 defendant went to trial. the parties stipulated to s cause of death. defendant called an expert witness to opine that her use of force was not excessive, and thus that she did not commit an unlawful assault. the jury returned a guilty verdict. the trial court imposed an upper term sentence of three years of jail, requiring her to serve 16 months with the remaining 20 months to be suspended so she could be placed on mandatory supervision. in imposing this sentence, the court rejected offense reduced to a misdemeanor. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 5 defendant filed this timely appeal. discussion i. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues that her trial counsel was constitutionally ineffective because he did not move to exclude all to establish that trial counsel was constitutionally fell below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional norms(2) but for that dprobability . . . the outcome of the proceeding would have been people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198 (mickel), citing strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-692.) defendant has not demonstrated that her performance was deficient for two reasons. first, counsel does not act unreasonably by foregoing meritless objections. (people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 834.) defendant asserts that her counsel acted unreasonably by not objecting to evidence of s medical distress and her subsequent death as irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. but those objections would likely have been overruled. evidence is relevaany tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination  210, italics added.) to convict an officer of felony assault, the people must prove that the asbecause police force to effect [an] arrest, to prevent escape or to overcome ; edson v. city of anaheim (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1269, 1272-1273) 6 the reasonableness of force (martinez v. county of los angeles (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 334, 343 (martinez)) and turns on including the severity of the crime at issue, whether the suspect poses an immediate threat to the safety of the officers or others, and whether [she] is actively resisting arrest or attempting to graham v. connor (1989) 490 u.s. 386, 396 (graham); see also allgoewer v. city of tracy (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 755, 762). whether thomas was actually in medical distress at the time defendant was using force is relevant to show whether thomas was capable of posing a threat to the officers or was actively resisting arrest. it is especially relevant where, as breathe,would have put a reasonable officer on the scene on notice that thomas was suffering from some medical condition affecting her ability to pose a threat or to resist arrests death just minutes later is relevant to show the severity of her medical condition in that time frame, and thus her inability to resist and the lack of necessity of any great force to inference[s] may have been weak, . . . that does not make the people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 156-157, quoting people v. freeman (1994) 8 cal.4th 450, 491.) subsequent death was also not substantially outweighed by the danger of undue prejudice. (evid. code,  352.) the chief the danger that the jury might hold defendant responsible for it. however, the trial was conducted in such a way to eliminate that 7 danger: defendant was not charged with any homicide offense, the parties stipulated that the cause of death came primarily instructed the jury that defendant was not responsible for or otherwise let their sympathy affect their deliberations. decisions,appeal may not explain why counsel chose to act as he or she didn such situations, we may conclude there was ineffective (mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 198, quoting people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 674 and people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, decision not to object to the well as evidence that needed ed the defense thuse of force was reasonably necessary. defendant resists this conclusion, arguing that because the of hind(graham, supra, 490 u.s. at p. 396), it is categorically inappropriate to look at what happened after the use of force is over. however, it is well settled that the cause of a force that was used prior to that death. (people v. cannady (1972) 8 cal.3d 379, 389, citing people v. berry (1955) 44 cal.2d 426, 431.) along the same lines, relevant, as explained above, to show whether she was, in the time immediately prior to her death, capable of posing an immediate 8 threat or actively resisting arrest, which is relevant to show the necessity of use of force. ii. sufficiency of the evidence defendant next argues that there was insufficient evidence that she used excessive force. in evaluating the sufficiency of the evidence, we ask whether there was enough evidence of solid value for a rational jury to find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. shamblin (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1, 9.) in so doing, we view the record as a whole in the light most favorable to the verdict, drawing all reasonable inferences and resolving all credibility disputes in favor of that verdict. (people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59, 89.) of force is (martinez, supra, 47 cal.app.4th at p. 343) and of each particular case, including the severity of the crime at issue, whether the suspect poses an immediate threat to the safety of the officers or others, and whether [she] is actively (graham, supra, 490 u.s. at p. 396.) in this case, thomas was being arrested for abandoning her two young children at a police station, being under the influence of narcotics and resisting police questioning and detention. these are not crimes of violence. safety. by the time defendant arrived, thomas was already handcuffed and her ankles were hobbled soon thereafter. admittedly, the question was whether thomas was on the one hand, thomas was not her into the back seat of the patrol car. on the other hand, was mostly passive, as she peppered her 9 resistance with her explanations ththe record contains evidence that defendant was acting out of frustration because defendant groaned when thomas refused to cooperate, and repeatedly cussed at her and s weight by calling . there is also evidence that other we may not reweigh the evidence in assessing its sufficiency (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890), and because use of excessive force, its verdict must stand. defendant raises several arguments in response. she argues that police are entitled to use reasonable force (a point on which there is no dispute), and cites cases holding that an officer used excessive force when using far greater use of force than was present here. (see, e.g., people v. giles (1945) 70 cal.app.2d supp. 872, 875 [choking]; people v. dukes (1928) 90 cal.app. 657, 659 [dragging person out of car, punching them twice, throwing them on the ground].) however, these cases do not purport to set the minimum for what constitutes excessive force, so they do not aid defendant. defendant also argues that it is inappropriate to evaluate her use of force in hindsight. as explained above, doing lawfully be considered as bearing on dethe level of force she used. defendant points to the testimony of her expert witness, who opined that use of force was reasonable under the circumstances. however, juries are reject even the uncontradicted (people v. engstrom (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 174, 187.) defendant that this was a close case. although that consideration can be 10 relevant (e.g., people v. filson (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1841, 1852, overruled on other grounds in people v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 452), it does not necessitate reversal of a conviction that is otherwise validly supported by substantial evidence (in re sassounian (1995) 9 cal.4th 535, 548-549, fn. 10). iii. sentencing the crime of assault by a public offense that can be sentenced either as a felony or a misdemeanor. ( 149.) for such a crime, the trial court has the to declare the crime a misdemeanor, as pertinent here, by imposing a probationary or non-felony county jail sentence. ( 17, subd. (b)(1); people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977.) a trial court also has bation, although a court must consider a number of factors relating to the crime and to the defendant in exercising this discretion. (people v. welch (1993) 5 cal.4th 228, 233; cal. rules of court, rule 4.414 [enumerating factors].) we accordingly review these decisions for an abuse of discretion. (alvarez, at pp. 977-978.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying defendant probation and thereby allowing her offense to remain a felony. in assessing whether defendant was suitable for probation, the court enumerated the factors favoring probation (namely, her prior military service, lack of criminal record, and the fact that her felony conviction already hurts her standing in the community) and the factors weighing against probation (namely, to accurately detect emergency medical needs). the considerations against probation along with the primary objectives of punishing the 11 defendant and deterring others from criminal conduct militate thorough analysis nevertheless amounts to an abuse of discretion for three reasons. first, son her lack of remorse amounts to punishment for her exercise of her right to go to trial. not only has this argument been rejected time and again (e.g., people v. leung (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 482, 507-508), but it is also inconsistent with the california rules of court that specifically list this consideration as relevant to the decision whether to grant or deny probation (cal. rules of court, rule 4.414(b)(7); see generally cal. rules of court, rule 4.423(b)(3) [acceptance of responsibility by entering plea is a valid mitigating circumstance in sentencing]). second, defendant contends that the use of force in this case was not excessive (according to her expert witness) or at least just barely excessive, and thus warranted a sentence of argument, and the standard of review we must applyabuse of discretionforecloses the latter part. lastly, defendant argues that the trial court was biased, and that its sentence was a product of improper motives such as mpathy for there is no evidence in the record to support any of these assertions. to the contrary, the transcript of the sentencing hearing reflects a trial court that carefully and judiciously weighed the pros and cons of a very difficult sentencing decision; record, is the very antithesis of a rush to judgment or judicial bias. contrary to what defendant implies, her disagreement with 12 (people v. guerra a numerous rulings against a partyeven when erroneousdo not disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, acting p. j. chavez _________________________, j.* goodman * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 