filed 9/15/16 p. v. williams ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mario vaughn williams, defendant and appellant. b265162 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na097044) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. doris m. leroy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found mario vaughn williams (williams) guilty of two counts of attempted murder, one count of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon. williams appeals, and we affirm. background an information filed may 21, 2014 charged williams with two counts of attempted murder of alexis camino (camino) and hugo vasquez (vasquez), (pen. code,1  664/187, subd. (a); counts 1 & 2), one count of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; count 3), and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 4). the information alleged that the attempted murders were willful, deliberate, and with premeditation ( 664, subd. (a)) and that williams personally and intentionally discharged a handgun in connection with ( 12022.53, subd. (c); counts 1 & 2). (the trial court dismissed a gun enhancement in connection with count 3 after the prosecutor indicated she would not proceed on that allegation.) the information also alleged that williams had a prior conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)(j), 1170.12), a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and had served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). williams pleaded not guilty. after a trial at which the jury found williams guilty on all four counts and found the firearm enhancements true, williams admitted the prior strike, prior serious felony conviction, and prior prison term allegations. the trial court sentenced williams to 79 years to life in state prison. at trial, hugo vasquez testified that at about 9:00 a.m. on october 2, 2013, he was a passenger in the front seat of a white ford taurus driven by his friend camino at the intersection of orange and pch. the taurus was stopped at a red light behind another car, blocking the exit of a jack in the box drive-thru. williams, alone in his car2 in the drive-thru, shouted at them to move so he could exit. camino turned right at the light and kept going down the street. after they passed the first green light, vasquez noticed the 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 3 other taurus was following them. camino turned left on 15th and williams followed. when williams pulled his car up next to theirs and said something, vasquez told camino to keep going. camino drove to the next street and williams also kept going as camino turned right and williams drove straight ahead, vasquez heard a gunshot and felt an impact on the car. he looked back and saw the little back window was shattered. camino kept driving. when they reached walnut, vasquez saw that a white car s had been pulled over by the police. camino drove to where the car was stopped and vasquez got out, walked to the police car, and told the officer that someone from the white car had just shot at them. camino testified that he was stopped at a stop sign when williams pulled his car next to them. s passenger window was down, and he saw williams the gun at us. the gun out through the passenger-s car, which was about six feet away. frightened, camino drove to the next street with williams following not behind him but to the side, still pointing the gun. camino made a sharp right turn and as he turned he heard his rear window shatter. at the time of the shooting, the cars were about the same distance apart as before. williams continued to drive straight ahead. estified that he found a gun behind the center console. one live round was stuck inside the barrel, seven rounds were in the magazine, and a spent casing on the rear passenger seat was consistent with the ammunition. a criminalist testified that the spent casing had been fired from the gun another police officer looked into the car and saw a cup of coffee with a jack in the box logo in the center cup holder. the parties stipulated that williams had been convicted of a felony and was prohibited from possessing a firearm. williams testified in his own defense. on october 2, 2013, he was driving back to school at long beach city college from the home of , when the police pulled him over for running a stop sign. williams gave his identification to the officer, who returned to the police vehicle. at that moment a second white ford taurus pulled 4 up next to williams, and the passenger jumped out and ran back to the police car. the officer returned with his weapon drawn and told williams to put his hands on the steering command to exit the car. the officer handcuffed him and put him in the back of the patrol car. williams felt nervous when he saw the police searching his car, because he was on parole and had a loaded firearm in the car, and thought he would be on his way back to prison. the officer told him that the man who had pulled up accused williams of opening fire at him. williams had never seen either the man who got out of the car or the driver. he often went to the jack in the box for lunch, but had not gone there before being pulled over. he had not had any contact with vazquez and camino nor had he shot at anyone that day. in rebuttal, twilliams if there was anything in the car that would violate his parole, and williams said no. williams also told him that he had stopped at the jack in the box to buy an iced coffee and was on his way to school when he was pulled over. discussion i. sufficient evidence supports conviction of two counts of attempted murder. williams argues there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction of two counts of attempted murder. whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 738739.) we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, and we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. (id. at p. 739.) a. substantial evidence supports the specific intent to kill both victims. first, williams claims that one of his attempted murder convictions (without specifying which) must be reversed, because firing one shot at two persons is not evidence that he had the required specific intent to kill both. he argues that camino and 5 vasquez were not directly in the line of fire because a single shot was fired from behind the car, and camino and vasquez were seated next to each other in the front seat. ttempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killingpeople v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 739; people v. falaniko (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 1234, 1242.)3 in order for williams to be convicted of the attempted murders of both vasquez and camino, the prosecution was required to prove he had the specific intent to kill both. ntend to kill the alleged victim, not someone else,smith, at p. 740), so that [s]omeone who intends to kill only one person and attempts unsuccessfully to do so, is guilty of the attempted murder of the people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 328.) the speci circumstances of the crime.the act of firing toward a victim at a close, but not point blank, range in a manner that could have inflicted a mortal wound had the bullet been on target is sufficient to support an inference of intent to kill . . . smith, at p. 741.) . . . evidence that defendant purposefully discharged a lethal firearm at the victims, both of whom were seated in the vehicle, one behind the other, with each directly in his line of fire, can support an inference that he acted with intent to kill them (id. at p. 743.) the fact that the shooter may have fired only once and then abandoned his efforts out of necessity or fear does not compel the conclusion that he lacked the animus to kill in the first instance.people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 741.) in people v. chinchilla (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 683, the defendant fired a single bullet at two police officers crouched one behind the other in the line of fire, and the court concluded that intent to kill two different victims can be inferred from evidence that the defendant fired a single shot at the two victims, both of whom were visible to the defendant. 3 williams does not allege that the jury was improperly instructed on the specific intent requirement. 6 (id. at p. 685.) the defendant endangered both officers, (id. at p. 691.) in people v. smith, the defendant fired a single shot from behind at a moving car, shattering the rear window and narrowly missing a baby in a car seat in the back and the driver in the front. (id. at p. 737.) the california supreme court concluded that the jury could properly infer that the defendant acted with the intent to kill both victims when he fired off a single shot at them from close range. (id. at p. 743.) by contrast, in people v. perez (2010) 50 cal.4th 222, the court held that a single shot fired from a moving car at a group of eight people 60 feet away supported a conviction of only one of eight charged counts of attempted murder. (id. at pp. 229230.) [i]circumstances surrounding the alleged people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 744.) here, the testimony was that williams pulled up his car up right next to at a stop sign, and pointed the gun through his passenger window at the two men sitting side by side in the front seat. vasquez told camino to keep going, williams followed , and while camino was making a sharp right turn at the next street, williams fired a single shot from about six feet away that shattered the back window . a jury could reasonably infer that williams had the specific intent to kill both men. he pointed his gun out his passenger window, aiming across the when camino kept moving, williams continued to drive alongside the car. when camino began his evasive maneuver and started turning right, williams fired a single shot that williams shot as camino turned right to avoid a shot from the gun williams was aiming at both men does not compel a conclusion that williams lacked the intent to kill both men. williams continued to drive and although motive is not an eleid. at pp. 740741.) williams shouted angrily at the men 7 car jack in the box drive thru and then followed them, suggesting a motive for williams to shoot at the men. williams points out that although a cartridge was jammed in his gun, there was no evidence that he attempted to fire a second shot. but he fact that the defendant . . . for whatever reason, fired only a people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 745, italics added.) that he fired only once as they turned right does not mean that the jury had to conclude that he intended to kill only one of the men. viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, the evidence supported a conclusion that out of necessity, williams abandoned his attempt to kill both men farther away. substantial evidence supported a conclusion that williams had the specific intent to kill both vasquez and camino, as required to convict williams of two counts of attempted murder. b. second, williams argues that the kill zoneinstruction because it was not supported by substantial evidence and, in any case, misstated the law. the defense objected to the giving of caljic 8.66.1 (without stating a basis), of the car being the, quote- twho primarily intends to kill one person, may also concurrently intend to kill other the intent is concurrent when the nature and scope of the attack, while directed at a primary victim, are such that it is reasonable to infer the perpetrator intended to kill the primary victim by [] whether a perpetrator actually intended to the prosecutor argued that williams was [] the judge told you about something called a kill zone. so even if you think the defendant intended to kill at he intended to kill everyone in the vicinity, including 8 [t]he kill zone theory . . . yields a way in which a defendant can be guilty of the atte [citation.] under [people v.] bland [(2002) that the shooter used lethal force designed and intended to kill everyone in an area around the targeted victim (victim. under such circumstances, a rational jury could conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the shooter intended to kill not only his targeted victim, but also all others he people v.] smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 745 (people v. mccloud (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 788, 797.) theory is not a legal doctrine requiring special jury simply a reasonable inference the [] a conviction for attempted murder under a kill zone theory requires evidence that the defendant created a kill zone; that is, while targeting a specific person he attempted to kill particular area without having any primary target. [citation.] in addition, before a defendant may be convicted of attempted murder under a kill zone theory, the evidence people v. falaniko, supra, 1 cal.app.5th at pp. 12431244.) because the kill zone theory is not a legal doctrine but an inference a jury may draw, jury instructions on the kill zone theory are never required. (id. at p. 1243, fn. 9.) williams argues that the instruction was not supported by substantial evidence because camino and vasquez were not in the line of fire, and mere proximity in the car is not enough for a kill zone instruction. as we explained above, the evidence supports a conclusion that when williams aimed the gun out the passenger side window, the cars were side by side and no more than six feet apart, camino and vasquez were in the direct line of fire, and williams fired just as camino made a sharp right turn as an evasive 9 maneuver. because camino and vasquez were in the direct line of fire when williams both of them was supported by substantial evidence. ale was necessary if the jury concluded that williams specifically intended to kill both camino and vasquez. people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th 733, held that two attempted murder convictions may be sustained where there is evidence the perpetrator fired a single bullet at two victims who were one behind the other in his line of sight. (id. at p. 748.) no kill zone instruction was given, and the court circumstances, if any, the firing of a single bullet might give rise to multiple convictions of attempted murder under [the] kill zone rational (id. at p. 746, fn. 3.) described to the jury another inference it could draw from the facts in this case. the evidence allowed a reasonable jury to draw the inference that williams created a kill zone by pointing his gun at camino and vasquez side by side in the front seat, either because he targeted camino as the driver4 and attempted to kill everyone in the line of fire (including vasquez) or because he indiscriminately sought to kill everyone in the line of fire (camino and vasquez) without having any primary target. the evidence supported an inference that camino and that zone encompassed only the persons in the people v. leon (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 452, 466.) substantial evidence supported the giving of the instruction. williams also argues that caljic no. 8.66.1 incorrectly states the law by using the phrase allowed the jurors to conclude that he could be guilty of attempted murder of both camino and vasquez even without a finding that he had the specific intent to kill each victim of attempted murder. in people v. mccloud, supra, 211 cal.app.4th 788,we 4 the prosecutor did not argue that either camino or vasquez was the primary target. 10 no. 8.66.1 . . . id. at p. 802, fn. 7.) but the jury here was also instructed repeatedly on the requirement of intent and specific intent, including in the [w]hether a perpetrator actually intended to kill the victim, either as a primary target or as someone within zone of risk is an issue to be ). (italics added.) reading the instructions as a whole, caljic no. 8.66.1 did not tell the jury that they need not conclude that williams intended to kill both victims. (see people v. burgener (1986) 41 cal.3d 505, 538.) this is not a case like people v. mccloud, supra, 211 cal.app.4th 788, in which the defendants fired 10 shots at a party of over 400 people from a parking lot outside, and one defendant was convicted of 46 counts of attempted murder. (id. at pp. 790, 793794.) nor is it like people v. perez, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 230, in which the defendant fired a single bullet from a moving car at a group of eight persons in a parking lot from 60 feet away. williams fired a single shot through his car window at two victims in another car about six feet away, and was convicted of two counts of attempted murder where the evidence supported his specific intent to kill both victims. therefore, even if the trial court erred by instructing the jury with caljic no. 8.66.1, no prejudice resulted. we presume the jury based its convictions on the theory supported by the evidence, and there is no affirmative indication that the jury found williams guilty solely on a factually unsupported zone of risk theory. (people v. perez (2005) 35 cal.4th 1219, 1233.) ii. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying a motion for mistrial. margaret kaleuati (kaleuati), a senior criminalist with the los angeles county coroner, testified that in january 2015, she conducted an analysis on a gunshot residue kit [o]n the right hand there were several consistent particles of gunshot residue and on the left hand there were many consistent particles of gunshot particles . . . is that the subject may have; [(a)], discharged a firearm; [(b)], been in an 11 environment of gunshot residue; or [(c)], received these particles from an environmental -examination, she explained that she could never say who actually discharged the firearm. the best protocol for testing would be tbagged. the next day of trial, the court had just received a field report from a forensic no linkage to mr. williams. there is nobody that testified that his hand was bagged and that the gunshot residue was linked to mr. williams. [] right . . . the trial court added that he had learned from the earlier testimony that gunshot residue does not identify the shooter, but could result from being around someone who shoots, or being at a firing range. defense counsel had not received the field report until that morning, and because it connected the [t]here is an issue whether or offered to exclude all gunshot residue evidence and advise the jury not to consider it for any purpose. defense counsel asked for a mistrial what has already been rung the court denied the motion for no evidence that says mr. williams had any g.s.r. [gunshot residue] on him. and soand the proposed evidence that was not previously presented is that mr. williams had g.s.r. the new evidence would not exonerate williams, and rather than a mistrial, the court would tell the jury the court instructed counsel purpose in this whole case because i have excluded it, right? you are not going to argue it in closingthat the 12 instruction that there was no evidence connecting the gunshot residue to williams. the court refused because excluded the incriminating evidence against mr. williams. you cannot now argue there is no g.s.r. because that would be a lie to the jury because there is, although the jury did not get to hear it. the court instruof gsr, the information provided for you in trial is solely to educate you on how firearms operate. you are not to consider that evidence for any other purpose. you are not to consider or speculate whether any further gsr evidence are available, and whether they have any bearing on this case. a mistrial should be granted if the court is apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions (people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 198.) the trial court should grant a motion for a mistrial when the d a fair trial have been irreparably damaged. (ibid.) the trial court in this case stated that nothing linked the gunshot residue to williams, and no one had testified that his hands were bagged and tested positive for gunshot residue. but kaleuati testified that she tested a gunshot residue kit for the right and left hands. she also testified that she could never say who discharged the firearm, and did not know if therefore only partially correct. no link gunshot residue to a test kit labeled with williams. the court later declined to admit evidence that further linked williams to gunshot residue, and instructed the jury that it could not consider gunshot residue evidence for any purpose other than how firearms worked. we presume the jury followed the instruction. (people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 879.) the instruction was sufficient to dispel any prejudice to williams under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. kaleuati herself described gunshot residue evidence as insufficient to show who discharged a firearm, 13 hands were properly bagged and tested (as might appear in the excluded report by the forensic specialist). the gunshot residue was not stronand the other evidence connecting williams to the shooting was extremely strong, including two eyewitness identifications and the presence of a gun and spent casing in his car. wy inconclusive gunshot residue evidence when the jury was explicitly instructed not to consider the evidence for any purpose. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to grant a mistrial. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. lui, j. 