filed 2/9/16 p.v. barrios ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. danny barrios, defendant and appellant. b265061 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba127501) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, larry p. fidler, judge. affirmed. marta i. stanton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steve matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, and eric j. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant danny barrios appeals from the april 24, 2015 order denying his motion to vacate his 1996 plea of no contest to assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2))1 pursuant to section 1016.5. barrios contends the trial court erred in denying the motion to vacate, because (1) the prosecutor suggested that some immigration consequences of the plea might not apply, and (2) barrios was told by his attorney at the time of the plea he would not be deported. we affirm the order. procedural history of case no. ba1275012 barrios and codefendant edwin cruz were charged by information with four counts of attempted murder ( 664/187), with additional allegations the attempted murders were willful, deliberate and premeditated ( 664, subd. (a)) and a principal was armed with a firearm ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)). defendant was represented at a jury trial by deputy public defender doug goldstein. a mistrial was declared on november 12, 1996, after the jury was unable to reach a verdict as to both defendants. on november 14, 1996, defendant appeared in court, represented by mr. goldstein. the prosecution moved to dismiss the case as to cruz because there was no likelihood of obtaining a conviction in a jury trial against a case settlement agreement was reached as to barrios, in which barrios would plead no contest to assault with a firearm and admit a principal was armed with a firearm in the commission of the offense. in return, barrios was to be sentenced to three years in state prison and all remaining charges and allegations would be dismissed. the prosecutor explained the consequences of the plea to barrios. for purposes of this appeal, the pethe consequences of your plea even though some of these might not apply to you. if you 1 all statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 we take judicial notice of the los angeles superior court file in case no. ba127501. (evid. code,  452, subd. (d)(1), 459, subd. (a).) 3 are on probation or parole in another matter, your conviction in the case would be a violation of that probation or parole, and you could spend additional time in custody. [] if you are not a citizen of the united states, your conviction could result in deportation, denial of naturalization, denial of amnesty, or denial of re-entry into this cou additional warnings were provided regarding use of the conviction to increase punishment on a subsequent offense and restitution fine. the prosecutor asked barrios, in addhim or anyone close to him. barrios entered his plea and admission. the trial court made the requisite findings and accepted the plea. on december 5, 1996, barrios was sentenced to three years in state prison, with custody and conduct credits totaling 465 days. the 2014 motion to vacate the plea barrios filed his motion to vacate the plea on july 25, 2014. according to the moving papers, barrios faces deportation unless the plea is vacated. he is a 38-year-old resident of the united states, who has lived in the country since 1992. barrios has a wife and multiple children, all citizens of the united states. his mother, father, two brothers, and two sisters are all united states citizens. barrios was deported to his native country of guatemala in 1997, but he faced persecution and returned to the united states that same year. he is a changed person, has refrained from past associations, married, and had four children. he has been working and paying taxes. in september 2013, immigration and customs enforcement detained barrios and attempted to again deport him to guatemala. he is contesting removal due to fear of returning to his country. current counsel informed barrios that he could attempt to vacate his 1996 conviction because he was not properly warned of the immigration consequences of the plea. barrios acted in a timely fashion in seeking to vacate the plea after learning he had not been advised properly of his immigration consequences. 4 barrios filed a declaration stating neither the court nor mr. goldstein told him he ered the plea had he known he would be deported. mr. goldstein is not available to provide a declaration, as he is deceased. the district attorney filed an opposition to the motion to vacate the plea. the cedurally barred due to the prolonged delay between the 1996 plea, 1997 deportation, and 2014 motion. in addition, barrios was fully advised of the immigration consequences at the time of his plea, and he has not corroborated his declaration with independent evidence. the trial court heard argument and denied the motion to vacate. the court ruled that barrios was fully advised, on the record, of the immigration consequences of his stein advised discussion statement that he would not be deported, required the trial court to grant the motion to vacate the plea. we disagree. requirements of section 1016.5 section 1016.5, subdivision (a) requires that before the acceptance of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court must advise the defendant of the immigration that conviction of the offense for which you have been charged may have the 5 consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of the offense to which defendant pleaded guilty or nolo contendere may have the consequences for the defendant of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united states, the court, on e defendant to withdraw the 16.5, subd. (b).) the lnited states and who are unaware of the immigration consequences that a plea of guilty or nolo contendere entail. (id., subd. (d).) a trial court ruling on a motion under section 1016.5 engages in a three-part analysis. the trial court determines whether defendant as section 1016.5 (people v. superior court (zamudio) (2000) 23 cal.4th 183, 200 (zamudio).) although section 1016.5 does not expressly state that a defendant must establish prejudice, the court in zamudio to require that defendants, in order to obtain relief under subdivision (b) of the statute, demonstrate they were prejudiced by any id. at pp. 199-200.) prejudice is shown if the defendant establishes it was reasonably probable he or she would not have pleaded guilty if properly advised. (people v. martinez (2013) 57 cal.4th 555, 558.) compliance with section 1016.5 s advisement led him to believe he would not be subject to deportation as a result of his plea. the contention fails 6 at the first stage of zamudio three-part analysis, as barrios was properly advised of the are not a citizen of the united states, your conviction could result in deportation, denial of naturalization, denial of amnesty, or denial of re-entry into the prosecutor used language that does not vary of the offense for which you have been charged may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united statentirely consistent with the mandate of section 1016.5. (see people v. limon (2009) 179 from the omission of a single nonsubstantive word s advice to limon about the immigration consequences of his pleas was identical statutory claim for relief is meritless. (ibid.) advise you of the consequences of your plea, even though some of these might not apply tation. the statement was made immediately before the prosecutor gave barrios the mandatory admonition that if he were on probation or parole, his plea could result in a probation or parole violation. barrios makes no claim that he was on probation or parole, and the were apparently not an tion consequences, which were unequivocally explained to barrios. the trial court did not err in finding full compliance with section 1016.5, subdivision (a). 7 competency of trial counsel the remaining issue is ention that mr. goldstein misled him by advising that barrios would not be deported. the sixth amendment right to effective padilla v. kentucky (2010) 559 u.s. 356, 373-374 (padilla).) told him he would not be deported, a finding entitled to great weight. (in re resendiz (2001) 25 cal.4th 230, 252 (resendiz), disapproved on other grounds in padilla, supra, 559 u.s. at pp. 370-371; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 219.) the trial court was well within its power to make this factual determination, in the absence of general rightly reminds us, however, that petitioners assertion he would not have pled evidence. (in re alvernaz [(1992) 2 cal.4th 924,] 938; see also u.s. v. horne (d.c. cir. resendiz, supra, at p. 253.) the trial court was in a uniquely qualified position to make the factual ded over the trial and plea in 1996. it bears emphasis that barrios was indisputably aware of the immigration consequences in 1997, when he was deported and then reentered the united states illegally, but he took no steps to remedy the situation, waiting until he again faced deportation, by which point mr. goldstein had passed away and was recently discovered claim of ineffective assistance of counsel was entirely reasonable prove by a preponderance of the evidence his entitlement to relief. (in re johnson (resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 254.) 8 mr. goldstein affirmatively provided inaccurate advice on the immigration consequences of the plea is supported by the record. disposition the order denying the motion to set aside the plea and vacate the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kumar, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 