filed 10/13/16 p. v. karavolos ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george karavolos, defendant and appellant. b266184 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va125009) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, raul a. sahagun, judge. affirmed and remanded with instructions. brett harding duxbury, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general and michael katz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant george karavolos guilty of extortion, torture, false imprisonment, possession of base cocaine for sale, and being a felon in possession of a firearm and found true certain gang and firearm enhancement allegations. the trial court sentenced him to a term of 40 years and 4 months to life. on appeal, defendant raises ten challenges to his convictions based on the sufficiency of the evidence, instructional error, and penal code section 654.1 the attorney general raises two sentencing errors that defendant does not contest. s merit and agree with the attorney general that the two sentencing errors must be corrected on remand. we therefore remand the matter with instructions to correct the two sentencing errors and otherwise affirm the convictions. factual background a. the prosecution based its case on the testimony of victims andrew jones and luz valenzuela, as well as several other witnesses as described below. 1. jones jones and his fiance, valenzuela, drug problems. in october 2011, he met a man named rock and acquaintance kind of business relationsh him. at the ing , of [jones] 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 2 to rock on the money jones made cashing counterfeit checks. in january 2012, however, jones ended his relationship with rock and moved with valenzuela, who was pregnant, to live with her mother. but in april 2012, jones relapsed and resumed taking crystal methamphetamine. he went back to rock and his associates because he wanted to make money to support his renewed drug usage. jones assumed that rock and the people he associated with were gang members because of their tattoos. in mid-april, rock introduced jones to defendant. were in a detached garage at the back of property. it appeared to jones that defendant and rock had a business relationship. in mid-[i]llicit things with defendant had all the equipment that jones needed to print counterfeit checks. without rock. jones understood that rock expected him to be working with defendant in he and defendant went to a gas station next to a wells fargo bank in santa fe springs. while defendant waited in his truck at the gas station, jones went to the bank and cashed a $600 check. jones and defendant split the $600 with the understanding that each of them would give rock $100 so that the final division of the check proceeds would be $200 each. jones left defendant, checked into a hotel room, and went to sleep. the next day, jones bought some clothes and waited for defendant to come to the hotel and do drugs with him. when defendant did not come to the hotel as arranged, jones went to visit valenzuela, but they argued, so he left. at some point, the $140 that jones had left from the money he had split with defendant fell out of pocket. 2 jones explained that in the southeast los angeles gang culture, if a person was conducting illegal activity for profit in an area claimed by a gang, that person had to pay the local gang members a certain percentage of whatever he made. 4 jones called defendant and told him he had lost the $100 that he owed rock. in 2012ick up valenzuela so they could spend the day with defendant and his wife and child. after jones and valenzuela spent the day with defendant and his family, defendant told jones they would take valenzuela the two men took valenzuela times, beat up a little bit jones waited in the backyard by the garage for rock, who arrived with a gang , and they told jones to go into the garage. jones went into the garage followed by the four men. rock was larger than jones, around and was confronted by rock, who punched him in the face, causing him to crash into a door and fall onto open [the top of . . . . rock stopped the assault, pulled a chair into the middle of the garage, and made i was some little bitch, did you think you were going to disrespect me like that and get taped hand with the gun, and pointed it at s head. rock and defendant went outside the garage to talk and returned to tell jones that nothing further was going to happen to him that night. rock asked jones if he had someplace other than home to stay h [him], make sure everything 5 [was] , who lived in a garage near where valenzuela lived and asked if he could stay there. rock told jones to tell lewis that e when [he got] there to [pay for the] using a knife, rock cut the tape holding jones in the chair. he told jones to go s house. rock then drove jones s s truck. jones spent the night there, instructed and [they would] work out what ndant told jones that he had saved s life because rock and the other men were going to kill jones. defendant said jones owed rock $6,000, and that, e up with that money jones warned jones that valenzuela and her unborn child could be harmed as well. defendant informed jones that he knew someone who owned a tire store that would take checks from a business. defendant, posing as a business man, called the tire store and ordered expensive industrial tires. jones printed out checks for the purchase of the tires and went to the tire store to pick up the load of tires. at the store, jones spoke to the manager who told him to back up his truck so they could load the tires. jones gave defendant called a friend who arrived, paid defendant cash for the tires, and took them away. defendant told jones he had made $3,000 on the tire sale. at that point, jones felt s to paying him off. . . . this will all be over soon. you can go home. . . . and everything the next day, defendant asked jones if he wanted to bring valenzuela over to valenzuela] down 6 valenzuela told her he had pay rock off. valenzuela was upset with jones for putting himself in that situation. during visit, defendant and jones were doing drugs, but not in her presence. defendant did not want her or anyone else to know he was using drugs. that night, defendant and jones did drugs in the garage while valenzuela stayed in the house with the next day, defendant followed jones to the same tire store to pick up more tires. jones gave another counterfeit check to the manager, loaded his truck with tires, and left. , and defendant told jones he was going to rent a hotel room for jones and valenzuela so they could spend some time together. defendant then left and locked jones and valenzuela in the garage. defendant returned with food, an asian-looking female friend named arlene (morales), and another man called little man. defendant and little man went outside to talk and then came back to the garage. while jones talked to little man, defendant left again. jones noticed that little man had a pistol in his waistband. the gun was similar to the gun rascal had. jones was feeling tired, so he took a hit from a meth bong that was hidden in the garage, when defendant returned, he and little man went outside and talked. defendant came back inside, looking upset. defendant walked up to jones who was seated and hit him in the face. valenzuela took valenzuela to his house to stay with his wife. defendant came back to the garage, know what he was going to arlene appeared agitated and scared. defendant began doing dope in 7 a short time later, chacha, arrived. jones had met her before and believed she was a gang member. defendant told chacha that jones had disrespected defendant when he hit the meth bong after defendant had told him not to . . . s defendant then sliced left ear with the knife. at that point, little man pulled his gun out, chambered a round, and stood by the door. defendant told jones to sit down. jones was bleeding, so he picked up a dirty shop towel and held it to his ear. defendant pulled out another blunt knife and began to heat it with a blow torch. t up your fucking shirt and you better not make any noises because if you don the radio, and jones bit down on the towel and lifted his shirt. defendant told jones, heated knife was glowing bright orange and it scared jones. defendant began to bs stomach, writing the times during the incident. when jones jumped up during the burning, little man pointed when defendant finished burning jones, he made jones clean up his own blood from the floor and wall. defendant cursed at jones and spit on him while jones was on his hands and knees cleaning the floor. after jones finished cleaning, the others in the person. flexing his machismo in front of everybody. before jones was burned, defendant asked him for the truck he was driving, but jones said no because the truck belonged to valenzuela. the day after the burning, jones showed valenzuela his stomach, but told her not to say anything or they would do the same thing to her. that afternoon, jones saw defendant speaking to valenzuela, telling 8 her that if she wanted to put the whole incident behind her, she should sign over title to the truck. jones then saw her sign the title and hand it to defendant. that night, defendant and jones drove valenzuela home and, as she was leaving the suv, jones quietly told her to call his brother. jones went with defendant and they attempted to cash more counterfeit checks. after several failed attempts, jones tried again unsuccessful. when he came outside, defendant handed him a tool and some gloves. defendant told jones that a woman had just parked a white bmw, left her purse inside, and went into a store. defendant wanted jones to break the car window and steal the purse. when jones fucking bad to happen to you or jones fastest defendant was waiting in the suv behind him, jones grabbed the purse and began running. bystanders chased jones as he ran toward defendant. defendant drove away, but then stopped. jones turned around, handed the owner her purse, showed her his stomach, him were still chasing him, jones ran to a fast food restaurants pursuers when jones first spoke to the police, he was unsure whether valenzuela was safe, , referring to him instead as doug. jones was given immunity for his testimony and the charges against him for burglary and forged checks were dismissed. 2. valenzuela luz valenzuela met jones in march 2011. she met defendant in 2012 when jones and 9 end and her two children. after church, the group went to lunch, stopped at a thrift store, and then went in the house while defendant and jones were in the backyard. after the movie, valenzuela called her father and jones then drove valenzuela home in a white suv. during the drive, jones looked nervous. he whispered to valenzuela to call his brother. valenzuela exited the suv at defendant told valenzuela that he had seen jones, but that jones was not there. defendant promised to give jones a message from valenzuela. defendant seemed upset that valenzuela had called his house. valenzuela had not seen or heard from jones since he and defendant dropped her off at her parentss cell phone, but it driving it, but that was days before. hone several times and was ultimately able to speak with jones. jones sounded nervous and scared. valenzuela knew from a prior conversation with defendant that jones owed somebody money. she also knew that the only people that jones was associating with were selling drugs. one of those people was rock, whom jones had identified as a gang member. nda. when she arrived, she saw her truck there. two older to see jones. he was crying, sweating, and dirty. he tried to speak to valenzuela, but defendant told him 10 paid his debt. defendant also said that they were going to give jones until friday to pay his debt and, if he did not pay it by then, they would kill him. he also told valenzuela that if she told anyone, her family, and her unborn baby. valenzuela asked defendant to allow her to take jones home and offered to pay off s the next day, valenzuela tried to reach jones by telephone. she finally was able could obtain a title loan on her truck. she then spoke to defendant and told him that based on a prior loan she obtained in arizona, she believe she could obtain a $2,000 loan instead of taking her to the title loan establishment, he took her straight to his house. truck while defendant went into the garage. at some point, jones came out of the garage looking sick, skinny, and dirty. defendant came out of the garage, said he had something to do, and told valenzuela and jones to wait inside the garage. inside the garage, -the male locked the garage door from the inside. valenzuela noticed that the male had a gun tucked in his pants. jones was crying so valenzuela was not able to speak with him. the female was quiet and did not talk. the male instructed jones not to speak with n. [it was] called a [meth] away, and valenzuela and jones argued because she was pregnant. when defendant returned, the hispanic male and jones spoke with him outside the garage. when the men returned to the room, defendant and the hispanic male made jones sit in a chair in the middle of the garage. there was another female named chacha present in the garage, along with the armed hispanic male. after valenzuela saw defendant slap jones across the face, she became scared and thought her baby was going 11 to fall out of [her] stomach. defendant then told valenzuela he did not trust her, and he started looking through her purse. but valenzuela had taken the title to her truck out of her purse and put it in her bra. defendant called valenzuela a liar and asked her where the title was. when valenzuela told him it was in her bra, he told her to take it out and she complied because she was scared. she gave the truck title to defendant and he asked her to sign it. defendant, jones, and the armed hispanic male went outside to discuss something, , not because she wanted to, but because she was afraid of what defendant would do to her, her baby, and jones. after valenzuela signed over title to her truck to defendant, she went into on her truck she tried to hug him, but he valenzuela that defendant had burned him, she became even more scared. the armed hispanic male wvalenzuela and jones were again locked in the garage with the armed hispanic male and later in the afternoon, defendant returned, looking tireaand the armed hispanic male left. defendant then locked the garage from the inside and fell asleep with valenzuela and jones still in the garage. hours later, valenzuela woke defendant and told him she was hungry. that evening, defendant drove valenzuela home at about 7:00 p.m., after she had s probably wasnthe suv, to hear. d 12 when valenzuela arrived home, her father was upset and asked her where she had s older brother. sometime past midnight, jones called valenzuela from the police station. the went to the police station and saw jones, who showed her his injuries, each of which was 3. morales arlene morales was a nonfunctioning methamphetamine addict. she met defendant at his house because he had promised to find her work. she ended up staying at his house in the garage, but was not allowed to leave. while morales stayed at r methamphetamine and sold drugs to others. defendant two people to when he was away from his house. on at least two occasions, morales was locked in the garage alone. morales could not drive away in her car because close female friend put diesel fuel in it, making it inoperable. according to ve. [she] a chair. morales believed defendant was a gang member. morales was intimidated by gang members, but defendant was not. defendant was comfortable around gang members and, on more than one occasion, she saw him give orders to gang members. but she nev retrieve his car. but he was told what to do [by defendant]. jones tried to keep morales calm and tried to keep her fed and clean. 13 to burn [jones]. at the time [morales] thought they were cutting him because [she] saw in charge. on the monday following the friday assault on jones, morales escaped from had been alone with defendant in the garadoor, eak, run, right through [the help, and she heard someone next door say to defendant, [a]re 4. police testimony assigned to the pico rivera gang unit. on may 23, 2012, after speaking to jones and detective arrived, defendant was on the other side of the locked gate. defendant was with francisco barraza, who was nicknamed ray or little man. despite orders from deputies to open the gate, defendant did not comply. the detective and fellow deputies detained all the occupants of the house after breaking the locked front gate to the yard. ink n the dashboard. next to the pink slip, the detective found a business card from the tire store where jones had passed the counterfeit checks. inside the garage, detective calderon found gang writing on the wall, including ---handled knife and a black folding knife on the floor. the blade of the brown-handled knife appeared dull and 14 outside the garage, detective calderon found a metal container containing handgun on the ground near a tree. there was a round in the chamber. when detective calderon interviewed jo injuries to s head, ear, and stomach. during trial, detective calderon identified photographs of alfonso acuna, aka rascal; javier francis, aka rock; and monique garcia, aka chacha. investigator for the pico rivera station who testified about the rivera 13 gang. he had training and experience concerning the criminal street gangs in the pico rivera area. in that area, there were 12 gangs with over a thousand members. detective valenzuela was familiar with the rivera 13 street gang, which had 139 documented members, 30 of them active, i.e., committing crimes for the benefit of the gang. primary activities of rivera 13 were murders, attempted murders, weapons violations, narcotics sales, credit card thefts, identity thefts, and burglaries. the gang used a common sign or symbol, r-v, and had many rival gangs in pico rivera, including one called pico nuevo. gang members were generally unemployed, so their primary source of revenue was the commission of financial crimes, such as identity theft, narcotics sales, robberies, and burglaries. the gang used such revenue to buy more narcotics and guns, and to pay taxes to the mexican mafia. -also collected taxes from anyone committing crimes in their territory. a person could the r-13 on s the symbol for the rivera 13 wall indicated that rivera 13 used that garage. if someone put up such a symbol without permission, he or she would be retaliated against. 15 rivera 13. the roll call on 13 members and indicated that those members congregated at that location. the moniker rock on the roll call belonged to javier francis. the moniker shotgun belonged to robert salazar, the main shot caller for the rivera 13 gang. the concept of respect was very important in gang culture. if a gang member was disrespected and did not retaliate, he would look weak and his status within the gang would diminish. not paying taxes to a gang member would be a sign of disrespect that allowed them to control their territory by instilling fear in the community and other gang members. two rivera 13 gang members, gregory leyva and christopher johnson, had been convicted of vandalism and possession of an illegal firearm, respectively. in detective based on hypothetical questions that mirrored the facts of this case, detective valenzuela opined that the crimes described were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. 3 was assigned to the narcotics bureau at the pico rivera station. on april 2, 2012, he executed a search did not locate any narcotics or guns. in the garage, the special weapons team located defendant and two females named evelyn and arlene. they were laying under blankets, and the deputies recovered a loaded, semiautomatic pistol near defendant. detective hwang also recovered a loaded derringer pistol from a toolbox in the garage. defendant was conscious and did not appear to have any injuries. 3 detective hwanout of order, after defendant had testified. therefore, certain portions of his testimony 16 on the top of a table in the garage, detective hwang saw rock cocaine in plain view. it was weighed and packaged in a manner that was typical for street sales. next to the rock cocaine on the table was a hand-held digital scale. there was also extra packaging near the narcotics. the six grams of rock cocaine recovered had a street value possessed for the purpose of sale. detective hwang questioned defendant on the front lawn and again at the station. when the detective told defendant he was facing serious charges, defendant said he could help the detective in other narcotics investigations. defendant claimed he had information about a rivera 13 gang member named shotgun. the detective knew that shotgun salazar was one of the main methamphetamine distributors in pico rivera. according to defendant, he worked closely with shotgun, and he and his associates were always at defendansay that gang members had robbed him or that he was afraid of them. defendant explained that he transported quantities of methamphetamine for salazar. detective hwang believed defendant might be able to help him build a case against salazar, so the detective signed defendant up as a defendant informant, not a citizen informant. in return for his release, defendant was to inform the detective when shipments of narcotics were being moved and if gang members were coming to his garage with firearms. defendant told detective hwang that one of the gang members that met in his garage had an assault rifle and body armor and all of the gang members carried handguns. but defendant did not tell the detective that the guns and gang members made him fear for his life or that he was threatened by them. defendant was released from custody with charges pending and was expected to stay in contact with detective hwang. although defendant called the detective approximately 10 times after his release, he did not provide any useful information about salazar. in his phone calls with the detective, defendant never said he was being threatened or extorted by the rivera 13 gang or that he had been duct taped and beaten by 17 gang members in his own garage. he never claimed that gang members poured a cleaning agent in his eyes and burned them. defendant did not tell the detective that there were violent crimes occurring at his house and the detective did not ask defendant if anyone was dead. nor did he ask defendant to or tell him that his house could be seized. b. defense case 1. defense investigator and defense gang expert investigator. she spoke to valenzuela eight or nine times, twice in person and the rest by phone. she was called to provide testimony about certain admissions that valenzuela made to her and the persons he interviewed, including defendant and his family, flores opined that defendant was not a gang member or a gang associate. 2. in addition to his regular work, defendant may 13 and may 17one occasion during that period, he met morales, who told him that defendant loved her was kind of odfiance was nearby. at one point between may 13 and house very late at night. 18 hrown based on the conversation between and among defendant, his father, and his sister, father and sister went to an atm and withdrew more money to give to defendant. in total, they gave him approximately $1600. 3. defendant in 2012, defendant was working out of his home as an auto mechanic. defendant had several cars parked on the property. in january or february 2012, defendant met rock, whom he knew as javier, when house with a car that needed repairs. rock told defendant that jones had just been kicked out of his house and that of [defen in 2012. he was preparing to take his family to and asked if he could bring valenzuela. defendant agreed that valenzuela could accompany the group and they picked her up in his white chevy tahoe. after church, the group went to breakfast and then shopping at a goodwill store. after returning to while defendant and jones smoked cigarettes in the back yard. while the two men were conversing, jones showed defendant a wound he had on his stomach. the wound had 19 (in reference to the mexican mafia) on his stomach to gain the respect of gang members. knew each other. scathe three men went into the garage while defendant waited outside. about two or three minutes later, rock arrived. defendant told rock it was not a good time to visit because his new because one of the men had a tattoo on his face. after defendant that was the reason he was there. rock went into the garage while defendant smoked outside. garage, but tripped and fell. he saw rock and his son punching and kicking jones, who n the floor. defendant attempted to break up the assault, and threatened to call the police, bound him with tape and poured cleaning fluid in his eyes while threatening him. defendant was terrified for his family. the three assailants began arguing with jones. they then went outside, leaving defendant and jones alone in the garage. jones, who had a cut on his head, apologized profusely. at some point, threatening to call the police. rascal pulled out a knife, heated it with a torch, and burned n he pressed a heated piece of broken glass into the skin on rock and his son went outside to loos truck. eventually, jones left in his truck with rock, 20 defendant took a knife from his tool cart and cut the tape that was binding his arms and legs. then he ran outside the garage to a faucet and flushed his eyes with water. the next day, defendant called detective hwang because, a month earlier, the detective had asked him to be a citizen informant against the rivera 13 gang. detective hwang knew defendant had been robbed in the past by members of the rivera 13 gang. defendant told the detective what had happened the prior evening and the detective no one had been killed. the following wednesday night, jones called defendant and asked to be picked up. when defendant asked jones why he did not drive his truck, jones told defendant defendant agreed to pick jones up on the condition that he pack his bags and leave. when defendant picked up jones told them to figure out how to pay him $6000. after picking up jones, defendant took him to pick up valenzuela so she could help him pack. valenzuela and jones ended up living room couch in the house and jones stayed in the garage. jones and valend his car back, defendant picked valenzuela up in his suv and defendant denied burning or cutting jones. he also denied giving rivera 13 gang members orders. and he denied using or selling methamphetamine. defendant agreed to help jones obtain money to pay rock because defendant was gang. defendant borrowed $1500 from his parents and he had some money of his own. on friday, he gave rock $3500 and, after he paid rock, defendant drove valenzuela home and he dropped jones off in the city of montebello. 21 defendant first saw the gang graffiti in his garage after his arrest in april 2012. he denied writing any graffiti. he also denied being a gang member or associate. defendant admitted that he allowed jones to use his computer to make the forged checks, but denied ever getting any money from transactions. defendant also he sale of tires. procedural background the jury found defendant guilty on counts 1 and 2 of the extortion of jones and valenzuela in violation of section 518; on count 4 of the torture of jones in violation of section 206; on count 5 of felony false imprisonment in violation of section 236, as a lesser included offense of kidnapping for extortion; on count 6 of possession of cocaine base for sale in violation of health and safety code section11351.5; and on counts 8 and 9 of possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of section 29800, subdivision (a)(1). the jury found defendant not guilty on count 3, aggravated mayhem in violation of section 205. as to counts 1, 2, 4, and 5, the jury found true the gang enhancement allegations brought under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). as to counts 6, 8, and 9, the jury found true the gang enhancement allegations within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). as to count 6, the jury also found true the allegation that defendant was personally armed with a firearm within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (c). as to counts 4 and 5, the jury found not true the allegations that a principal used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e). as to counts 6, 8, and 9, the trial court struck the gang enhancements. defendant admitted that he had suffered five prior convictions for which a prison term had been served within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate term of 40 years and 4 months to life. the sentence was comprised of the following terms: on the two extortion 22 convictions, counts 1and 2, consecutive terms of seven years to life; on the torture conviction, count 4, a consecutive term of 15 years to life; on the possession of cocaine base for sale, count 6, a consecutive principal term of four years, plus an additional five-year term for the firearm enhancement; on the false imprisonment conviction, the lesser included offense to count 5, a consecutive one-third the middle term of eight months, plus a one-year term for the gang enhancement; on one of the felon with a firearm convictions, a consecutive one-third the middle term of eight months; and on the second felon with a firearm, a concurrent term of two years. the trial court did not impose or strike the prior prison term enhancements. discussion a. sufficiency of evidence in support of extortion convictions defendant contends that the prosecutor elected to base count 1, the extortion count involving jones, exclusively on the tires that jones obtained by fraud and relinquished to defendant. according to defendant, the fraudulently procured tires were not property as that term is used in section 518, the statute that defines extortion. defendant also contends that there was insufficient evidence to support his convictions on both the count 1 extortion of jones and the count 2 extortion of valenzuela. according to defendant, the evidence showed that defendant harbored a unitary intent to collect by fear or force one debt of $6000. therefore, defendant argues, he should only have been convicted of one count of extortion. 1. standard of review review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty substantial evidence includes 23 circumstantial evidence and any reasonable inferences drawn from that evidence. (people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 942-943.) 2. legal principles from another, with his consent . . . induced by a wrongful use of force or fear, or under personal property such as money, goods, chattels, things in action and evidences of debt. ( 7, subds. 10, 12; see people v. baker (1978) 88 cal.app.3d 115, 119 [151 cal.rptr. 362].) by its terms, subdivision 12 of section 7 does not create an exclusive list of personal property limited to those specifically named. (see people v. leyvas (1946) 73 cal.app.2d 863, 865 [167 p.2d 770].) (people v. kozlowski (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 853, 865 (kozlowski).) property as used in the californias extortion statute should be broadly interpreted. (see 2 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (3d ed. 2000) crimes against property,  104, p. 137; see generally annot., what constitutes property obtained within extortion statute (1975) 67 a.l.r.3d 1021.) another commentator has also rejected a narrow interpretation of the term property for purposes of extortion, suggesting that the nature of the crime of extortion - - one in which the property is obtained by consent - - requires thain an unrestricted sense. (see note (1934) 22 cal. l.rev. 225, 226.) [t]here is not the same need in extortproperty as in robbery, as the acts sought to be punished by the crime of extortion often result in the obtaining of things of value which would not be subject to robbery from the person. (id. at p. 227, fn. omitted.) we conclude on the basis of these authorities that a broad interpretation is appropriate when property for purposes of extortion.kozlowski, supra, 96 cal.app.4th at p. 865-866.) 24 ll terms set out in our penal code must be construed in context. ( 7, subd. 16.) when construing the statutory definition of property for purposes of extortion, we may consider robbery cases and cases involving other larceny offenses as well as those specifically related to the crime of extortion. we find this to be appropriate because the crime of extortion is related to the offense of robbery; indeed, courts have sometimes found it difficult to distinguish these two offenses. (people v. torres (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 37, 50 [39 cal.rptr.2d 103]; people v. hesslink (1985) 167 cal.app.3d 781, 790 [213 cal.rptr. 465].) the statutory definitions of robbery and extortion are structurally similar. (people v. hesslink, supra, 167 cal.app.3d at p. 790.) both offenses have their roots in common law larceny and both share a common element - - acquisition by means of force or fear. (people v. torres, supra, 33 cal.app.4th at p. 50.) the two crimes are distinguishable - - in an extortion, the property is taken with the victims consent, while in a robbery, the property is taken against the victims will. (people v. chacon (1995) 37 cal.app.4th 52, 63 [43 cal.rptr.2d 434].)kozlowski, supra, 96 cal.app.4th at p. 866.) caseproperty in the context of theft-based offenses as the exclusive right to use or possess a thing or the exclusive ownership of a thing. (people v. kwok (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1236, 1250-1251 [75 cal.rptr.2d 40] (kwok) [taking of lock to make unauthorized copy of key was theft]; people v. sadowski (1984) 155 cal.app.3d 332, 335 [202 cal.rptr. 201, 55 a.l.r.4th 1075] [cat as property for purposes of theft]; see civ. code,  654.) the term is all-embracing, including every intangible benefit and prerogative susceptible of possession or disposition. (kwok, supra, 63 cal.app.4th at p. 1251.) the right to own property implies the right to possess or use a thing to the exclusion of others. (state of california v. superior court (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1019, 1027 [93 cal.rptr.2d 276].)kozlowski, supra, 96 cal.app.4th at p. 866.) in support of his contention that the evidence did not support more the one extortion conviction, defendant relies primarily on people v. bailey (1961) 55 cal.2d 514 (bailey).) in people v. whitmer (2014) 59 cal.4th 733 (whitmer), the supreme court 25 explained the holding in baileybailey, the defendant committed a single misrepresentation and then received a series of welfare payments due to that misrepresentation. other than omitting to correct the misrepresentation and accepting the payments, the defendant committed no separate and distinct fraudulent acts. as the bailey court explained, the trial court had instructed the jury it could aggregate into a obtain property exceeding the threshold amount that makes the crime grand theft. (bailey, supra, 55 cal.2d at p. 518.) the evidence supported a jury finding that the defendant did have an initial design to keep receiving the welfare payments until they exceeded that threshold amount. accordingly, the court concluded that defendant had not id. at p. 519.) but in this case, and, generally, in the earlier cases the bailey court distinguished, the defendant committed id. at p. 740.) according to the court in whitmer, suprabailey court said that the earlier cases upholding multiple convictions of grand theft would not impulse, and bailey, supra, 55 cal.2d at p. 519), it must have had this distinction in mind. bailey concerned a single fraudulent act followed by a series of payments. the cases bailey distinguished generally involved separate and distinct, although often ibidid. at p. 740.) the court in whitmer, supra, 59 cal.4th 733, not recsimilar. accordingly, we conclude that a defendant may be convicted of multiple counts of grand theft based on separate and distinct acts of theft, even if committed pursuant to a id. at pp.740-741.) 26 3. analysis a. count 1 defendant erroneously argues 1 s fraudulent acquisition of the tires and subsequent relinquishment of them to defendant. although the prosecutor expressly referenced the tires when arguing about the evidence in support of count 1, the prosecutor also argued, albeit generally, that defendant continued to coerce jones to work for him, even after jones had delivered the second load of tires. for example, jones testified that after he delivered those tires, defendant slashed s ear with a knife and burned the word lame s stomach. the next evening, defendant and jones dropped valenzuela off at her house and then defendant forced jones to try to cash more counterfeit checks jones had made and also forced him to attempt to burglarize the white bmw. tion argument, defendant was charged in count 1 with other , but the type of property was not specified. similarly, the jury verdict form on count 1 did not specify the type of property extorted, but it did specify that the extortion occurred during the period of may 13 through may 17, 2012. during that period, there was ample evidence that defendant was using force and fear to compel jones to create and cash counterfeit checks. thus, there was evidenceindependent of the evidence of the fraudulent acquisition of the tiresthat defendant extorted labor and services from jones. under the broad definition of the property element of the extortion crime, that evidence was sufficient to support people v. fisher (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 212, 218-219 [because defendants threat to either employ him or be subject to vandalism was a demand for part of the employers business, that threat was a demand for property sufficient to support defendants conviction for sending threatening letters with the intent to extort money].) 27 b. counts 1 and 2 bailey, supra, 55 cal.4th 514, to support his contention that the evidence was insufficient to support two extortion convictions is misplaced. in this case, unlike bailey, defendant did not make a single threat followed by a series of payments from the two victims of his extortion. instead, defendant made multiple and separate threats to both jones and valenzuela. when alone with jones, defendant told jones that if he did not pay the $6000 debt, jones, valenzuela, and their unborn child would be killed. several days later, after jones had successfully obtained for defendant two loads of tires, defendant forced jones to burglarize a white bmw. when jones , dude. do you want something fucking bad to happen to you or your wifdefendant the title to her truck, not because she wanted to, but because she was afraid of what would happen to her, jones, and her baby. therefore, even assuming defendant may have been acting pursuant to a single overarching scheme, i.e., to collect a vindictive gang tax of $6000, the evidence supported a reasonable inference that he did so by committing similar, but separate and distinct, acts of extortion against two different victims at different times. as a consequence, there was sufficient evidence to support the extortion convictions on both counts 1 and 2. b. sufficient evidence of predicate crimes to support gang enhancements defendant contends that there was insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancements because the prosecution failed to produce evidence that at least two rivera 13 gang members committed at least two predicate offenses. according to defendant, although the prosecution introduced evidence that rivera 13 gang member leyva committed vandalism in violation of section 594, subdivision (b)(1), and gang member 28 johnson committed possession of a firearm in a school zone in violation of section 626.9, subdivision (b), the latter offense was not a qualifying predicate offense under section 186.22, subdivision (e). because the jury was instructed that vandalism and possession of a firearm in a school zone were the two predicate offenses upon which the prosecution was relying to prove that rivera 13 was a criminal street gang, defendant argues that there was insufficient evidence of the requisite predicate crimes. the attorney general concedes that possession of a firearm in a school zone is not a qualifying predicate offense enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e), and that the jury was instructed that the two qualifying predicate offenses that must be proved were vandalism and possession of a firearm in a school zone. nevertheless, the attorney general argues that under musacchio v. united states (2016) ___ u.s. ___ [136 s.ct. 709; 193 l.ed.2d 639] (musacchio), the jury instruction does not control the sufficiency analysis. instead, according to the attorney general, the true findings on the gang enhancements must be upheld if there was sufficient evidence of two qualifying predicate offenses, apart from the nonqualifying firearm offense at issue, including evidence of the commission by defendant of one of the qualifying current offenses. we disagree with the attorney general that musacchio is applicable, but agree with the substance of the argument, as we conclude that the instructional error here was harmless. 1. standard of review and prejudice standard discussed above. (people v. clark, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 942-943) whether defendant was prejudiced by the claimed instructional error is reviewed under the federal harmless error standard in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 (chapman). chapman a federal constitutional error is harmless when the chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24.) when there the verdict, reversal 29 is required. (ibid.) . . . if, after examination of the record, the reviewing court concludes beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury must have found the defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, the error is harmless. if, on the other hand, the reviewing court cannot draw this conclusion, reversal is required. [] the reviewing court conducting a harmless error analysis under chapman effect on the jurys verdict. [citation.] we note in this regard that a chapman harmless error analysis for instructional error typically includes review of the strength of the prosecution's case. [citation.] indeed, the harmless error inquiry for the erroneous omission of instruction on one or more elements of a crime focuses primarily on the weight of the evidence adduced at trial. under neder [v. united states (1999)], 527 u.s. 1, such an error is deemed harmless when a reviewing court, after conducting a thorough ncludes beyond a reasonable doubt that the omitted element was people v. aranda (2013) 55 cal.4th 342, 367-368.) 2. section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) gang enhancement defendant commits a felony for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. to establish that a group is a criminal street gang within the meaning of the statute, the people must prove: (1) the group is an ongoing association of three or more persons sharing a common name, identifying sign, or symbol; (2) one of the groups primary activities is the commission of one or more statutorily enumerated criminal offenses; and (3) the groups members must engage in, or have engaged in, a pattern of criminal gang activity. ( 186.22, subd. (f); people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 319-320 [109 cal.rptr.2d 851, 27 p.3d 739]; people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 616-617 [59 cal.rptr.2d 356, 927 p.2d 713]; people v. loeun (1997) 17 cal.4th 1, 8 [69 cal.rptr.2d 776, 947 p.2d 1313].) pattern of criminal gang activity is defined as gang members commission of, attempted commission of, conspiracy to commit, or solicitation of, sustained juvenile petition for, or 30 conviction of two or morepredicate offenses during a statutorily defined time period. ( 186.22, subd. (e); people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 617.) the predicate offenses must have been committed on separate occasions, or by two or more persons. ( 186.22, subd. (e); people v. loeun, supra, 17 cal.4th at pp. 9-10.) the charged crime may serve as a predicate offense. (people v. gardeley, supra, at p. 625; people v. olguin [(1994)] 31 cal.app.4th [1355,] 1383 [37 cal. rptr. 2d 596]) . . . . (people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1457 [119 cal.rptr.2d 272].)people v. bragg (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1385, 1399-1400.) 3. analysis in musacchio, supra, 136 s.ct. 709, the united states supreme court held that where a jury instruction had added an additional and unnecessary element to a crime, a court reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence determines whether evidence supports conviction on the elements of the properly charged crime, not on the erroneously added element. here, unlike in musacchio, supra, 136 s.ct. 709, the trial court did not instruct on an additional but unnecessary element of the gang enhancement. instead, it mistakenly instructed the jury that a nonqualifying offense could be used as a predicate offense to prove that rivera 13 was a criminal street gang. thus, contrary to tassertion, the holding in musacchio does not apply because the jury was improperly instructed on an essential element of the gang enhancement. the challenged instructional error in the gang enhancement jury instruction, however, does not warrant reversal based on insufficient evidence. as the attorney general points out, the instruction also informed the jury that, guilty of a crime in this case, you may consider that crime in deciding whether . . . a as defendant concedes, one or more 31 have qualified as a predicate offense4 that, have been sufficient to prove that rivera 13 was a criminal street gang. in people v. bragg, supra, 161 cal.app.4th 1385, as in this case, one of the two predicate offenses on which the jury was instructed was not an enumerated offense under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). (id. at p. 1400.) nevertheless, the court in bragg held that the error was harmless because the jury found the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of attempted murder and that current qualifying offense could be used to prove the requisite pattern of criminal activity for purposes of section 186.22, . . . was uncontested and there is no question the jury found the commission of that offense true beyond a reasonable doubt. . . . and the jury necessarily found a second predicate offense, the commission of these id. at p. 1401.) the prosecution proved that rivera 13 gang member leyva committed vandalism, and there is no dispute that vandalism is a qualifying predicate offense. and, the jury in this case found defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of one or more qualifying predicate offenses and was instructed that it could use such convictions in determining whether a pattern of criminal activity had been proved. we therefore conclude that the instructional error about which defendant complains was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. current offenses could qualify as a predicate offense, the prosecution was also required to show that the offense was committed by a gang member and, according to defendant, there was insufficient evidence to show that he was a rivera 13 gang member. 4 section 186.22, subdivision (e) includes in its enumeration of predicate offenses possession for sale of a controlled substance, torture, and extortion. ( 186.22, subdivision (e)(4), (18), and (19).) 32 because there was sufficient evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could have concluded that defendant was a rivera 13 gang member, the challenged instructional error was nevertheless harmless. there was ample evidence that defendant associated on a regular basis with known rivera 13 gang members. jones, valenzuela, and morales saw gang members visiting defenproperty on a regular basis. defendant appeared comfortable around them and did not appear threatened by them. morales did not see any of the gang members give defendant orders, but she did see him give other gang members orders. from her perspective, he garage to do drugs and assault jones while defendant was present. in addition, g sign or symbol and a roll call of rivera 13 gang members. and, the gang expert concluded that defendant was a rivera 13 gang member. that evidence was sufficient to support a finding that defendant was a member of the rivera 13 gang. c. instruction on false imprisonment defendant contends that the trial court committed instructional error as to count 5 when it instructed the jury on false imprisonment by violence or menace. according to defendant, because the false imprisonment instruction did not use commas, it allowed the jury to convict defendant if it found he unlawfully confined or detained someone, without also requiring the jury to find that the confinement or detention was accomplished through violence or menace. 1. calcrim no. 1240 the trial court instructed the jury on false imprisonment by violence or menaceas a lesser included offense to kidnapping for extortionto prove that the defendant is guilty of false imprisonment by violence or menace, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant intentionally and unlawfully confined or detained someone or caused that person to be confined or detained by violence or menace; and [] 2. the 33 defendant made the other person stay or go somewhere against that perviolence means using physical force that is greater than the force reasonably necessary to restrain someone. [] menace means a verbal or physical threat of harm, including use of a deadly weapon. the threat of harm may be express or implied. [] an act is done if that person does not consent to the act. in order to consent, a person must act freely and voluntarily and know the nature of the act. [] false imprisonment does not require that the person restrai(italics added.) 2. legal principles the constitutional principles that guide our review of claimed instructional error every ambiguity, inconsistency, or deficiency in a jury ailing instruction . . . so infected the entire trial that the resulting conviction violates due ihood middleton v. mcneil (2004) 541 u.s. 433, 437.) 3. analysis defendant asserts that the flawed punctuation of the challenged instruction rendered it fatally ambiguous and allowed the jury to find him guilty of false imprisonment by violence or menace without finding an essential element of that crime, i.e., the confinement or detention was accomplished by means of violence or menace. confined or detained someone or caused that person to be confined or detained by violence or me 34 the first sentence of the instruction informed the jury that the crime under was instructed from the descriptive name given to the crime that the false imprisonment must be accomplished by one of two meansviolence or menace. moreover, the instruction went on to define both violence and menace, specific definitions that strongly suggested to the jury that one of those two defined means of accomplishing the crime was completely the name of the crime used at the beginning of the instruction and instead to rename the crime simply as false imprisonment. thus, there is not a reasonable likelihood that a juror would have interpreted the instruction to mean that the required confinement or detention could be accomplished without either violence or menace when d. duty to provide instructions sua sponte defendant argues that the trial court had the duty to provide three different sua sponte instructions. first, defendant argues that the conviction for false imprisonment should be reversed because the trial court failed to instruct the jury sua sponte on the affirmative defense of a good faith but mistaken belief in consent. according to defendant, the evidence was sufficient to trigger a sua sponte obligation to instruct on the defense because he testified that he locked jones and valenzuela in his garage for privacy so they could have sex. second, defendant argues the trial court erred when it failed to instruct sua sponte on the lesser included offense of simple possession of cocaine. according to defendant, there was sufficient evidence from which a reasonable juror could have found that he possessed the cocaine found in his garage for use, not sale. 35 third, defendant contends that the trial court erred because it failed to instruct sua sponte on the lesser included offense of misdemeanor false imprisonment. according to defendant, the jury likely convicted defendant of false imprisonment based on the incident during which defendant locked jones and valenzuela in the garage and, as to that incident, there was no evidence that the confinement was accomplished by force or fear. 1. legal principles a. affirmative defense of consent defendant is relying on such a defense or if there is substantial evidence to support such a defense, and it is not inconsistent with the defendants theory of the case. (people v. wickersham (1982) 32 cal.3d 307, 326 [185 cal.rptr. 436, 650 p.2d 311]; people v. sanchez (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 718, 735-736 [182 cal.rptr. 671]; people v. hampton (1981) 118 cal.app.3d 324, 329.) [] the consent defense differs from the reasonable belief in consent defense. (people v. romero (1985) 171 cal.app.3d 1149, 1155 [215 weigh the evidence and decide which of the two witnesses is telling the truth.ibid.) that both the victim and the accused are telling the truth. the jury will first consider the e alleged acts. if she did whether the manner in which the victim expressed her lack of consent was so equivocal as to cause the accused to assume that she consented (id., at pp. 1155-1156, citing people v. mayberry (1975) 15 cal.3d 143, 159-160.) the foundation, therefore, for the reasonable belief in consent defense is evidence from which the jury could conclude the defendant acted under a mistake of fact that created a reasonable belief the victim consented to the charged acts. [] . . . [] the reasonable 36 belief defense derived from mayberry is founded upon evidence showing the defendant acted under a mistake of fact sufficient to harmonize his assertion of consent with the victims story that consent was lacking. (people v. mayberry, supra, 15 cal.3d at pp. 156-160; people v. romero, supra, 171 cal.app.3d at pp. 1156-1157.) where there is no evidence putting into issue the nature and quality of the defendants belief in consent, the trial court is under no duty to instruct the jury on its own motion about the mistake of fact defense.people v. rhoades (1987) 193 cal.app.3d 1362, 1367-1369.) b. simple possession duty to instruct on any lesser offense unless there is any y lesser offense, but not the greater, independently the question whether the trial court failed to instruct on a lesser included people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 705 [94 cal.rptr.3d 699, 208 p.3d 634] (avila iipeople v. souza offense is necessarily included in a greater offense if either the statutory elements of the greater offense, or the facts actually alleged in the accusatory pleading, include all the elements of the lesser offense, such that the greater cannot be committpeople v. smith (2013) 57 cal.4th 232, 240.) possession of cocaine base for sale requires the prosecution to prove that (1) the defendant exercised control over the cocaine; (2) the defendant had knowledge of its presence and nature as a controlled substance; (3) the substance was in an amount sufficient to be used for sale as a controlled substance; and (4) the defendant possessed the controlled substance with the specific intent to sell it. (calcrim no. 2302.) possession of cocaine requires the prosecution to prove only that defendant exercised 37 control over the substance and had knowledge of its presence and nature as a controlled substance. (calcrim no. 2304.) c. misdemeanor false imprisonment , menace, fraud, or deceit people v. fernandez (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 710, 717 [31 imprisonment. misdemeanor false imprisonment becomes a felony only where the force used is greater than that reasonably necessary to effect the restraint. in such csuch violence a felony. (people v. hendrix (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1458, 1462 [10 people v. castro (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 137, 140 [41 cal.rptr.3d 1people v. fernandez, suprapeople v. dominguez (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1351, 1356-1357.) 2. analysis a. affirmative defense of consent jury before deliberations. focus on his act of locking jones and valenzuela in his garage, there were other facts upon which the jury could have found defendant guilty of felony false imprisonment. there was evidence that jones was taped to a chair and had cleaning fluid poured into the open gash on his head. later, jones was forced again to sit in the chair, threatened, hit, cut with a knife, and burned with a knife. as to those two confinements or detentions, defendant did not state or imply that he believed in good faith that jones consented to the detentions or 38 confinements. instead, he denied any involvement in restraining jones. thus, there was no people v. rhoades, supra, 193 cal.app.3d at p. 1369) and no basis for a sua sponte instruction on good faith but mistaken belief in consent. b. simple possession re was no substantial evidence from which a reasonable juror could have found that defendant possessed the cocaine merely for use. garage, defendant was lying on the ground in the garage under a blanket near a loaded handgun and there was another handgun located in a tool box. on top of a table, the detective saw six grams of cocaine valued at between $300 and $600. it was weighed and packaged in a manner typical for street sales. a digital scale and additional cocaine was possessed for sale. given that evidence, there was nothing from which a reasonable juror could have inferred that defendant possessed the cocaine only for use. therefore, the trial court had no sua sponte duty to instruct on the lesser included offense. c. misdemeanor false imprisonment on his finding on false imprisonment. but the proper focus is on the evidence before the trial court at the time it instructed on false imprisonment. as explained above, there were at least two forceful and violent detentions of jones, the one where he was taped to the chair and the other when he was forced to sit in the chair, hit, cut with a knife, and burned with a knife. the incident upon which defendant relies, during which defendant locked jones and valenzuela in the garage, occurred after the first violent confinement and after defendant told jones he would be killed if he did not pay the debt. given the state of the evidence at the time the trial court instructed on false imprisonment, there was no 39 evidence from which a reasonable juror could have inferred that the detentions of jones were not accomplished by violence or menace.5 e. sentences under section 654 defendant contends that the trial court violated the prohibition against multiple punishments for the same act in section 654 and his due process rights. according to defendant, the sentence on count 4 for the torture of jones, after punishing defendant for the extortion of jones, violated section 654 because the torture of jones was the means by which defendant extorted jones. count, after the trial court punished defendant separately for extortion and torture, violated section 654. as defendant views the evidence, the sole objective of the false imprisonment was to accomplish extortion and torture. 1. legal principles section 654, subdivision (a), prohibits multiple punishment for the same act, act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than 5 the lesser included offenses to felony false imprisonment and possession of cocaine base for sale should be evaluated under the federal harmless error standard in chapman v. california in people v. breverman (2008) 19 cal.4th 142, that prejudice from failure to instruct sua sponte on a lesser included offense is evaluated under the state harmless error standard articulated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 (watson). because we have concluded that the trial court did not err in failing to instruct on the lesser included offenses to felony false imprisonment and possession of cocaine base for sale, we do not principles of stare decisis, we are bound by decisions of the california supreme court unless the united state supreme court has decided the federal constitutional question differently. (people v. superior court (williams) (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 688, 702-703.) 40 onpunishments, not multiple convictions, for the same act. (people v. britt (2004) 32 cal.4th 944, 951 [12 cal.rptr.3d determining whether section 654 prohibits multiple punishment has long been more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be (neal v. state of california [(1960) 55 cal.2d 11, 19 [9 cal.rptr. 607, 357 p.2d 839]].) a decade ago, we criticized this test but also reaffirmed it as the established law of this state. (people v. latimer (1993) 5 cal.4th 1203, 1209-1216 [23 cal.rptr.2d 144, 858 p.2d 611].) we noted, however, that cases have sometimes found separate objectives when the objectives were either (1) consecutive even if similar or (2) different even if simultaneous. in those cases, multiple punishment was permitted. [citation.] . . . [] section 654 turns on the defendants people v. britt, supra, 32 cal.4th at pp. 951-people v. ortiz (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 1354, 1377-1378.) whether section 654 applies in a given case is a question of fact for the trial court, which is vested with broad latitude in making its determination. [citations.] its findings will not be reversed on appeal if there is any substantial evidence to support them. [citations.] we review the trial courts determination in the light most favorable to the respondent and presume the existence of every fact the trial court could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. jones (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1139, 1143 [127 cal.rptr.2d 319].) [t]he power of an appellate court begins and ends with the determination as to whether, on the entire record, there is substantial evidence, contradicted or uncontradicted, which will support the determination, and when two or more inferences can reasonably be deduced from the facts, a reviewing court is without power to substitute its deductions for those of the trial court. if such substantial evidence be found, it is of no consequence that the trial court believing other evidence, or drawing other reasonable inferences, might have reached a contrary conclusion. (bowers, 41 supra, 150 cal.app.3d at pp. 873-874.)people v. ortiz, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 1378.) 2. analysis a. extortion and torture 654 is based was accomplished solely by the torture of jones.6 the trial court, however, found that the extortion and torture of jones were separate and distinct offenses for purposes of sentencing, suggesting that it took a much broader view of the evidence. as explained above, the trial court had wide latitude in making that factual determination and its finding will not be disturbed if supported by substantial evidence. the trial evidence showed that defendant extorted jones for several days between 3, 2012, and may 17, 2012. during that period, defendant threatened to kill jones, valenzuela, and their baby. he also admonished jones not to run away or inform anyone about what was happening to him. on more than one occasion, separated in time, defendant successfully forced jones to make and attempt to negotiate counterfeit checks. that evidence provided several distinct factual bases sufficient to support the extortion conviction. during that ongoing extortion, jones was tortured on two separate occasions. on chair and poured cleaning fluid in the open gash on his head. there was evidence that from a counterfeit check jones had successfully passed. before the torture, rock told jones he was going to teach jones a lesson for disrespecting him. that evidence, 6 intended to cause cruel 42 involving a motive different from simply coercing jones to negotiate checks, supported a torture conviction that was separate and distinct from the extortion. several days later, after jones had obtained two loads of tires for defendant, jones was hit by defendant, forced to sit in a chair, cut behind the ear with a knife, and branded smoking methamphetamine in front of valenzuela after defendant had admonished jones hit the meth bong and supported a reasonable inference that the primary motive for the second act of torture was related to punishing jones for his open use of drugs, -kiting or collecting the money jones owed rock. given the distinct evidence in support of the extortion and torture counts involving distinct was supported by substantial evidence. therefore, the separate punishments on each those counts did not violate section 654. although defendant also contends that punishments for extortion and torture violated his due process rights, it is well established that, under the united states constitution, a defendant may be convicted and punished at a single trial under two different statutes for the same act. (people v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110, 120-121.) b. false imprisonment the trial court found that the false imprisonment conviction was a separate and distinct offense for purposes of sentencing. under the legal principles controlling the section 654 analysis discussed above, we conclude there was substantial evidence to defendant concedes that the detention or confinement supporting the false imprisonthreats and torture incidents also occurred separately over the course of several days, 43 defento the chair may have been to accomplish torture, his objective in locking him and valenzuela in the garage may have been different from his objective to extort and torture as extorting the truck from her or possessing methamphetamine. (people v. andra (2007) ted in such a way as to given the evidence in support of the false imprisonment conviction, we conclude that the imposition and execution of sentence on that count did not violate section 654 because the trial court found that the offense was separate and distinct from the other offenses and substantial evidence supported that finding. moreover, as explained above, a violation of section 654 does not implicate federal constitutional concerns. (people v. sloan, supra, 42 cal.4th at pp. 120-121.) f. correction of sentencing errors the attorney general raises two sentencing issues not raised by defendant: the for the five prison term priors admitted by defendant and the disparity between the orally pronounced 15 years-to-life sentence on count four, torture, and the life sentence reflected in the abstract of judgment. defendant admitted that he had suffered five prior convictions for which a prison term was served within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court, however, failed to either impose or strike the sentence enhancements for those prior convictions. on count four, the trial court orally pronounced a term of 15 years to life. but the abstract of judgment reflects that defendant was sentenced to a life term. 44 we agree with the attorney general that these sentencing issues must be corrected and therefore remand the matter to the trial court with instructions to address the prior prison term enhancements and to correct the abstract of judgment to reflect that defendant was sentenced to a term of 15 years to life on count four. 45 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court with instructions to impose or strike the five prior prison term enhancements under section 667.5, subdivision (b) and to amend years to life. in all other respects, the judgments of conviction are affirmed. raphael, j.* we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. baker, j. * judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 