 filed 11/17/17 p. v. padilla ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose luis padilla, defendant and appellant. b266269 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va135711) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mildred escobedo, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 introduction on the afternoon of may 24, 2014, defendant jose luis padilla went to ramiro ramireirez was napping in his bed, padilla picked up a serrated knife and cut three to four inches across ramirethe jury convicted padilla of aggravated mayhem and found true the allegations that he personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon and inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the crime. on appeal, padilla argues his conviction should be reversed because of batson/wheeler1 error, insufficiency of the evidence to support his conviction, and prosecutorial misconduct. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. facts from the trial ramirez lived in a converted garage in pico rivera. he and padilla had known each other for about 20 years.2 on the night of may 23, 2014, the two were together at ramirehome when padilla became upset over seeing a photograph of his ramirezcell phone. padilla left and ramirez went to bed around 2:00 a.m. he woke up between 11:30 a.m. and noon when his friend rubin knocked on the door. they spoke briefly, and ramirez went back to bed. as 1 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 89 [106 s.ct. 1712, 90 l.ed.2d 69] (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 276-277 (wheeler), disapproved in part in johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 165, 168. 2 ramirez passed away prior to trial. the prosecution read his preliminary hearing testimony to the jury. 3 rubin left, padilla was on his way over to see ramirez. rubin and padilla passed by each other on their respective ways. about 30 seconds after rubin left, padilla knocked on ramirez let him in. ramirez told padilla he was going to take a nap, and padilla asked if he could stay ramirez gave him the pass code to unlock the phone. ramirez went back to bed. he was facing the wall with his back to padilla. roughly five to seven minutes later, ramirez felt something gouge his neck. he looked up and saw padilla, who padilla did not say anything and went out the door. ramirez got up, looked in the mirror, and applied a towel to his neck to stop the bleeding. ramirez went to the main house and told the people there that wicked had cut him. roughly 15 minutes later, a deputy from the los angeles county sdepartment and an ambulance arrived. ramirez told deputy tim shultz that wicked had attacked him. ramirez provided deputy shultz with . ramirez was then taken to the hospital. closed. the attack le- to four-inch scar on the left side ramirez kept a folding knife on a dresser near his bed. on one side of the blade was a straight razor and on the other side the blade was serrated. when he returned from the hospital, ramirez discovered both his knife and cell phone were missing. his knife and cell phone had been stolen. 4 on may 25, deputy kenneth felix, while responding to a disturbance call, saw an individual matching description of wicked. deputy felix arrested this individual, who turned out to be padilla. when asked what name he went by on the street, padilla resp shortly thereafter, detective cuouhtemoc gonzalez was assigned to the case. detective gonzalez interviewed ramirez and learned about the missing phone and knife. the detective obtained a search warrant for the residence where padilla had been arrested. the deputies executing the warrant found the residence. b. charges, verdict and sentencing padilla was originally charged by information with attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664),3 and it was alleged he personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) in the commission of the crime. the people also alleged padilla suffered a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)) constituting a strike within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12) and served a prior prison term ( 667.5). the aggravated mayhem ( 205) count was added by amended information along with allegations that padilla personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) in the commission of the mayhem offense. 3 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 5 a jury found padilla not guilty of attempted murder and guilty of aggravated mayhem. it found true the allegations he personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon and inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the crime. padilla admitted a prior serious felony conviction and a prior prison term. the trial court sentenced padilla under the three strikes law to 14 years to life, plus five years for the prior serious felony. the court struck the weapon use, great bodily injury, and prior prison term findings for purposes of sentencing. discussion a. batson/wheeler motion padilla, who is hispanic, contends the prosecutor violated his state and federal constitutional rights to equal protection and a jury drawn from a fair cross section of the community by peremptorily excusing juror no. 10, who is african-american. (batson, supra, 476 u.s. 79; wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d 258.) at trial, the court denied the batson/wheeler motion, finding padilla had not made a prima facie case of impermissible discrimination and accepted excusing juror no. 10. padilla submits we should review this case through the lens of a first stage/third stage batson/wheeler hybrid. we agree with the approach, but not with the relief padilla seeks. we batson/wheeler motion. 1. proceedings below the venire panel consisted of 30 prospective jurors. the trial court conducted general background questions of the entire 6 panel. juror no. 10 was single, lived alone in culver city, and was a senior technical services specialist, working for a medical laboratory dealing mainly with physicians. while she previously served on a civil jury, the jury did not reach a verdict. juror no. 10 indicated if she were not convinced by the evidence of the e to convict. she could be impartial with respect to law enforcement and non-law enforcement witnesses. after the court completed its routine background questions, both counsel were given the opportunity to conduct voir dire. in one section of his voir dire, the prosecutor questioned whether any of the jurors had a problem rendering a verdict in a case based upon the testimony of a single witness. several jurors discussed their concerns. the prosecutor asked juror no. 10 how she felt. juror no. 10 res[about] what the judge had said earlier, that you get what you get,[4] but at the same time, 4 while pre-instructing the jury panel regarding the beyond a reasonable doubt, the [ed]which the prosecution presented only one witness, who was convincing. when one juror indicated his verdict in that case would be guilty, the court responded: is what you will be required to do based on the evidence that is presented in this trial during the sessions that we are in trial, nothing else. ladies and gentlemen, you get what you get, not what you want to get, not what you think you will get, not what you would like to see. you get what you get, and based on that decision that is what you are going to view, you are going to defendant is not obligated to present any evidence but can simply hold the prosecution to its burden of proof. 7 just one person, it depends on if they are credible when you are listening to the evidence and examining what they say, and then you make your decision based on that. because she did indicate that you get what you get, if it is one witness, two witnesses, prosecutor probed further, level. juror no. 10 testimony and determine i guess based on what they present and would you hesitate . . the witness is credible and the defendant decides for whatever reason not to take the stand or whatever, it would be tough but in response to further questioning, juror no. 10 stated she was comfortable with the proof beyond a reasonable doubt standard. the prosecutor used a total of seven peremptory challenges. he excused jurors nos. 2, 4, 9, 11, 19, 20 and 10 in that order. after he excused juror no. 10, dehonor, this is the second african american, the only other african american in the box that counsel has dismissed, and i see there is nothing he has said or done that would indicate, well, based on that i believe that counsel has made a race-based peremptory 5 5 at trial, defense counsel referred to juror no. 10 as male. the prosecutor referred to juror no. 10 as female. padilla and the people similarly disagree. because gender is not at issue, it is of no moment. for consistency, we shall refer to juror no. 10 as female. 8 the trial court asked the prosecutor for a response, and he s is a case where the people honestly only have one witness to the attack and she expressed a lot of hesitancy as to being able to form her opinion based on one witness. i have [dismissed] other races, whether or not they are white or hispanic or black because they were hesitant on that some issues with respect to the one witness scenario. the court wheeler 2. applicable law in people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150 (gutierrez), the california supreme court recently revisited and discussed the standards to be applied in batson/wheeler cases. the court statedat issue in a batson/wheeler motion is whether any specific prospective juror is challenged on account of bias against an identifiable group distinguished on racial, religious, ethnic, or similar grounds. [citation.] exclusion of even one prospective juror for reasons impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural error, (gutierrez, supra, at p. 1158.) generally, the batson/wheeler inquiry consists of three batson/wheeler movant must demonstrate a prima facie case by showing that the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory gutierrez, supracourt finds the movant meets the threshold for demonstrating a prima facie case, the burden shifts to the opponent of the motion 9 to give an adequate nondiscriminatory explanation for the ibidneutral explanation, the trial court must decide whether the movant has proven ibid.) in the present case, the trial court denied the batson/wheeler motion at the first stage, stating that because wheeler. padilla contends that because the trial court invited the prosecutor to provide an explanation for his challenge before ruling on whether a prima facie case of discrimination had been made and implicitly adopted the reasons offered by the prosecutor, this case should be analyzed as a first stage/third stage batson hybrid.6 where a indicates agreement or satisfaction with, or otherwise passes judgment on the ultimate question of purposeful discrimination, the case is described as a first stage/third stage batson/wheeler hybrid, and the question whether a defendant established a prima facie case of group bias is rendered moot. (people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1314; accord, people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 786 [question whether defendant established prima facie showing of purposeful discrimination with the prosecuwheeler people v. mills (2010) 6 the people do not object to contention this case presents a first stage/third stage batson/wheeler hybrid. conceding the point, the people go on to argue the merits of the third stage analysis. 10 48 cal.4th 158, 174 [question whether prima facie case of group bias has been made is mooted where the trial court s actual reasons for the peremptory challenges (the third stage of a batson inquiry), expressly noting . . from the explanation given by the (fn. omitted)]; people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 613, fn. 8, citing hernandez v. new york (1991) 500 u.s. 352, 359 [111 s.ct. 1859, 114 l.ed.2d 395].) in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363 (scott), the california supreme court clarified its first stage batson/wheeler analysis. the court held that an appellate court properly reviews the first-stage ruling if the trial court has determined that no prima facie case of discrimination exists, then allows or invites the prosecutor to state reasons for excusing the juror, but (scott, supra, at p. 386.)7 the court set forth a protocol to help 7 the court in scott we recognize that our jurisprudence on this issue has not always been entirely consistent. (compare people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1146 . . . [in such a circumstance,we express no opinion on whether defense counsel established a prima facie case of discrimination and instead skip to batsons third stage to evaluate the prosecutors reasonspeople v. lopez (2013) 56 cal.4th 1028, 1049-1050 . . . [where trial courts choose request and consider a prosecutors stated reasons for excusing a prospective juror even when they find no prima facie case of discrimination,-stage wheeler/batson case into a third-stage case].) we therefore (scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 386-387, fn. omitted.) 11 the trial court has determined that no prima facie case of discrimination exits, (2) the trial court . . . invites the prosecutor to state his or her reasons for excusing the juror for the record, (3) the prosecutor provides nondiscriminatory reasons, and (4) the trial court nondiscriminatory reasons are genuine, an appellate court should begin its analysis of the trial batson/wheeler motion with review of the first-id. at p. 391.) in the present case, before ruling on whether defense counsel had made a prima facie showing, the court invited the prosecutor to respond to the batson/wheeler motion. the prosecutor explained he dismissed juror no. 10 based upon her hesitancy to convict on the testimony of a single witness. the court reviewed its notes and confirmed there were some issues a prima facie wheeler unlike those cases wherein the court determines in the first instance that a prima facie case has not been made, and thereafter invites the prosecutor to state his or her reasons for first, corroborated those reasons by reference to her own notes and then denied the motion. in so doing, the court implicitly, if juror no. 10 credible. accordingly, whether padilla established a prima facie case is moot, batson(people v. mills, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 174; accord, people v. 12 booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 165; see also scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 387, fn. 1.)8 3. batson/wheeler people v. williams (2013) 56 cal.4th 630, 653-564, quoting people v. reynoso (2003) 31 cal.4th 903, 908.) padilla in analyzing we must first identify the reason advanced by the prosecutor for excusing juror no. 10. (people v. jones (2011) 51 cal.4th 346, 365 [the trial court and reviewing court must examine only those reasons actually expressed].) state his reasons as best he can and stand or fall on the plausibility of the reasons he gives. . . . if the stated reason does not hold up, its pretextual significance does not fade because a trial judge, or an appeals court, can imagine a reason that might not have begutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159, quoting miller-el v. dretke (2005) 545 u.s. 231, 252 [125 s.ct. 2317, 162 l.ed.2d 196.) 8 by contrast, in people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 469, the california supreme court declined to apply the first before the prosecut[or]t a prima facie case had not been made, on the matter were not an express or implied comment on the 13 here, the prosecutor stated clearly his reasons for excusing people honestly only have one witness to the attack and she [juror no. 10] expressed a lot of hesitancy as to being able to form her opinion based on one at the third stage of the batson/wheeler the issue comes down to whether the trrace-neutral explanation to be credible. (people v. mills, supra, 48 cal.4th at pp. 174-175.) credibility may be gauged by demeanor; by how reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted trial strategy. (people v. jones, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 360.) in order to assist the court in reaching its purposeful discrimination at batsongutierrez, supra, 2 cal. 5th at p. 1173, quoting miller-el v. dretke, supra, 545 u.s. at p. 241; see also mills, supra[c]omparative juror analysis is a form of circumstantial evidence explanation for exercising . . . peremptory challenge[s] the third stage of the batson/wheeler inquiry focuses on the subjective genuineness of the reason, not the objective reasonableness. (people v. reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 924.) a sincere and reasoned attempt to s justification, with consideration of the circumstances of the case known at that time, [its] knowledge of trial techniques, and [its] examination of panelists and exercise of for-cause and peremptory challenges. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159, citing people v. hall (1983) 35 cal.3d 161, 167-168.) 14 . . may (and probably will) be found to be pretexts for purposeful purkett v. elem (1995) 514 u.s. 765, 768 [115 s.ct. 1769, 131 l.ed.2d 834]; accord, gutierrez, supra, at p. so long as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered, its conclusions are entitled to deference on appeal. . . (people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 614, quoting people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 864.) advantage vis--vis reviewing courts, for it draws on its contemporaneous observaticredibility. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159; see people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 613.) we review [the] determination regarding the sufficiency of tendered justifications use of peremptory challenges occurs in a constitutional manner. gutierrez, supra, at p. 1159.) padilla for excusing juror no. 10 excusing juror no. 10 was race neutral. (see briggs v. grounds (9th cir. 2012) 682 f.3d 1165, 1175 [juror properly excused suggested that she would ) juror no. single witness case. as such, the prosecutor correctly noted she this was a reasonable explanation given the circumstances of the case. (see people v. jones, supra, 51 15 cal.4th at p. 360.) implausible or fantasticexplanation. (people v. reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 916, quoting purkett v. elem, supra, 514 u.s. at p. 768.people v. long (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 826, 842; accord, people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1054.) the prosecutorexplanation also had a basis in trial strategy. because the case turned, in large part, upon the would naturally be to find jurors who could base their decision on the testimony of a single witness. (see people v. avila (2009) 46 that would have trouble doing so would be the focus of peremptory challenges. implicit determination of credibility. the prosecutor did not engage in a desultory examination of juror no. 10. (people v. parker (2017) 2 cal.5th 1184, 1211-1212.) in fact, the prosecutor examined juror no. 10 of a single witness caseamply supported by the record. prosecutor was brief, it was, nonetheless, gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159.) no doubt because the court found defense counsel had failed to make a prima facie case, its inquiry was necessarily limited. but that does not mean it was not a sincere 16 and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered. not only did the trial court see and hear the voir dire of juror no. 10, but the court also reviewed its own notes to corroborate the validity of the peremptory challenge. a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate a nondiscriminatory reason is not tethered to the time it takes to make the determination, but rather to the nature of the inquiry and assessment of the reasons at issue. (see people v. mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 1053-incompatible with sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate ere plausible and supported by the record].) finally, a review by comparative juror analysis demonstrates convincingly justification for the excusal of juror no. 10.9 in fact, out of the prior six jurors excused by the prosecutor, five of them identified their reluctance and skepticism to reach a verdict in a case involving a single witness.10 the comparative juror analysis reveals: 9 finding that a comparative juror analysis may be probative of purposeful discrimination, the california supreme court in gutierrez held it was error for the court of appeal to comparative analysis for the first time on appealregardless of (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1174.) 10 juror no. 4 was the only juror excused who did not raise an issue concerning his or her ability to make a determination based upon the testimony of only one witness. defense counsel did not make any comments or raise any issues concerning the basis for th 17 juror no. 2 expressed uncertainty as to whether he could believe a single police officer who appeared juror no. 9 expressed skepticism about deciding a case based on a single witness because a witness could say anything he or she wanted and may have unknown biases. the juror onto [sic] that, in a lot of situations if there is a substantial amount of evidence or if there is not, it is just hard to base a lot of what is going on [in] with some person would be enough to reluctant if you only have a single be content the prosecutor excused all of these jurors, and as he pointed out, it was not based on [dismissed] other races, whether or not they are white or hispanic or black . . . although the race of each of the excused jurors is unknown and the record is silent in this regard, six of the seven jurors excused by the prosecutor (including juror no. 10) shared this common characteristic: the hesitancy to convict in a case involving a single witness. against this record, it was more likely than not that the challenge was improperly m 18 not persuasive. (people v. mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1059.) padilla makes two arguments. first, padilla argues the her sincere nor plausible because at the outset of the batson/wheeler motion the prosecutor observed padilla is hispanic and the challenged jurors are african-americans. this comment has nothing to do with the . rather it reflects a preliminary concern over the cognizability for making a batson/wheeler motion.11 the only other point raised by padilla is that juror no. 10 was the second and only other african american excused from the jury box. statistical challenges involving one or two jurors who are a member of a cognizable group, standing alone, present the weakest possible evidence of impermissible exclusion. (see people v. parker, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. a practical matter, however, the challenge of one or two jurors can rarely suggest a pattern ; people v. semien (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 701, 708 [same].)12 11 a batson/wheeler motion will lie where the defendant and [t]he defendant need not be a member of the excluded group in order to complain of a violation of the representative cross-section rule . . . (people v. parker, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1212; accord, wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 281.) 12 while defense counsel stated juror no. 10 was the second african american excluded from the panel, neither counsel nor the court identified the other african american juror. nor did defense counsel make a batson/wheeler challenge with respect to the dismissal of this unidentified juror. 19 in people v. long, supra, 189 cal.app.4th 826, on which padilla relies, the prosecutor claimed to have excused a juror based on his nonparticipation in a discussion, lack of eye contact, body language, and the way he expressed himself. the trial court accepted this explanation as legitimate, even though the record revealed the claim that the juror did not participate in the id. at p. 843.) on appeal, we do not expect trial judges to provide a continuous recorded narrative during jury voir dire of the appearance, behavior, and intonation of each prospective juror. however, when the prosecutor bases a peremptory challenge on behavior, we must and will look for some support in the record for people v. long, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. 848.) in the case before it, the record was devoid of any mention, let alone description, by the trial judge or the prosecutor of what was disturbing or unseemly about [the self. [the implied finding on this point when another stated reason, though ibid trial court ibid.) corroborated the same concerns expressed by the prosecutor. the record similarly and the . there are no contradictions with respect to 20 on this record, there is no basis to conclude the ion was implausible, untrue or a e find that -discriminatory reason for excusing juror no. 10 was fully supported by the record, reasonable, based on legitimate trial concerns, and credible. batson/wheeler motion. b. substantial evidence supports tverdict padilla argues his conviction for aggravated mayhem must be reversed because there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate a specific intent to maim. he also argues the evidence was insufficient to prove he was the perpetrator of the crime. neither contention has merit. 1. standard of review in determining whether the evidence is sufficient to support a conviction, whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) 21 of course be requires evidence and not mere speculation. in any given case, speculate about any number of scenarios that may have occurred . . . . a reasonable inference, however, may not be based on suspicion alone, or on imagination, speculation, supposition, surmise, conjecture, or guess work. . . . a finding of fact must be an inference drawn from evidence rather than . . . a mere (people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 851; accord, people v. gonzales (2015) 232 cal.app.4th 1449, 1466.) similarly, guilt is not sufficient to support a conviction. suspicion is not evidence . . . (people v. watkins (2012) 55 cal.4th 999, 1024.) 2. specific intent to maim the jury was instructed pursuant to calcrim no. 800: the defendant is charged in [c]ount [2] with aggravated mayhem in violation of . . . section 205. [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: disfigured someone permanently; disable or disfigure the other person; [] and extreme indifference to the physical or psychological well-being of the other person. 22 maliciously when he intentionally does a wrongful act or when he acts with the unlawful intent to annoy or injure someone else. [] a disfiguring injury may be permanent even if it can be repaired by medical procedures. [] the people do not have to prove that th a specific intent crime, such that defendant acted with the specific intent to cause a maiming people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 86; people v. quintero (2006) 135 cal.app.4th 1152, 1162.) from evidence that the injury inflicted actually constitutes mayhem; instead, there must be other facts and circumstances which support an inference of intent to maim rather than to people v. park (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 61, 64.) specific intent may be inferred, however, from the circumstances of the offense, including the nature and location of the injuries. (see quintero, supra, at pp. 1162 [s]pecific intent may be inferred from the circumstances attending an act, the manner in which it is done, and the means used, among other factors.) for example, in people v. manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th 40, support an inference of an intent to kill. [citations.] we now find that the same fact can support an inference of an intent to from close range, if not fatal, [are] highly likely to disable permanently.id. at p. 88, quoting people v. ferrell (1990) 218 cal.app.3d 828, 835.) 23 while manibusan involved several shots to the face, ferrell involved a single shot to the neck. in ferrell, the appellant her once in the neck from close range. (people v. ferrell, supra, victim] was down, appellant did not fire additional shots at her, to make certain that she was dead; instead, appellant was apparently satisfied with the result of her single shot. . . . random attack on her body; instead, the shooting was directed and controlled. from all this evidence, the jury could reasonably have inferred that appellant intended both to kill [the victim], and, if she did not die, to disable her permanently. substantial id. at pp. 835-836.) in people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, the court was careful to point out that [e]vidence of a controlled and directed attack or an attack of focused or limited scope may (id. at p. 831, quoting people v. quintero, supra, 135 cal.app.4th at p. 1162.) in szadziewicz, the victim was asleep in bed when the defendant entered his room, held him down on his bed and, in a controlled and directed manner, cut across his face from his temple to his nose. the defendant argued his intent was to burn or kill the victim, not to maim him. the court rejected this argument, stating [the victim] or even to (szadziewicz, supra, at p. 833.[a] defendant may intend both to kill his or her victim and to disable or disfigure that individual if the attempt to kill is unsuccessful.id. at p. 833, quoting, people v. ferrell, supra, 218 cal.app.3d at pp. 833-834.) 24 padilla argues the method of the attack here, involving a intent to maim. but one intent does not foreclose the other. (see people v. szadziewicz, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. 834.) next, padilla argues because he did not target ramire but, instead, cut him once across the neck, the evidence is insufficient to demonstrate an intent to maim. while padilla is correct ramirez was gouged once in the neck, as opposed to multiple times, the numerical count, while a relevant consideration, is not dispositive of intent. (see, e.g., people v. lee (1990) 220 cal.app.3d 320, 325.) padilla looks to people v. lee, supra, 220 cal.app.3d 320, for support. lee provides none. in lee, the defendant attacked the victim, punching him three times in the face and kicking him twice someplace on the body. finding insufficient evidence of the shoot or stab his victim; instead, he used his fists and h (id. at p. 326) it found [t]he evidence shows no more than a sudden, indiscriminate, and unfocused battering of body. while this evidence undoubtedly shows extreme indifference to physical well being, it does not show a controlled, directed, limited attack . . . from which a jury could reasonably have inferred that [the] defendant specifically intended to disable [the victim] permanently (ibid.) padilla also cites people v. anderson (1965) 63 cal.2d 351. in anderson, the california supreme court reversed a conviction for murder in the perpetration of mayhem finding insufficient evidence. anderson was charged with the murder of a 10-year-old girl. in addition to evidence of sexual misconduct and testimony coepilepsy, 25 intoxication and diminished capacity, the mortician testified there were over 41 wounds ranging over the entire body, as well as over 20 more superficial cuts. the high court evidence does no more than indicate an indiscriminate attack; it cannot independently uphold a verdict based on the precise premise that [the] defendant entertained the specific intent to id. at p. 359.) although the court did not explain its ruling, presumably the indiscriminate, unfocused and explosive nature of the attack precluded a finding of specific intent to maim. our facts are very different from those in lee and anderson, and far closer to those in manibusan, ferrell and szadziewicz. here, padilla attack on ramirez. (people v. ferrell, supra, 218 cal.app.3d at p. 835.) padilla selected the serrated side of the knife blade and while ramirez lay in bed sleeping, with his back to padilla. padilla did not simply puncture or stab . he gouged ramirea gap. acts were controlled, directed and limited in scope. (people v. szadziewicz, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. 831.) at the time of the preliminary hearing, which took place on august 15, 2014, roughly three months after the incident, ramirez still had one staple in his neck. he had - to four- the jury saw the photographs of ramirecutting a three- to four- knife, if not fatal, is highly likely to disfigure or disable someone permanently. it is reasonably inferable from the nature of the attack and the wound that padilla did not merely intend to injure ramirez, people v. 26 manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 86.) from this evidence a reasonable jury could find that padilla acted with the intent to permanently disable or disfigure ramirez. 3. identification of the assailant padilla argues the evidence is insufficient to establish his stabbing, ramirez, did not see who stabbed him, did not see [him] although padilla he] was the only other person in the room with himsecond man, rubin, left 30 seconds earlier. [ramirez] was napping with his back to the door, so rubin or someone else could have assaulted ramirez. . . . there was no direct evidence [padilla] stabbed ramirez. the circumstantial evidence did not amount to substantial evidenc the evidence leaves little room for doubt that padilla was the perpetrator. ramirez testified rubin left 30 seconds before padilla arrived at his home. ramirez let padilla inside. padilla ramirezramirez tried to go back to sleep. padilla was the only other person in the room. ramirez felt a gouge in his neck, looked up and saw padilla with a wild and crazy look in his eyes. padilla left immediately. circumstantial evidence was similarly corroborative. ramirezpadilla padilla argues that because ramirez did not actually see the assailant cut his neck, there is a possibility rubin or someone else committed the attack. this argument lacks merit. so long 27 judgment may not be reversed simply because the circumstances (people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 945.) viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution (people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 357), the evidence c. prosecutorial misconduct shortly after deliberations began, the jury sent a note to the court seeking guidance on how to proceed due to the unlikelihood of reaching a unanimous decision. after conferring with counsel and deciding on the appropriate way to address the jurys concerns, the court allowed counsel to re-argue certain points to the jury. the jury asked for re-argument on two issues: premeditation (related to the charge of attempted premeditated murder) and identification of the assailant. padilla contends that during this re-argument, the prosecutor committed misconduct. padilla takes issue with four comments: first, he claims it was misconduct for the prosecutor to argue that the jurors verdict. second, he claims the prosecutor committed misconduct by speculating on the split of the jury. third, he asserts it was misconduct for the prosecutor to speculate the jury had already convicted padilla of attempted premeditated murder on count 1. finally, he claims it was misconduct for the prosecutor to use a hypothetical involving a stabbing in a bar to discuss the difference between attempted murder and premeditation. although several of padillaof defense counsel to object below, we have considered the claims 28 and find them to be without merit. as we find no prosecutorial misconduct, padillasustain his objections during the re-argument similarly fails.13 1. proceedings below after deliberating for half a day, the jury sent the court a note requesting prefer to have additional instructions, if they want us to clarify previous instructions, if they want to ask or if they would like to hear further argument on behalf of counsel. then if that is not enough, the court is going to suggest to them . . . that we will ask both the majority and the dissenting jurors to reconsider their prosecutor nor defense counsel objected to thprocedure. the court brought the jury in and asked the foreperson if the jurors were foreperson said they were. the court asked if clarifying 13 captioned within padillaosecutorial misconduct argument is an assertion padilla cites to people v. hinton (2004) instructions to the deadlocked jury were coercive and constituted error. missing from his argument, however, is any factual support for such a claim. padilla does not identify any particular instruction that was allegedly given in error. as such, this sub-claim relating to coercion by the trial court lacks substance. 29 instructions would assist the jury. the foreperson responded, have some immovable objects on polar the court asked if permitting counsel to give further argument would help. the foreperson thought it could. the court then majority and the dissenting jurors to reconsider their positions, and then, that the jurors engage in reverse role-playing in order thought the jury coul doing the court asked the foreperson to identify the subject matter of the issues for re-argument. juror no. 11 stated, [p]asked for what he says about the defendant, seeing the defendant after the defense counsel argued first. he discussed the concept of premeditation and argued the jury had to determine the identification of the perpetrator based upon the facts presented. the prosecutor first, procedurally, i wanted to make it abundantly clear that count 1 [attempted murder] and count 2 [aggravated mayhem] are completely separate counts. so defense counsel objected on the grounds the argument was . the trial court overruled the objection.14 the prosecutor continued to argue that the jury 14 defense counsel did not object on the grounds the coercive. accordingly, the claim of misconduct is forfeited. 30 could find the count 1. all right. so they are separate counts that have to be the prosecutor discussed different counts and the differences between reaching a verdict and making findings on the special allegations. the prosecutor stated: now, so that i just want that to be clear[,] because if the jury is hung only on the allegation of premeditation or deliberations, then you must have already found him guilty of the attempted murder. the attempted murder has nothing to do with premeditation and deliberation. attempted murder is simply an attempt to kill followed by an act that is a direct step have already found him guilty of anything. the court [h]e is presenting a hypothetical. the prosecutor went on to discuss the concept of premeditation. in so doing, he presented the jury with a hypothetical: now, let me give you a hypothetical scenario to help distinguish the concepts of mere intent to kill an[d] attempted murder and one that is premeditated, one that is deliberated over, one that is willful. imagine this scenario, you go to a bar. you are a carpenter, okay. you carry one of those carpenter knives on you as you work. you just got off work. you go to a bar. you go with your girlfriend. you are at the bar. you sit down to have a drink. you have a few drinks. your girlfriend has a few drinks. some random guy walks up and starts talking however, as stated previously, we have, nonetheless, considered and rejected the claim. 31 to your girl, asking her for her number. this just gets you very upset and without really considering the consequences of what you are going to do, you pull that knife out of your pocket and you stab the guy who there was no of this hypothetical. as the prosecutor reached the end of his argument, he told the jury: if there are further questions that you need from us or them, but once again, i want to make it abundantly clear that the counts, attempted murder and mayhem, that is where you have the guilty or not guilty, and then the allegations are separate. find true or not true, and you could be hung, whatever, 6/6 on the allegation of premeditation or on [great bodily injury] or on the use of the knife. any of the allegations you guys could be having as to one or both of the counts . . . defense counsel did not object. 2. standard of review s conduct violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the trial court or the [citation.] (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1331-1332.) s conviction will not be reversed for prosecutorial misconduct 32 the defendant would have been reached wi [citation.] (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1070-1071; accord, people v. lloyd (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 49, 60-61.) bad faith on the prosecutors part is not a prerequisite to finding prosecutorial misconduct under state law. (lloyd, supra, at p. 61, citing people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 821.) as the prosecutorial misconductsuggests a prosecutor must act with a culpable state of mind. a [citation.]people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 666-667; accord, lloyd, supra, at p. 61.) [t]o preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument. (people v. charles (2015) 61 cal.4th 308, 327; people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 274.) request for admonition . . (people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820; accord, people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 1328-1329.) 3. analysis appellant claims prosecutorial misconduct with respect to the following portions of the pros 33 a. splitting the verdict padilla claims the prosecutor encouraged the jurors to a means of reaching a verdict when the jury was split as what the the prosecutor told the jury counts 1 and 2 were separate find [defendant] guilty on count 1 and independently of count 1. . . . so they are separate counts that did not tell the jurors to resolve their deadlock by splitting the verdict and forsaking their views. padilla also claims iscussion was a misstatement of the law. it was not. the prosecutor properly pointed out that counts 1 and 2 were separate counts and should be considered separately. (see calcrim no. 3515multiple case is a separate crime [except for counts ___, which are charged as alternative offenses.] because the argument was not improper, it did not constitute prosecutorial misconduct. (see people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 387.) b. speculation regarding the jurors padilla speculate the jurors were split 6 to 6 on premeditation and deliberation, or split on the great bodily injury or knife allegations, and to urge them to convict on attempted murder and while it may be error to encourage the jurors to consider their numerical division when 34 continuing their deliberations, pressuring the minority to people v. gainer (1977) 19 cal.3d 835, 852, disapproved on another ground in people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 163; people v. hinton, supra, 121 cal.app.4th at p. 659), that is not what happened here. the prosecutor did not encourage the minority to question positions in order to resolve the case. padilla cites people v. hinton, supra, 121 cal.app.4th 655 for support. in hinton, the trial court a minority position to question that position in light of the court told the jurors to [they] to each other and should question their own judgment if a majority of the jurors take a different view of the case. (id. at pp. 659-660.) none of these improprieties is present in our case. ts argument did not venture near the objectionable and coercive language found in the instructions given by the court in hinton. merely speculating that the jurors may be split six to six, without more, does not violate the proscription against jury coercion or discussion of majoritarian appeal.(people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 161.) hung on people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 164.) the jury acquitted defendant on the attempted murder charge, and the jury found true the weapon use and great bodily injury allegations with respect to the aggravated mayhem charge. it did not convict 35 padilla on the charged offense and hang on the allegations in order to reach a compromise verdict. c. the hypothetical conviction on count one padilla contends it was misconduct for the prosecutor to e the jury must have already found [him] guilty of the prosecutor arguedonly on the allegation of premeditat[ion] or deliberation[], then you must have already found him guilty of the attempted murderdefense counsel objected and the court overruled the objection [h]e is presenting a hypothetical. padilla claims the argument was a comment on the numerical split of the jury. it was not. placed in context, the argument presented a hypothetical to help illustrate the procedural context in which the jury should consider the special allegations. the argument did not comment upon the split of the jury. no error is found in this argument. d. the discussion of premeditation finally, padilla claims the prosecutor committed misconduct by using the concepts of a mere intent to kill in attempted murder and one that is premeditated, one that is deliberated over, one that is padilla tries to equate the hypothetical used in the present case with prosecutorial arguments that inflame the passions of the jury by asking the jury to put themselves in the shoes of the victim.15 but that is not what the prosecutor argued 15 padillapeople v. vance (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1182, demonstrates why this contention fails. in vance 36 here. to the contrary, the prosecutor used a hypothetical man to elucidate the concepts of premeditation. in any event, as the jury acquitted padilla of attempted murder and the special allegations, no possible prejudice resulted from this argument; hence, there was no prosecutorial misconduct. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 432.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. bensinger, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. alk in [the vshoes. (id. at p. 1192-1193.) here, the prosecutor the hypothetical man in the bar does not raise the same emotionally inflammatory concerns. rather, argument was a discussion by hypothetical example on the topic of premeditation. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 