 filed 5/9/17 p. v. brito ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose luis brito, defendant and appellant. b266208 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba428760) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael d. abzug, judge. reversed. adrian k. panton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, jason tran and amanda v. lopez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury convicted defendant, jose luis brito, of permitting a person to carry a loaded firearm in a vehicle. (pen. code,  26100, subd. (a).)1 the jury found true an allegation the offense was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (d).) the jury acquitted defendant of a crime alleged to have occurred on an earlier date, assault with a semiautomatic firearm. ( 245, subd. (b).) defendant was sentenced to two years in state prison. because testimonial hearsay was erroneously admitted, and because this federal constitutional confrontation clause error was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, we reverse the judgment. ii. section 26100 section 26100, subdivision (a) provides, is a misdemeanor for a driver of any motor vehicle . . . knowingly to permit any other person to carry into or bring into the vehicle a (people v. gonzales (2015) 232 cal.app.4th 1449, 1453 [conviction requires proof defendant knew firearm was loaded]; but see contra, in re ramon a. (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 935, 937, 942 [former  12034, subd. (a)].) the jury this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant drove a vehicle that contained a loaded firearm; [] 2. at the time he did so, he knowingly permitted another person to carry, 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 section 26100, subdivision (a) is intended to deter drive-by shootings. (in re ramon a., supra, 40 cal.app.4th at pp. 940-941.) it contains an express knowledge elementthe driver knew his passenger had a loaded gun in the car. (people v. gonzales, supra, 232 cal.app.4th at p. 1463.) the knowledge element may be established by circumstantial evidence. (ibid.) iii. the evidence defendant was under surveillance by law enforcement officers in connection with the charged firearm assault. as noted above, the jury acquitted defendant of that offense. officers observed defendant drive away from a residence in gang territory with a fellow gang member, george barrera, in the front passenger seat. the officers followed as defendant drove north through rival gang territory to a freeway, after which they executed a traffic stop. defendant was taken into custody. defendant admitted he was a gang member. front were very close to each other. officers found a loaded 9-millimeter baretta semiautomatic pistol partially concealed under the front otruding from beneath the seat. 4 b. the gang evidence defendant was a member of a violent hispanic gang. the s included murder, attempted murder, robbery and drive-by shootings. narcotics sales and robberies primary sources of income. moreover, the gang was engaged in constant, violent turf battles with neighboring black and hispanic gangs. the violence included shootings. officer brendy ponce testified as a gang expert. officer ponce explained the importance, financially and otherwise, of a . gangs conduct business and recruit new members within their territories. they instill fear in community members so gang members may act without apprehension of arrest. and because control over territory is important, gangs resist encroachment by other gangs. in response to a hypothetical question tracking the facts of the present case, officer ponce concluded the crimepermitting a person to carry a loaded firearm in a vehiclewas committed opined the two gang members knew the loaded gun was in the car. this gave them the means to: assault rival gang members; retaliate if assaulted in rival gang territory; and commit crimes if the opportunity arose. in addition, being known to carry a gun in a car would elevate their status within the gang. officer ponce also testified a gang member would know if other gang members in a car were armedgang member in a vehicle with other gang members to let them there are gang members 5 a gun in the car in case they have to defend themselves from rival gangs or a rival gang member. if the opportunity arises, they all c. the prior similar incident evidence officer ponce testified defendant was previously arrested under circumstances very similar to the present casedriving a car with a fellow gang member as passenger and a gun in the vehiclename of andres granados? [] [officer ponce]: yes, i arrested him during a search warrant. he was also a suspect in an attempted murder case. [] . . . [] q. . . . do you have an opinion as to whether andres granados is [a member of a. yes. [] . . . [] . . . i believe mr. granados is a gang member . . . . [] . . . [] q. . . . officer, are you aware of an occasion where our defendant here in court, jose brito, was arrested in a car with andres granados? [] a. yes. [] q. are you aware of who was driving the car? [] a. i believe according to the report it was mr. brito. [] q. was there a firearm in the vehicle? [] a. yes, there was. [] q. sure who had the firearm. i know there was a firearm in the car while mr. brito and mr. granados were in the 6 iv. discussion a. testimonial hearsay defendant challenges admission of the prior similar occurrence evidence. we conclude the evidence was testimonial hearsay admitted in violation osixth amendment confrontation rights. (u.s. const., 6th amend.) we further hold the error was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 1. the trial court did not strike the evidence preliminarily, we rejethe trial court struck the prior similar incident testimony. when granados, dobjected on hearsay and sixth amendment confrontation rights grounds. the trial court overruled the objection. during subsequent testimony, deputy district attorney robert britton referred to a prior arrest. mr. britton, saidmr. brito has been arrested with - -mr. rosenberg objected. following a sidebar discussion, the trial court instructed the jury not to consider the fact defendant had been arrested in the past, a crime not charged in this case is sconsider the fact that he was arrested in the past for any the trial court did not specifically direct the jury to disregard the testimony about defendant and mr. granados traveling in a car with a gun. we conclude the trial court did not 7 strike the prior similar occurrence evidence and the jury did consider it. 2. it was error to admit the evidence officer ponce told the jury about the prior arrest involving defendant and mr. granados as one basis for his opinion defendant was a gang member. in doing so, officer ponce relied r ponce testified: aware of an occasion where our defendant here in court, jose brito, was arrested in a car with andreas granados? [] a. yes. [] q. are you aware of who was driving the car? [] a. i believe according to the report it was mr. britoit is a fair inference officer ponce was relating the contents of a police arrest report prepared by another officer. the report reflected the facts of a completed crime. the report was prepared to establish events potentially relevant to a subsequent prosecution. the police report was not admitted into evidence and is not a part of the present record. the officer who prepared the report did not testify at trial. there was no showing the officer who wrote the police report was unavailable or that defendant had a prior opportunity to cross-examine the officer. officer ponce had no independent knowledge of the prior arrest. he was not present when defendant and mr. granados were apprehended. if he had been, he would have said so. the earlier similar occurrence evidence was inadmissible hearsay. (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 676, 682-686; people v. meraz (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 1162, 1176.) officer ponce related case-specific factsfacts about defendantas to which he had no personal knowledge. the facts were offered as true. and 8 no hearsay exception applied. moreover, the prior similar incident evidence was inadmissible testimonial hearsay. (people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 687-688, 694-695; people v. lara (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 296, 336-337; people v. meraz, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at p. 1176.) officer ponce related as true facts derived from a police report compiled by another officer during police investigation of a completed crime. the primary purpose of the report was to record events potentially relevant to a under the confrontation clause of the federal constitution. (ibid.) the trial court gave a limiting instruction. it instructed s certain evidence was admitted for a limited purpose. [] as an example, officer ponce testified that on march 7, 2011, the defendant and a gang member were in a vehicle which contained a handgun. this evidence was admitted for the sole purpose of member. [] . . . [] you may consider all such evidence only for the limited purposes that i havthis limiting instruction did not avoid the hearsay and people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 684; people v. stamps (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 988, 995.) there is no denying the facts were offered to the jury as true. (ibid.) 9 3. the error was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt the error is reversible unless it was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 671, 698; people v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575, 586; people v. meraz, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at p. 1176.) we cannot conclude the error was harmless. the pivotal issue at trial was whether defendant knew mr. barrera had a gun in the car. there was circumstantial evidence to that effect. defendantknown to engage in drive-by shootings. the gang was involved in a violent turf war. defendant and mr. barrera drove through gang and rival gang territory on their way to the freeway. further, ddiscovered it. in addition, officer ponce testified gang members typically know when another gang member is armed in a vehicle. and there were multiple reasons why two gang members such as defendant and mr. barrera would have a gun in the car. but it is unknown how or when the gun was placed in the car, whether either defendant or mr. barrera carried it there, or whether it was already in the vehicle. it is unknown whether the gun handle was protruding from underneath the passenger seat while defendant was driving the car. the additional evidence defendant and mr. granados, a fellow gang member, had on a prior occasion been in a vehicle together with a gun likely would have been very persuasive. the earlier occurrence mirrored the facts of the present case. the jury would have had a greater tendency to believe defendant knew mr. barrera had a gun in the car based on the prior similar incident evidence. under these circumstances, we cannot conclude beyond a reasonable doubt the 10 jury would have convicted defendant had the prior similar incident evidence been properly excluded. as a result, defendant has requested we independently consider the officer personnel records. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1228-1232; pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531, 535.) on april 6, 2015, defendant filed a peace officer personnel record disclosure motion. the motion sought misconduct complaints against six law enforcement officers relating to: false arrest; fabrication of charges; evidence fabrication; unreasonable or illegal searches and seizures; dishonesty; and excessive force use. attorney, mr. rosenberg, declared on information and belief the named officers made false statements. the false statements concerned identification of defendant. in addition, the false statements concerned admission of his gang membership. mr. rosenberg subsequently withdrew the request for excessive force complaints. on may 5, 2015, the trial court conducted an in camera hearing and found there was one discloseable complaint. we have read the transcript of the in camera hearing. no abuse of discretion occurred. (people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1209; people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) 11 v. disposition the judgment is reversed. not to be published in the official reports turner, p.j. we concur: kriegler, j. baker, j. 