filed 5/18/16 p. v. flores ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. emanuel flores, defendant and appellant. b266074 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba434767) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig e. veals, judge. affirmed. law office of melissa a. fair and melissa a. fair, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance by plaintiff and respondent. ****** 2 emanuel flores appeals from a judgment of conviction for second degree robbery. (pen. code,  211.)1 pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), determine whether any arguable issues exist on appeal. we affirm. factual and procedural background as required by people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 124, we provide a brief description of the facts and procedural history of the case. the information charged appellant with one count of second degree robbery of rosemary zepeda and one count of second degree robbery of roberto gomez. the information also alleged appellant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). the evidence at trial showed as follows. at approximately 10:40 p.m. on march 21, 2015, zepeda and gomez were working at a 7-eleven store on wilshire boulevard in los angeles. appellant walked into the store and went to the beer section. zepeda was approximately four steps behind appellant when she saw him put a beer in his pocket. she asked hisaid he was going to throw things in the store. zepeda was afraid; appellant smelled of store but did not try to take the beer from appellant because she was scared. appellant of the door and, upon finding it locked, pulled a blade out of his pocket. (the blade turned out to be a box cutter.) gomez also became scared when he saw the blade, both for himself and for zepeda. zepeda told gomez that appellant had a blade and went to the telephone by the cash register to call the police. gomez, who was working the cash register, grabbed a kitchen 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 knife and told appellant several times to return the beer and leave. gomez was not trying to use the knife and did not point it at appellant; he hoped it would simply make appellant outside. gomez was scared and refused to go outside with him. appellant never returned the beer or paid for it. instead, he went outside and drank it. he kept the blade in his hand. outside, appellant yelled aggressively at gomez into custody, he was belligerent, yelling and cursing at the officer and challenging him to fight. the jury convicted appellant of both counts of robbery and found the weapon allegation to be true. the court sentenced appellant to three years in county jail, consisting of the low term of two years on the first count, plus one year for the weapon enhancement, and the same sentence on the second count, imposed concurrently. the court also imposed various fines and fees and gave appellant 156 days of custody credit (136 actual days in custody, plus 20 days of conduct credit). discussion we appointed counsel to represent appellant on this appeal. as noted above, s counsel filed an opening brief asking this court to review the record independently pursuant to wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at page 441. we advised appellant of his right to submit any contentions or issues that he wished us to consider. appellant did not file a supplemental brief. having examined the entire record, we are satisfied no arguable ied her responsibilities under wende. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 279-284; people v. kelly, supra, 40 cal.4th at pp. 123-124; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) 4 disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 