filed 7/28/16 p. v. gomez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel raul gomez, defendant and appellant. b266841 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba434367) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, ronald s. coen, judge. affirmed. thomas k. macomber, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steve matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, and ilana herscovitz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted daniel raul gomez (gomez) of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(4),1 found an allegation of great bodily injury not true, and acquitted gomez on a criminal threat charge. the court found true four prior convictions within the meaning of sections 667.5, subdivisions (b) through (i) and 1170, subdivision (a) through (d), and sentenced gomez to eight years in state prison. gomez appeals from the judgment, contending only that section 245, subdivision (a)(4) is void for vagueness. we disagree and affirm. the evidence at trial was that in december 2014 wilmer contreras (contreras) turned into a los angeles side street, got out of his car, and (who was walking her dog) for directions. gomez then walked up behind contreras and beat him with his fists around the head while contreras begged him to stop. contreras passed out and came to on the ground, rolled up in a ball to protect himself. gomez was . gomez punched contreras with his closed fist 15 to 20 times, kneed him in the waist, said he would pull out his eyes, and put his fingers in co then said he was going to stend got gomez ordered contreras to drive him to the corner because the police were coming but contreras refused gomez out of the car, and gomez threatened to get a gun and kill contreras. gomez walked away and contreras dialed 911. when the police arrived, they found contreras with his face covered in blood, swelling to his right eye, blood coming out of his ear, and a laceration on his lip. contreras declined an ambulance to the hospital because he did not want to leave his car there, but when he got home, he felt dizzy and decided he had better go. the emergency room doctor stated that contreras may have had a concussion and had tenderness, swelling, bruising, and blood on his head. at the time of trial in july 2015, contreras still experienced pain, headaches, dizziness, and memory problems. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 gomez argues that the phrase instructions given to the jury, is so vague that the statute violates due process and requires the reversal of his conviction. section 245, subdivision (a)(4) penalizes who commits an assault upon the person of another by any means of force likely to produce great bodily injury . . . commits an assault upon the person of another by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury is guilty of a violation of section 245 subdivision (a)(4) of the penal code, a crime. [] damage; it does not refer to tbe committed with the hands or fists. proof of such an assault need not show that the defendant actually injured the other person. however, there must be proof that the tion 245, subdivision (a)(4) is without merit. the conduct of others . . . might arise unpeople v. murphy (2001) 25 cal.4th 136, 149.) falls squarely within the reach of force likely to produce great bodily injury. use of hands or fists alone may support a convpeople v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 1028.) gomez came up behind contreras and punched him about the head. after contreras lost consciousness and fell to the ground, gomez pinioned contreras and continued to punch him 15 to 20 times. such an assault involving repeated blows to the head of the victim conduct likely t and that language encompasses conduct. 4 gomez argues that the to possible to expected. under any of those definitions, however, contreras was likely to cause great bodily injury. it is irrelevant that the jury found not true that contreras actually suffered great bodily injuryit is the likelihood, not the actual production of injury, which is the focus of penal code section 245, subdivision (a).[a]n injury is not an element of the crime, and the extent of any injury is not determinative.people v. roberts (1981) 114 cal.app.3d 960, 964, 965.) section 245 . . . on force likely to produce great bodily injury, [and] whether the victim in people v. aguilar, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 1028.) repeatedly punching fenseless man on the ground appears to us to be unmistakably an assault which a jury could reasonably find was likely to produce great bodily harmroberts, at p. 965.) like the court in robertsthat any instructional amplificatio . . . would have significantly ibid.) gomez contends that his offense conduct is irrelevant to the vagueness analysis, citing johnson v. united states (2015) ___ u.s. ___ (135 s.ct. 2551) for the proposition that it does not matter that his particular conduct fell within the constitutional reach of the statute. that case, however, examined the residual clause of the armed career criminal act (18 u.s.c.  942(e)(2)(b)) ork known as the categorical approaches whether a crime qualifies as a individual offender might have committed it on a particular occasion (johnson, at pp. 2555, 2557.) the categorical abstraction presents a serious id. at p. 2557.) the court concluded that the statute was unconstitutionally vague because the judicial assessment of risk was tied to . . . to a judge-(id. at pp. 2557, 25 5 constitutionality of laws that call for the application of a qualitative standard such as -world conduct; depends on his estimating rightly . . . some manner of degree.id. at p. 2561.) unlike the court, we are not constrained to use the categorical approach, and section 245 calls for produce -world conduct. because section 245, subdivision (atobe v. city of santa ana (1995) 9 cal.4th 1069, 1095.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. lui, j. 