filed 12/3/18 p. v. mccaw ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael g. mccaw, defendant and appellant. b266497 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga082595) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, cathryn f. brougham, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. maureen l. fox, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, 2 supervising deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ in 1999, defendant michael g. mccaw entered into a plea bargain in new york in which he pleaded guilty to attempted third degree robbery. in 2011, mccaw was convicted of attempted manslaughter in california. the trial court found that mccawattempted third degree robbery qualified as a serious felony and a strike under california law, and enhanced mccawsentence accordingly. we have twice reversed the recidivism findings. in a third trial of the recidivism allegations, the court determined that the plea colloquy in connection with the new york conviction demonstrated the new york offense qualified as a serious felony and strike under california law. we again reversed, holding tthe third recidivism trialthat the conduct underlying mccawrobbery in californiaconstituted the type of judicial factinterpretation of the sixth amendment in descamps v. united states (2013) 570 u.s. 254 (descamps); in descamps, the supreme court held that the sixth amendment prohibits trial courts from making a disputed determination about what the defendant or state judge understood to be the factual basis of a prior plea. we reversed the trial determination that the new york conviction for attempted 3 third degree robbery constituted a prior serious felony conviction and a strike, and remanded for a jury trial on the truth of the prior conviction allegations, unless mccaw elected to admit the allegations or waive his right to a jury trial. we affirmed the judgment in all other respects. on october 19, 2016, the supreme court granted the review. on august 29, 2018, it transferred the matter to this court with directions to vacate our decision and reconsider the cause in light of people v. gallardo (2017) 4 cal.5th 120 (gallardo). the parties have filed supplemental briefs after transfer from the supreme court. (cal. rules of court, rules 8.528(f), 8.200(b).) mccaw urges us to reverse the trial attorney general argues that the sentencing court did not new york attempted third degree robbery conviction constituted a strike and a serious felony under california law and that remand is not required to reconsider the prior conviction enhancement. we hereby vacate our previous decision. having reconsidered the cause in light of gallardo, we vacate the conviction constitutes a strike and serious felony and remand the matter to the trial court to permit the people to either (1) encompassed a relevant admission establishing that conviction qualifies as a prior strike and prior serious felony 4 conviction under california law, or (2) if the people opt not to make such a demonstration, for resentencing without reliance on the new york conviction. in all other respects, we affirm the judgment. discussion mccaw was convicted by jury in california in 2011 of attempted voluntary manslaughter (pen. code,  192, 664).1 the jury also found true allegations that mccaw used a deadly weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). following a bench trial, the trial court found that mccawconviction for attempted third degree robbery was a strike under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)(d)) and a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)).2 the trial court sentenced mccaw to 21 years in state prison. the sentence included, inter alia, a doubling of the term for attempted voluntary manslaughter due to the strike prior conviction, and a five-year enhancement for the serious felony. 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the trial court also found mccaw had served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)), which was unrelated to the new york conviction. 5 mccaw argued in his first appeal that the evidence that his 1999 new york conviction for third degree attempted robbery was a serious felony and a strike under california law. the attorney general conceded the point, because robbery under california law requires that property calcrim no. 1600), whereas under new york law it is not required that the person robbed be in equally close physical proximity to the stolen property. we held the evidence was insufficient to support the recidivism findings, reversed the findings, and remanded for a limited retrial of the prior conviction allegations. the prosecution offered additional evidence at the second trial on the recidivism allegations. among the items presented was a document signed by michele jaworski, which stated that on or about november 3, 1997, mccaw grabbed her purse and attempted to take it from her. the trial courcourt again found the prior conviction allegations true. in his second appeal to this court, mccaw again contended there was insufficient evidence that his new york attempted third degree robbery conviction qualified as a serious felony or a strike for purposes of the california sentencing enhancements. he argued that descamps, supra, 570 u.s. 254, decided subsequent to our remand, prohibited 6 the trial court from examination of the entire record of conviction, repudiati in people v. guerrero (1988) 44 cal.3d 343, and its progeny. alternatively, mccaw asserted that even under current california law, the evidence was insufficient to support the sentence enhancements. the attorney general argued descamps, and that the evidence was sufficient under california law. we agreed with mccaw that the evidence was insufficient. we for reference of the case to the grand jury, which ultimately indicted mccaw for a variety of offenses including attempted first degree robbery, to which mccaw had pleaded not guilty. the case was resolved by guilty plea to attempted third demonstrate the basis for mccawbecause it did not reliably reflect the facts of the offense to which mccaw pleaded guilty. we again reversed the recidivism findings, and remanded for a limited retrial of the prior conviction allegations. because we were able to resolve the issue on the basis of the insufficiency of the evidence, we did not consider the impact of descampss sixth amendment at the third court trial on the recidivism allegations, the prosecution for the first time presented the transcripts of mccawew york case. the new york indictment charged mccaw in the first two counts with attempted first degree robbery, and in the 7 third count with attempted second degree robbery. he was charged in the fourth and fifth counts with criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree. the discussion of the case settlement in the new york indicated mccaw would plead guilty to attempted third weapon under the fifth count. the count in dispute in this appealthe third countwas resolved with a plea to a lesser offense than the charged attempted second degree robbery. the plea colloquy in new york revealed the following: occurred on nyou attempted to forcibly steal property from the person of michele jaworski, and furthermore in the course of the matter you did, and subsequent to that, you did possess a loaded firearm and that the firearm was possessed at a location not your home or place of business, that being an operable and loaded firearm. property from another person armed with a loaded and operable firearm, do you now enter a plea of guilty? acts alleged were, in fact, committed by you? 8 admissions? you are guilty of these two crimes, attempted robbery in the third degree and criminal possession of a weapon in the third degree, and do you now freely acknowledge and admit your guilt of those offenses and tell me the truth in acknowledging your guilt? based on this language in the plea colloquy, the trial court for the third time found the recidivism allegations true. it explained that under the then-current case law, the only issue to resolve was whether mccaw had admitted to attempting to take properthe plea colloquy demonstrated he had done so. the court again sentenced mccaw to 21 years in state prison. mccaw timely appealed. he once more contended that the evidence was insufficient to support the finding that his 1999 conviction in new york for attempted third degree robbery was a prior serious felony conviction and a prior conviction under the three strikes law. he maintained the people v. mcgee (2006) 38 cal.4th 682 (mcgee), disapproved by gallardo, supra, 4 cal.5th at page 125, which permitted sentencing courts to review the record of the prior criminal proceeding to determine the nature of the prior conviction, was no longer viable following descamps, in which the united states supreme court held that the sixth amendment 9 prohibits courts from examining evidence beyond the statutory elements of the crime in determining the nature of a prior conviction if the statute defining the crime is not divisible, leaving all factfinding to the jury. mccaw asserted attempted third degree robbery under new york law is not divisiblea point not challenged by the attorney general. he argued that because the new york statute is indivisible, the court violated his sixth amendment rights by considering the plea colloquy to determine the nature of his prior conviction. the attorney general responded that was without merit because this court was bound to follow mcgee, supra, 38 cal.4th 682, which was not superseded by descamps.3 after discussing descamps and mcgee in detail, we held that the constitutional principles in apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466 (apprendi), and echoed in descamps, 3 the attorney general argued that mccaw forfeited the issue on appeal by failing to object to admission of the plea colloquy on the basis that it violated his sixth amendment rights at the second retrial. we rejected the the sufficiency of the evidence, which was founded in a violation of the sixth amendment, was cognizable on appeal without objection to the evidence in the trial court. (see people v. trujillo (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1344, 1350 fn. 3 10 any fact that increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must be submitted to a jury, and proved beyond a reasonable doubt, dictated the result. (apprendi, supra, at p. 490.) we explained that robbery in california contains an element not required under new york lawthat property be taken from the person or immediate presence of the victim in person is guilty of robbery in the third degree when he forcibly steal 160.05crime when, with intent to commit a crime, he engages in conduct which tends to effect the commis(n.y. penal law  110.00(prac. com. foll. n.y. pen. law  160.00; people v. smith (1992) 79 n.y.2d 309, 314.) unlike the new york statute, taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by meawas colloquy to determine if mccaw took property from the person or immediate presence of jaworskian element not required by the new york robbery statutewas permitted by the sixth amendment. we hethe plea colloquy from mccaw11 were not relevant to the crime charged were the type of judicial factfinding prohibited by the sixth amendment as interpreted in descamps. while the precise reach of the sixth amendment was not fully defined as to california law at that time, it was clear that when the elements of a prior conviction did not necessarily establish that it was a serious or violent felony under california law (and, thus, a strike), under the sixth amendment the court was not permitted to about what the defendant and state judge must have understood as the factual basis of or what the jury in a prior trial must have accepted as the theory of the crime.descamps, supra, 570 u.s. at p. 269.) we concluded that tsuperfluous statements in the plea colloquy to supply the missing element that mccaw took property from the person of jaworski ran afoul of several portions of the descamps analysis. first, descamps discern what a trial showed, or a plea proceeding revealed, tation.] . . . the sixth amendment contemplates that a jurynot a sentencing courtwill find such facts, unanimously and beyond a reasonable doubt. and the only facts the court can be sure the jury so found are those constituting elements of the offenseas distinct from amplifying but legally extraneous circumstances.descamps, supra, 520 u.s. at pp. 269270.) the trial court plainly went beyond the statutory elements of the new york offense to determine 12 mccaw fendant pleads guilty to a crime, he elements; whatever he says, or fails to say, about superfluous facts cannot license a later sentencing court to impose extra punishment.descamps, supra, 520 u.s.at p. 270.) mccawrobbery; assuming he acquiesced to other facts beyond that offense, those facts were superfluous under the sixth amendment. mccaw never waived his right to have a jury determine facts beyond the elements of attempted third degree robbery. third, the supreme court cautioned that statements of defendant, after all, often has little incentive to contest facts that are not elements of the charged offenseand may have good reason not to. . . . [d]uring plea hearings, the defendant may not wish to irk the prosecutor or court by (descamps, supra, 520 u.s. at p. 270.) what occurred during the plea colloquy in the new york court demonstrated the danger the descamps court envisioned. the plea transcript reflected that the new york court initially misstated the language of the third count of the indictment4 in taking mccaw 4 the new york indictment stated in full in the third by this indictment, accuses the defendant michael mccaw of 13 that mccaw being personal property, from michele jaworski . . . new york court subtly restated the allegation, advising mccaw property from the person of michele jaworski . . . subtle change was that the indictment alleged in the statutory language that mccaw attempted to forcibly steal personal property, but the court advised mccaw that the allegation was that he attempted to forcibly steal property from the personrobbery statute. this illustrated the problem anticipated by descamps with consideration of a plea colloquy as to facts (descamps, supra, 520 u.s.at p. 270.) in the next paragraph, in taking the guilty plea, the new york court misstated the allegation in the new york statute and the property from another person armed with a loaded and the crime of attempted robbery in the second degree admitted as follows: [] the defendant, michael mccaw, on or about november 3, 1997, in the county of the bronx, did attempt to forcibly steal property, that being personal property, from michele jaworski, and in the course of commission of the crime or in immediate flight therefrom, 14 5 mccaw admitting that he forcibly stole property, without admitting the property was taken from the person or immediate presence of jaworski. mccawquestion did not admit conduct satisfying the california robbery statute. the attorney general disputed this interpretation of the plea, but we concluded that even if she was correct that mccaw admitted taking property from the person of jaworski, in the end her argument would fail, because the in shepard v. united states (2005) 544 u.s. 13, did not permit this type of judicial factfinding based upon a plea. shepard, as explained in descamps, permits a court to consider a plea colloquy in determining whether a prior conviction has been shown by the prosecution, but only to the extent the plea agreement proves the statutory elements of the alleged prior offenseshepard indicated, when a defendant pleads guilty to a crime, he waives his right to a jury determination lements; whatever he says, or fails to say, about superfluous facts cannot license a later sentencing 5 the new york court incorrectly stated, and defendant acquiesced, that it was alleged defendant forcibly stole property, not that it was alleged defendant attempted to forcibly steal property, which further highlights the difficulties involved with parsing the language of the plea colloquy to determine whether a defendant pleaded guilty to the elements of the relevant offense. 15 descamps, supra, 520 u.s.at p. 270.) mccaw agreed to a guilty plea to a lesser offense than that charged in the third count, an offense which did not include all the elements of attempted robbery in california. to sanction consideration of facts not id. at p. 271.) we held that this was not permitted by the sixth amendment. we therefore reversed the recidivism findings and remanded for a jury trial on the allegations, unless mccaw elected to waive his right to a jury trial and either admit the allegations or submit to judicial factfinding. (see shepard, supra, 544 u.s. at p. 26, fn. right to have a jury decide questions about his prior after our opinion was filed on july 12, 2016, the deferred consideration of the matter pending disposition in gallardo. gallardo overruled mcgee, supra, 38 cal.4th 682, and held: templates that a jurynot a sentencing courtto a conviction, when those facts lead to the imposition of additional punishment under a recidivist sentencing scheme. (descamps, supra, 570 u.s. at [pp. 269270].) this means the jury . . facts as to which the defendant waived the right of jury trial 16 in entering a guilty plea. (ibidto id(gallardo, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 134.) the gallardo court . . . limited to identifying those facts that were established by virtue of the conviction itselfthat is, facts the jury was necessarily required to find to render a guilty verdict, or that the defendant admitted as id. at p. 136, fn. omitted.) finally, gallardo course is to remand to permit the trial court to make the relevant determinations about what facts defendant admitted in entering [his] plea. our precedent instructs that determinations about the nature of prior convictions are to be made by the court id. at p. 138.) reconsidering our opinion in light of gallardo, we ction findings must be vacated as dictated in gallardo for the reasons stated in our prior opinion, and remand the matter to the trial court for further proceedings consistent with gallardo.6 6 mccaw requests that in the interests of efficiency, we modify the sentence rather than remanding the matter to the trial court. however, the trial court has not had the york attempted third degree robbery conviction qualifies as a strike employing the analysis set forth in gallardo. we therefore remand to the trial court to decide the issue in 17 disposition new york conviction for attempted third degree robbery constitutes a prior serious felony conviction and a strike is vacated. the matter is remanded to the trial court to permit the people to demonstrate, based on the record of the new york encompassed a relevant admission establishing that the third degree robbery conviction qualifies as a serious or violent prior felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a), and sections 667, subdivisions (b)(i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a)(d). if the people opt not to make such a demonstration, the trial court shall resentence mccaw without any reliance on the vacated prior new york felony conviction finding. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. moor, j. we concur: baker, acting p.j. jaskol, j. light of holding in the first instance, should such determination be appropriate. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 