 filed 10/5/16 p. v. mcphan ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. cagney styles mcphan, defendant and appellant. b266753 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va138966) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, patrick t. meyers, judge. affirmed. melissa hill, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and margaret e. maxwell, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 cagney styles mcphan appeals a judgment convicting him of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse, cohabitant, or fellow parent (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a)).1 his conviction arises from an incident in which witnesses observed him hitting raquel prince in the face and pulling her hair. mcphan contends the evidence is not sufficient to prove that he inflicted corporal injury resulting in a traumatic condition, as required to support his conviction. we conclude that substantial evidence supports his conviction and affirm. factual and procedural background a. case in the early afternoon of april 17, 2015, irene gutierrez was driving on slauson avenue with her husband, victor loredo, who was sitting in the front passenger seat. as gutierrez was driving, she saw mcphan and prince walking toward a bus stop. mcphan was hitting prince, punching her with a closed fist numerous times in her face, mouth, and nose, and pull hair. gutierrez called 9-1-1, watched as mcphan and prince boarded a bus, and waited for the police to arrive.2 during her 9-1-1 call, gutierrez continued to describe to the operator her contemporaneous observations that mcphan was hitting prince, dragging her, and pulling her hair. loredo was riding in the car with his wife, gutierrez. he saw mcphan repeatedly punching and hitting prince as mcphan and prince walked toward the bus stop. deputy sheriff richard ochoa was on patrol on april 17, responded to the scene and spoke with prince. ochoa testified that prince told him that mcphan was flailing his arms and had hit her. prince stated that mcphan sometimes had mental outbreaks in 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 2 an audio recording -1-1 telephone call was admitted in evidence and played for the jury. 3 which he was angry and violent. it looked like some of her hair had been pulled out. ochoa took photographs of prince at the scene, which were admitted in evidence. ochoa testified that the photographs did not clearly depict the scratches he had observed on the day of the incident. prince testified she had been in a relationship with mcphan for almost six years, that mcphan is her fianc, and that he is the father of her two-year-old daughter. she stated that while she and mcphan were on their way to the bus stop, en route to pick up their daughter from day care, they had what she initially a little argument. according to prince, mcphan was upset about other men looking at her. later, prince prince denied the argument became physical. she testified that mcphan did not hit her or make any violent gestures toward her. she also denied ever telling ochoa that mcphan had hit her or that mcphan had been flailing his arms. prince testified that she did not suffer any injury that day. when she was asked about the appearance of her hair in one of the photographs, prince stated that she wore hair extensions and that she had not done her hair that day. b. the defense case mcphan did not testify or present any evidence. c. the jury verdict and sentencing the trial court instructed the jury on the crimes of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse, cohabitant, or fellow parent ( 273.5); battery against a spouse, cohabitant, or fellow parent ( 243, subd. (e)(1)); and battery ( 242). the jury found mcphan guilty of one count of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse, cohabitant, or fellow parent. mcphan admitted that he had suffered a prior strike. the trial court sentenced mcphan to four years in prison, consisting of the low term of two years, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law ( 667, subd. (b)-(i), 1170.12). 4 discussion section 273.5, subdivision (a), [a]ny person who willfully inflicts corporal injury resulting in a traumatic condition upon a victim described in subdivision (b) is guilty of a felony . . . , fianc or subdivision (d) defines a condition of the body, such as a wound, or external or internal injury, including, but not limited to, injury as a result of strangulation or suffocation, whether of a minor or serious nature, caused by physical force. . . ( 273.5, subd. (d); see also people v. wilkins (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 761, 771 [..) one of the legislative purposes of section 273.5 clothe[] persons . . . in intimate relationships with greater protection by requiring less harm to be inflicted before the offense is people v. gutierrez (1985) 171 cal.app.3d 944, 952.) mcphan contends the evidence is insufficient to prove that he inflicted corporal injury resulting in a traumatic condition. he argues gutierrez and loredo did not describe any physical injury to prince, and the scratches that ochoa observed on prinneck ordinarily would not result from the kind of punching and hair pulling that gutierrez and loredo had witnessed.3 mcphan also argues the photographs do not depict any , so they call into question the veracity of thtestimony. in addition, mcphan argues there is no evidence that he pulled out, and in any event hair loss is not a corporal injury under the statute. criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the 3 condition under the statute, but argues instead there is no evidence that he inflicted the scratches. 5 defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our [citation.] [citation.]people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 738-739.) a reversal for [citation.](people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) gutierrez testified that mcphan punched prince in the face, mouth, and nose and pulled her hair. loredo testified that mcphan repeatedly punched and hit prince and also pushed her. ochoa testified that when he spoke with prince shortly after the altercation she told him that mcphan had hit her, that he was flailing his arms, and that he sometimes had outbreaks of angry and violent behavior. ochoa also observed injuries in the form of and believed that some of her hair had been pulled out. mcphan had hit her. in addition, the involving the repeated punching and hitting of the jury could reasonably conclude that mcphan had scratched in a flurry of violent activity. the absence of visible facial and neck injuries in the photographs taken of prince on the day of the incident demonstrate that the witnesses 6 testimony that he observed scratches that were not depicted in the photographsdescribing the attack, while contrary testimony at trial that she had suffered no injury, that mcphan did not hit her, and that she and mcphan had not been arguing.4 mcphan cites people v. beasley (2003) 105 cal.app.4th 1078 (beasley) and people v. abrego (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 133 (abrego), to argue the evidence is in beasley, the jury convicted the defendant of 11 counts of inflicting corporal injury on a cohabitant, including three counts involving beating the victim with a rod on three separate occasions. (beasley, supra, at p. 1084.) the victim testified regarding the first incident that she had sustained bruises as a result of being beaten with a rod. she testified regarding the second incident had some bruises that [were] still healing,(id. at p. 1085) but she did not know whether she had suffered additional injury in the second incident. she did not testify about any injury in the third incident. (id. at p. 1086.) beasley held as to the first incident that the bruising constituted a traumatic for that incident. however, the court held that because the victim did not know whether the second beating resulted in additional injury, no other witnesses had observed injuries from the second incident, and the victim did not testify to any injury resulting from the third incident, there was insufficient evidence that the victim had suffered a traumatic condition in the second and third incidents. (beasley, supra, 105 cal.app.4th at pp. 1085-1086.) 4 she later described it as few words b 7 in abrego, the defendant slapped or punched the victim five times in the head. the victim testified during trial that she felt no pain when the defendant struck her and that she was not injured or bruised. however, she told an investigating officer on the day of the incident that she felt pain and tenderness where the defendant had struck her, but the officer did not observe any injury. (abrego, supra, 21 cal.app.4th at p. 135.) abrego insufficient evidence of a traumatic condition. (id. at p. 138.) here, unlike the second and third incidents found insufficient to support convictions in beasley, there was substantial evidence to support for inflicting corporal injury on prince. prince reported to ochoa that she had been hit by mcphan, and ochoa observed scratches neck consistent with her statements. gutierrez and loredo also witnessed mcphan attack on prince. there was no evidence that anyone else had attacked prince. nor was there any evidence that she sustained the scratches at any time other than dthus substantial evidence to support the finding that prince suffered the scratches to her neck as a result of the violent attack described by gutierrez and loredo. further, unlike abrego, the scratches on prince neck were visible to ochoa and were consistent with her statement to ochoa that she had been hit by mcphan. although the scratches were minor, similar to the bruises on the victim found sufficient to constitute a traumatic condition for the first incident in beasley, they were well within the definition of a traumatic condition under section 273.5, subdivision (d). we conclude that the evidence supports a reasonable inference that mcphan ubstantial evidence mcphan inflicted corporal injury resulting in a traumatic condition.5 5 in light of our conclusion that substantial evidence supports the conviction based on the neck scratches, we need not decide whether the evidence also supports the conviction based on the pulling out of hair. 8 disposition the judgment is affirmed. garnett, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 