filed 11/15/16 p. v. bonsall ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony michael bonsall, defendant and appellant. b266837 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va138852) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, patrick t. myers, judge. affirmed. jennifer hansen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel and william n. frank, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________ 2 a jury convicted anthony michael bonsall of second degree robbery and found true the special allegation he had personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon in committing the offense. in a bifurcated proceeding bonsall waived his right to a jury trial and admitted he had suffered one prior serious felony conviction and served one prior prison term for a felony. bonsall was sentenced as a second strike offender to an aggregate state prison term of 10 years. on appeal bonsall contends the prior conviction enhancements must be set aside because his admission of his prior serious felony conviction was not knowing and voluntary. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information an information charged bonsall with robbery (pen. code,  211)1 and specially alleged he had used a deadly or dangerous weapon in committing the offense ( 12022, subd. (b)). it was also specially alleged that bonsall had suffered a prior conviction for a serious felony within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j); 1170.12) and section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and had served two prior prison terms for felonies ( 667.5, subd. (b)). bonsall pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 2. the jury trial the court bifurcated the specially alleged prior conviction allegations from the trial on the underlying robbery charge and specially alleged weapon enhancement. following a three-day trial, the jury found bonsall guilty of robbery and found true he had used a deadly or dangerous weapon, a box cutter, in committing the offense. 3. the bifurcated proceeding on the specially alleged prior convictions on july 30, 2015, at the close of evidence outside the presence of the jury, the court told bonsall, convictions. . . . you can have 1 statutory references are to this code. 3 know anything about presently, or you can waive jury and let me decide the case. it bonsall to discuss with his counsel how he wanted to proceed in regard to the bifurcated proceeding. after consulting with his counsel, bonsall stated he would waive his right to a jury trial on his prior convictions. on august 3, 2015 the jury returned its guilty verdict with a true finding on the weapon enhancement. bonsall waived time, and the court continued the matter to september 1, 2015 for a bench trial on the specially alleged prior convictions. bonsall appeared at the scheduled bench trial on september 1, 2015 and informed the court he would admit the truth of the specially alleged prior serious felony conviction and one of the two prior felony prison terms. he was advised the serious felony conviction would be -he court did not further admonish him of his specific trial rights before accepting his admission. based on bonsallthe court found one prior serious felony conviction allegation and one prior prison term allegation true beyond a reasonable doubt. the court pursuant to section 1385 to dismiss the prior strike conviction, granted his request to dismiss the prior prison term enhancement and sentenced bonsall to an aggregate state prison term of 10 years.2 discussion 1. governing law and standard of review when a criminal defendant enters a guilty plea, the trial court is required to ensure that the plea is knowing and voluntary. (see boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238, 243-244 [89 s.ct. 1709, 23 l.ed.2d 274]; people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, 170 (crossconstitutional rightsthe privilege against compulsory self-incrimination, the right to 2 the court selected the lower term of two years for the robbery, doubled under the three strikes law, plus five years for the prior serious felony enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), plus one year for the weapon-use enhancement. 4 and solicit a personal waiver of each. [chas a full understanding of what the plea connotes cross, at p. 170.)3 admits the truth of a prior conviction allegation that subjects him [or her] to increased cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 170; accord, people v. blackburn (2015) 61 cal.4th 1113, 1136; people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 360 (mosby).) in addition to being informed about his or her right to a jury trial, to remain silent and to confrontation of witnesses in connection with the prior conviction allegation, the cross, at p. 170; accord, people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, 1179; in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857, 865.) the failure to properly advise a defendant of his or her trial rights to the truth of a specially alleged prior conviction is reversible error unless the record affirmatively shows the admission is voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances. (cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 179; people v. howard, supra, 1 cal.4th at p. 1175.) in applying this totality-of-the-circumstances test, we review the whole record, not just the record of the plea colloquy, to determine whether the defendant understood his or her trial rights and whether his or her waiver of those rights was knowing and voluntary. (cross, at p. 180; mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 361.) the court may consider a previous experience in the 3 are constitutionally required or whether they are derived from statute. (cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 179; see ibid. rule of criminal procedure requiring full boykin-tahl advisements for all guilty pleas in m statute or 5 criminal justice system as relevant to this inquiry. (cross, at p. 180; accord, mosby, at p. 365.) 2. of the prior conviction was voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances admission of his prior serious felony decision in mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th 353. immediately following a bifurcated jury trial in which the jury found the defendant guilty of selling cocaine, the court advised the defendant he also had a right to a jury trial on a specially alleged prior conviction. after expressly waiving that right, the defendant admitted the truth of the prior conviction. the court did not expressly advise the defendant of his right to remain silent and to confront the witnesses against him admission. on appeal the defendant argued him as to those rights in connection with the specially alleged prior conviction rendered his admission to the truth of that conviction involuntary. (mosby, at pp. 357-359.) the supreme court rejected this argument, observing the trial court had told the defendant he had a right to a jury trial on the prior conviction and the defendant expressly waived that right. although the trial court did not also articulate at that time that the defendant possessed the right to remain silent and to confront witnesses in the bifurcated proceeding in the same manner as at the trial on the underlying offense, the court found the partial admonition under the totality of the circumstances was sufficient. the court explained, ounsel, had just undergone a jury trial at which he did not testify, although his codefendant did. thus, he not only would have known of, but had just exercised, his right to remain silent at trial, forcing the prosecution to prove he had sold cocaine. and, because he had, through counsel, confronted witnesses at that immediately concluded trial, he would have understood that mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 364.) the crecidivist history, noting 6 (id. at p. 359.) the c . . . that defendant had voluntarily and intelligently admitted his prior conviction despite being id. at p. 365.) as was true in mosby, bonsall was adequately informed of and waived all of his trial rights at the time of his prior serious felony convictiona residential burglary in riverside county. (bonsall does not challenge the adequacy of that waiver.) in addition, when the court advised bonsall of his right to a jury trial on the prior conviction allegations in the case at bar and accepted his waiver of that right (a waiver also not challenged by bonsall), the court advised bonsall he was entitled at a bench trial on those allegations to all the same trial rights he had at the trial on the underlying charge. thus, the admonitions in the instant matter were even stronger than the partial advisement in mosby. although the court did not specify those trial rights included the right to remain silent and to confront witnesses, like the defendant in mosby, bonsall had been advised of, and had just exercised, those rights at his trial on the underlying robbery charge.4 bonsall contends mosby is distinguishable because the defendant in that case admitted the truth of the prior conviction erdict admission occurred 32 days after the admonition and his waiver of his trial rights. the one-month interval between advisement and waiver does not change our conclusion. this is not a case in which the court failed to advise bonsall of any of his trial rights concerning the specially alleged prior conviction. (see, e.g., people v. campbell (1999) 76 cal.app.4th there were no admonitions with respect to any of the three 4 bonsall suggests in passing in his opening brief that the court did not advise him of the penal consequences of his admission. in fact, at the time of admission his counsel acknowledged, and the court reiterated, serious felony would have two consequences: it qualified him as a second strike offender under the three strikes law and, in addition, required imposition of a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). 7 ; people v. johnson (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 169, 178 [enhancement based on prior convictions is properly set aside when trial court made only a the jury trial immediately without waiting for of that right].) bonsall was advised of his right to a trial on the truth of the specially alleged prior convictions and told he would enjoy all the same rights in that proceeding as he did at trial on the underlying charge. under the totality of the circumstances, we have no difficulty concluding admission of the specially alleged prior serious felony conviction was knowing and voluntary. (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 364.)5 disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: segal, j. keeny, j.* 5 the supreme court is currently considering the question whether the totality-of-the-advisement at all in connection with a plea to an underlying charge as opposed to the partial advisement that occurred in the case at bar. (see people v. farwell (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 1313, review granted, feb. 3, 2016, s231009.) * judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 