filed 8/16/16 p. v. liu ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin liu, defendant and appellant. b266352 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka103107) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. george genesta, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________ 2 in an information filed by the los angeles county district attorney, defendant and appellant kevin liu was charged with attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a); counts 1 & 2);1 assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); counts 3 & 4); possession of a silencer ( 33410; count 5); first degree residential burglary ( 459; count 6); and criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a); counts 7 & 8). it was further alleged that defendant personally used a firearm as to counts 1 and 2 ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (c)) and as to counts 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8 ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). following trial, the jury found defendant guilty of the attempted murder of martin sandoval (sandoval) on count 2 and the willful and deliberate allegation was found not true. the jury also found as to count 2 that defendant personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), but found the section 12022.53, subdivision (c), allegation not true. finally, the jury found defendant guilty on counts 3, 4, 5, and 8, and found the firearm allegations true. it found defendant not guilty on counts 1, 6, and 7. the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 20 years in state prison. defendant timely appeals. he assigns the following errors: (1) the trial court erred in refusing a heat of passion instruction; (2) the trial court should have allowed the defense psychiatric expert to testify about defen; (3) the trial court improperly excluded testimony that sandoval had been accused of molesting ; and (4) the prosecutor committed misconduct by eliciting 2 had cancer. we affirm. factual background i. prosecution evidence defendant and nancy married in 1988 and had three children. in 2005, nancy told defendant that she wanted to separate. she agreed to stay with defendant in their 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 we refer to various related persons by their first names, not from disrespect, but to avoid confusion. 3 house in perris for financial reasons and for the children, but she made preparations for divorce. nancy and defendant both worked at morongo casino; they had different shifts and different times. at work, they shared a locker, in which they had to put all of their personal belongings while working. in 2009, nancy began dating sandoval, who also worked at the casino. when they started dating, sandoval was aware that she was living with her husband, but he understood that nancy and defendant were separated. nancy continued having sexual relations with defendant up until 2013 because she believed it was the only way to keep peace in her house. in january 2013, nancy told defendant that she was dating sandoval. two months later, nancy filed for divorce3 and moved in with a friend. during lls from defendant. he often called 20 or 30 times a day. she did not report his threats to the police because they both would have lost their jobs. she explained that, in the gaming industry, any instance of harassment or domestic violence could cause a casino to terminate employment. nancy spoke to her family and asked a friend who was a police officer to talk to defendant about his threats. once, defendant called while he was outside her residence, even though she had never told him where she was living. or early april 2013. two were played for the jury. one day, at around 4:00 a.m., defendant told nancy him, . [] . . . [] and i will get him, honey. . . . good luck to him and good luck to his fucking family. . . . this is the fucking last warning for him. . . . defendant told nancy that sandoval firkinll him yester[] . . . 3 the divorce became final in september 2013. 4 [] he is fucking my wife and i am going to kill him. i have all the fucking right to do that.d parked in front of her house that day but did not do anything to her. she asked him about lock ties4 that she had discovered under his pillow ay a few months later, nancy moved into an apartment in la puente. she did not tell defendant where she was living because she feared for her life. when she got off work at 4:00 a.m., she drove around her neighborhood for a while to make sure that she was not being followed. no one other than nancy had keys to her apartment; neither sandoval nor defendant had ever stayed the night at her place. sometime before september, defendant called sandoval and accused him of and nancy were dating and that nancy had said that there was nothing going on between her and defendant. defendant became upset and angrily told sandoval to stay away from nancy. he threatened sandoval was scared and told nancy about the telephone call. sometime in late august, defendant called nancy and told her that he was did not go back to his house in perris and take care of it. nancy went to the house and stayed for about four days. she and defendant did not have any reconciliation talks. at the time, sandoval was in mexico. on september 6, 2013, nancy and sandoval returned to her apartment after going shopping. sandoval put the items they had purchased on the bed and gave nancy a hug. defendant emerged from the bathroom and pointed a gun with a homemade silencer at going to kill you,was going to kill him, and he was scared for himself and nancy. 4 nancy acknowledged that she and defendant had used scarves as tie devices pillow. 5 defendant told sandoval to sit, and he sat on the bed. nancy was facing defendant and told sandoval not to sit. sandoval stood up. defendant pointed the gun at nancy and that sandoval had nothing to do with their relationship. she begged him to stop and not hurt anyone. when defendant pointed the gun at sandoval, nancy moved in front of him. defendant pushed her out of the way and sandoval lunged at him. sandoval sound. sandoval and defendant fell to the floor and the gun fell out of reach. when defendant reached for the gun, sandoval pulled him away and held him down. they both fell back onto the bed. nancy went outside and called 9-1-1. neck from behind. rico ran into the room and helped restrain defendant until deputies arrived. sandoval sustained minor injuries to his forehead from the struggle. deputies took defendant into custody. as he was being searched, defendant said, going to shoot that motherfucker because he was sleeping with mdeputies found a loaded gun magazine and 69 rounds of nine-millimeter ammunition in his pockets. they also found on his person a key that matched nancy a loaded smith and wesson nine-millimeter handgun with a blue cylinder attached to the muzzle was on the bathroom floor, along with an expended shell casing. the handgun had an aftermarket threaded barrel that allowed for the blue silencer to be attached. the silencer had been made from an oil filter. forensic analyst amanda davis examined the gun and found that it had functioning safety mechanisms and a trigger pull of five and three-quarters pounds. there was a bullet hole by the mirror in the bathroom. the nine--door apartment. deputies also found a black bag inside the apartment next to the bed. it contained plastic zip ties and a wire cutter. the zip ties were tied together to form two handcuffs 6 with another tie linking them together. the bag and its contents did not belong to nancy. there were no signs of forced entry into the apartment. a vehicle belonging to defendant was parked a few blocks away. a pink gym bag was in the trunk and contained two oil filter canisters, an empty box of ammunition, pliers, a wood stick, rope, packaging tape, and a red bag with washers and gloves. nancy had previously left this gym bag at the perris house, but none of the items in the bag belonged to her. defendant had purchased the gun on august 5, 2013, and picked it up nearly two weeks later. the gun store manager had showed him how to use it properly. defendant took his son to a firing range in august. defendant had previously been issued a handgun safety certificate card on june 20, 2013. after defendant was arrested, nancy removed a safe containing her jewelry from the perris house. ii. defense evidence defendant testified that in january 2013, nancy told him that she was having an affair. he was hurt, angry, and depressed. in march, she moved out of their perris home and filed for divorce. in march or april, defendant made threats to hurt people, but he never acted on them. he admitted to making the threatening phone calls to nancy and he wanted her to feel scared. he lied on the phone when he told her that he was outside her residence. defendant and nancy had been having sexual relations until 2013. they sometimes used items such as scarves for tying, but they never used zip ties. once, defendant tried to use a zip tie with nancy, but she would not let him. defendant bought a handgun in august and sometimes went to a shooting range. he bought the silencer canisters online as aftermarket attachments. he used them on the gun because he sometimes went shooting in the desert. he learned online how to put the silencer together with various parts. he transported his gun and accessories in a puma bag that he kept in his car trunk. 7 one night there in august. nancy gave him the key to the apartment; he denied taking it from their shared locker at the casino. on august 21, 2013, he brought a black bag and left it at her apartment. the bag contained zip ties and ropes that they had used during sex. the last time defendant went shooting in the desert, he removed his gun from the trunk and brought it into the house. he did not know how the bag was placed back in the trunk on september 6, 2013. during the week that nancy was at his house in august, she drove his car. on september 5, 2013, defendant learned that nancy had taken a safe from the house. his gun and ammunition, which were in a locked case, were also missing. he called nancy and she admitted that she had taken the items. on september 6, 2013, at around 2:30 p.m., defendant parked his car behind containing his gun, ammunition, and attachments, in the bathroom. he put the magazine in the gun and attached the silencer in order to make sure that everything worked. he put the ammunition in his pocket and walked out of the bathroom. defendant was surprised when nancy and sandoval entered the apartment. he held the gun pointed at the floor. this was the first time that he had ever seen sandoval and he was angry. but he did not threaten to shoot or point the gun at anyone. when he entered the apartment, he did not know that anyone would be there and he had no intent to hurt or kill anyone. nancy stood in front of sandoval. sandoval asked defendant what he was doing there, and defendant asked sandoval what he was doing with his wife. defendant asked nancy why sandoval was still with her and said that they needed to sit and talk. going to shoot you, you motherfucker.nancy told defendant that they were not going to talk that day and that he was not going to shoot anyone. she reached for his gun, and defendant pushed her hand away. sandoval charged him, slapped his hand, and grabbed for the gun. they fell and struggled on the floor. sandoval picked him up and threw him on the bed. defendant did not shoot the gun. 8 defendant denied making any statement to the police while he was arrested. ughter, testified that defendant told her sometime in 2013 that nancy was dating sandoval. when nancy moved out of their house in march, defendant was upset and angry. he said that he wanted to hurt sandoval. in late august, nancy stayed at their house for a few days. nancy told tiffany that she was confused and wanted to keep her family together. around that time, nancy told tiffany that defendant was with her at the apartment. nancy told tiffany that she was afraid of defendant but believed that he would never hurt her. nancy further told tiffany that on september 6, 2013, she and sandoval entered her apartment. defendant was coming out of the bathroom and they argued. he said that she destroyed his life. defendant was waving a gun but not pointing it at anyone. nancy stood between defendant and sandoval. when defendant moved her to the side, hand and the gun went off during the struggle. sam liu (sam), defendanwhen she and sandoval arrived at her apartment, defendant was inside with a gun. she stepped in front of sandoval and told defendant that if he was going to shoot anyone, he should shoot her. sandoval and defendant struggled for the gun and a shot accidentally fired. earlier, defendant had taken sam to a shooting range for practice shooting. the incident. she said that defendant was in her apartment with a gun when she and sandoval arrived. she distracted him and sandoval grabbed the gun. the gun fell to the floor and accidentally fired. phillip testified that nancy had told him that defendant regularly visited her at the apartment and stayed the night. sometimes, he brought a gun because he was concerned that she was living alone. stephen seger (seger), a family friend, testified that nancy had discussed the incident with him by telephone. she said that she stood in front of sandoval and told defendant that if he was going to hurt anyone, he should hurt her. sandoval then pushed 9 nancy away and attacked defendant. defendant and sandoval fell to the floor and the gun accidentally discharged. john h. pride found that the trigger pressure was within the acceptable range for this firearm. the blue cylinder was a silencer that was illegal to own in california. pride explained that there were situations where the gun could be fired accidentally, such as during a struggle. where someone grabs the wrist of a person holding a gun, it might cause the person to accidentally pull the trigger. the firearm evidence was consistent with both an intentional and unintentional firing. the silencer attachment might explain why there was not a round in the chamber when the gun was fired. iii. prosecution rebuttal evidence thuy lien nguyen gomez (gomez), who had been dating sam, lived at sandoval in january after going through photograph of sandoval and asked her if it was him; she said yes. once, nancy asked her to stay outside the bedroom while she and defendant argued because she was concerned that he might do something. nancy told gomez that she still had sex with defendant to nancy told gomez that on september 6, 2013, defendant exited the bathroom with a gun and waved it around, and said that sandoval had ruined his life. defendant pushed nancy away and sandoval rushed defendant to get the gun. as they struggled, the gun fired. discussion i. the trial court properly did not instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter defendant argues that the trial court erred when it refused a heat of passion instruction. 10 a. relevant proceedings during trial, the defense indicated that it would request that the trial court instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter. the trial court stated that it would so instruct if substantial evidence of heat of passion or sudden quarrel was presented at trial. after defendant testified, the trial court indicated that there was no evidence of any lesser included offense to the attempted murder charges in counts 1 and 2. the trial court noted that defendant presented an absolute defense, namely that he never pointed the gun at anyone and that it discharged accidentally. because there was no intent to kill inferable from the defense evidence, there could be no attempted voluntary manslaughter offense, since that offense requires an intent to kill. accordingly, the trial court denied b. analysis courts have a sua sponte duty to instruct on lesser included offenses when the offense is supported by substantial evidence, which, if accepted, would permit the jury to find the defendant not guilty of the greater offense and guilty of the lesser offense. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 148149.) a trial court need not instruct the jury on a lesser included offense where no evidence supports a finding that the offense was anything less than the crime charged. (people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 826.) voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder when the requisite mental element of malice is negated by a sudden quarrel or heat of passion or by an unreasonable but good faith belief in the necessity of self-defense. (people v. elmore (2014) 59 cal.4th 121, 133; see also  192.) attempted voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of attempted murder. (people v. thompkins (1987) 195 cal.app.3d 244, 255256.) here, the prosecution presented evidence of attempted murderdefendant was to kill sandoval and others; defendant had purchased a handgun one month before the 11 instant shooting; defendant modified that handgun illegally with a homemade silencer; apartment without permission, pointed the gun at nancy and sandoval, and discharged the gun during a struggle. there was no evidence of sufficient provocation resulting from a sudden quarrel or heat of passion. for the first time, not only face to face, that the confrontation and the embrace led to a heat of passion that negated his intent to kill. he had known for at least eight months that nancy was seeing someone else. she had filed for divorce in march and it was set to become final on september 14, 2013. and, he had seen a photograph of sandoval three months before the shooting. taken together, this evidence confirms actions emerged long before the shooting; they did not arise out of a sudden quarrel or heat of passion. manslaughter. rather, as the trial court noted, his testimony supported a complete defense to the attempted murder charges. people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122 (millbrook) and people v. thomas (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 630 (thomas) is misplaced. in millbrook, there was evidence that the defendant was acting under the actual influence of extreme emotion. (millbrook, supra, at pp. 11391140.) likewise, in thomas, the defendant shot the victim; at trial, he testified that he pulled the trigger out of fear and nervousness. (thomas, supra, at p. 645.) in contrast, here there is no evidence that at trial was that the gun discharged accidentally. it follows that the trial court did not err in refusing to give an attempted voluntary manslaughter instruction and that defendant was not deprived of his due process rights. 12 ii. mental state defendant argues that the trial court erred when it excluded the defense psychiatric expert to testify about his mental condition. a. relevant proceedings before trial, the prosecutor moved to exclude the proffered testimony of dr. ronald to certain provocation. later, defense counsel made an offer of proof. according to dr. overwhelming sense of being rejected by his wife, which likely initiated feelings of inadequacy and worthlessness. this emotional instability also unleashed an uncontrollable anger potential that resulted in a lack of judgment, thoughtlessness and impulsive behavior controlled by emotions, consistent with an event occurring in the heat people v. czahara (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 1468 (czahara), the trial court precluded dr. markman from testifying. b. analysis an expert witness may offer opinion testimony if the subject is sufficiently beyond common experience that it would assist the trier of fact. (evid. code,  801.) a trial court has broad discretion to determine the admissibility of expert testimony, and its ruling is reviewed for an abuse of that discretion. (people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 426.) forth above, there is no evidence that defendant committed the instant offenses under a heat of passion or sudden quarrel. in fact, defendant testified that the shooting was determination of whether defendant had the intent to kill when he shot at sandoval. defendant claims that the expert testimony would have been relevant to show that he was under a tremendous amount of stress from the affair and divorce. but this type of 13 evidence does not require expert testimony; the emotional effects of divorce are within the common experience of jurors. (czahara, supra, 203 cal.app.3d at p. 1478.) moreover, defendant was not denied the opportunity to present a defense. he was fully allowed to, and did, present a defense of accident and lack of intent to kill. thus, defendantntention is meritless. iii. molested his daughter defendant argues that the trial court improperly excluded testimony that sandoval was accused of mols daughter jasmine. a. relevant proceedings during cross-examination, defense counsel asked sandoval if he was aware that there was an n, defense counsel contended that there were divorce proceedings. therefore, motive, and credibility. after all, sandoval might have been angry because of the accusation and reacted upon seeing defendant in the apartment. the trial court allowed defense counsel to ask sandoval if there were any arguments between him and defendant in any capacity. but the trial court precluded the defense attorney from specifically asking about any molestation allegation, pursuant to evidence code section 352. b. analysis only relevant evidence is admissible. (evid. code,  350.) relevant evidence is ndency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of the test of relevance is whether the evidence tends sh disputed material facts such as identity, intent, or motive. [citation.] (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1166.) the trial court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at 14 pp. 11661167.) for abuse of discretion, and will not be disturbed on appeal except upon a showing that it was exercised in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice.people v. brown (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1222, 1233.) here, the evidence concerning the accusation was irrelevant to the issues at trial. no argument between the parties other than that concerning defendant pointing a gun at them and saying that he was going to shoot sandoval for dating nancy. moreover, defendant did not testify that he was motivated by any molestation accusation against sandoval; rather, he testified that his presence in the apartment with nancy and sandoval and the discharge of the gun were accidental and not driven by emotion. while defendant testified that he was hurt and angry, those emotions were directed at nancy and sandoval for their affair, not the result of any unsubstantiated allegation of molestation. moreover, there was no credible evidence of any molestation accusation. defense surmising. . . . [] . . . ] it was noth molestation accusation would have been far more prejudicial than probative. (evid. code,  352.) it follows that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding it. iv. the prosecutor did not err by eliciting testimony that nancy had cancer defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct when he elicited testimony that nancy had cancer. a. relevant proceedings on direct examination, the prosecutor began by asking nancy if she was currently undergoing treatment for cancer. following a defense objection on the grounds of 15 relevancetaking any medication as a result of her treatment. she answered affirmatively and stated that she would do her best to think and answer questions. introduce a witness who may be under medication is to simply ask, are you currently taking medication? yes. if so, does that have an effect on what she is saying here today. she was taking medication or anything else to appeal to the sympathy of the jury, in terms of this particular witness. [] the court has already admonished this jury during the jury selection thatrepeatedly, that whatever empathy or sympathy they have with the -based decision and evidence-based decision only. medication . . . the trial court further advised that if medication causes a witness to get tired and need breaks or need an opportunity to refresh himself or herself, then the trial court would accommodate. can be more prejudicial and have passion or sympathy for a jury. i understand the court unring believe it was asked, but i wanted to t noting that the jury was an intelligent jury, the trial court denied the motion. when nancy resumed her testimony, she stated that she moved to that particular apartment because it was closer to the medical office for her chemotherapy and radiation treatments. f her medical condition, and the fact that only relevant in terms of whether she is competent to 16 testify and whether the medication affects her stamina or ability to testify. but as i told you at the outset of this trial during jury selection, this decision will be made based upon the evidence. i-empathy-based decision or sympathy- nancy returned to testify the following day. she stated that on the morning of the shooting, she had a biopsy done at a laboratory. she also said that she told her children in 2014 that her cancer was in remission, but she was actually still undergoing treatment; she only told her children that the cancer was in remission so they would not be concerned. b. forfeiture generally, a defendant forfeits a claim of prosecutorial misconduct unless the defendant makes a specific objection to the argument in the trial court and requests that the jury be admonished to disregard it. (people v. jackson (2014) 58 cal.4th 724, 762; see also people v. reyes (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 62, 76specific ground [citationsid. at p. 77.) here, defense counsel preserved defendanm of evidentiary error as to the uquestion as misconduct. accordingly, he has forfeited his prosecutorial misconduct claim. (people v. reyes, supra, 246 cal.app.4th at p. prosecutorial misconduct in connection with these remarks by failing to assign 17 c. analysis conduct violates the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. (people v. reyes, supra, 246 cal.app.4th at p. 71.) that did not occur here. nanccondition and medication were relevant to her competence and ability to testify. it even if the prosecutor did err in asking nancy about her medical condition, and even if that issue were preserved for appeal, defendant has not shown that there was a people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 976, overruled in part on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) the trial court repeatedly told the jurors that they were to decide the case based on the evidence, not on emotions. we presume that the jurors people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 subsequent testimony. thus, the jury would have learned about it anyway. last, as set forth above, the evidence that defendant committed attempted murder was strong. iv. cumulative effect of alleged errors finally, that there was no cumulative prejudicial eprocess. 18 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ______________________________, j. chavez ______________________________, j. hoffstadt 