filed 8/15/16 p. v. levine ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. scott william levine, defendant and appellant. b266968 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la023055) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, william c. ryan, judge. affirmed. cheryl lutz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and analee j. brodie, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________ 2 introduction appellant scott william levine is before us for a second time. on the prior occasion, we affirmed his conviction for possession of a firearm by a felon (see people v. levine, sept. 30, 1997, b103480 [unpub.]). subsequently, appellant filed a petition for recall of sentence pursuant to penal code section 1170.126.1 the trial court denied the petition, determining that appellant was statutorily ineligible for resentencing, a during the commission of the offense. for the reasons set forth below, we conclude appellant was ineligible for resentencing. accordingly, we affirm. factual background & procedural history as we recounted in our prior opinion, appellant was involved in a multi-vehicle accident. the vehicle appellant was driving had a broken key in the ignition switch. when questioned by los angeles police officer victor farhood and his partner, appellant stated he had borrowed thfriend.additionally, appellant officer farhood handcuffed appellant and placed him in the patrol car because, a little agitated, a little strange.the officer then returned to the vehicle to look for registration and identification papers. loaded pistol in the center console. officer farhood returned to the patrol vehicle to show the handgun to his panow that m not going to say anything. a jury convicted appellant of possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of section 12021, subd. (a)(1). it also found true the allegations that appellant had 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the trial court sentenced appellant, pursuant to the three strikes law, to 25 years to life in prison. on december 3, 2012, appellant filed a petition for recall of sentence. following a hearing, the trial court denied the petition. based on a review of the the court found that during the commission of the current offense, appellant was armed with a firearm. accordingly, it determined that appellant was statutorily ineligible for recall and resentencing pursuant to section 1170.126. discussion section 1170.a prisoner who is serving an indeterminate life sentence imposed pursuant to the three strikes law for a crime that is not a serious or violent felony and who is not disqualified, may have his or her sentence recalled and be sentenced as a second strike offender unless the court determines that resentencing would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety.people v. yearwood (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 161, 168.) n inmate is disqualified from resentencing if, inter [d]uring the commission of the current offense, the defendant used a firearm, was armed with a firearm or deadly weapon, or intended to cause great bodily injury to another person.people v. osuna (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 1020, 1029 (osuna), quoting  667, subd. (e)(2)(c)(iii), 1170.12, subd. (c)(2)(c)(iii).) has been statutorily defined and judicially construed to mean having a firearm available for use, either offensively or defensively.ibid.) a person convicted of being in possession of a firearm by a felon is not automatically precluded from resentencing under section possessing a firearm does not necessarily constitute being armed 4 with a firearmpeople v. blakely (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 1042, 1052.) for s residence (in which only he lives) is searched and a firearm is found next to his bed. the parolee is in possession of the firearm, because it is under his dominion and control. if he is not home at the time, however, he is not armed with the firearm, because it is not readily available to him for offensive or defensive use.ibid.) here, the trial court reviewed the prior opinion, and found that appellant had a firearm available for use when he committed the current offense. (see people v. hicks (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 275, 285-286 [trial court may rely on facts in appelladetermine whether defendant was armed during the commission of his felon-in-possession offense) the trial record established beyond a reasonable doubt that a loaded firearm was located in the center console of the vehicle appellant was driving, readily available commission of the offense and accordingly, he was statutorily ineligible for resentencing under section 1170.126. 5 disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. collins, j. 