filed 11/1/16 p. v. gatlin ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. clifton gatlin, defendant and appellant. b266811 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga095961) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. henry j. hall, judge. affirmed with directions. california appellate project, jonathan b. steiner, executive director, and joshua h. schraer, staff attorney, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 in an information filed by the los angeles county district attorney, defendant and appellant clifton gatlin was charged with two counts of corporal injury to spouse (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a); counts 1 & 2);1 disobeying a domestic relations court order ( 273.6, subd. (d); count 3); vandalism ( 594, subd. (a); count 4); two counts of criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a) (counts 5 & 6); and assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4) (count 7). as to counts 2 and 7, it was alleged that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (e). defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. the jury found defendant guilty on counts 1, 3, 5, and 6. probation was denied and defendant was sentenced to five years in state prison. various fines were imposed, including a $400 domestic violence restitution fine pursuant to section 1203.097. defendant timely appealed. on appeal, he argues that (1) one of his two convictions for making criminal threats must be reversed because there was only one criminal threat as a matter of law, (2) the trial court committed reversible error when it instructed the jury that conduct that constituted one offense could support convictions for two counts, and (3) the trial court erred when it imposed a domestic violence restitution fine pursuant to section 1203.097. we agree that the trial court erred in imposing a $400 domestic violence restitution fine pursuant to section 1203.097. we therefore strike the fine. in all other respects, we affirm. factual background i. prosecution evidence , while she was at work. the messages began around 8:00 a.m. and continued until around 4:00 p.m. one of the 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 defendant also herself, her son, and her friend patrick, who defendant believed threatened his mother. when maureen got home from work, defendant begaher for about 20 to 30 minutes. at one point, defendant shoved maureen into a doorway; later, he pushed her in a hallway. she lost her balance and slammed into a wall. the police arrived, and defendant was removed from the property. at the time, maureen had a valid restraining order against him. ii. defense evidence defendant took the stand and denied ever hurting maureen. according to messages to maureen because one of her friends had threatened him and his mother. your parent or a relative or adefendant wanted her to feel although maureen assured defendant that his mother was safe and insisted that he calm down, defendant refused. after maureen asked him not to involve her son in at the time, defendant wanted maureen to think that he was going to hurt her son. discussion i. criminal threats defendant contends that one of his two convictions for making criminal threats must be reversed because there was only one criminal threat as a matter of law. a. relevant law willfully threatens to commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement, made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic communication device, is to be taken as a threat, even if there 4 is no intent of actually carrying it out, which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or heimprisonment in the county jail not to exceed one year, or by imprisonment in the state th commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily (2) . . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of that the threatwhicmade, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the his or her own safety or for his or her imme that the threate(people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227228 (toledo).) to the extent defendant is challenging the sufficiency of the evidence, we review the criminal conviction for substantial evidence. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) whether the evidence could support more than a single criminal threat conviction is a question of law that we review de novo, based upon the elements of section 422. (people v. wilson (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 193, 198 (wilson).) b. analysis all five elements are supported by substantial evidence here. defendant sent maureen numerous text messages threatening to commit a crime that would result in death or great bodily injury to another person; he made the threats with the intent that his statements be taken as threats; the threats conveyed an immediate prospect of execution; 5 the threats caused maureen to sustain fear for her own safety and the safety of her son; and her fear was reasonable. relying upon wilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th 193, defendant contends that one of his two convictions must be reversed because maureen was the only victim of the threats and she sustained one single period of fear for the duration of the text message conversation. in wilson, the victim returned home from purchasing groceries with his wife and yard. over the course of 15 to 20 minutes in a single, continuing confrontation with the fuck off. everyone has to take a pissyour familywilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at pp. 196197.) the prosecutor charged the defendant with making two criminal threats against the victim: first, the initial threat that the victim discounted personally but caused him to fear for his family, especially his children, and second, the additional threat id. at pp. 197198.) after the jury convicted the defendant on both counts and the defendant appealed, wilson counts under section 422 based on multiple threatening communications uttered to a single victim during a brief, unintewilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 201.) the wilson by which the victim's fear could manifest itself immediate family members 6 (wilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at pp. 201notion that a single threat referencing violence against both a victim and his or her immediate family members, heard only by the victim, can constitute multiple offenses under section 4id. at p. 201.) reviewing the threats against the victim (rosales) in that case, wilson also ion 422 convictions. from the moment defendant approached rosales near his car and threatened to kill fear throughout the entirety of the confrontation. it does not primary fear was for himself or members of his family at various times. irrespective of the number of threatening statements and family members threatened, defendant was properly convicted of only one count under section 422 for (wilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 202.) wilson is misplaced for the simple reason that here the complete a criminal threat under section 422, subdivision (a), dissipated between the first and second threats uttered to maureen, unlike in wilson. in wilson, the victim always remained outside his home and engaged with the defendant in a single, continuing confrontation, or as wilson wilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 201.) here, in contrast, throughout the day. at least one of the threats was directed at maureen herself while others werthreat to be directed at herself, her son, and her friend patrick. e victim in wilson. but as noted above, in the instant case, the threats were made at different times of the day (not within a single 15-minute 7 conversation as in wilson) and had different objectives. under these circumstances, the jury could reasonably have concluded that the threats were separate and distinct not only because defendant uttered them at different times against maureen, but also in their intent. he threatened to hurt maureen in one of the text messages because he was angry about the allegt about his mother. criminal threat that wilson did not have to discuss. a criminal threat must cause the victim more than a passing fright or scare. as wilson noted, a period of time that extends beyond what is momentary, fleeting, o [citation.] (wilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 201.) but a distinct and equally important element is that the utterance must elicit fear in the victim because of an immediate prospect of execution of the threat. (toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 228.) sustained fear and an immediate prospect of execution are related elements, but not identical, and both are required. (see ibid. [listing them as distinct parts of the fourth and fifth elements of a criminal threat, respectively].) thus, where there is sustained fear, but no new threat or new prospect of its execution, it follows that there is only one criminal threat. and as illustrated in wilson, where there is sustained fear and perhaps additional threats, but there exists in the uninterrupted encounter no new prospect of execution of the threats, there is only one actionable unit of prosecution under section 422. (wilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at pp. 199, 201.) here, however, where there is a new threat, a new prospect the threat will be executed, and a new period of sustained fear, and the other elements of a criminal threat under section 422 are also present (see toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 228), the defendant may be prosecuted and convicted of the new threat as well as prior ones. of course, the prior threat or threats likely ws fear. but here the evidence was more than sufficient for a jury reasonably to conclude all the elements of multiple criminal threats were satisfied. 8 ii. alleged instructional error questions during deliberations. a. background bthe trial court asked the parties for input regarding a response. count five and six are-count five reflects the criminalfive reflecting the criminal threat to maureen . . . and count six, the criminal threat to her respon a short time later, another note from the jury was received. it read: 5 and 6, does count 5 (threats to maureen p) have to meet the same characteristics as unlawfully kill or unlawfully cause great bodily injury to maureen p. or members of her to her son constitute two violations of the law, and two counts, or does the separate count for maureen p. refer separately to [defendant] threatening harm to ma the trial court again discussed the matter with the parties. following such e jury. [] there was a threat it is up to you to determine whether one or more than one separate threats were made. [] nicated to [] is that what we agreed upon for the answer for the defense counsel was a threat it is up to you to determine whether one or more than one separate threats 9 were made. multiple threats may be communicated to the same person. you are referred to instruction 1300 f trial court asked both counsel if they agreed that a revised answer could be submitted to the jury. defense counsel indicated that she did not get a chance to review the language. the trial court gave her the opportunity to review the language, and she then proposed and, with that change, the trial court submitted the matter to the jury. & 6. [] both counts are alleged threats to maureen p. [] count 5 is only alleged threats to maureen p regarding her. [] count 6 is any alleged threats to maureen p regardi b. forfeiture because defendant failed to object below on the grounds he raises on appeal, his argument has been forfeited unless his substantial rights were affected. ( 1259.) as set law. therefore, his rights were not adversely impacted. c. no error applying the de novo standard of review (people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218), we find no error. as set forth above, delaw or the appellate record. the trial court did not advise the jury that the evidence could support convictions for two counts of making criminal threats. rather, it informed the jury, using language agreed to by defense counsel, that different counts pertained to threats involving different victims. the trial court also correctly advised the jury that it needed to determine if one or more threats were made by defendant, with the understanding that multiple threats could be communicated to a single person. while the wilson court determined that the specific facts of that case did not involve multiple threats (wilson, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at 10 pp. 201202), it did not create a rule of law whereby multiple threats could not be made to a single person. thus, there was no error. iii. domestic violence restitution fine the trial court imposed a $400 fine pursuant to section 1203.097, subdivision (a)(5). because defendant was not granted probation, this fine must be stricken. disposition the $400 fine imposed pursuant to section 1203.097 is stricken. the matter is remanded to the trial court to prepare an amended abstract of judgment showing no fine pursuant to section 1203.097. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ______________________________, j. chavez ______________________________, j. hoffstadt 