filed 7/7/17 p. v. walker ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert walker, defendant and appellant. b266706 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na096265) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james d. otto, judge. affirmed as modified. david h. goodwin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, jessica c. owen, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in this appeal and other charged offenses, the issues we consider require us to discuss the meaning of the word ; the admissibility of video evidence depicting defendant congregating with another individual identified as a pimp; whether attorney was constitutionally ineffective by not seeking to exclude victim testimony as tainted by asserted governmental misconduct; and whether defendant can be found to have acted with separate objectives in sexually assaulting one of his victims and then forcing her to work for him as a prostitute. i the parties are familiar with the facts, and defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence against him only in one narrow respect (whether there was enough evidence to establish was defined in the instructions given to the jury). we therefore summarize the factual and procedural background only as necessary to resolve the claims of error presented. the evidence at trial established defendant exploited four underage girls for profit. he was their pimp, and the girls worked for him for varying periods of time, turning over to him all the money they made from engaging in sex (in varying forms) with their customers. all four victimsa.b., j.c., v.r., and m.h.were designated material witnesses and held in custody to ensure their appearance as witnesses at trial. 3 a a.b. testified defendant first approached her in late 2012 or early 2013 while she was already working as a prostitute on a stretch of long beach boulevard in compton (often referred to colloquially as the . a.b. was 16 or 17 years old at the time, prostitute without a pimp. in a subsequent conversation after that first encounter, defendant asked a.b. how old she was and she told him (falsely) that she was 18.1 defendant also asked and inquired as to whether she had a pimp. defendant made it clear he wanted a.b. to work for him as a prostitute, and a.b. agreed she would start working for him. a.b. explained at trial what it meant to work as a prostitute for defendant. she testified that working as a she also agreed that as a euphemism for man [and] havingcommitting a sex act, getting sex . . . defendant required a.b. to abide by certain , including (among others) spending a maximum of 15 minutgiving him all of the money she made from prostitution, and your head down, turn away, just get away from where he is at. 1 a.b. told defendant her real age later, after she began working for him. he continued using her as a prostitute and gave her an alias to use (the name belonging to another woman over 18) in case she was ever contacted by the police. 4 s, she would suffer varying punishments such as or [being made] to stay out for . . . j.c., another of the minor victims, testified she met defendant in or around february 2013 after she ran away from home. she first began working as a prostitute for another man, and defendant later persuaded her to work for him as her pimp. j.c. was asked what she did working as a prostitute, and she ] who paid her. at the time she began working as a prostitute for defendant, j.c. was 16 years old. as he did with a.b., defendant told j.c. about various rules she would have to follow while prostituting for him. she had a to make each day; men who might be pimps and try to steal her away; she was supposed to make sure were not undercover police tell[ing] them to unzip their zipper and, like, reveal themselves to you; j.c. was also required to give defendant all the money she received for committing sex acts with men. if j.c. failed to comply hich meant she would get in trouble. that trouble took several forms: defendant slapped j.c. hard in the face on one occasion, and he also made threats which scared her and caused her to obey the rules.2 2 j.c. testified she witnessed defendant get violent with the other girls who worked for him, including choking one girl in a manner that made j.c. afraid the girl might get seriously hurt. 5 v.r. testified she was 14 years old when she first met defendant. she was outside her high school at the time, and another of her male friends introduced defendant to v.r. and to another girl she was with. v.r. and defendant later had a conversation in which defendant asked her to work for him as a prostitute. defendant asked v.r. how old she was (she lied and said she was 16), networking, no leaving the house on her own, and no talking to what v.r. described as the ng game, ). to work as a prostitute the same day she did so. v.r. explained she defendant instructed v.r. that should [she got] on, when [she got] that she should use condoms. in addition, v.r. described one occasion on which himself, which she did not want to do but performed anyway v.r. gave all the money she made from prostitution to defendant. the fourth of the victims to testify at trial, m.h., met defendant when she was 12 years old. she was walking home from her middle school in carson, and he started a conversation with her. m.h. got in defhe observing these beatings caused j.c. to fear the same thing would happen to her if she broke the rules. 6 would take her to get something to eat. defendant drove m.h. to a public park instead. m.h. did not realize it at the time, but during the conversation in the park defendant basically candy coating me prostituting myself. defendant and m.h. left the park and he drove she knew only by the name while there, m.h. was forced to have sex with defendant against her will; as me that he knew where i stayed, andhe wasat first, he told me to dry my m.h. said she me . . . defendant left with m.h. and took her to a motel. defendant told m.h. to put on a black dress and a wig he gave her, and when m.h. refused, defendant pulled m.h. by her hair and hit her with a closed fist in her eye, which caused it to bleed. as a result omother, m.h. again relented and put on the dress and wig. defendant then instructed m.h. on how she should interact with including how much to charge. m.h. testified she d defendant drove m.h. to figueroa street and directed her which meant getting money for itby walking and waving at the cars driving by. although defendant would occasionally drive by while she men. after a time, defendant took her back to the motel room 7 back at the motel room, another prostitute working for fancydaddy, she young. defendant asked m.h. how old she was, and m.h. told him she was 12 and about to be 13. defendant told fancy to put makeup on m.h., and after she did so, fancy gave m.h. further instructions on how walking . . . later, defendant took m.h. and fancy to long beach boulevard to engage in prostitution. after fancy told m.h. she wanted the man paid m.h. $65, which she later gave to defendant. m.h. continued to work for defendant and sometimes making $800 or $900 m.h. gave all the money she made to defendant, and he kept the money except for small amounts he gave her to purchase cigarettes and condoms. b when cross-examined by the defense, a.b., v.r., and m.h. were asked questions about the time they had been held in custody to ensure their appearance as witnesses at trial. all four girls had been held in the same detention facility. the defense asked the girls questions about conversations they had with each other and with investigating officer, when he visited the facility. 8 their everyone however, a.b. maintained she and e, but what can in addition, a.b. testified detective johnson had visited the girls at the detention facility more than five times. when asked whether detective johnson talked to a.b. and the rest of the girls as a group at the same time, a.b. a v.r. and m.h. also answered cross-examination questions concerning their time in pre-trial custody. v.r. denied she had but ctive johnson about the case when he came to the facility. for her part, m.h. said she had talked to detective johnson while being held in custody, and that she did so with the other girls present. m.h. was not asked, however, to describe the substance of what she discussed. detective johnson also testified as a witness at trial. he was not asked about meetings with the minor victims in pre-trial detention. nor was detective johnson, or any other prosecution witness, asked to describe how witnesses held in pre-trial custody are assigned to particular facilities, or who makes those assignments. 9 c the prosecution sought to introduce video footage of defendant on long beach boulevard in the company of three other men and, as the prosecution put it, a woman as to whom made . . . appear[ed] the trial court held a hearing outside the presence of the jury to determine whether the video would be admitted in evidence. the video offered by the prosecution was obtained during an earlier criminal investigation of defendant and others that resulted in a robbery charge; that robbery case, however, was dismissed prior to trial. in arguing for admission of the video, the prosecution described it for tthe video. he is the individual in the white t-shirt with the argument can be made she appears to be dressed as a prostitute. other individuals appear to be cornering her. you see the defendant appear to block her to prevent her from getting away. they let her go just before the police arrive. [] this does paint a picture of the defendant and at least one other individual who has been identified as a pimp partner operating in a manner been testimony that they control the p the trial court asked whether the evidence was being offered under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) (which permits introduction of evidence of other uncharged acts for limited purposes, such as proving intent). the prosecution it does fit under that, but emphasized the video was admissible because it was probative of whether defendant was a 10 pimp that works this case, putting the defendant on long beach boulevard in association with other individuals that the girls testified they knew him the defense objected to admission of the video in evidence, arguing it was improper character evidence and unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. defense counsel contended the video was irrelevant see being talked to by the four black men is not one of our and at the same time because it depicted defendant and another man, identified by the victims as one of , girl the trial court concluded the video was admissible. the court stated it would not permit the prosecution to make any reference to the dismissed robbery case or to play the portion of the video where police could be seen arriving on the scene. with those limitations, however, the court found persuasive the there was nothing going on in the video that depicted a crime taking placeit does not get excluded under [evidence code section] 352. i testimony]. i believe it comes in under [evidence code section] after the court made its ruling, the prosecution played the video for the jury during the testimony of another detective involved in the human trafficking investigation. the detective identified the video as having been taken in the area of long 11 beach boulevard and euclid avenue at 3:20 p.m. on december 5, 2012. the detective identified defendant as one of the individuals shown in the video, and she (the detective) identified another of the men as daniel (the victim witnesses had previously testified t.r. was ) there was no further reference to, or playing of, the video during trialarguments. d defendant testified in his own defense at trial. he asserted he made a living in the music business as a rapper. he explained ut women, which included writing lyrics about female prostitutes. although some of his lyrics attested to being a pimp (which he defined in one song testified he never actually was a pimp. defendant specifically denied exploiting each of the four victims who testified at trial. he acknowledged he had met a.b., who he knew to be a prostitute, because she had purchased one of his cds. had met j.c., but only because he gave her money for food and a hotel room when she said she had been left stranded by her boyfriend. defendant testified he knew v.r. because he met her , and he admitted he came to learn v.r. was a prostitute. but defendant claimed he was not involved in her prostitution in any way. a 12 straightforward: he claimed, is girl before in my e the defense closing argument urged the jury to accept the same story defendant related during his testimony, that is, that defendant was just a rapper and not actually involved in prostitution. the defense contended the girls who testified against him had colluded with each other to get their stories straight and had been fed information by detective johnson that they then used to incriminate defendant in order to be released from custody. the jury rejected the defense theory and found the prosecution proved defendant guilty on all counts charged. specifically, the jury found defendant guilty of human trafficking of a minor (a.b.) for purposes of a commercial sex act, with the further finding he used force, deceit, or coercion to do so, as charged in count 1; human trafficking of a minor (j.c.) for purposes of a commercial sex act, with the further finding he used force, deceit, or coercion to do so, as charged in count 2; human trafficking of a minor (v.r.) for purposes of a commercial sex act as charged in count 3; and human trafficking of a minor (m.h.) for purposes of a commercial sex act as charged in count 4. the jury also convicted defendant on the two additional counts charged against him: dissuading a witness, as charged in count 5 pertaining to v.r., and committing a lewd act upon a child, as charged in count 6 pertaining to m.h. after the jury returned the guilty verdicts, defendant filed a motion for a new trial. among the contentions in the motion was the claim that the prosecution engaged in misconduct by 13 housing the victims together in the same custodial facility where they were visited by detective johnson.3 the trial court denied the new trial motion and made an express finding there had been ely no prosecutorial misconduct or error.in so finding, the court stated i believe, at least, i directed the d.a.[,] and i understand the d.a. and the detective carried those directions out[,] not to discuss the case among themselves when they were not on the witness stand. [] those directions were given to them back at the time of the the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate prison term of 42 years and 8 months to life. the aggregate sentence included two years in prison (one-third of six years, consecutive to the principal term) for the conviction on count 6, the count alleging defendant committed a lewd act on m.h. ii as we will explain, each of the four arguments defendant makes for reversal is meritless. he claims there was no substantial evidence to support the human trafficking charges involving three of the victims because they only testified to to establish the girls were prostitutes. we, however, see no ambiguity in the record, especially under the applicable standard of reviewwas more than sufficient for a rational jury to conclude they engaged in prostitution just as 3 defendant does not challenge the denial of the new trial motion on appeal. he does, however, present and expand on this misconduct argument independently as grounds for reversal. 14 defendant intended. defendant argues the trial court erred in finding the long beach boulevard video admissible, but we hold certainly not prejudicial error entitling defendant to reversal. defendant also argues, in uncommonly strident language, that misconduct by housing the victims together in custody and detective johnson engaged in (a federal offense) because he met with the girls together before trial to discuss their anticipated testimony. defendant forfeited his misconduct claims by failing to raise them in the trial court, and his effort to evade the consequences of forfeiture by arguing ineffective assistance of counsel fails because there is ample reason why a reasonably competent trial attorney would not have raised a governmental misconduct claim. finally, defendant claims the sentence he received on count 6 (committing a lewd act on m.h.) constitutes impermissible double punishment, but we hold the sentence was proper because substantial evidence supports the conclusion act offenses were committed with separate objectives. a in counts one through four, defendant was convicted of violating section 236.1. subdivision (c) of the statute makes it a crime for cause[ ], induce[ ], or persuade[ ] . . . a person who is a minor at the time of commission of the offense to engage in a commercial sex act, with the intent to effect or maintain a violation ofenumerated penal statutes including sections 266h and 266i. penal code section 266h proscribes 15 pimping, i.e., deriving support from the proceeds of aprostitution, and penal code section 266i proscribes pandering, which is (among other things) procuring another person for purposes of prostitution. (pen. code,  266h, subd. (b), 266i, subd. (a)(1).) consistent with applicable authority, including penal code section 647, subdivision (b)(4) and people v. hill (1980) 103 cal.app.3d 525, 534-535, the instructions given to the jury intercourse or any lewd act with another person in exchange for was further the genitals, buttocks, or female breast of either the prostitute or purpose of sexual arousal or gratification.defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence as to counts two through four, i.e., the counts pertaining to j.c., v.r., and m.h., because the witnesses testified they engaged in sexual intercourse or lewd acts[,] as that term was defined in the instructions, in exchange the victims actually engaged in prostitution was required,4 the testimony given by j.c., v.r., and m.h. was sufficient. 4 under the statutory scheme, the prosecution was not required to prove the victims actually engaged in prostitution. rather, the prosecution had to prove defendant caused or induced account of which anything of value is given or received by a defendant did so with the intent to effect or maintain a violation of the pimping and pandering statutes (that do include prostitution as an element). (see, e.g., calcrim no. 1244.) 16 when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evthe light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1281.) when undertaking a substantial evidence inquiry, the testimony of a single witness that satisfies the standard is sufficient to uphold the findingthere is a significant amount of countervailing evidence. (people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1052; see also except where additional evidence is required by statute, the direct evidence of one witness who is entitled to full credit is sufficient for proof of people v. robertson (1989) 48 cal.3d 18, 44.) under this standard of review (and really, even in our independent judgment), the testimony of j.c., v.r., and m.h. established both that defendant intended the girls to engage in prostitution for his benefit and that they in fact did so. each of the girls repeatedly agreed when asked if they had worked as prostitutes (the questions explicitly used that term or a variant thereof) these three victims also specifically testified with men in exchange for money and gave the money 17 they made to defendant. while we agree the ordinary is susceptible to varying nuances (intercourse, oral sex, anal sex), all of those nuances fit comfortably within the definition of prostitution the jury was given. thus, even considered in isolation, the the victims when testifying were sufficient for the jury to conclude they engaged in intercourse or physical contact of the genitals, buttocks, or female breast for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification. defendant argument to the contrarythbecause it is possible some people or a fictional alien from the television show star trek might have in mind an idiosyncratic understanding of the wordis inconsistent with both the applicable standard of review and persuasive authority. (see people v. gilbert (1963) 217 cal.app.2d 662, 665-667 [ordinary and accepted meaning of the is the concept of a statement made under oath; the trial therefore overcame the argument that evidence for perjury charge was insufficient because there was no proof an oath was administered to the defendant].) moreover, recontext leaves no question that the girls were referring to genital contact (whether intercourse or oral sex) when describing the addition to test, j.c. testified undercover police officers by and, like, reveal themselves to youthis, of course, leaves little doubt that j.c. was talking about to genital contact when she described engaged in for 18 defendant. v.r. testified defendant instructed v.r. that her (meaning a sex act with a man for money) should be no longer than a certain amount of minutes and that she should use condoms. again, the reference to condoms leaves little doubt that defendant intended v.r. to engage in sexual contact with her testimony, considered in its entirety, was even more explicit. she testified she testified about her orced her to be his prostitute: a man who wanted her treceived $65. m.h. also testified ( on this point) that defendant gave her money to purchase condoms. there was ample evidence for the jury to find defendant intended to pimp or pander the minor victims and that they engaged in prostitution as defined in the jury instructions. we evidence supporting the human trafficking convictions. b defendant argues the trial court erred in admitting into evidence the long beach boulevard video (depicting him, the young woman, and at least one other man the victims identified and he contends the error warrants reversal. we hold to the contrary on both points. the ruling was not error under the applicable standard of review, and even assuming the contrary, the error did not result in prejudice requiring reversal. as he did in the trial court, defendant argues the video should have be excluded under evidence code section 352. that 19 statute provides: evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue a of evidence and in assessing whether concerns of undue prejudice, confusion, or consumption of time substantially outweigh the probative value of particular evidence. [citation.] court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 572.) the trial court found the video relevant because it tended to establish some objective witnele testifying. further, with the redaction and limitation ordered by the trial court (to stop the video before the police were shown arriving and to refrain from mentioning that the video was associated with a dismissed robbery case against defendant), the trial court found the video should not be excluded as unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. neither determination represents an abuse of discretion. we would not describe the video as highly relevant evidence, but it does have some probative value in connection tends to prove, as the victims testified, that defendant frequented at least one man (t.r.) the victims identified a 20 pimp partners.5 as prior cases have held, the video is not made irrelevant simply because the people introduced, or could have introduced, other evidence that tended to establish the same facts. (people v. watson (2008) 43 cal.4th 652, 684 [photographs admissible even if offered to prove an issue not in dispute and even if repetitive of other evidence, provided their probative value is not substantially outweighed by their prejudicial effect]; see also people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 134 [citing people v. scheid immaterial for purposes of determining the relevance of evidence .) regarding the other side of the evidence code section 352 coinoutweighed by a danger of undue prejudice. the prejudice referred to in evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section 352, prejudicial is not synonymous with damaging. . . . in other words, evidence should be excluded as unduly prejudicial when it is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant, but to reward or punish emotional reaction.people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 439, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) 5 we nefinding that the video was also admissible as relevant to one or more issues identified in evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). 21 under this standard, and keeping in mind the restrictions the trial court ordered, there was little, if anything, about the video that can be considered to have created a danger of undue prejudice. as defendant acknowledges, the trial court viewed the video and observed going on . . . that is a crime.defendant nonetheless argues the video was prejudicial because it gave the jury [defendant], together with three other men, two of whom were known [pimps], on long beach boulevard where the trafficking allegedly occurred, crowding around a scantily clad unidentified female of questionable age, cornering her for a few minutes before they let her get that is the claim of undue prejudiceevidence depicting defendant associating with known pimps and a possible prostituteit is both insufficient and not without irony: the defense at trial, in its opening statement and estimony, affirmatively introduced video evidence that presents a comparable potential for prejudice, so understood.6 insofar as the long beach boulevard video 6 that defand . . . pimps (among other topics) while in the company of women, some of whom defendant conceded were prostitutes. a transcript of the we pimping now stay the fuck outta my business [] polo sippin pezu [] drink syrup with a (unintelligible) [] gotta bitch who and when we high off indo [] she be sloppy drunk in limos [] wood grain all in the ride [] i call it rollin incogneto. 22 created any danger of undue prejudice at all, the trial court was within its discretion to conclude such a danger did not substantially outweigh the probative value. in any event, we are convinced defendant cannot show that it is reasonably probable he would have achieved a more favorable result if the trial court had excluded the long beach boulevard video.7 (people v. marks (2003) 31 cal.4th 197, 227 [ application of ordinary rules of evidence like evidence code section 352 does not implicate the federal constitution, and thus we review allegations of error under the reasonable probability standard of [people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836]].) the video played a quite minor role during the trial. the concerning the video was limited to identifying certain individuals depicted and describing the time and place where the video was recorded. in addition, neither the prosecution nor the defense made any reference to the video during closing argument. for its part, the prosecution focused almost exclusively on the giras evidence of defenbottom line. . . . [] if you do not believe the girls . . . send the defendant home. when the defense argued the prosecution 7 he admission of evidence, even if erroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair.people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) we see no fundamental unfairness resulting from suggestion that the chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 standard of prejudice applies. 23 testimony, the prosecutor did not reference the long beach one witness that you believe is enan examination of all the testimony and argument at trial accordingly leaves us convinced the video was a relatively , and when combined with the implausibility of defbelieve there is no chance the jury would have acquitted defendant (or failed to reach a verdict) but for having seen the video. c dis best described by quoting his own description of the contention. his heading for the pertinent section of his opening brief the witnesses together for weeks before trial, permitting them to jointly review their experiences and anticipated testimony, compounded by detective johnson interviewing the witnesses as a group amounted to witness tampering, constituted police and governmental misconduct and tainted each ability to effectively cross-examine each witness on her individual view of the facts and her observations which denied the defense its constitutional right to due process and a fair and unbiased trial. and, trial counsel was 24 ineffective for failing to object[.]for describe the claim as one of ; we hold it was forfeited for failure to object in the trial court; and we reject the claim of ineffective assistance of counsel because a competent attorney could have appropriately decided against raising a meritless misconduct claim. defendant concedes he did not object to the victim witnesses testifying at trial on the basis of any asserted governmental misconduct, nor did he ask the court to give a jury instruction addressing the purported misconduct. we accordingly hold defendant forfeited his governmental misconduct claim by failing to raise an appropriate objection. (people v. low (2010) 49 cal.4th 372, 393, fn. 11 [outrageous government conduct argument forfeited for failure to timely raise it]; people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298 [a defendant may not complain of prosecutorial misconduct on appeal unless the defendant made a timely objection in the trial court and asked that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety]; see also people v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 577 [forfeiture rule applies to prosecutorial misconduct claim raised only in a post-verdict motion for new trial].) application of the forfeiture rule is particularly appropriate here because the absence of any objection results in an undeveloped recordforcing defendant to merely speculate that it was (likely either detective johnson or the prosecutor) [that] made the prosecution of an opportunity to introduce evidence to rebut the government misconduct claim. (see, e.g., people v. welch traditional objection and waiver 25 principles encourage development of the record and a proper exercise of discretion in the trial court defendant argues that in the event we hold his government misconduct claim forfeited by the absence of an objection in the failure to object constituted constitutionally deficient representation. we have indeed held the government misconduct claim forfeited, and his ineffective assistance of counsel claim is also unavailing. in assessing claims of ineffective assistance of trial fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694 [ ]; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217 [ ]people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189 (carter).) actions fall within the broad range of reasonableness, and afford reverse a conviction based on ineffective assistance of counsel on direct appeal only if there is affirmative evidence that counsel no rational tactical purposepeople v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198.) if the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged,a reviewing court on direct appeal must reject a claim of ineffective assistance of to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory 26 explancarter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1189; see also people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1262-1263 [rejecting claim an attorney provided ineffective assistance by failing to object to alleged prosecutorial misconduct because the record on appeal did not reveal why no objection was made].) there is little if any claim that the victim witnesses . when asked directly, v.r. denied she spoke to the other victims about the case. m.h. acknowledged she talked to detective johnson with the other girls present, but she was not asked whether those discussions concerned her trial testimony.8 a.b. testified she and the other girls case, but what can h discussed the case, defendant argues a.b. at least must have discussed some facts bearing on the issues at trial because her testimony that was based on j.c. having mentioned that period of time when the girls talked while in custody prior to trial.9 this falls far short of substantiating accusation that all of the victims 8 there is no basis to assume that the nature of the anticipated testimony, particularly when a.b. testified detective johnsexcept for 9 time. 27 vit, and in its place a collective was formed . . . indeed, each of the victims had been interviewed by the police on an individual basis prior to being housed in the same pre-trial detention facilitytrial attorney used those individual statements to significant effect in impeaching aspects of their trial testimony. even if we read the record to indicate there must have been some discussion of the facts of the case among the victims prior to trial, defendant points to no persuasive authority suggesting such discussions would have been a basis for excluding the entirety of the girls testimony (or granting a mistrial or dismissal of the charges). defendant cites evidence code section 777, the rule that provides for exclusion of witnesses, but the citation hurts, rather than helps, his argument. defendant claims the rule is impermissibly tainted by hearing the testimony of another witness. but as prior decisions have held, a party is not entitled to exclusion of witnesses as a matter of right, but rather solely at the discretion of the trial judge. (people v. hanson a motion to exclude witnesses during the trial is not a matter of right, but rests in the sounsee also evid. code,  777, subds. (b), (c) [parties to an action cannot be excluded]; people v. rogers (1912) 163 cal. 476, 481.) if the evidence code does not automatically prohibit a witness from testifying in any instance in which the witness has heard the testimony of another witness, the code provides no support for necessarily tainted and inadmissible if there was some discussion 28 among them about the facts of the case prior to trial.10 defendant also cites cases that hold it is impermissible for law enforcement to ask witnesses to identify a suspect in a group setting such that the identification by one witness might influence the other witnesses. (see, e.g., people v. nation (1980) 26 cal.3d 169, 179-180.) these identification cases are inapposite here where the victims were undisputedly interviewed separately by law enforcement actions long before they were housed together in custody, which poses no equivalent danger of impermissible suggestion. more to the point, and still assuming there was pre-trial discussion of the case between the witnesses in custody, the record does not indicate any such discussion occurred at the behest of the prosecution team or tacit encouragement. the testimony as to whether johnson talked to the girls as a group is somewhat conflicting. a.b. testified there were no group discussions except for one time that . testified they did talk to detective johnson while the other victims were present. but there is no evidence as to what the substance of any such discussions was, and certainly no testimony, as defendant asserts, that there was an opportunity [for the victims] to discuss their testimony in group meetings chaired by detective 10 such discussion would, of course, provide ammunition for cross-examination, and that is why witnesses are routinely encouraged not to discuss issues bearing on their testimony with other witnesses. the defense pursued precisely that line of cross-examination in seeking to discredit the victims in this case. 29 11 to the contrary, the trial court in ruling on found that there had been absolutely no prosecutorial misconduct and that the prosecutor and detective johnson instead instructed the witnesses not to discuss the case among themselves when they were not on the witness stand. that is a finding entitled to deference on appeal. (people v. uribe (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 836, 857-858.) in addition, defendant cites no authority holding it is misconduct for the government to house witnesses in the same custodial facility, nor any facts in the record that establish the housing decision was made by a member of the prosecution team. (see united states v. smith (9th cir. 1990) 893 f.2d 1573, 1583 [no misconduct found for housing witnesses together where the defendant provided no support for the assertion that the prosecutor had any control over where the inmate witnesses were colluded in their testimony].) on the record as we find it, trial attorney could have concludedrightlythat a government misconduct claim would be rejected by the trial judge, especially because making such a claim would give the prosecution an opportunity to directly rebut it (for instance, by showing the decision to house 11 allegation (the brief provides no citation to the record) that the prosecutor was solicited false testimony at trial by having each of the witnesses vigorous advocacy is essential, but leveling a charge of suborning perjury that finds no foundation in the record is not. 30 the victims in the same facility was made by someone who was not part of the prosecution team). at the same time, trial counsel may have believed the suggestion of collusion among the victims might provide fertile ground for cross-examination and a basis to argue the jury should acquit defendant, which is precisely what counsel did. because we indulge in a presumption that . . . s actions and inactions can be explained as a matter of sound trial strategy, we presume testimony (or obtain other relief) based on what is by all appearances a meritless misconduct claim. (carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1189; see also (2016) 62 cal.4th 944, 1010, fn. 12 failure to object was therefore not ineffective assistance].) we claim that his trial attorney was ineffective for failing to object on grounds of governmental misconduct. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266.) d defendant next argues the trial court wrongly sentenced him to a prison term on both count 4, human trafficking of m.h., and count 6, committing a lewd act on m.h. he contends imposing sentence on both counts violates penal code section 654. section 654 prohibits punishment for multiple crimes arising from a single indivisible course of conduct. (people v. latimer (1993) 5 cal.4th 1203, 1207-1208.) the application of multiple statutory provisions rather than temporal proximity. 31 (people v. britt (2004) 32 cal.4th 944, 951-952 (britt).) if all of the crimes for which the defendant was convicted were merely incidental to or were the means of accomplishing or facilitating one objective, he may be punished only once. (ibid.) multiple punishment, by contrast, is proper if the defendant entertained multiple independent criminal objectives. (people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 335.) as our supreme court explained in britthe objectives were either (1) consecutive even if similar or (2) britt, supra, at p. 952.) the question of whether penal code section 654 applies in a given case is a question of fact for the trial court, which is vested with broad discretion to resolve the question; its findings will not be reversed on appeal if there is any substantial evidence to support them. (people v. jones (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1139, 1143 (jones).) this review for substantial evidence applies to implied and express findings alike. (people v. mccoy (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 1333, 1338; jones, supra, at p. 1143.) on appeal, favorable to the [people] and presume the existence of every fact (jones, supra, at p. 1143.) here, we have no trouble finding substantial evidence that that defendant acted with separate objectives in committing the human trafficking and lewd act upon a minor crimes.12 indeed, the elements of both 12 because defendant made no argument at sentencing that punishing him for the count 4 conviction and the count 6 conviction would run afoul of penal code section 654. 32 crimes (which were proven by substantial evidence at trial) make clear the separate objectives that support multiple punishment. to be guilty of committing a lewd act on m.h. as charged in count 6 of the information, the prosecution was required to prove defendant committed a lewd or lascivious act, e.g., the forcible sex gratifying [his] lust, passions, or sexual desires . . .  288, subd. (a); calcrim no. 1110.) to be guilty of human trafficking, as charged in count 4 pertaining to m.h., defendant must have had the intent to effect or maintain a violation of the pimping or pandering statutes, neither of which requires proof of an act done by a defendant to satisfy his own lust or sexual desires. (pen. code,  236.1, subd. (c), 266h, 266i.) defendant nevertheless argues he harbored the same objective in committing both offenses because he forced himself upon m.h. simply as a means of procuring her to work for him as a prostitute. we think the argument fails on the facts and the law. m.h. testified that during their discussion at the park, and was lly candy at the time. but that does not prove his later sexual assault at was committed in aid of grooming m.h. to be a prostitute rather than for his own sexual gratification.13 in other words, regardless of whether there could be some support for the idea defendant may have been motivated by a single objective if we viewed the evidence in the light most favorable to him, there 13 it is worth recalling that v.r. testified defendant told her to perform oral sex on him even after she had already been working for him as a prostitute. 33 was obviously substantial evidence supporting thimplicit finding to the contraryand that is what matters. (people v. valli (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 786, 794 [when reviewing claim of error under penal code section 654, evidence is viewed in the light most favorable to the people].) penal code section 654 therefore posed no bar to imposing sentence on both counts. e defendant argues he is entitled to one additional day of presentence custody credit and the abstract of judgment wrongly calculates his conduct credits as 78, rather than 79, days. the calculation requires correction. we concur defendant is entitled to an additional day of custody credit and the abstract of judgment should be corrected to give defendant an additional day of conduct credit. 34 disposition the clerk of the superior court shall prepare an amended abstract of judgment that gives defendant 608 days of presentence credit, consisting of 529 days of actual custody credit and 79 days of conduct credit, and deliver the amended abstract to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. dunning, j.* * judge of the orange county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 