filed 1/27/17 p. v. robles ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose robles, defendant and appellant. b266165 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta136797) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john j. lonergan, jr., judge. affirmed. dwyer + kim and jin h. kim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant jose robles of one count of second degree burglary (pen. code,  459),1 after which he admitted a single prison enhancement ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the court sentenced him to two years in state prison. he appeals from the judgment of conviction, contending that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to object to a comment in the we disagree. he also in camera review of pitchess material. we have done so, and find no abuse of discretion therefore, we affirm the judgment. background prosecution evidence jose zambrana managed a multi-unit apartment building on west 137th street in compton, california. on the evening of march 22, 2015, zambrana saw defendant drive up in a car with two other male passengers and park outside apartment 5, which was vacant for remodeling. zambrana knew defendant because he would visit people in the building and , and apparently slept in the building on occasion. defendant opened the door of apartment 5 with a key, and he and the two men removed boxes and other items from the apartment, and loaded them into the car. the two other men then drove off while 1 further unspecified statutory references are to the penal code. the trial court dismissed a second burglary charge under section 1118.1 for insufficient evidence. 3 defendant stayed. zambrana did not confront defendant and the others because he feared they were armed. the next morning he discovered boxes of tile, tools, and a stainless steel sink with a faucet were missing from the apartment. on march 25, 2015, zambrana saw defendant at apartment 5 and asked him where he got a key to the apartment and whether he had talking about. later that day, zambrana saw defendant shatter the window to apartment 1 and called the police. department arrived and spoke with zambrana. according to deputy orrego, zambrana pointed at defendant, who was walking down 137th street, and told him that defendant took items from an apartment that day, march 25 (rather than on march 22). deputy orrego stopped defendant, placed him in the patrol car, and advised him of his miranda rights, which defendant waived. deputy orrego asked defendant if he had been at the location of the burglary reported by zambrana. defendant responded that he broke into an apartment and took a faucet and other construction equipment (apparently referring to the march 22 burglary of apartment 5). defendant also stated that he tried to break into another apartment (apparently referring to apartment 1). detective sarah dieguez spoke to zambrana on march 26, 2015. zambrana told detective dieguez that on march 22, 2015, defendant broke into two different buildings and took six boxes of tile and maintenance tools. zambrana then told detective dieguez that on march 25, 2015, he saw appellant break a window. 4 defense evidence building. from march 22 through 25, 2015, zokhrabov saw multiple zokhrabov explained that he saw around six individuals drinking and smoking around the apartments. zokhrabov also saw that the materials brought in to renovate the apartment units were missing. discussion i. ineffective assistance defendant contends that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to object to a single comment made by the prosecutor in closing argument. we disagree. in order to establish a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, defendant bears the burden of demonstrating, first, that counsels reasonableness [] . . . under prevailing pro[citations.] unless a defendant establishes the contrary, we shall s performance fell within the wide range of professional competence and that counsels actions and inactions can be explained as a matter of sound o provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory 5 establishing that counsels performance was deficient, he or she also must show that counsels deficiencies resulted in prejudice, that is, a s unprofessional errors, the people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 746.) relevant proceedings at trial, defense counsel vigorously cross-examined deputy orrego implying that deputy orrego had to protect and serve.2 in her redirect examination of deputy orrego, the 2 as here relevant, the following cross-examination occurred: q [by defense counsel]: did you record the interview, sir? a [deputy orrego]: no. q do you have the means to record the interview? a no. q do you have a cell phone? a yes. what kind of cell phone do you have? the witness: a motorola phone. q [by defense counsel]: okay. does it have a camera function on it, sir? a yes. q does it have a video function on it? a yes. q okay. so you did have the means to record the interview, correct? a. yes, sir. q okay. were there any other officers around while you did the interview? a yes. 6 q okay. did you ask any of them to come up and watch you interview mr. robles? a no. q okay. so the only person who saw this alleged confession is you, right? a yes. q think it was a good idea to maybe have him write out a confession? [the prosecutor]: objection. argumentative. the court: sustained. q [by defense counsel]: but did he write out a confession? a no. q [the prosecutor]: objection. asked and answered. the court: sustained. asked and answered. [by defense counsel]: okay. do you happen to remember exactly what my client said as he sat in the back of your patrol car? a no. q re there to protect a yes. q and you arrived on the scene for a vandalism call, right? a yes. q which eventually in your mind turned into a burglary call, correct? a yes. q and then you questioned mr. robles and according to you, he told you that he was culpable; is that correct? a yes. q a yes. q okay. at any time after his confession or at any subsequent time did you ask him where the property was? a no. q ask that? a 7 prosecutosdepartment discovered that you had made up a confession by someone sidebar, the prosecutor explained that she was asking the question on cross-examination by alleging that the confession by appellant was fabricated. the trial court explained that the question, as phrased, was speculative since deputy orrego would be unable to lay a foundation as to the protocols of an internal affairs investigation. the trial court do you believe the alternative, [which] would be somebody is not telling the truth? thereafter, in closing argument, as part of her explanation of ana and defendant, the prosecutor made the single comment which, on appeal, defendant contends his attorney should have objected to as misconduct. we q a q would that refresh your recollection to review your report? a yes. q [by defense counsel]: is your recollection refreshed, sir. a yes. q did you ever ask him that? a no. 8 italicize the purportedly objectionable comment in the lengthy excerpt w: [on march 25], is it reasonable that mr. zambrana said no, no, no, he [defendant] actually took this stuff earlier and that deputy orrego because the day deputy orrego was called to the scene was days after the burglary actually took place [on march 22]. [] and when the people said we are only one count to decide . . . because when the evidence came out, it was clarified. . . . on the 22nd is when the burglary took place, but this the deputies actually responded and that mr. zambrana gave a statement. you think you are responding to the scene about something that is happening and the witness is telling you i saw this person break into this window and earlier i saw him taking stuff in and out of the apartment, that is a reasonable miscommunication that could happen. deputy is thinking, oh, okay, that happened . and the other thing you have to believe is that deputy orrego is going to put his whole livelihood on the line and make up a confession by the defendant just for this case because the defendant told deputy orrego exactly what happened and deputy orrego is a certified 9 translator of english to spanish. he testified in english, but he spoke why he wanted to tell deputy orrego all of that have to prove that. for whatever reason he was feeling open that day and he said i went in there. i took the stuff. i took it because i was in his closing argument, defense counsel followed up on his s credible, the next thing that the prosecution is going to stand on is really? really? he confessed? okay. then deputy orrego said he asked my client if what mr. zambrana said was true. did he enter the apartment on that day and take certain items? do you remember that? i asked him if what mr. zambrana said was true? do you remember him saying that? but think about that. entered the apartment on march 25th so how can my client admit to so how can my client admit to something that their own witness has also, my client allegedly confessed to a felony because he was feeling talkative and helpful to write out the confession for this felony, videotape the confession for this felony, have an officer as a witness to corroborate the substance of the confession. and most importantly when i asked deputy orrego 10 i just remember that he confessed. really? really? ladies and gentleman, that is officer did a 15-minute investigation, 15 minutes. a television sitcom without commercials is 21 minutes. that means that this gentleman did less work than an episode of seinfeld. that is not proof beyond a reasonable doubt. no ineffective assistance defendant contends that the comment you have to believe . . . that deputy orrego is going to put his whole livelihood on constituted improper vouching for deputy orregoit relied on matter outside the record. according to defendant, it discipline that would be imposed if orrego were caught fabricating the confession namely, the loss of his careerdefendant also argues the orrego concerning internal discipline. therefore, according to defendant, his trial counsel had a duty to object, and was ineffective for failing to do so. as we explain, we disagree. first, . contrary ruling. in ruling, the court informed the attorneys that they could rgue all day long and tell the jury and make the argument[,] do you , 11 [which] would be somebody is not telling the truth(italics added.) permitting argument on whether the jury should believe deputy orrego, who was and deputy orrego was doing moreover, in context, the comment did not constitute improper of witnesses or otherwise bolstering the veracity of their testimony by referring to evidence outside the record. [citations.] nor is a prosecutor permitted to place the prestige of [his or her] office behind a witness by offering the impression that [he or she] has taken steps to assure a witnesss truthfulness at trial. [citation.] however, so long as a prosecutors assurances regarding the apparent honesty or reliability inferences reasonably drawn therefrom, rather than any purported personal knowledge or bcharacterized as improper vouching. (people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 971.) california case authority is not entirely consistent concerning iplinary or professional consequences of lying as a witness constitutes improper however most decisions, including the most recent california supreme court authority on the topic, have found no impropriety. (see people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 774 (dykes) [comment that if defendant were believed, then officer was 12 frame this man,people v. anderson (1990) 52 cal.3d 453, 478-479 (anderson) [comment that reputations by lying to convict one defendant held not to be improper ferences reasonably drawn therefrom, rather than . . . personal belief or people v. caldwell (2013) 212 cal.app.4th 1262, 1270 (caldwell) put their career on the line for this caseit perjury to convict defendant held proper as a response to defense argument questioning ]; compare people v. padilla (1995) 11 cal.4th 891, 946, overruled on another ground in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1 [doubting propriety of risked his whole career of , but finding no prejudice]; people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106, 114 [finding comment that officers risked their careers, pensions, house notes, car notesreference to matters outside the record].) here, under the authority of dykes, supra, 56 cal.4th at page 774, anderson, supra, 52 cal.3d at pages 478-479, and caldwell, supra, 212 cal.app.4th at page not improper. it 13 was fair comment responding to the cross-examination of deputy orrego that the deputy fabricated and violated his duty to protect and serve. moreover, the thrust of the prosecutas a whole was events could be rationally explained without irrational speculation that zambrana and deputy orrego collaborated to frame defendant. in his closing argument, defense counsel attacked -for this felony, videotape the confession [or] have an officer as a witness arguments as a whole, it was not reasonably likely that the jury would t (referring to deputy [ting] his [job] as a comment relying on ethe prestige of [] office, or personal knowledge or belief. (frye, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 971.) rather, in context, the comment amounted to little more than a common sense observation that deputy orrego had no motive to lie. trial counsel was not ineffective for failing to object. second, even if the comment was improper, the record suggests a tactical reason why defense counsel did not object. as we have noted, evidentiary ruling, which discussed the permissible bounds of 14 argument. thus, the record contains a rational explanation for trial an objection would have been overruled (ling) and a futile objection would only call attention to the comment. finally, even if trial counsel should have objected, it is not reasonably probable that, had he done so and been successful, a different result would have been reached. the comment was brief. defense counsel had ample opportunity to, and did, challenge deputy orrtestimony, there is no reasonable probability that if trial counsel had different result would have been reached. ii. pitchess defendant made a pitchess motion for disclosure of citizen complaints made against deputy orrego. the trial court granted the motion with respect to complaints regarding dishonesty. following an in camera hearing, the court ruled that there were no discoverable complaints. defendant asks that we review the transcript of the in camera hearing to determine whether the custodian of records properly and whether the court abused its discretion in not disclosing any complaints. (see people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1228-1229.) we have done so, and conclude that the hearing was conducted properly and that the court did not abuse its discretion in ruling there were no complaints subject to disclosure. 15 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 