filed 7/20/16 p. v. sanchez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. miguel angel sanchez, defendant and appellant. b266486 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va134962) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael a. cowell, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant miguel angel sanchez of oral copulation of a child under the age of 10 (count 1, penal code,  288.7, subd. (b)1) and forcible lewd act upon a child (count 2,  288, subd. (b)(1).) after fcourt sentenced defendant to 95 years to life55 years to life on count one, and 40 years on count 2, to run consecutively. on appeal, defendant argues that his actions were part of a continuous course of conduct, and therefore he should not have been sentenced to consecutive terms. we find that the two acts he committed on the seven-year-old victim were separate and distinct, and therefore affirm. factual and procedural background the prosecution presented the following facts. defendant was a friend of the mother had four children at the time of the incident, e., age 14; j., age 12; b., age 7, and ju.; age 3. on the day of the incident, mother was suffering from the effects of a miscarriage about a week earlier. defendant called mother and offered to help her carry groceries home. defendant met mother and her four children at the grocery store, and accompanied them on the walk home. they stopped on the way home to purchase a pizza. e. the rest of the group went to a park to eat the pizza. afterward, mother and defendant home with j., b., and ju. when they reached the house, mother sat down on the steps in front of the house to watch j. and ju. play. defendant asked mother where to put the pizza, and she asked him to put it in the kitchen of the home. mother also asked seven-year-old b. to take her purse and put it inside. inside, defendant beckoned to b., and, thinking he was going to give her more pizza, she went to him in the kitchen. defendant got on his knees, lifted skirt, and pulled her underwear to the side. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 licked her vagina three times. btried to answer or go to her mother. but defendant stood, grabbed b. hard around her stomach, pinning her arms to her sides, and stuck his tongue into mouth. defendant then told b. that he loved her, gave her a dollar to buy ice cream, and told her not to tell anyone. mother testified that after defendant and b. went inside, within about three to five minutes mother noticed that b. had not come back out. she called b. twice, and b. did not respond. mother got up and went inside, and observed defendant coming out of the kitchen. defendant told mother earlier that he planned to pick up some water for her, and -year-old j. with him to get the water. mother testified that she when mother asked what happened, b. told her. as b. reported this to her mother, she was spitting and wanted to vomit. mother grabbed three-year-old ju., her purse, and her phone, and began to run down the street, following defendant and j. mother called police as she ran. mother testified that she was afraid defendant might do something to j. mother spotted defendant with j.; e. was also there with the bicycle, after leaving the nearby barber shop. when defendant saw mother coming, he took the bike from e. and rode away. police arrived and took mother and the children to the police station. police questioned b. alone. mother took b. to the hospital later that day and she was examined. one vaginal sample screened positive for saliva and was tested for dna. the test in vaginal sample. defendant took the stand in his defense; no other defense witnesses were called. he testified about the events that day, and said he was never inside the house alone with b. on cross-examination, the prosecutor asked defendant if he remembered going back house; defendant said yes. the prosecution then defendant told the investigating officer that he had no memory of any events after the 4 family left the park, and suggested that his memory was impaired because mother had drugged his gatorade. the jury found defendant guilty on both counts: oral copulation of a child under the age of 10 (count 1, penal code,  288.7, subd. (b)), and forcible lewd act upon a child for s (count 2,  288, subd. (b)(1).) defendant waived a jury trial on his priors, and the court found the priors allegations to be true. on count 1, the court sentenced defendant to 15 years to life, tripled as a third strike, plus 10 years for the prior convictions, for a total of 55 years to life. on count 2, the court sentenced defendant to 10 years, tripled as a third strike, plus 10 years for the prior convictions, for a total of 40 years. the sentence on count 2 was to run consecutively. defense counsel objected that the sentences should not run consecutively because under section 654, a defendant may not be punished separately for actions that constitute a single course of conduct but violate more than one statute. tcontinu[ing] course of conduct. [] but viewing it from the perspective of the seven-year-old child, these are two distinct and discr[ete] acts. [] first of all, she is shocked she presumably does not respond he suddenly immobilizes her by gripping her and thrusts his tongue into her mouth, from her point of view that is a completely horrific separate act that he commits. [] the court does feel that this is a totally distinct act and that the mandatory - - and because of the duress and the restraint was used by the defendant, th defendant timely appealed. discussion defendant asserts a single error on appeal. he argues that section 654 requires the sentence on count 2 to be reversed or stayed because his actions with b. were part of an indivisible course of conduct, for which only a single punishment may be imposed. we disagree and affirm. 5 different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or only where such punishment arises out of multiple statutory violations produced by the people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 335 (harrison)ibidincident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of such offenses but people v. perez (1979) 23 cal.3d 545, 551 (perez), citing neal v. state of california (1960) 55 cal.2d 11, 19.) perspective, rather than sentences. he argues the case should be reversed and remanded for a new section 654 analysis. defendant is correct that the viewpoint of the victim is not the correct section 654 consideration, but remand is not required. the applicability of section 654 to conceded facts is a question of law. (harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 335.) defendant has not here sentencing error involves the failure to state reasons for making a particular sentencing choice, including the imposition of consecutive terms, reviewing courts have consistently declined to remand cases where doing so would be an idle act that exalts form over substance (people v. coelho (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 861, 889; see also people v. williams (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1767, 1783 [where the record reflects facts that justify the imposition of a people v. sanchez (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1680, 1686 6 have been different if it had been reminded to state a proper reason, the constitutional here, ample evidence supports the consecutive sentences. on 654 does not preclude separate punishment for multiple sex offenses which, although closely connected in time and part of the same criminal venture, are separate and distinct, and which are not committed as a means of committing any other sex offense, do not facilitate commission of another sex offense, and are not incidental to the commission of people v. castro (1994) 27 cal.app.4th 578, 584-585.) evidence discloses that a defendant entertained multiple criminal objectives which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, he may be punished for the independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations perez, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 551.) her afterwards, that was merely incidental to the sexual gratification sought by the oral copulation, and was part and parcel of that cour this argument is not an entirely separate violation. moreover, b. testified that she heard her mother call to her, and when she attempted to answer or go to her mother, defendant stood up from his kneeling position, grabbed b. hard, and put his tongue in her mouth. the evidence therefore suggested that defendant had a separate intent of stopping b. from answering or going to her mother. of achieving the other, facilitated commission of the other, or was incidental to the people v. marks (1986) 184 cal.app.3d 458, 466; see also people v. coleman (1989) 48 cal.3d 112, 163 [assault of victim following completion of robbery was not incidental to the robbery].) 7 in addition, dmultiple ways does not render the multiple violations an indivisible course of conduct. in perez, supra, 23 cal.3d 545, the supreme court held that the objective of obtaining of section 654. assertion of a sole intent and objective to achieve sexual gratification is akin to an assertion of a desire for wealth as the sole intent and objective in committing a series of separate thefts. to accept such a broad, overriding intent and objective to purs punishment will be commensurate with his perez, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 552.) moreover, people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 341.) a defendant who attempts to achieve sexual gratification by committing a number of base criminal acts on his victim is substantially more culpable than a defendant who perez, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 553.) in addition, a opportunity to walk away from the victim, he voluntarily resumed his sexually assaultive people v. harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 338.) when defendant had call, defendant could have walked away. instead, he stood up, sides, and assaulted her again by sticking his tongue into her mouth. section 654 does not bar separate punishment for gratuitous acts that are unnecessary to accomplish the original offense and committed against helpless and unresisting victims. (people v. nguyen (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 181, 190; people v. cleveland (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 263, 272.) 8 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 