filed 10/26/17 p. v. palato ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesse james palato, defendant and appellant. b266846 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga094450) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stan blumenfeld, judge. affirmed with directions. daniel g. koryn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris and xavier becerra, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and carl n. henry, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 appellant jesse james palato appeals from the judgment entered following his convictions by jury for annoying or molesting a child (count 3), contacting a minor to commit a lewd act (count 4), and attempting to arrange a meeting with a minor for a lewd purpose (count 7). these charges arose from facebook social media application: count 3 involved 11-year-old victim f.h., while counts 4 and 7 involved 13-year-old victim a.m. at trial, evidence was admitted that appellant engaged in similar facebook communications with the mother of a third boy, eight-year-old d.r., believing that appellant was communicating with d.r. appellant claims that the trial court erroneously instructed the jury as to how it should consider evidence of an uncharged sexual offense in deciding appellant the charged offenses. appellant also contends there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction for annoying and molesting f.h. finally, appellant contends (and the attorney general concedes) that the abstract of judgment should be corrected to reflect that appellant was convicted by jury, not by plea. we affirm the judgment of conviction, but order the trial court to amend the abstract of judgment to state that appellant was convicted by jury. procedural and factual summary 1. relevant pretrial procedural history. an amended information filed on july 7, 2015, charged appellant with four counts: annoying and molesting a minor, f.h. (pen. code,  647.6, subd. (a)(1)1 (count 3)); contacting minor 1 unless otherwise indicated, section references are to the penal code. 3 a.m. with the intent to commit a sexual offense ( 288.3, subd. (a) (count 4)); attempting to arrange to meet minor a.m. for lewd purposes ( 664/288.4, subd. (a)(1) (count 7)); and engaging in molesting or annoying conduct with an adult, believing that the adult was minor d.r. ( 647.6, subd. (a)(2) (count 8)). that final count, count 8, was newly alleged in this amended information filed less than a week before trial was set to begin. appellant, who by then was representing himself, orally moved under section 995 to dismiss the new count 8, involving the minor d.r. the court dismissed count 8, finding that it was not timely charged, but code section 1108 evidence at the trial, as a violation of penal 2 thus, after conducting the required evidence code section 352 analysis weighing the probative value of the evidence versus its prejudicial effect, the court admitted the evidence underlying the dismissed cpursuant to evidence code section 1108, subdivision (a). appellant did not object to the admission of the evidence with respect to his facebook communications with d.r. 2 subdivision (a)very person who, motivated by an unnatural or abnormal sexual interest in children, engages in conduct with an adult whom he or she believes to be a child under 18 years of age, which conduct, if directed toward a child under 18 years of age, would be a 4 2. evidence at trial. appellant represented himself during the six-day jury trial. prosecution witnesses included the three minor boys, f.h., a.m., and d.r., as well as appellant presented no defense witnesses. (a) count 3: victim f.h. (including june 2012 events). viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established as follows. f.h. was born in november 2000. during the events pertaining to count 3, f.h. was 11 years old and in the sixth grade at a baldwin park elementary school. appellant was a basketball coach at his school. besides adult family members, appellant was the only other adult with whom f.h. was the communications below between f.h. and appellant were private messages and f.h.s facebook accounts. the actual misspellings and abbreviations used in those messages are reflected below. appellant began sending f.h. messages in april 2012. initially, f.h. and appellant conversed about general topics such as basketball and movies. on june 1, 2012, apparently after f.h. was not responsive to his messages, appellant sent him a sumthing to u?? [] r u emo??3 appellant sent another message askingu have a gf [f.h.]?(gf) [y]es 3 meant. 5 bye[.]lol. . . . jus wondering[.] [] ur weird . . . bye[.] [] nd quit wearing black all the time. [] nd sweaters[.] [] its summer on june 6r u gay? jus askin . . . . [] r u?? [] i guess u rthen r u??? [] u kno silence tells alot. [] nd i kno ur emo[s]however, y u cnt answer the question. jus tell me . . . ur gay right??? between [u and me] . . . . [] nd you lied to me . . . u dnt have a gf f.h. did not respond. less than 24 hours later, appellant wrote, hey its me again[.] [] . . . [] r u gay or bi or curious? i know you [] a gf[.] i guess u r. . . ill quit askin. . . i kno the [answer] . . . iod, u kno. . . . f.h. testified it made him uncomfortable when appellant repeatedly asked if he was gay or curious. f.h. stopped going to basketball games as a result. f.h. testified that, due to appellants facebook messages, f.h. was afraid of him and thought he would try to do something bad to f.h., like rape him. kimberly c. (kimberly), noticed facebook account. from appellants photograph on his facebook account, she concluded that he was over 30 years old. kimberly, pretending to be f.h., began communicating with appellant on facebook to gather information, because she found the messages bizarre and very inappropriate. kimberly eventually revealed to appellant that she was f.h.s older sister. she asked appellant what a person of his age had in common with an 11-year-old boy. she also asked if it was not weird for appellant to be conversing so much, in 6 n 11-year-old boy. appellant did not respond. kimberly and f.h. reported the matter to the police. (b) counts 4 and 7: victim a.m. (including july 2014 events). a.m. was born on july 5, 2001. during the events pertaining to counts 4 and 7, a.m. attended the same school as f.h., and appellant was school basketball coach. a.m. had a facebook account. appellant sent him a friend request and a.m. accepted. the communications below between a.m. and appellant were private messages via facebook. initially, appellant and a.m. conversed about basketball. on july 4, 2014, appellant, who owned a fireworks stand, told a.m. that he would give a.m. free fireworks. however, appellant later said a.m. fireworks. on july 14, 2014, appellant wrote appellant asked if a.m. wanted to go to a movie. a.m. made arrangements with appellant to meet him on july 19, 2014, to see a movie. a.m. later said he could not go because he m serious, foo. dont testified that he told appellant he would go because he wanted the fireworks, but he did not actually intend to go. appellant sic] me hit go to the movies on thursday and after let me fuck you. or just said, [b]end over for 7 m. blocked appellant from his facebook account. (c) uncharged sexual offense evidence: victim d.r. (including february 2014 events). d.r. was born in march 2005 and, when he was eight years old, he lived in baldwin park. d.r. would play with his friend talk to appellant about baseball and basketball when he was at at a neighborhood church. d.r. had a facebook account and, when appellant asked, d.r. told him his facebook user name. appellant sent him a friend request on facebook and d.r. accepted. janette r. in february 2014, when d.r. was still eight years old, your mom and dadsaw the message and, in an effort to obtain information, she pretended to be d.r. and communicated with consecutive days. the communications below between appellant and janette (posing as d.r.) were private messages between the two facebook accounts. on february 23, 2014, appellant askedand said, to your house.ppellant said, i want to tell yo appellant again asked[i]s there anyone watching janette, as d.r., replied yes. 8 on february 24, 2014, appellant asked if d.r. could keep a secret. janette said yes. appellant asked if anyone was with d.r. janette indicated no. appellant said he was serious and janette said she was too. appellant said he could not tell d.r., and said, then wrote that d.r. might not like what he told himmad at appellant. appellant also said he could get into trouble. appellant expressed concern that he did not know that no one was with d.r. and he could not be sure he was really talking to d.r. janette respondeding tv and my dad is taking a showed.r. his secret when d.r. came over that weekend. appellant then asked, hat if i told you i want you to do something fore [sic] janette, as d.r., said he would do it. appellant i want you to -- never mind. , i want to do something to appellant then wroted janette replied janette said no and it would hurt. appellant said he would be gentle. janette was angry but after consulting with her husband decided to continue the ruse. she replied no to appellantmessage. appellant said d.r. was mad at appellant. janette nger up their butt. lolasked if d.r. would do something else for appellant, but 9 ecause if you appellant goodbye. appellant said goodbye, and told d.r. to on february 25, 2014, appellant wrotefriend.the police. (d) additional investigation. on september 2, 2014, police arrested appellant. a search of a cell phone found on his person showed contacts with pornographic websites involving sexual abuse of young boys, and a.m. police searched home and found three additional cell phones. one contained a downloaded pornographic video involving young boys and reflected internet searches for pornographic photographs of children and teenagers and pornographic stories about boys. another cell phone teaching parents how to keep kids safe from pedophiles and sex offenders. 3. pertinent jury instructions. midway through trial, the court and parties discussed the proposed jury instructions. as to count 3, the court proposed to give calcrim no. 1122, which defined tcharged in count 3 with annoying or molesting a child. to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove 10 that: [] 1. the defendant engaged in conduct directed at a child; [] 2. a normal person, without hesitation, would have s conduct; [] 3. unnatural or abnormal sexual interest in the child; and [] 4. the child was under the age of 18 years at the time of the conduct. [] it is not necessary that the child actually be irritated or disturbed. it is also not necessary that the child osecution nor appellant posed any objection to the proposed instruction. as to the uncharged sexual offense evidence involving d.r. that was admitted under evidence code section 1108, the court proposed to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 1191. that instruction, modified to fit the facts, stated: presented evidence that the defendant committed the crime of attempting to annoy or molest a child (i.e., [d.r.]) that was not charged in this case. this crime is defined for you in the next instruction (see instruction 1191.5 below). [] you may consider this evidence only if the people have proved by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant in fact committed the uncharged offense. proof by a preponderance of the evidence is a different burden of proof from proof beyond a reasonable doubt. a fact is proved by a preponderance of the evidence if you conclude that it is more likely than not that the fact is true. [] if the people have not met this burden of proof, you must disregard this evidence entirely. [] if you decide that the defendant committed the uncharged offense, you may, but are not required to, conclude from that evidence that the defendant was disposed or inclined to commit sexual offenses, and based on that decision, also conclude that the defendant was likely to commit 11 the crimes of annoying or molesting a child, contacting minor with intent to commit a lewd act, and attempt to arrange meeting with minor for lewd purpose, as charged here. if you conclude that the defendant committed the uncharged offense, that conclusion is only one factor to consider along with all the other evidence. it is not sufficient by itself to prove that the defendant is guilty of [the above three crimes]. the people must still prove each c the a companion instruction, no. 1191.5, to instruct the jury on the offense of ting to annoy or molest a child, which the court indicated it understood to be the predicate cunder for [evidence code section] the prosecutor agreed that the trial court correctly identified the uncharged sexual offense as attempted annoying or molesting a child. appellant did not object. the proposed instruction no. 1191.5 the defendant is guilty of the crime of attempted annoying or molesting a child, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant took a direct but ineffective step toward committing the crime of annoying or molesting a child; and [] 2. the defendant intended to commit the crime of annoying or molesting a child. [] . . . [] to decide whether the defendant intended to commit the crime of annoying or molesting a child, please refer to the separate instructions that i will give you on that crime (see instruction no. 1122 . . . ).4 the instruction further defined a 4 calcrim no. 1122, set forth above, thus defined the offense of annoying or molesting a child both for purposes of count 3 involving f.h. and for purposes of the uncharged offense of attempting to annoy or molest d.r. 12 necessary to find a defendant guilty of attempt. the parties indicated they had no objection to these instructions regarding the uncharged sexual offense. at the close of the evidence, prior to instructing the jury, the trial court told the parties that it had framed the uncharged sexual court explained, im instruction with respect to the 647.6, subsection (b), and so it seems to me it makes no difference one way or the other. it gets more complicated if i try to render myself what the elements might be of a (b)(1) [sic]the parties agreed. although the trial court referred to section 647.6, subdivision (b), it appears the trial court intended to refer to subdivision (a)(2) of section 647.6. subdivision (b) is not relevant here, as that provision simply makes a violation of section 647.6 a felony instwithout consent, an inhabited dwelling house, or trailer coach . . . presented that appellant entered any such place in connection with his asserted uncharged offense against d.r. subdivision (a)(2) of section 647.6, which is the section we conclude the trial court must have intended to reference, providesabnormal sexual interest in children, engages in conduct with an adult whom he or she believes to be a child under 18 years of age, which conduct, if directed toward a child under 18 years of age, (italics added.) thus, it appears that the trial court, with the agreement of both the prosecution and appellant, framed the uncharged offense annoy and molest a child13 pursuant to section 647.6, subdivision (a)(1), rather than as the completed offense, pursuant to section 647.6, subdivision (a)(2), of engaging in annoying and molesting conduct with an adult whom appellant believed was a minor. during the final charge to the jury, in instructing as to the requirement of proof beyond a reasonable doubt, the trial court you that you heard some evidence regarding [d.r.] and his see there is a different burden of proof with respect to that uncharged offense with regard to whether you can actually confused, that with regard to the three charges in the case that i will get to later on, all of those carry the same burden of proof, pro the court also instructed the jury with the agreed-upon calcrim nos. 1122 and instruction no. 1191.5, without objection from the parties. discussion 1. the courtuncharged sexual offense were not erroneous. with d.r. was admitted pursuant to evidence code section 1108 as evidence of an uncharged sexual 14 offense committed by appellant.5 appellant challenges the instructions that were provided to the jury regarding how they could consider and rely upon this evidence in assessing o the three charged offenses. a. objections on constitutional grounds to instructions appellant asserts that instructing the jury with calcrim no. 1191, the pattern instruction implementing evidence code 5 evidence code section 1108 provides: action in which the defendant is accused of a sexual offense, or offenses is not made inadmissible by [evidence code] section 1101, if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to [evidence code] [a]ny code   1108, subd. (d)(1)(f).) evidence code section 1108 thus constitutes an exception to evidence code section 1101, the general rule excluding propensity removing the restriction on character evidence in section 1101, consider evidence of prior offenses for any relevant purpose[citation], subject only to the prejudicial effect versus probative value weighing process required by [evidence code] (people v. britt (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 500, 505 (britt).) furthermore, evidence of subsequently committed sexual offenses may also be admitted pursuant to evidence code section 1108. (people v. cordova (2015) 62 cal.4th 104, 133 (cordovafact that defendant committed two sex offenses against young children after the crime in this case permits the logical conclusion that defendant had a propensity to commit sex offenses against young children earlier in his life . . . people v. medina (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 897, 903.) 15 section 1108, violated appellants due process rights because [calcrim no. 1191] expressly tells the jury it may infer the defendants guilt of the charged offenses if it finds, based on evidence of another sexual offense, the defendant is predisposed that ting the jury it may infer the defendant was likely to commit the charged offense, if the jury finds by a preponderance of the evidence that he committed other similar offenses, violates a defendants due process right to proof, beyond a reasonable doubt, of all elements 6 it is well settled that instructing a jury with calcrim no. 1191 as to uncharged sexual offenses does not violate a defendants right to due process or a fair trial. in people v. reliford (2003) 29 cal.4th 1007 (reliford), our supreme court concluded that the predecessor to calcrim no. 1191, caljic no. 2.50.01, properly permitted the jury to infer the defendant has a disposition to commit sex crimes from evidence the id. at p. 1012), and in turn to infer from this predisposition that the defendant was likely to commit and did commit the charged offense. (id. at 6 hat appellant waived these preserve a challenge to an instruction that incorrectly states the people v. palmer (2005) 133 cal.app.4th 1141, 1156 (palmer); see people v. salcido (2008) 44 affecting one of his fundamental constitutional rights, we object below].) 16 p. 1013.) reliford also concluded that the fact the uncharged offense needed to be proven only by a preponderance of the evidence did not lessen the peoples burden to prove the charged sexual offense beyond a reasonable doubt, where the instruction told the jury that a finding that the defendant committed the uncharged offense was insufficient by itself to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant committed the charged sexual offense. (id. at pp. 1015-1016.) appellate courts have likewise uniformly held that calcrim no. 1191, which is not materially different from its predecessor caljic no. 2.50.01, is constitutionally sound as to its instructions regarding consideration of uncharged sexual offenses, and it as to the charged offenses.7 (see, e.g., people v. anderson (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 851, 895 (anderson); people v. cromp (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 476, 479480; people v. schnabel (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 83, 87 [rejecting constitutional challenge to calcrim no. 1191 because [t]he version of caljic no. 2.50.01 considered in reliford is similar in all material respects to . . . calcrim no. 1191 . . . in its explanation of the law on ; cf. people v. cruz (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 1178, 1185 [use of caljic no. 2.50.01 re the 7 in fact, the calcrim no. 1191 instruction given in the present case was more favorable to appellant than caljic no. 2.50.01 was to the defendant in reliford, because, unlike the latter instruction, the calcriyou conclude that the defendant committed the uncharged offense, that conclusion is only one factor to consider along with 17 preponderance standard was applied to determine whether defendant committed charged offenses for the purpose of deciding whether he had a propensity to commit sexual offenses].) further, we note that the trial court here took extra care to ensure that the jury understood that the prosecution needed to as to the charged offenses beyond a reasonable doubt, notwithstanding the different burden of proof for the uncharged offense. in addition to giving calcrim no. 1191, the court burden of proof with respect to that uncharged offense . . . . but with regard to the three charges . . . , all of those carry the same although appellant acknowledges that reliford and subsequent authority likely foreclose his constitutional claim, and he emphasizes that he makes this claim to preserve the constitutional issues for federal review, he also suggests that reliford distinguishable appellant does not explain what he was presented with different standards of proof for their the circumstance of different standards of proof for the uncharged and charged offenses, however, was present in reliford and, as discussed above, was the key issue addressed by the court. (reliford, supra, 29 cal.4th at pp. 1015-1016.) we are unable to discern any ways in which the instant case is materially distinguishable from reliford.8 8 we emphasize that reliford, like the case before us, involved the use of uncharged offenses to show propensity, not charged offenses. 18 jurors are capable of understanding and correlating jury instructions [citation], there is no reasonable likelihood the instruction on uncharged offenses relieved the prosecution of its anderson, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 896.) further, we conclude tional rights were not violated when the jury was instructed with calcrim no. 1191 that it could infer from was likely to commit the charged offenses. b. other alleged instructional errors appellant also suggests that calcrim no. 1191 and instruction no. 1191.5 were confusing and did not enable the jury to properly assess the significance of the evidence of the uncharged sexual offense involving d.r. appellant waived his objection as to the allegedly confusing nature of the instructions by failing to request clarifying or amplifying instructions. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1192 defendant believed the instruction was unclear, he had the obligation to request clarifying la; palmer, supra, 133 cal.app.4th at p. 1156.) even if his argument were not forfeited, we conclude that calcrim no. 1191, instruction no. 1191.5, and calcrim no. 1122, read together, were sufficiently clear to enable the jury to determine whether appellant had committed the uncharged offense and to advise the jury of the appropriate ways to rely on his commission of that offense. appellant takes issue with the fact that the trial court nstruction no. 1191.5 to instruct the jury on the o a child, in violation of sections 664 and 647.6, subdivision (a)(1). the evidence 19 demonstrated that appellants facebook communications relating to this uncharged offense were with janette, who was logged in on facebook as d.r. and pretending to be him in communications with appellant. as the trial court acknowledged, this conduct could have been considered a violation of section 647.6, subdivision (a)(2), as aconduct with an adult whom he . . . believe[d] to be a child under .) indeed, as discussed above, the prosecutor had unsuccessfully attempted to add a count under subdivision (a)(2) as to d.r. thus, the jury could have been instructed with the elements of that uncharged offense. however, appellant did not argue below, and does not argue on appeal, that the trial court erred in instructing the jury 647.6, subdivision (a)(1) in lieu of instructing on the elements of the completed subdivision (a)(2) offense applicable when a defendant is engaging in conduct with an adult he believes is a child. attempting to annoy or molest a child is plainly a cognizable offense. (see in re mcsherry (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 324, 327-328.) under the facts here, appellant could not be guilty of the completed act d.r. aintercepted his communications, it is plain that he intended to direct, and believed he was directing, his facebook messages to d.r., and thus an instruction on attempting to annoy or molest a child was supported by the evidence. 20 we find support in people v. reed (1996) 53 cal.app.4th 389 (reed). in reed, the defendant was convicted of one count of attempted molestation of a child under the age of 14 years pursuant to sections 664 and 288, subdivision (a). the defendant had believed he was corresponding in writing represented that she was the mother of two girls, ages 12 and nine, when in reality the defendant was corresponding with a sheriffthe that he engage in sexual activities with the two minor girls. when he showed up at their arranged meeting at a hotel room expecting to carry out this plan, he was arrested. (reed, at pp. 393-395.) the defendant in reed there can be no attempt to commit child molestation where the victim is imaginary because appellant could not fulfill all of the elements of the offense. reed, supra, 53 cal.app.4th at p. 396.) the appellate court rejected that argument, finding that impossibility is not a defense to a charge of attempt. (ibid.) as defendant believed them to be, he would have found in the room he entered two girls under fourteen available for him to engage in lewd and lascivious conduct with them. would be no children waiting does not excuse him from the id. at p. 397; see also hatch v. superior court (2000) 80 cal.app.4th 170, 177, 185-187 (hatch) [where defendant believed he was communicating on the internet with a 13-year-old girl, but she was actually a 20 year old posing as a minor, he was properly convicted of attempted seduction of a minor under  664 and 288.2, subd. (a), even though he could 21 not be convicted of the completed crime because there was no actual victim under age 14].) likewise, because appellanthe specific intent to complete the target crime[], the impossibility of completing the crime[] does not exonerate him from attempting the offense of molesting or annoying d.r. (hatch, at pp. 185-186.) accordingly, we find no error in the trial c offense of attempting to annoy or molest a child. 2. sufficient evidence supports appellants conviction on count 3. appellant contends there is insufficient evidence supporting his conviction for annoying or molesting a child (f.h.) under 18 years old (count 3). we reject his claim. entire record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [csupport the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence. . . . [w]e may not reverse for insufficient evidence (people v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 1157 (valenti).) a violation of section 647.6, subdivision (a)(1) requires proof of the following elements: (1) the existence of objectively 22 and unhesitatingly irritating or annoying conduct; (2) motivated by an abnormal sexual interest in children in general or a specific child; (3) the conduct is directed at a child or children, though no specific child or children need be the target of the offense; and (4) people v. phillips (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1383, 1396, fn. omitted; see valenti, supra, 243 cal.app.4th at p. 1161.) in his opening brief, appellant specifically focuses his argument on the second element set forth above, arguing there was insufficient evidence admitted at trial to prove that his conduct was motivated by an unnatural or abnormal sexual interest in the child f.h. appellant suggests that in order to satisfy the intent element of section 647.6, his outward conduct itself must have been explicitly sexualoverton. he relies on people v. kongs (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 1741 (kongs), in which the court held that [f]or the most part, penal code section 647.6 has been applied to id. at p. 1750.) however, appellant omits the portion of kongs in which the court noted n some instances . . . the proscribed conduct was more ibid. [on review of  995 order, finding sufficient support  647.6 charge].) the private facebook messages forming the basis for count 3 featschool, repeatedly inquiring of f.h., an 11-year-old boy, if he was f.h. that appellant guessed f.h. was gay. appellant continued questioning f.h. about whether he was gay and suggested that 23 imessages to f.h. were motivated by a sexual interest in f.h., the jury was not limited to examining the content of the messages between appellant and f.h. rather, the jury was entitled to (people v. mcfarland (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 489, 494) [competent evidence of def prior molestation offenses tended to show that when he touched the child victim he was motivated by a sexual interest in the child in violation of  647.6]; see people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 864 [evidence that defendant possessed child pornography tended to show his motive and intent to perform a lewd act on a young child in violation of  288]; people v. herman (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1369, 1390 [dwords and conduct toward the four victims of the attempt charges but also from evidence of a long history of pedophilic interests and conduct].) here, evidence was admitted that appellant sent facebook messages to a person he believed was eight-year-old d.r., stating that appellant any relevant purpose, britt, supra, 104 cal.app.4th at p. 505; see cordova, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 133 [sex offenses committed after charged act may be considered by jury].) further, evidence was also introduced that appellant visited websites featuring child pornography and his cell phone contained a downloaded pornographic video involving young boys. 24 particularly considering the evidence introduced at trial of , we hold there was sufficient evidence to convince a trier of fact, beyond a motivated by an unnatural or abnormal sexual interest in f.h. f.h.9 3. the abstract of judgment must be amended. the abstract of judgment erroneously reflects that in this case appellant was convicted by plea. we accept respondents concession that the abstract must be amended to reflect appellant was convicted by jury (cf. people v. humiston (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 460, 466, fn. 3) and we order the trial court to amend the abstract accordingly. 9 in his reply brief, appellant argues for the first time that the prosecution failed to adduce sufficient evidence as to the separate element under section 647.6, subdivision (a)(1) of ct that would unhesitatingly disturb or irritate a normal sufficiency of the evidence as to this element, but also nearly these communications may have been disturbing, irritating, or the argument as to this additional element for the first time in his reply brief, we consider it forfeited and do not address it. (people v. senior (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 531, 537.) the argument is also forfeited because appellant failed to develop it with reasoned legal argument and supporting authority. (benach v. county of los angeles (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 836, 852.) 25 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment reflecting appellant was convicted by jury, not by plea, in this case. not to be published in the official reports stone, j.* we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 