filed 5/9/16 p. v. battey ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony lee battey, defendant and appellant. b266183 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta 131157) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for the county of los angeles. pat connolly, judge. affirmed. g. martin velez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 on june 5, 2015, a jury convicted defendant anthony lee battey of assault with a deadly weapon in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1), a felony. the jury found true an allegation that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the assault. in a separate proceeding, the trial court found four prior convictions to be true (three of them serious or violent felonies under the hree strikes law). the court sentenced defendant to 27 years in state prison. the facts were these. on december 6, 2013, krystyna curtis, who was homeless at the time, was sitting with a group of homeless friends in an area in torrance, near a alcohol, just defendant, who was unknown to the group, was dressed in blue pajamas, a leather jacket and a cap. they invited him to join them. defendant told ms. curtis he wanted a 40-ouncer of beer, some vodka, and a pack ght amount of money, like ms. curtis went to the liquor store and brought the purchases back to defendant. (ms. curtis identified photographs of these items at trial.) the the others, because, you kn so, because of the were . . . . phone booth across the street from the liquor store. 3 could not understand, except that he seemed to want to call his daughter. ms. curtis left defendant there, near the pay phone, and went back to sit with her friends. and he was yelling something, i ccory, who was sitting with his hoodie down and with his head on his knees. he clocked wooden caneaced in evidence at the trial.) ms. curtis remembered little else until she was in the hospital, where she told the pajamas, and a leather dan de meyer, a fire captain for the los angeles county fire department, was on duty and treated ms. curtis at the scenespeak with us immobilized head and neck, placing her on a backboard to keep the spinal column as straight as possible, a typical aid for head injuries. (at trial, captain de meyer identified photographs of ms. curtis and the injuries to her head. these were injuries when deputy sheriff bao dang arrived, he found ms. ambulance, and deputy dang went to the hospital to speak with her. ms. curtis told him ing out at that location, a male black walked up to her and struck wooden cane on the sidewalk and booked it into evidence. in addition to the cane, 4 deputy dang recovered a black plastic bag with a bottle of vodka, a pack of cigarettes, and a 40 ouncer of old english beer at the scene. deputy dang, along with two other deputies, located defendant, who had a laceration on the top of his head and blood on his face, about a half mile or less from the scene. another deputy advised defendant of his miranda1 rights, and defendant said he understood them. he waived his rights and agreed to speak with the deputies. deputy wr deputy dang asked him how he sustained the injury to (at the trial, deputy im at the scene that ) defendant was arrested and charged by information with assault with a deadly weapon. the information alleged defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the assault, and also alleged three prior serious or violent felony convictions, as well as a prison prior. mental competence on march 18, 2014, and the court appointed an expert to examine defendant and report to the court. criminal proceedings were reinstated on july 17, 2014. on october 22, 2014, a pitchess2 hearing was held and materials were ordered to be disclosed. on december 9, 2014, defense counsel again declared a doubt as to defendfebruary 25, 2015, the trial court found defendant mentally competent to stand trial, and proceedings were resumed. at trial in june 2015, the facts described above were presented to the jury. the evidence also showed that when ms. curtis testified, she was in custody on a felony conviction. 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 2 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 5 in addition, the prosecution and defense stipulated that dr. kenechukwu ojukwu, a licensed physician at los angeles county harbor ucla medical center, would have testified as follows: on december 6, 2013, ms. curtis was treated and diagnosed with an abrasion on the forehead, blunt head trauma, an orbital fracture, and a zygomatic arch fracture. further, dr. ojukwu determined that ms. curt the defense presented testimony from detective dion ingram. he was assigned as an investigator in the case, and he tried to speak with defendant the day after the assault, while defendant was inside a booking cell at the carson police station. eak coherently with detective ingram that day. defendant did not testify at trial. after the jury retired to deliberate, the trial court advised defendant of his right to have the jury decide the truth of his prior convictions; that evidence would be presented just as had been done in the trial; and defendant would have the right to present evidence and to remain silent. defendant waived his right to a jury trial on the prior convictions. the jury found defendant guilty and found the great bodily injury enhancement to be true. prosecutor presented evidence or violent felony convictions (in 1974, case no. a309084; in 1980, case no. a355929; and in 1997, case no. ya032550), and evidence of his 2013 prison prior (case no. ta125856). the court found all the prior convictions to be true, and then dismissed two of the three strike priors. s been . . . institutionalized, some of which are very grave. [] the sex crime as a juvenile, robbery, which is a crime of violence, as well as the residential burglary. [] but the court also is 6 taking into consideration the various things that [defense counsel] has pointed out, not only that there are some type of mental issues that [defendant] has and i think that tha and also the court does feel that even though three strikes is something that, perhaps, another court would think appropriate, is not really what is envisioned in a crime such as this, even though there was a gbi finding, and this was an assault with a cane, great enough that [defendant] broke that cane into three different the court sentenced defendant to 27 years in state prison, calculated as follows: the upper term of four years, doubled for the latest strike prior, plus three 5-year terms for the strike priors, plus three years for the great bodily injury enhancement, plus one year for a prison prior). the court observed when imposing the 27-year sentence. the court stated defendant was eligible for 15 percent credits, and ordered 593 days of actual custody credit and 89 days of conduct credit, for a total of 682 days. the court imposed a $1,000 restitution fine, a $1,000 parole revocation fine (stayed), a $40 court operations fee, and a $30 criminal conviction assessment fee, and ordered submission of a dna sample. the court also set a restitution hearing, for which defendant waived his appearance. defendant filed a timely appeal. deappointed counsel filed a wende brief (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende)) requesting our independent review of the record. a declaration from counsel states that counsel advised defendant of the nature of the wende brief and of his right to file a supplemental brief within 30 days; that counsel advised defendant he would send himcopy of the record on appeal, to aid preparation of a supplemental brief; and that counsel would remain available to brief issues as requested by the court and would retain the record on appeal for that purpose. no supplemental brief has been filed. we have reviewed the record on appeal. we are satisfied that appointed counsel has fully complied with responsibilities and that no arguable 7 issues exist. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109-110; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 