filed 3/2/17 p. v. miranda ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christian j. miranda et al., defendants and appellants. b266817 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka107796) appeals from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george genesta, judge. affirmed. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant christian j. miranda. paul richard kleven, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant derek j. sommer. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant 2 attorney general, zee rodriguez and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. defendant christian miranda walked up to a man standing outside a pomona restaurant and punched him in the face. when three friends rushed to his aid, codefendant derek sommer drew a gun and shot the man, two of his friends, and miranda; he also took aim at the third friend but did not fire at him. a jury convicted sommer of five counts of attempted murder, five counts of assault with a firearm, and one count of felon in possession; a separate jury convicted miranda of one count each of attempted murder and assault with a firearm. miranda and sommer both challenge their convictions. miranda contends the evidence was insufficient to support the was culpable in the attempted murder of the punched victim and that the attempted murder of that man was willful, deliberate, and premeditated. sommer likewise cothat the attempted murders were willful, deliberate, and premeditated. he also argues there was no evidence he intended to kill or took a direct step toward killing the one victim who was not shsubstantial evidence, and that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance during closing argument. we reject these contentions and affirm the judgment of the trial court in full. procedural history an amended information charged miranda and sommer each with four counts of attempted murder (pen. code,  187, 3 subd. (a) & 664)1 and four counts of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). it further charged sommer with the attempted murder of miranda ( 187, subd. (a) & 664), assault of miranda with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)), and illegal possession of a firearm ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). the amended information alleged that each of the attempted murders was committed willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation ( 189 & 664, subd. (a)), of a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)), intentional discharge of a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (e)(1)), and intentional discharge of a firearm with great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)). it further alleged that each of the crimes was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(a) [firearm possession] & (b)(1)(c) [attempted murders and assaults]), and that sommer personally used a firearm during the each of the assaults ( 12022.5, subd. (a)) and suffered three prison priors ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the priors allegations ultimately were stricken. defendants were tried jointly before two separate juries. him guilty as charged and found true all of the allegations except one: intentional discharge of a firearm against the attempted murder victim who was not shot.2 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the verdict form for that particular count only included two of the three firearms allegations: use ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)) and intentional discharge ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (e)(1)), as the evidence at trial did not indicate the victim sustained any injury. 4 murder the man he initially punched, and found true the enhancement allegations pertinent to those counts. the trial court declared a mistrial on the remaining counts against miranda after the jury indicated it was hopelessly deadlocked, and the prosecution later dismissed those counts. the court sentenced sommer to a total of 140 years to life on the five attempted murder counts and related enhancements, plus two years concurrent on the firearm possession count. the court imposed and stayed sentences on the five assault counts pursuant to section 654. the court sentenced miranda to seven years to life on the attempted murder count, plus an additional 25 years to life for the related firearm enhancement, for a total of 32 years to life. the court imposed the midterm of three years on the assault count, plus an additional 10 years for the gang enhancement; it stayed the resultant 13-year term pursuant to section 654. both defendants timely appealed. factual background i. victim testimony on october 4, 2014, brandon r., his brother, nathan r., and their friends joanny a. and wesley v. attended a motocross event at the fairplex in pomona.3 the group left the fairplex around 6:30 p.m., and brandon drove them to nearby restaurant in his white hatchback. as they were pulling into the -through lane, brandon and wesley both noticed some people standing near an apartment complex less than 100 yards behind the restaurant. neither brandon nor 3 pursuant to california rules of court, rule 8.90 (b)(4), we refer to the victims in this case by their first names to protect their personal privacy interests. no disrespect is intended. 5 wesley thought much of this; brandon testified that he did not past. after everyone in the car ordered their food, brandon pulled up to the pick-up window and wesley stepped outside the car to smoke a cigarette. wesley stood about five feet away from the car, on the passenger side. somewhere between 30 seconds and five minutes after wesley started smoking, two men walked up to him. without saying a word, one of the men punched wesley in the face. brandon saw wesley get hit. joanny, who were in the backseat, that wesley had been hit or punched. nathan and joanny immediately exited the car and joanny testified that wesley was on the nathan testified that he tried to pull the assailant off wesley, and joanny testified that he began either hitting or kicking the assailant, whom he identified in court as miranda. one another, including the second man who had walked over with ,apparently joanny identified the second man in court as sommer. as brandon was getting out of the car to join the fray, he heard three sounds, like firecrackers with pauses in between, which he later learned were gunshots. brandon saw joanny and wesley running toward the street; nathan was still fighting with the person who initially hit wesley. brandon testified that he 6 ran toward his brother and the other man, whom brandon identified in court as sommer, had run toward the apartments, but came back toward the fight scene and pointed a revolver at brandon. ld him that i was sorry and sommer did not shoot the gun; instead, he turned around. brandon dragged nathan away and screamed for bystanders to call 911. none of the victims saw sommer shoot anyone. wesley te once he felt the pain, he stood up, ran across the street with joanny, and lay down in a grassy area. wesley was airlifted to usc medical center; he had been shot once in the groin and three times in the buttocks. his wounds in his groin at the time of trial. wesley did not know who shot him, but he wesley with a bat joanny heard wesley say he was shot, and ran across the street with wesley. when joanny got there, he looked down and saw that he had a bullet in his leg. joanny flagged down a passing motorist, who got out of her car to help. paramedics also arrived and airlifted joanny to usc medical center. joanny testified that bullet fragments remained nathan testified that he did not hear any gunshots. he nevertheless was aware that he had been shot in his left forearm 7 and left leg. he did not recall much after being shot, but remembered hearing brandon telling him that everything would be okay, and remembered paramedics arriving on the scene. nathan testified that he underwent two operations to remove a bullet from his leg and to put plates and screws in his arm. ii. other eyewitness testimony at around 6:40 p.m. on october 4, 2014, michael santos was in the drive-taurant. as he was driving around the restaurant, he saw two people jump over a complex about 50 yards away. santos thought the people were ing else of santos placed his order and pulled up behind a white car that was waiting at the pick-up window. he saw a man get out of the white car and begin smoking a cigarette. about five to ten minutes later, santos testified, rear of my vehicle came and punched the guy that was smoking, just within about 25 seconds, the d the brawl began to when it reached the back with breaks in between. santos knew from the sound that the gun was a revolver. santos saw two of the fighters get up and run away. santos testified that he would not recognize any of the aggressors if he 8 saw them again. family on october 4, 2014. as her husband was pulling the car f like a shot or firework from the direction of the drive-through. she looked around to see what was happening and saw two people fighting one another, moving toward the back of the menu board. lopez saw one of the men fighting fall to the ground. the man who going to some apartments or building that . . . was behind al a man at the apartments that had the gun, he j at that s, lopez called 911. october 4, 2014. he planned to get food at the drive-through, but changed his mind when he saw four or five men -through lane. tovar also saw a person with a gun standing near the fight, about three feet away. tovar heard two gunshotsone when he was pulling into the parking lot, and another after he saw the man with the gun. after the second shot, tovar saw one of the fighters fall to the ground. he did not see the person get up. the man who fired the gun ran toward the back of the restaurant and jumped over a fence. tovar saw the man come back over the fence and return to tovar then left the restaurant. 9 iii. law enforcement response & investigation pomona police detective jerry uribe was dispatched to upon arriving, he saw wesley and joanny lying on the ground across the street from the restaurant. uribe testified that wesley uribe asked joanny who shot him, and joanny pomona police officer joe hernandez testified that he was p.m. on october 4, 2014. he found nathan lying face down in the drive-through, with gunshot wounds in his leg and forearm. nathan was being treated by paramedics from the los angeles county fire department. pomona police officer vaneric mendoza was dispatched to a on october 4, 2014. miranda told mendoza pomona police department crime scene investigator adam he testified that he photographed bloodstains outside the restaurant. he further testified that he found a black baseball cap with the letter p on it at the scene. he did not find any shell casings, but testified that some guns, including revolvers, do not eject casings when they are fired. pomona police detectives eric berger and greg freeman were assigned to investigate the . during their investigation, berger interviewed sommer. sommer told berger 10 that he had beaten up miranda earlier in the day on october 4, 2014. freeman obtained surveillance video from the apartment freeman testified that the video, which was played for the jury, showed two people jumping the fence separating the apartment complex from the vacant lot ober 4, 2014. freeman showed sommer stills from the video when he interviewed him. freeman testified that the video showed four members of the westside pomona gang near the fence: miranda, 4 pomona police officer alan pucciarelli testified about an incident that happened before the shooting, on the afternoon of october 4, 2014. he testified that he was dispatched to the officer performing the traffic stop had detained a man named jorge terrazas, but needed assistance in locating another pucciarelli searched the apartment complex and found miranda, who was wearing a black baseball cap with a letter p on it. terrazas was arrested, but miranda was not. pucciarelli testified that he left miranda at the apartment complex. iv. berger testified that, at some point during the investigation ent, sommer was arrested and placed in the pomona city jail. while sommer was housed at the jail, his outgoing calls were monitored and recorded. two recordings of 4 prosecution gang expert michael lee testified that greedy 11 phone calls sommer made to his father were played for both juries. during the first call, made on october 13, 2014, sommer evidence against me. sommer admitted to his father that he had a gun and told him that he already had taken the blame. he told his father that he had seen himself on a tape sicsommer nonetheless [i]t the ones that ended up getting jumped. my intentionsmy fuck they were. the other fool was baldit was only one fool originally. he was bald and he looked like a gang member and during the second phone call, made on october 14, 2014, , v. that he interviewed miranda during the course of 12 investigation. the prosecution played a recording of the , and provided the jurors with transcripts that included translations of the spanish portions of the interviews. me of that, of what happened there, because the video shows that detectives freeman and berger informed what miranda told them that the shooter was on the video too, so they should get him. the interpreter assisting with the the detectives told him yes. miranda explained that one person was on top of him, fighting, when he heard a gunshot, felt pain, and saw that he was bleeding. because he was pinned to the ground at the time, miranda did not see who shot him. later in the the detectives asked miranda whom he went to the restaurant with, and he told them greedy. miranda did not tattooed on his face. nevertheless, miranda told the detectives that he was wearing a black hat with the letter p testified that such hats were indicative of gang affiliation. when asked why he and greedy went to the restaurant, 13 miranda later stated that he had approximately an hour before the incident. detective freeman but, i, i . . . go fight with him, you know? but the thing is that the four guy[s] what happened, you know? four guy came out [sicmiranda end me from the four guys, fool, a few steps behind miranda. miranda told the detectives that he knew greedy took a gun with him to albertomiranda did not know how many times greedy fired the gun; he estimated two or three. vi. relevant gang evidence5 pomona police officer michael lee testified before both lee testified that west side pomona was one of about 10 active pomona gangs. lee and described the apartment complex behind the restaurant as west side members used the letters w and s, and wore hats with ps or ws on them. lee explained that hats with the letter p were not unique to the west side pomona gang; several gangs in pomona used that symbol. gang culture. a mile to be 5 ngang enhancements or any pertinent evidentiary rulings. we accordingly limit our discussion of the gang evidence to that necessary to the issues presented in this appeal. 14 own city, assaulting rival gang members, [or] committing crimes such actions instill not only respect but fear in the community. they also help gang members gang members frequently commit crimes in them and say so-and-so committed this crime. . . . so now all the lee testified that a person desiring to join a gang typically members, or commits a crime for the gang. he explained that a some way. you start to hanging [sic] around. you hang out with them, drink beer with them, maybe commit a couple small crimes for the gang, hold gun for them, hold a little bit of dope for them, until that point, the person is merely an herself into the gang lifestyle or a gang neighborhood. lee opined that it was uncommon for gang members to accompany or it also would be uncommon for a gang member to take full credit for a crime he committed you know, only i did it, because it would make these guys look lee opined that sommer was a member of west side lee noted that w 15 under his rilee further opined that jorge terrazas, with whom miranda was detained on the afternoon of october 4, 2014, also was a member of west side pomona. -fledged gang lee opined that apartment stronghold was eviden known to carry guns, known to commit violent crimes against other gang members and have violent crimes committed against lee opined that a hypothetical punching and shooting like on october 4, 2014 would have been committed for the benefit of west side pomona. he explained that such acts would garner respect in the documented gang member, this could be his initiation into the lee further opined that it was common within gang ang lee also explained that shooting is the highest for taking that additionally, assaults with vii. defense evidence miranda testified on his own behalf before both juries. he 16 testified that he immigrated to california from puerto rico approximately two years before. he recently moved into the because his wife kicked him out of the house for using drugs. hat belonged to his brother-in-law. miranda testified that on october 4, 2014, he was trying to buy drugs from terrazas when the police arrived. miranda ran the police took terrazas to jail, but did not arrest miranda. shortly thereafter, a man named steven arrived at the apartment complex. he seemed angry that the police had arrested terrazas but not miranda. steven gave other people, including sommer, permission to beat up miranda, which they did. when the beating ended, steven said he would kill miranda if miranda left the apartments before steven figured out whether miranda snitched on terrazas. miranda accordingly found himself hanging out with steven and some other people behind the apartment complex that evening. miranda claimed that steven ordered me to go hit that -through, and he complied. three men responded by hitting him, and he was shot while that was going on. miranda concluded he was sommerwas standing about five to six feet away. miranda ran to a nearby fire me, i left and there was nobo miranda testified that the detectives interviewed him at the hospital, while he was under the influence of morphine. at because the man looked at him funny. miranda testified that 17 presumably the gang members at the apartment complextold the detectives the truth. miranda lied to first responder mendoza, whom he did not know was a police officer, for the same reason. miranda gave conflicting testimony as to whether he knew miranda initially testified that he had seen greedy with a gun but did not know who had shot him. he later testified that he did not know greedy brought a gun with him: athat he had it, but i know that he always carries one in the on cross-examination, miranda admitted that he also lied to the detectives about having a previous altercation with wesley. he claimed he had never punched anyone before and friends would defend him. assertion that and further that is, up, you know . . . i had to do it because i felt intimidated by and after receiving the first shot and i looked up, and i saw him miranda also called berger to testify before both juries. the parties stipulated that berger was an expert in the area of criminal street gangs. he opined that miranda was an associate of west side pomona. 18 discussion i. sufficient evidence supported the attempted murder convictions, kill zone instruction, and premeditation findings sommer contends the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction for the attempted murder of brandon or a jury instruction on the kill zone theory. he further contends that there was insufficient evidence that any of the attempted murders was willful, deliberate, and premeditated. miranda similarly argues that there was insufficient evidence to support finding that the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated.6 none of these arguments is persuasive. a. standard of review when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in so doing, a 6 both miranda and sommer state in their opening briefs e arguments set forth in the opening briefs of all co- (see california rule of court, rule 8.200(a)(5); people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 363-364.) 19 reviewing court presumes in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] (people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1104.) b. attempted murder of brandon 1. direct step the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward (people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 785.) a direct step is something more than mere preparation. preparation and conduct that qualifies as a direct but ineffectual act toward the commission of the crime exist (people v. superior court (decker) (2007) 41 cal.4th 1, 12.) whether acts done in contemplation of the commission of a crime are merely preparatory or whether they are instead sufficiently close to the consummation of the crime is a question of degree and depends upon the facts and circumstances of a particular case (id. at p. 14.) the dividing line between making preparations and taking a direct step is crossed when, design will be carried out if not (id. at 13.) rational person would believe a crime is about to be consummated absent an intervening force, the attempt is underway, and a last-minute change of heart by the perpetrator (people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 455, overruled on other grounds, people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1186.) 20 sommer argues that pointing the gun at brandon was not a direct step toward killing him. instead, sommer contends, he this view of a direct step is too restrictive. the supreme court long attempts would be largely without function if it could not be invoked until the trigger was pulled, the blow struck, or the (people v. dillon, supra, 34 cal.3d at p. 455; see also people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 212; people v. ervine, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 785-786.) overt act be the last possible step prior to the commission of the here, the trigger pull. (people v. morales (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 917, 926.) here, the record at trial supported the inference that sommer intended to kill brandon when he pointed the revolver at him. as sommer acknowledges in his opening brief, evidence admitted at trial showed that gun at brandon r[.] when he returned from the apartment when he pointed the gun at brandon, he already had companions. the jury readily could infer that sommer returned shooting brandon, particularly since sommer positioned himself indeed, brandon himself inferred that sommer intended to shoot him and interrupted efforts with an apology and plea for mercy. (see people v. dillon, supra, at p. 455.) -second change of heart, made after brandon pleaded for mercy while attempting to drag not negate sommup to that point; abandonment of the effort prior to completion of the crime does not compel the 21 conclusion that the defendant lacked the intent to kill. (see people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741.) 2. kill zone sommer also contends that the jury could not have found him guilty of the attempted murder of brandon under the kill zone theory. he argues the jury should not have been instructed on the kill zone theory because the theory was not supported by the evidence. he further contends, that these errors were compounded by a supplemental argument the prosecutor made in response to a jury question. 7 we disagree. a. the kill zone theory to obtain a conviction for attempted murder, the prosecution must prove that the defendant intended to kill the alleged victim, not someone else; intent cannot be transferred between victims. (people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 328 (bland).) attempts unsuccessfully to do so, is guilty of the attempted (ibid.) to attempted murder still permits a person who shoots at a group of people to be punished for the actions towards everyone in the 7 concbrandon, nathan, joanny, and miranda were in the kill zone. says, also heard miranda state his belief that he was being set up [citation], that testimony that sommer intended to kill [wesley, joanny, and the r. brothers], and miranda was in 22 (bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 329.) that a defendant may have a concurrent intent to kill a specific ture and scope of the attack, while directed at a primary victim, are such that we can conclude the perpetrator intended to ensure harm to the (ibid.) convicted of multiple counts of attempted murder on a kill zone theory where the evidence establishes that the shooter used lethal force designed and intended to kill everyone in an area around the targeted victim (i.e., the kill zone) as the means of accomplishing the killing of that victim (people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 746.) b. use in this case the prosecution in this case sought to apply a kill zone theory to explain person may intend to kill a specific victim or victims and at the same time intend to kill everyone in a particular zone of harm, or kill zone. theory regarding mr. miranda. the way the defendant shot with this group of people there, the number of shots he was shooting, . . . he . . . with with christian miranda, you may have to think about it a little bit more and say how many shots did he fire? how close was he? did he really care whether the trial court instructed the jury on the kill zone as to miranda: murder of christian javier miranda, the people must prove that the defendant not only intended to kill [joanny, nathan, 23 brandon, and wesley] but also either intended to kill christian javier miranda, or intended to kill everyone within the kill zone. if you have a reasonable doubt as to whether the defendant intended to kill christian javier miranda or intended to kill [joanny, nathan, brandon, and wesley] by killing everyone in the kill zone, then you must find the defendant not guilty of the attempted m after some deliberation, and a request for readback of submitted two questions to the court: [sic] qualify hat constitutes a kill zone the court informed the jury that the instructions addressed both issues. it nevertheless permitted the attorneys to make supplemental closing arguments to address the questions. after some general comments about the kill zone, and the the following argument: - - try to figure out, the best you can with the inferences, where he was. so you figure out there or was he not. if the only evidence you have is that he ill zone, then maybe you only have an assault with a firearm and not an attempted murder. . . . but if you look conclude he was trying to kill him as well, then you have the 24 which suggested that the kill zone theory applied to brandon in addition to miranda.8 she argued, ve you his view on that. mr. bean is the prosecutor. i will have a different view. from advocates, but you, the jury, now - - d understanding of the evidence and the instructions. and if you feel somebody was or was not within the kill zone or what is or is not a kill zone, as you know, following the instructions, looking at the evidence and the law, if you feel you are not sure, you know, instructions for you. for you. so i really add this point, i think that - - is for us to be able to help you. you need to help yourselves. and c. analysis sommer contends that the original instruction on the kill zone doctrinewhich was based on calcrim no. 600was not supported by the evidence. he relies on people v. mccloud (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 788, 798, which held that the kill zone theory intended to kill a particular targeted individual but attacked that individual in a manner that subjected nearby individuals to a at most, he argues, the evidence showed 8 in his opening brief, sommer argued the prosecutor committed misconduct by belatedly applying the kill zone theory to brandon. affirmatively abandoned this theory in his reply brief. 25 to a risk of fatal injury. he further asserts that applying the kill more people than there were shots fired where the additional we are not persuaded. there was evidence from which the jury could infer that sommer fired more than four shots at the five victims. wesley and the jury could infer from the eight collective wounds sustained by the victims that at least that many shots were fired. this is not a case like people v. mccloud, in which defendants who fired 10 shots into a large group of people were charged with 46 counts of attempted murder. (see people v. mccloud, supra, 211 cal.app.4th at pp. 790-791, 801.) nor is it like people v. perez (2010) 50 cal.4th 222, 232, in which the kill zone did not apply because the defendant indiscriminately fired one shot at a group of people. the jury reasonably could infer that sommer created a kill zone by firing (bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 331.) the manner in which sommer carried out the attackfiring at a group of people who were fighting with their hands mere feet away from himwas suggestive of an intent to kill everyone in the area. mortal wound had the bullet been on target is sufficient to (people v. chinchilla (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 683, 690.) sommer appears to assume that wesley was the only intended target, but the 26 prosecution theorized and argued that sommer intended to kill wesley and his friends, while miranda happened to be in the kill zone. there was evidence from which the jury could conclude testified that mirandaassociatewas losing the fight, and sommer continued shooting at close range even after some of the men had been hit. sommer also contends that even if the kill zone instruction was proper generally, it was not applicable to brandon because there was no evidence that he was within the kill zone. he asserts the car even if brandon was on the that was mere feet away from the fight, and the jury reasonably could infer that area was encompassed -motivated kill zone. sommer has not pointed to any case law holding that a kill zone may extend only a specific number of feet, and for good reason: a kill zone is each case and therefore varies with the circumstances of every case noted in their supplemental arguments. (people v. perez, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 232.) a reasonable jury could infer that the area around the car moreover, there was evidence that brandon approached what remained of the fray to aid his wounded brother, who was still being attacked at the time. the jury could conclude that brandon entered a more narrowly defined kill zone at this time. 27 c. attempted murder of wesley sommer does not challenge his conviction for the attempted murder of wesley. miranda, however, argues that there was insufficient evidence that he aided and abetted this attempted murder. he wesley was not a naturinitial punch. we reject this contention. nder the natural and probable consequences doctrine, a]n aider and abettor is guilty not only of the intended, or target, crime but also of any other crime a principal in the target crime actually commits (the nontarget crime) that is a natural and probable consequence of the target crime. [citation.] moreover, [a] consequence that is reasonably foreseeable is a natural and probable consequence under this doctrine. a nontarget natural and probable consequenceof the target offense if, judged objectively, the additional offense was reasonably foreseeable. [citation.] the latter question is not whether the aider and abettor actually foresaw the additional crime, but whether, judged objectively, it was reasonably foreseeable. [citation.] the natural and probable consequences doctrine applies equally to aiders and abettors and conspirators. (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 901.) found shootings to be a foreseeable consequence of gang (people v. ayala (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1440, 1449; see also people v. gonzales (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1, 10.) he argues that this case is different, however, becontemplated initially was a fistfight between a low-level 28 unforeseen and independent of the plan to commit the assa this argument is not persuasive. aider and abettor liability under the natural and probable consequences doctrine does not require assistance with or actual knowledge and intent relating to the nontarget offense. . . .[citation.] he nontarget offense is unintended, the mens rea of the aider and abettor with respect to that offense is irrelevant and culpability is imposed simply because a reasonable person could have foreseen (people v. romero (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 42.) even if the jury believed that he did not expect wesley or his friends to fight back, the question it had to resolve was whether, from an objective standpoint, an attempted murder was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of punch. there was sufficient evidence in the record to allow the jury to resolve that question affirmatively. gang expert lee testified that committing crimes such as assaults and shootings help members gain status in gangs, and it was common within the gang culture for a fistfight to escalate into a shooting. the jury reasonably could find that would be particularly true where, as here, there was evidence that the altercation was gang-related and the initial aggressor was aware that his companion brought a gun to the scene. miranda nevertheless maintains that this case is more analogous to people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149 (leon) than it is to the numerous cases holding that shootings are reasonably foreseeable consequences of gang-related assaults. in leon, the defendant and a confederate broke into a truck. when 29 to the crime, who threatened to call the police, the confederate looked at (leon, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at pp. 153-154.) defendant and his confederate were charged with and convicted of burglary ( 459), attempting to dissuade a witness from reporting a crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)), and two gang-related firearms offenses ( 12025, subd. (b)(3), 12031, subd. (a)(1).) (id. at p. 152.) on appeal, defendant argued and the appellate court agreed that there was insufficient evidence that witness intimidation was a natural and probable consequence of the other offenses. (id. at pp. 159-161.) (id. at p. 161.) tthat the crimes were gang related and that they were committed atural and probable consequence of (ibid.) this case has virtually no factual similarity to leon. unlike the crimes of burglary and witness intimidation, the target crime of assault and the ultimate crime of attempted murder share a close connection that numerous courts have recognized. the gang-related nature of the incident here rendered the escalation of violence a near certainty, not the mere abstract possibility it was in leon. in short, the evidence amply supported mconviction for attempted murder under the natural and probable consequences theory, the only one the prosecution argued. we 30 that a more traditional aiding and abetting theory also was not supported by sufficient evidence. (see people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 671; people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1129.) d. willfulness, deliberation, and premeditation both defendants argue that attempted murders were willful, deliberate, and premeditated were not supported by sufficient evidence. miranda claims there circumstances that prompted sommer to abandon his original intent to merely assault wesley on the spur of the moment, without deliberation. sommer similarly contends that there was insufficient evidence from which a reasonable jury could infer culated design to ensure death rather (people v. horning (2004) 34 cal.4th 871, 902- we disagree. [p]ed upon as a result of careful thought and weighing of considerations for and (people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767.) deliberation does not require any extended period of time. the true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. . . . (ibid.) the key inquiry is whether a rational jury could have concluded that the crime occurred as a result of preexisting reflection rather than a rash impulse. (people v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1626.) 31 in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 (anderson), the supreme court developed guidelines to aid reviewing courts in assessing sufficiency of the evidence to sustain findings of premeditation and deliberation. anderson identified three categories of evidence pertinent to the analysis: those indicative of planning, motive, and manner of killing. the anderson guidelines have been applied in the context of premeditated attempted murder. (see, e.g., people v. lenart (2004) 32 cal.4th 1107, 1127-1128; people v. felix, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at pp. 1626-1627; people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1462, fn. 8 , overruled on other grounds in people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 199.) importantly, however, the anderson (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1125.) thus, the categories of evidence described in anderson represent an exhaustive list of evidence that could sustain a finding of premeditation and deliberation, and the reviewing court (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1183.) the question remains whether, in light of the whole record, there was substantial shootings were the result of preexisting thought and the careful weighing of considerations. (people v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253, 1270 (boatman).) here, the evidence was sufficient for a jury to conclude that sommer planned to kill, had a motive for doing so, and attacked the victims in a manner indicative of preconceived design. 32 ho initially er and pomona territory, near its stronghold, and the jury could infer that sommer was angry or felt disrespected upon seeing an unknown gang member in his territory. from these facts, the jury could infer motive. sommer armed himself with a gun associate who had been instructed to initiate an assault on wesley, and stepped aside to use the gun when miranda began to lose the fight. from these facts, the jury could infer planning. defendant argued that the evidence showed that sommer rushed to his aid. but [p]remeditation can be established in the context of a gang shooting even though the time between the (people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 849.) the manner in which sommer acted also is indicative of deliberation. he stepped back a few feet from the brawl and repeatedly shot his gun at the participants, pausing between each shot. the jury retreat mere steps away, and shooting of the participants one by one, some multiple times, that he carefully considered his actions. though sommer did not actually shoot brandon, his actions in leaving the immediate scene, then returning and pointing the gun at brandon while brandon was assisting his bleeding brother demonstrate a calculated, considered attempt to kill. defendants maintain this evidence is insufficient because it is not as strong as evidence in other cases. sommer highlights 33 cases in which there was evidence of explicit planning by a gang member to shoot known rivals, such as repeated drive-bys (people v. sanchez, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 849-850; people v. rand (1995) 37 cal.app.4th 999, 1001); and cases in which the manner of killing or attempted killingexecution-style shots to the headwas more indicative of a deliberate, calculated intent to kill (people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 400-401; people v. martinez (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 400, 412-413). miranda likens this case to boatman, 221 cal.app.4th 1253, in which the appellate court concluded that none of the anderson factors was satisfied where the defendant shot his girlfriend in the face during an argument in a manner that he maintained was accidental. the boatman court noted that boatman testified that he did not intend to kill his girlfriend (boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1268); here, defendants note that 9 the boatman court also actions after the murdercrying, calling 911, wondering aloud how he could go on with his lifehorrified and distraught about what he had done, not someone (boatman, supra, at p. 1267.) [t]he facts of other cases, such as [those cited by defendants], are not particularly helpful in evaluating the (people v. rundle (2008) 9 jury disbelief of a cannot, without more, sup (people v. velazquez (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 219, 231; boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1267.) contrary. 34 43 cal.4th 76, 140, disapproved on a different ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) many cases have unique evidence and circumstances, and the divergence of facts from one case to another does not mean that one of the cases is the evidence in this case may not have been as compelling as that in the cases defendants highlighted, or as weak as that in boatman. it nonetheless was sufficient to allow the jury to infer that sommer acted with premeditation and deliberation. ii. sommer contends that his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance during closing and supplemental closing arguments. against him or explain the concepts of premeditation and deliberation. he further claims her reliance on a self-defense theory was improper, as was her acknowledgement that she as a sommer further asserts that the supplemental argument, made we disagree. owing ineffective assistance of counsel is well settled. trial counsel, we consider whether counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (people v. 35 gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 206207.) d not determine wheths performance was deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies. . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we e (people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 982.) assistance of counsel extends to closing arguments. (yarborough v. gentry (2latitude in deciding how best to represent a client, and deference to counsels tactical decisions in his [or her] closing presentation is particularly important because of the broad range of legitimate defense strategy at that stage. closing arguments should sharpen and clarify the issues for resolution by the trier of fact, [citation], but which issues to sharpen and how best to clarify them are questions with many reasonable answers. indeed, it might sometimes make sense to forgo closing argument altogether. [citation.] judicial review of a defense attorney's summation is therefore highly deferentialid. at pp. 5-6.) sommer selectively highlights isolated excerpts of his osing argument, characterizing them as incoherent and improper. for instance, he points out that she are not here to decide is mr. sommer guilty of attempted he neglects to place these statements in context, however. immediately after the first statement, counsel argued, evidence from which you can say to yourself that you feel an 36 abiding conviction that the case has been proven to you beyond a similarly, after the second statement, she emphasized that the jury had to decide whether sommer harbored the requisite intent to warrant an attempted murder conviction: intent to kill, and based on the evidence here, as you can see, are the way those two folks jumped over the fence, walked over there. you make the decision, right? so if you decide that, yes, there was a shooting done, and you know, we know there were victims who were shot or hurt by that, you know, got hit. why did he do placed in context, the statements sommer isolates demonstrate a tactical decision to not dispute the facts but rather actions. indeed, sommer acknowledges that coadvanced a self-defense theory. this approach was eminently reasonable, given the eyewitness evidence and inculpatory statements made by sommer, and well within the bounds of prevailing professional norms. sommer also highlights two paragraphs of closing argumentcollectively about one page of the 24-page argumentand argues they are rambling and disjointed. we agree with sommer that the excerpts he identifies are not exemplars of outstanding oration. but they accurately state the law and evidence-driven approach of focusing to aid mirandaibility to determine the 37 facts. argument highlighted a theory of the case supported by at least some of the evidence and advanced e bounds of professional norms. the same is true of her suggestion to the jury that she had guilt, which appears to have been a tactical decision designed to build rapport with the jury and reiterate the importance of the reasonable doubt standard. to be a reasonable effort to hold the prosecution to its burden. -letter surname or the sibling relationship between brandon and nathan, but he does not explain how these minor memory lapses rendered the underlying factual summation and legal argument improper or constitutionally ineffective. (anteup to the as the united which issues to sharpen and how best to clarify them are questions with many reasonable answers. indeed, it might sometimes make sense to forgo closing (yarborough v. gentry, supra, 540 u.s. at p. 6.) was and emphasized that the kill zone query was one of fact for the jury to determine. it was not unreasonable for counsel to take such an approach. trial counsel enjoy considerable latitude in crafting and delivering argument. none of the purported deficiencies sommer identifies, together or this case was so objectively unreasonable or inadequate as to fall 38 below prevailing professional norms. disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 