filed 8/1/16 p. v. hiroshige ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard hiroshige, defendant and appellant. b266499 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa083343) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, cynthia l. ulfig, judge. affirmed as modified and with directions. james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and andrew s. pruitt, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 richard hiroshige appeals the judgment following his conviction and sentence for two felony counts of theft of access card information in violation of penal code section 484e, subdivision (d) (section 484e(d)),1 and two misdemeanor counts of identifying information theft in violation of section 530.5, subdivision (c)(1). appellant committed those crimes, and was tried, convicted, and sentenced in 2015, after voters approved proposition 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act, in the november 2014 general election. proposition 47 enacted section 490.2, subdivision (a) (section 490.2(a)), which obtaining any property by theft where the value of the money, labor, real or personal property taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950) shall be considered petty xceptions not applicable here. we conclude this provision applies to theft of access card information in violation of section 484e(d). as a result, the prosecution could only obtain felony convictions if it proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the value of the access card information at issue exceeded $950. it offered no evidence of value, so insufficient evidence supported felony convictions and we must reduce those counts to misdemeanors and remand for resentencing. we further find the trial court violated rights under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta) by denying his request to represent himself at sentencing. factual and procedural background around 5:30 a.m. on march 31, 2015, los angeles police officers knocked on the door to a hotel room in los angeles, and appellant answered. the officers learned he was on probation, so they searched the room. inside a duffle bag belonging to him, they found a 110-individuals, including [n]ames, dates of birth, social security numbers, bank account dorothy ehlig and 1 all undesignated citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 daniel schwarztestified they had not given anyone else permission to use their personal and financial information. they did not testify to the amount of money in the accounts attached to the information in the notebooks or to any actual loss from the use of the information. in an interview with police, appellant said he had the notebook for over a month, and he appeared to know the information it contained could be used to commit fraud and and he intended to return it to its owner, a person named jake. he also told detectives he profiles. a los angeles detective specializing in identity theft and commercial crimes testified the type of financial information in the notebook could be used to fraudulently purchase items, especially through online retailers. appellant was charged with multiple counts, but the prosecution proceeded on only four of them: two felony counts of theft of access card information ( 484e(d); counts 6 & 8); and two misdemeanor counts of theft of identifying information ( 530.5, subd. (c)(1); counts 7 & 9). a jury found appellant guilty, and in a bifurcated proceeding, found appellant had  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and served five prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). he was sentenced to 10 years four months, consisting of the high term of three years on count 6, doubled to six years due to the prior strike convictions; a consecutive term of one year four months on count 8, which was one-third the middle term doubled due to the prior strike convictions; and three consecutive one-year terms for three of the prior prison terms. the court imposed but stayed two 1-year misdemeanor sentences for counts 7 and 9. discussion 1. proposition 47 and section 484e(d) we conclude section 490.2(a), as enacted by proposition 47, applies to section 484e(d). in brief, section 490.2(a) redefines theft offenses as misdemeanors if they 4 involve property valued at less than $950, . . . any other provision of law defining grand theftretain[ing] possession of access card account information with respect to an access card validly issued to another thus, it is subject to the value requirement be (nov. 4, 2014) text of prop. 47,  15, p. 74 &  3, p. 70s contrary arguments.2 we also is issue by not raising it in the trial court. for defendants who violate section 484e(d) after proposition 0 is now an element of a felony offense that the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt. (cf. people v. sherow (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 875, 879 (sherow) [noting under prop. in  4proves the value of the items people v. scott (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 525, 533 [even before prop. 47, element of grand theft in violation of  487 is value exceeding $950]; 2 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) crimes against property,  4, p. 24 first element that makes an unlawful taking grand theft is the value of the property 3 because value in excess of $950 is now an element of the crime, we construe 2 this issue is currently pending before our supreme court. (people v. romanowski (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 151, review granted jan. 20, 2016, s231405; people v. cuen (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 1227, review granted jan. 20, 2016, s231107.) 3 this is not one of the many cases in which the defendant had already been convicted and sentenced to a felony prior to proposition 47 and is now seeking resentencing under the petitioning procedure created by proposition 47 and codified in section 1170.18. in those cases, the petitioner bears the burden to prove he or she is eligible for relief, which includes showing the value of the property involved in the offense was less than $950. (see people v. rivas-colon (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 444, 5 ufficiency of the evidence, which is preserved even if not raised below. (people v. butler (2003) 31 cal.4th 1119, 1126.) on the merits, because the prosecution offered no evidence to prove the value of the access card information exceeded $950. (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 738-739 [the test could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce while the two victims testified that appellant possessed their financial information, neither testified as to the amounts in their accounts or any losses respondent argues jurors could have excess of $950 because appellant had a host of additional victim information that could have been used to apply for credit increases or to monitor the accounts to withdraw the maximum amount possible. setting aside that the jury was never asked to determine value in this way, jury could reasonably infer the account information had some value, no evidence guided the jury in determining how much value. respondent cites barnes v. united states (1973) 412 u.s. 837, but it is law property. (id. at p. 843.) on the facts before it, the court established that petitioner possessed recently stolen treasury checks payable to persons he did not know, and it provided no plausible explanation for such possession consistent 449; sherow, supra, 239 cal.app.4th at p. 880.) at oral argument, respondent requested permission to file a supplemental brief on the issue of whether value is now an element of a felony offense committed after the passage of proposition 47. we find supplemental briefing unnecessary. 6 with innocence. on the basis of this evidence alone common sense and experience tell us that petitioner must have known or been aware of the high probability that the checks id. at p. 845, italics added.) here, we are not dealing with guilty knowledge or state of mind, which is rarely proven through direct evidence. instead, the prosecution could have easily offered direct evidence of the value of the access card information, such as by asking the victims how much money was in their accounts or how much money was actually taken. respondent cannot now resort to the evidentiary gap left open at trial.4 because insufficient evidence supp, we must modify the judgment to reduce those felony counts to misdemeanors and remand for resentencing. (see  guilty of the degree of the crime of which he was convicted, but guilty of a lesser degree thereof, or of a lesser crime included therein, the court may modify the verdict, finding or judgment accordingly without granting or ordering a new trial, and this power shall extend to any court to which people v. matian (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 480, 487 [reversing felony false imprisonment for insufficient evidence and reducing offense to lesser included offense of misdemeanor false imprisonment].) 4 although the parties did not address this issue, we note at least one other problem convictions to misdemeanors. ( attempt to commit a crime which is distinguished into degrees, the jury, or the court if a jury trial is waived, must find the degree of the crime or attempted crime of which he is guilty. upon the failure of the jury or the court to so determine, the degree of the crime or attempted crime of which the defendant is guilty, shall be deemed to be of the lesser people v. love (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 1292, 1301 [reducing grand theft convictions to misdemeanor petty theft and remanding for resentencing because jury failed to find offenses involved property valued at more than $400].) 7 2. faretta request prior to sentencing on july 6, 2015, about a month before trial, the trial court heard a motion from appellant to relieve his counsel pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). the court held an in camera hearing, during which appellant complained about the lack of communication with his counsel. he asked for his counsel to be fahretta [sicrepresent himself pursuant to faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806. the court found appmarsden faretta request was not on august 4, 2015, the first day of jury selection, the court discussed with appellant a pfahretta [sictrial with him person [sic] heated discussion ensued. appellant adamantly objected to proceeding to trial with his current counsel, and the court e raising hell, i will yell all the way through . . . .adequately impressed with the fact that you are creating a ruckus and wastthat mr. hiroshige at that point, the court asked the prosecutor to step outside the courtroom. the following discussion occurred between appellant and his counsel: 8 friend, they pay me to find whether or not [the] people have proved their case beyond a you said you defense counsel me to go to trial with someonly cares about defense counsel and you expect me to go to courtto go to trial with a man who does not care about my defense counsel then explained the facts against appellant, including his incriminating statements to police. appellant denied he told the police he had the i tried to explain this to him, but he said said again has to give you legal advice. when i go to a lawyer, my lawyer is not my best friend, my to explain that if appellant testified, he could be impeached with his prior convictions, and his testimony would be weighed against the testimony from the officers. the court rent ways of saying things. he may not give you the warm fuzzies, but he is an excellent 9 get the result that is created by the evidence brought forth in the courtroom appellant still did not want to proceed with his attorney. defense counsel said, counsel repeated that appellant would have to testify to give the jury his side of the story. so i tried to [b]repeat the court tried to end the discussion there, finding faretta request untimely. it reiterated counsel did not have t best friend or care, is my life, damn right you better believe the court again tried to move on. the following exchange took place: appellant: you might as well do it blind, you might as well go ahead and let me go, just hand it in and give me 10 ap y, fucking me, excuse the language, basically fucking me, you know andandi got no say so appe at that point, it appears the bailiff escorted appellant from the courtroom. appellant was handcuffed during the first day of trial, but on the second day, defense counsel informed the court that he and appellant had resolved their conflict and requested the handcuffs be removed. the court granted the request. other than the heated exchange described above, the record does not contain any indication appellant had behavioral problems during trial. immediately after the verdicts were read on august 7, 2015, the court and defense counsel set a date for sentencing 18 days later, on august 25, 2015. appellant stated, honor, at this time i would like to exercise my fahretta [sic] rights once again 11 e court will have the opportunity to read the transcript of all these proceedings. mr. miller did an outstanding job, he made very compelling arguments in his closing argument, and he obviously acted in your best interest and exercised the best trial strategy he felt he could have. [] so the request for nd overruled it. the court sentenced him on august 25, 2015. after defense counsel announced there was no legal cause why sentence should not be pronounced, appellant raised several substantive arguments related to his priors. he moved for a continuance pursuant to section 1050 on the ground that the court improperly denied his faretta request and he request as untimely. faretta request after the verdicts and prior to sentencing violated his constitutional rights.5 on this record, we agree. -representation if the defendant unequivocally asserts that right within a reasonable time prior to the (people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 721 (lynch), disapproved on another ground by people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 637-638.) the same rule applies to requests for self-representation made a reasonable time prior to sentencing. (people v. miller (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1015, 1024 (miller).) in deciding whether a request is timely made before trial, a court may consider the totality of the circumstances, including the time between the motion and the trial date, whether counsel is trial-ready, the number and availability of witnesses, the complexity 5 appellant does not raise on appeal any error respecting the pretrial marsden or faretta rulings. 12 of the case, any ongoing pretrial proceedings, and whether the defendant had earlier opportunities to assert his right of self-representation. (lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 726.) adapting these factors to a request made prior to sentencing, a court may consider the time between the request and sentencing, whether counsel is ready for the sentencing hearing, the complexity of the sentencing, the number and availability of potential witnesses, and whether the defendant could have requested self-representation earlier. a court must also look people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 810, disapproved on other grounds by people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 390, fn. 2.) in miller, the court found the faretta request was timely because it was made two months before sentencing and the defendant indicated he would be ready on the date already set. (miller, supra, 153 cal.app.4th at p. 1024; cf. mayfield, supra, at p. 810 [faretta request requiring six-month delay untimely]; people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 454-455 (doolin) [faretta request untimely when made on date of sentencing and defendant was unprepared to proceed and unable to provide a reasonable estimate of when he would be ready].) the erroneous denial of a timely faretta motion is reversible per se. (people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 824 (butler).) if a faretta motion is untimely, it falls within the discretion of the trial court whether to grant or deny it. (lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 722; people v. windham proclivity to substitute counsel, the reasons for the request, the length and stage of the proceedings, and the disruption or delay which might reasonably be expected to follow lynch, supra, at p. 722, fn. 10, quoting windham, supra, at p. 128.) the wrongful denial of an untimely faretta motion is subject to harmless error analysis. (people v. rivers (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1040, 1050.) faretta request in miller made two months before sentencing, appellant made his request 18 days before the date set for 13 sentencing, which was his first possible opportunity after the verdicts were read. there was no indication he made the request for the purpose of delay or that he would need a continuance to prepare for his fairly straightforward sentencing.6 instead, his request was based on his ongoing disagreement and distrust with his counsel, which was undoubtedly case. it appears appellant simply wanted to ensure he could protect his own interests at sentencing because he believed his counsel would not. the trial court did not suggest his request would result in inconvenience, disruption, or delay. it instead denied it because it believed defense counsel had competently represented appellant up to that point. renewal of his prior untimely request to represent himself at trial, not a new request to represent himself at sentencing. but t. appellant said he wanted to exercise his faretta right was denied my constitutional rights tprior request to represent himself at a trial that had already finished. nor did the court understand proceedirenewing a request to represent himself at a trial that had already happened. this interpretation comports with miller, which made clear that sentencing is a separate proceeding from trial, so appellant had an independent faretta right to represent himself at sentencing so long as his request was timely made before sentencing. (miller, supra, 153 cal.app.4th at pp. 1023-1024.) 6 before making his faretta request, appellant did request that his sentencing be continued for 90 days in order to resolve some medical issues and visit his family. the court denied the request. there was no indication he was attempting to delay his sentencing in order to prepare to represent himself. 14 of his prior request, we necessarily was an equivocal request to represent himself at sentencing. (see doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. , a request for self-representation must finally, we represent himself by engaging in disruptive in-court conduct during the discussion of his faretta request before trial. (see butler, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 825; see also lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 721-722 [faretta disruptive in the courtroom or engages in misconduct outside the courtroom that .) decision to deny a faretta motion based on disruptive conduct (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 735), the court here never hinted that was a reason to deny request. (see butler, supra, at p. 826 [declining evaluating faretta request because trial court did not rely on that ground]; cf. people v. becerra (june 27, 2016) 63 cal.4th 511, 519 [while we review a faretta revocation order for abuse of discretion, it is incumbent upon the court to create a record that permits meaningful review of the basis for its rulings.) nor was there any indication his conduct was or would remain so or obstructionist . . . as to preclude the exercise of the right to self-representation.welch, supra, at p. 735.) there is no question the pretrial faretta hearing was heated. but appellant was justifiably frustrated with his counsel, who repeatedly (and frankly, inappropriately) said he did not care about appellant. at one point, counsel even unprofessionally responded comments in open court with the turn of the ppellant and his counsel repaired their relationship at least for the purpose of trial, and appellant participated in the trial without incident. whilreaction, it simply was not the kind of serious misconduct that caused him to forfeit his faretta right to represent himself at the separate, later stage of sentencing. (see moon v. 15 superior court (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 1521, 1530-1531 [finding disruptive behavior prompted by the denial of a faretta request was not ground to deny self-representation: denial prompted outrage and frustration faretta request was timely, if on remand appellant reasserts his right to represent himself, the court must determine whether the request is made lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 721.) if so, the court must allow appellant to represent himself at resentencing. 3. reduction of prior drug possession conviction subdivision (b) was based on a prior conviction in case no. pa047658 for violating health and safety code section 11377. that offense is now a misdemeanor under proposition 47 except in circumstances not applicable here. ( 1170.18, subd. (a); health & saf. code,  request to reduce the conviction in that case to a misdemeanor pursuant to proposition 47 and based on that conviction. respondent contends and appellant agrees the trial court lacked jurisdiction to no. pa047658 because the court handling the instant case was no. pa047658. ( 1170.18, subds. (a), (f).) the issue is now moot because appellant no longer has any present felony convictions that would support the imposition of section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements at resentencing. (see people v. abdallah (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 736, 742 [ 667.5, subd. (b) enhancement only applies if defendant oth prison custody and the commission of a new offense resulting in a felony (italics added)].) thus, without deciding whether the parties are correct on the jurisdictional issuest to reduce his conviction in case no. pa047658 to a 16 misdemeanor. our ruling does not preclude appellant from filing a new proposition 47 petition in the proper court under that case number. disposition we reduce a felony convictions in counts 6 and 8 to misdemeanors. we vacate in case no. pa047658 to a misdemeanor pursuant to proposition 47. we remand the case for resentencing. on remand, if appellant reasserts his right to represent himself at sentencing, the trial court is instructed to conduct further proceedings to determine whether that request is made voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently. if so, the court must allow appellant to represent himself at resentencing. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. i concur: rubin, j. bigelow, p.j., concurring and dissenting: (prop 47) applies to section 484e, subdivision (d)1 (484e(d)), prohibiting the possession of an access card or account information. i agree with those cases which find that section 484e(d) is not within the ambit of prop 47. punishment for a number of theft and drug related offenses. it went into effect the day after the voters approved it in the general election on november 4, 2014. (cal. const., art. ii,  10, subd. (a).) section 484e(d) is not among the enumerated crimes to which the act applies. respondent contends his offense is reducible based on another new statute other provision of law defining grand theft, obtaining any property by theft where the value of the money, labor, real or personal property taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950) shall be considered petty theft and shall be punished as a ( 490.2, subd. (a), italics added.) respondent claims that because there was insufficient evidence that value of the access card account information he possessed was less than $950, and thus his crime should be a misdemeanor based on section 490.2. i agree with the people that the unlawful acquisition or possession of access card account information under section 484e(d) does not fall within the ambit of section 490.2. n of access card account information with respect to an access card validly issue to another -based crime, not a 1 all further section references are to the penal code. 2 theft-based crime contingent on the value of the money or property taken. (people v. molina (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 507, 512 (molina).) the value of the access card account information is not an element of the crime defined by section 484e(d). to prove a violation of section 484e(d), loss . . . .possession of access card account information with the intent to use it fraudulently; it does not criminalize the use of access card account information to acquire something of value. indeed, to violate the statute, the access card to which the account information relates need not be currently valid. (molina, supra, at p. 514.) this is in contrast to section 484g, which renders it grand theft for a defendant to use an unlawfully procured access card or access card account information to obtain money, goods, services, or anything else of value, if the value of such money, goods, services, or anything else of value exceeds $950 in any six-month period. account information has never required proof of loss. this is because the legislature was not seeking to protect consumers from the theft of property valued by reference to ad, legislature intended to criminalize all fraudulent account access by means currently available or that might become technologically available in the future. [citation.] . . . [t]he legislature intended to criminalize any means to fraudulently (molina, supra, at p. 514.) in other words, the legislature meant to criminalize the mere acquisition or possession of access card account information with fraudulid. at p. 519), irrespective of the potential or actual monetary loss to the victim. as a result, the value 3 acquisition or possession of access card account information is simply not an element of the crime. to attempt to put this crime in the category of those reducible by prop 47 is like trying to put a proverbial square peg in a round hole. including violations of section 484e(d) under the rubric of prop 47 adds an entirely new element to the crime that of somehow assigning a value to the access card account information taken or possessed. there is no language in sections 490.2 or 1170.18 that indicates a legislative intent to punish violations of section 484e(d) according to some valuation and there is no language directing how to make such valuation. based on the plain language of section 484e(d), i would conclude the possession of access card account informationwhich is not the theft of property that can be valued by reference to money, labor, or real or personal propertydoes not qualify as a crime that may be reduced to a misdemeanor under prop 47. bigelow, p. j. 