filed 10/11/16 p. v. pacheco ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel pacheco, defendant and appellant. b267355 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta068726) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, patrick connolly, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. allen g. weinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and scott a. taryle, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted daniel pacheco of second degree murder for the killing of victor gomez outside a party in 2003. pacheco argues that the trial court erred by not instructing the jury on heat of passion voluntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense of murder. we conclude there was no substantial evidence to support giving such an instruction, and affirm. factual and procedural background a. party raquel alvarez hosted a baptismal party for her nephew at her house on february 15, 2003. gomez and his wife rosenda chavez were invited. pacheco was not. the party began at 6:00 p.m., and over the course of the evening approximately 100 people attended. maria ortega was one of the guests at the party. ortega knew pacheco through his girlfriend belinda montelongo, with whom pacheco had two children. ortega had a deceased brother. montelongo, who was at the party and wanted to fight ortega, left the party at some point to get pacheco. montelongo told pacheco she had seen ortega at the party, and she wanted pacheco to accompany her back to the party so she could fight ortega. p e place, an unknown place pacheco parked his car across 3 montelongo stayed by the car. zavala was standing at the gate. pacheco asked zavala for ortega, but zavala did not know who ortega was. pacheco then went into the party, found ortega, and said that montelongo was outside and wanted to fight her. ortega said she was drunk and did not want to fight, and it was a family party with a lot of children. pacheco said that the fight would not be in the party, but across the street. ortega agreed to fight montelongo and followed pacheco outside. ortega gave her cell phone, keys, and jewelry to a friend to hold while she fought montelongo. b. fight they briefly exchanged words and started fighting, with pacheco standing behind montelongo. ortega and montelongo fought on a grassy area next to the sidewalk across the street, fight. after a minute ortega overpowered montelongo and got on top of her. pacheco tried to pull ortega, who appeared to have the upper hand in the fight, off pulling each attempted to separate the two women. meanwhile, back at the party, alvarez heard there was a fight outside and she ran across the street. alvarez asked one of her friends why there were people at the party who were not invited. alvarez asked pacheco what he was doing at her party and why he 4 chavez also heard there was a fight, and she saw gomez run out the front door. chavez ran after gomez and screamed at him because she did not want him to become involved. gomez may have taken off a jersey he was wearing as he ran out of the house. gomez crossed the street and ran towards the fight. he was holding a bottle of beer down at his side in his right hand. gomez approached the grassy area where the women were fighting, told pacheco to leave ortega alone, and the two men began arguing. gomez tried to pull pacheco away from the fight. pacheco hit gomez, and the have tried to hit pacheco with the beer bottle, but he dropped it when pacheco hit him. montelongo, who did not have a good recollection of the fight and admitted she had lied to detectives about some of the events of that evening, told the detectives that she saw a bottle smashhad come to his aid, so that it was five men against two. when gomez was finally able to pull pacheco away from the two women, side. gomez followed. at some point, either pacheco pushed gomez to the ground or gomez fell on his back in the street. pacheco reached inside the car and pulled out a gun. pacheco stood over gomez and pointed the gun down at him while he was on his back on the ground. chavez screamed chavez, and then pulled the i would close my eyes and i would see th after pacheco shot gomez, he pointed the gun at the crowd of approximately 15 people who had been watching the fight, and he ran to his car. the crowd dispersed. pacheco told the women he had come with to get into the car, and he drove away. collapsed in the driveway, and told chavez to call for an ambulance. gomez died from a single gunshot wound to his abdomen. 5 law enforcement recovered two shell casings fired from a semiautomatic handgun at the scene.1 pacheco testified that his gun expels casings when it fires a bullet. a a wound that would occur if the victim was on his back. c. flight pacheco fled and was absent from california for 12 years, trying to avoid any contact with law enforcement. he went to mexico for two or three years, and eventually to illinois. while pacheco was living in illinois, his two children with montelongo came to visit him each summer. pacheco paid for their tickets and bought them school clothes. pacheco was captured in illinois in march 2015 on an arrest warrant issued february 19, 2003. d. conviction the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim nos. 505 and 3471 on self-defense and the right to self-defense where the defendant engages in mutual combat or starts a fight. the trial court also instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 571 on voluntary manslaughter based on unreasonable or imperfect self-defense, as a lesser included offense of murder. the court did not, however, instruct the jury pursuant to 1 detective teri bernstein, a homicide investigator who took over the investigation, a shell casing, and there is the projectile that is actually what we call the bullet, that sits in the front. and then there is gunpowder or some sort of form of accelerant that makes the bullet fly out of that shell casing. so when you have a semiautomatic weapon, the shell casing actually comes out of the side of the gun in one direction or another, depending on the type of the gun. so we expect to find at our scenes a shell casing and a bullet 6 calcrim no. 570 on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. the trial court discussed these instructions with counsel: -defense, as far as the testimony, definitely applies here. did you want to make a pitch or argument for heat of passion? applicable. the jury found pacheco guilty of second degree murder. the jury also found true the allegations that pacheco personally used, and personally and intentionally discharged, a firearm causing great bodily injury and death. the trial court sentenced pacheco to an aggregate prison term of 40 years to life, and imposed various fines and fees. discussion a. the trial court did not err by failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion pacheco argues that the trial court erred because, although the court instructed the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense, the court did not also instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion.2 pacheco contends 2 the standard of review for an alleged failure to instruct on a lesser included offense like heat of passion theory of manslaughter is de novo. (people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 538; people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 30.) 7 seen in a heated argument prior to the shooting, and gomez came at [pacheco] with a friends . . . nt a request, the trial court must instruct on general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citation.] this obligation includes giving instructions on lesser included offenses when the evidence raises a question whether all the elements of the charged offense were present . . . . [citation.] the trial court must so instruct even when, as a matter of trial tactics, a defendant not only fails to request the instruction, but expressly objects to its being given.people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548-549 (moyeevidence the offense committed was less than that charged, the trial court is not required people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 181; see people v. nelson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 538 [n instruction on a lesser included offense must be given only if there is substantial evidence from which a jury could reasonably conclude that the defendant committed the lesser, uncharged offense, but not ubstantial evidence requirement is not satisfied by any evidence . . . but rather by evidence from which a jury (people v. nelson, supra, at p. 538.) murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. [citation.] a defendant who commits an intentional and unlawful killing but who lacks malice is guilty of . . . voluntary manslaughter. [citations.] generally, the intent to unlawfully kills lacks malice . . . in limited, explicitly defined circumstances: either when the defendandefendant kills in unreasonable self-the unreasonable but good faith belief in having to act in self- 8 self-defense reduce an intentional, unlawful killing from murder to voluntary manslaughter by negating the element of malice that otherwise inheres in such a homicide [citation], voluntary manslaughter of these two forms is considered a lesser necessarily included moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549.) a heat of passion theory of manslaughter has both an objective and a subjective component. [citations.] [t of ion which incites the defendant to homicidal conduct in the heat of passion must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victim. [citations] the provocative conduct by the victim may be physical or verbal, but the conduct must be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. [citations.] [] to satisfy the subjective element of this form of voluntary sed was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion moye, supra, at pp. 549-550; see people v. nelson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 539.) here, there was no substantial evidence of either the subjective or objective component of heat of passion. the only evidence on the subjective component of heat of passion was the testimony of pacheco, who stated that, as he was trying to get into the car, gomez swung at him with the beer bottle, and pacheco tried unsuccessfully to block 9 the bottle, with two guys to his left -- 3 -- him and all -- both of the other guys were going to beat me soon as i pushed [gomez] as hard as i could, i knew he was going to come back at me . . . i was expecting the two gun, expecting him to hit me again, knowing that he was going to hit me again, or somebody else was going to hit me. as soon as i reached and pulled the gun, i loaded it, at the same time turning. and as i turned, i [saw] him coming up, and i shot two times. it was just so quick. i panicked. py he shot gomez, pacheco -- react. there was no pacheco-defense instructions, but not a heat of passion instruction. as the supreme court stated in moye, in words equally applicable to this below was self-defense -- both reasonable self-defense (a complete defense to the criminal charges), and unreasonable or imperfect self-defense (a partial defense that reduces murder to manslaughter). there was insubstantial evidence . . . r the heat of passion.moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 554.) like the defendant in moye 3 ating way. (people v. monterroso (2004) 34 cal.4th 743, 772; people v. thomas (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 987, 995; people v. torres and does not justify an instruction on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. (people v. lucas (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 721, 740.) 10 -ibid.) in shooting gomez. like the defendant in moyetestified he acted deliberately in seeking to defend himself from each successive advance by the victim who, defendant claimed, turned and attacked him . . . id. id. at p. 553), was that he shot gomez because he was defending himself from gomez (and perhaps others), believed gomez was trying to get up off the ground to come back at him, lf-defense, not heat of passion. like the defendant in moye, however, referring to his thought processes being caught up in the effort to defend himself . . . (moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 554.) like the defendant in moyeibid.ibid.) by gomez. (see id. at acted deliberately in seeking to defend himself from each successive advance by the his testimony, deliberately defending himself with a weapon he brought to the scene for reason was, at the time of his act, so disturbed or obscured by some passion . . . to such an extent as would render ordinary men of average disposition liable to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, and from this passion rather than from judgment.4 (people v. nelson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 538.) not even pacheco lawyer believed the evidence supported a heat of passion instruction. a trial court does not have to give an instruction on heat of passion voluntary manslaughter as a lesser included defense every time a defendant gets in a fight and claims he or she killed in self-defense. (see moyean instruction on heat of passion is [not] required in every case in which the only evidence of unreasonable self- 4 pacheco testified that in 2003 he did not have temper and quickly. montelongo, called by the people as a rebuttal witness, testified that pacheco although pacheco suggested that was only with her. 11 defense is the circumstance that a defendant is attacked and consequently fears for his life nor was there substantial evidence of the objective component of the heat of passion form of voluntary manslaughter. (see people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 585-gomez had fallen to the ground. the immediate danger had passed. although pacheco for his gun, not his car keys. instead of abandoning the fight or getting in his car to drive e moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 550; cf. people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 1141-1142 [trial court erred in failing to instruct on heat of passion where the victim insulpeople v. thomas (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 630, 645 [trial court erred in failing to instruct on heat of passion where the victim and two associates were aggressive toward the defendant, had a the defendant was angry, crying, pacing, may have been dragged across a parking lot, and finally, although it is unclear whether pacheco or gomez threw the first punch, it is undisputed that pacheco actively participated in creating the situation in which the a gun with him for security. he went into the party to get ortega so the fight between the two women would take place, he enabled the fight by standing by and making sure no one intervened, and he joined the fight when his girlfriend started to lose. and when the 12 confrontation he helped create escalated, he reached for his gun and shot gomez. as someone who had primary responsibility for the violence that evening, pacheco was not entitled to a voluntary manslaughter instruction based on heat of passion. (see people v. oropeza aim of provocation cannot be based on b. the trial court should amend the abstract of judgment to reflect that the jury convicted pacheco of second degree murder pacheco asserts, the people concede, and we agree that the abstract of judgment mistakenly states that pacheco was convicted of first degree murder, not second degree murder. we correct that mistake. (see people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 89 [court has power to correct clerical errors on an abstract of judgment]; people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 188 [an appellate court has the authority to correct a clerical error in the abstract of judgment].) disposition the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to correct the abstract of judgment to reflect that pacheco was convicted of second degree murder, and then to send a copy of the modified abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. garnett, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 