filed 9/13/17 p. v. martin ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. centia renee martin, defendant and appellant. b267500 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya091874) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, morris b. jones, and dudley gray ii, judges. affirmed. robert d. bacon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and noah p. hill, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction following a trial at which centia renee martin represented herself and did not testify, a jury convicted martin of first degree murder and found true an allegation she personally used a firearm during the commission of the offense. martin argues the trial court erred by initially denying her request under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 to represent herself. martin also contends the trial court violated her right to testify by denying her request to play a video recording of her post-arrest police interrogation in lieu of live direct testimony. initial request to represent herself because her request was not unequivocal. we also conclude the trial court did not violate video recording as inadmissible hearsay and martin, despite receiving every opportunity to testify at trial, chose not to do so. therefore, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. martin meets a client at a building in inglewood robert crigler was 74 years old and lived in arizona with his long-time girlfriend, madeleine clark, but he spent two or three days a week in inglewood, california at a building he managed. the building included an office and living quarters. on saturday, january 10, 2015, crigler sent text messages and made telephone calls to martin and requested her services as a topless maid, inviting her to come to his building in inglewood 3 that afternoon. when martin arrived, she parked her suv in the building parking lot. crigler had plans the next day to meet a friend for brunch, but crigler did not show up, call the friend, or answer his phone when his friend called him throughout the day. on monday his office manager, elida fino, arrived at the building and saw both noticed the lights were off and crigler was not there, which fino meanwhile, clark, who was concerned because she had not heard from crigler since saturday evening, called fino. upon hearing fino had not seen crigler, clark asked fino to check uarters. there was no answer when fino knocked. fino asked one of the maintenance workers to lift a into the adjacent living quarters. as the worker shined a flashlight into the darkened unit, which was uncharacteristically messy, martin when the police arrived, martin came out of the living quarters, and the officers conducted a brief protective sweep to make sure no one else was present. martin told the police she worked as a topless maid and met crigler online. she said crigler sometimes paid her for sex and gave her permission to stay in the unit. martin produced the keys to the unit and showed the officers the text messages from crigler on her phone. she said crigler had left the night before and did not say where possession of keys to the unit, the police decided to leave and allowed martin to stay. 4 the police returned the next morning to investigate t by then martin had left. after a more extensive search of the living quarters, the police found what appeared to be blood stains on the sheets and on a towel inside a fold-out couch, along with a shotgun with a broken stock. they also noticed blood stains throughout the apartment, including on a kitchen knife and on a bottle of cleaning solution, and hair on the living room door frame. the officers eventually -stained blanket in a storage container in the back room of the unit. they found a board with a home depot label and pieces of wood from found an orange bucket, a hammer, a box of nails, four bags of cement mix, wooden shelves, and a plastic home depot shopping bag with a receipt inside. video surveillance footage revealed that, while had remained in the building parking lot since he arrived saturday afternoon, approximately five hours later, at which point she removed some items from her suv, including what appeared to be an orange home depot bucket. a store security system from a nearby home depot store confirmed martin had purchased a bucket, nails, laminate wood boards, cement mix, and a hammer that day. an autopsy revealed crigler had numerous deep lacerations to his face and head consistent with having been beaten with a shotgun, and he had a wide, gaping cut across his matched bloody fingerprints left on the shotgun. aside from the 5 dna of martin and crigler, the police found no evidence of e living quarters. b. t to represent herself but grants the request at the next hearing on february 10, 2015 the court held a pretrial hearing at which martin was represented by a deputy public defender. over deputy public defender asked the court to continue the matter because he had not received certain discovery from the prosecutor. following a discussion among the court, the prosecutor, and the public defender about the outstanding discovery, the court addressed martin directly. martin? agree with my attorney. all i want to know is do they have a search warrant for searching my apartment. the search warrant is concerned. however, you have the right to have an effective representation in this case and this is guaranteed by federal law. tin: yes, sir. your objection. want to fire my attorney right now. attorney if you so desire. 6 the court stated it was continuing the matter to march 5, 2015, at which point martin asked the following: myself? attorneys nevertheless, the court recalled the case that afternoon, noting martin had indicated in the morning she wanted to [her] qualifications . . . and [her] ability to represent [herself] in this ramifications of representing yourself. however, the court is not satisfied at this juncture that you are qualified to represent outstanding. counsel cannot turn over what he does not have. the court will deny your motion for pro per status at this juncture. that is without prejudice which means you can raise that issue at the next court hearing. the motion is denied at this 7 the next hearing was approximately three weeks later, on march 5, 2015. a different judge presided, and martin was represented by a different public defender. the court and counsel -appointed attorney, against martto a speedy trial for purposes of a continuance. the deputy public , asking the court to consider the work that needs to be done on this very serious case, following additional discussion about the status of the -appointed counsel raised the issue of self-representation: hearing, request of faretta waiver and request to go pro per in this case. so i want the record to be clear what her position is with regards per in her right to counsel, engaged in a colloquy advising her against court granted her request to represent herself, noting she had thereafter represented herself, including at the preliminary hearing several months later and throughout trial. 8 c. martin does not testify at trial the court advised martin decided not to testify. later, at a sidebar conference, the court asked martin if she was going to testify, and martin concluded questioning her only witness, a character witness, she outside the presence of the jury, the following exchange occurred: have the absolute constitutional right not to testify. you also have the absolute constitutional right to testify in this matter. i told you what i would read to the jury should you choose not to testify. are you telling me you do not want to testify? situation, i would rather my interrogation video from january 20th, which would be after the incident before i had a chance to view all this case stuff, do all this work on the trial, to be entered as my testimony. i will even allow [the prosecutor] to ask me questions based on that as his [cross-examination]. detectives? as i indicated, under evidence code section 1220 an admission is allowed as a hearsay exception by a party opponent. martin did not provide an exception but rather stated it would not be fair to the jury or the prosecutor for her testify at 9 e an exception to the hearsay d. martin is convicted and sentenced the jury found martin guilty of first degree murder and found the firearm enhancement true. the trial court sentenced martin to a prison term of 25 years to life, plus 10 years for the enhancement. martin timely appealed. discussion a. represent herself because her initial request was not unequivocal in faretta v. california, supra, 422 u.s. 806 the united states supreme court held that under the sixth amendment a counsel when he (id. at p. 807; see id. at pp. 819-directly to the accused; for it is he who suffers the consequences if at the same time, the defendant also has a constitutional right to representation by counsel at all critical stages of a criminal proceeding. (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1069; see ibid. [a criminal defendantrepresentation by counsel and right to represent himself or herspeople v. james (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 323, 328.) the right to representation by counsel self-executing; the defendant need make no request for counsel in 10 order to be entitled to legal representation. [citation.] the right to counsel persists unless the defendant affirmatively waives that koontzmust draw every inference against supposing that the defendant people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 20, 23, citing brewer v. williams (1977) 430 u.s. extended the same kind of protection to the right of self-marshall, supra, at p. 20.) the right to self-representation has limits. (see indiana v. edwards faretta itself and later cases have made clear that the right of self-representation is not people v. mickel autonomy and dignity interests underlying our willingness to recognize the right of self-representation may be outweighed, on occasion, by countervailing considerations of justice and the people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 825 here are lis own attorney-representation that is equivocal [or] made in passing anger or frustrationbutler, at p. 824; see people v. watts (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 621, 629 [a request for self-unequivocal and must not be an ill-considered decision that is a see also u.s. v. mendez-sanchez (9th cir. 2009) 563 f.3d 935, 945-exercise of self-representation cuts off the exercise of the right to counsel, often to individual detriment, we recognize the right only ndant] equivocates, he is presumed to have requested the assistance of 11 request for self-against clever defendants who attempt to build reversible error into the record by making an equivocal request for self-people v. weeks (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 882, 886, quoting people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 683, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) -representation iwhether the defendant has stated the motion clearly, but also the court should draw every reasonable inference against waiver of the right to about self-marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 23; see people v. ruffin (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 536, 545.) indeed, faretta (people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 99; accord, people v. boyce (2014) 59 cal.4th 672, 703marshall, supra, at p. 21; see people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, a [faretta] motion made out of a temporary whim, or out of annoyance or frustration, is not unequivocaleven if the defendant has said he or she seeks self-representationremarks facially resembling requests for self-representation were (people v. tena (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 598, 607.) 12 specifically, courts may properly deny a request for self-a motion under people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 to replace appointed counsel. (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1087; see people v. valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 99 [single reference to right of self-representation made immediately following denial of marsden motion indicated the defendant did not make an unequivocal motion for self-representation]; people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1205 [request for self-representation was equivocal when made immediately after the marsden people v. stanley, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 932--representation during a renewed marsden motion . . . out of apparent annoyance or frustration with his first appointed s waiver of counsel was not knowing and intelligent].) for example, the california supreme court in marshall himself was equivocal because he was displeased with his appointed counsel over an order to give blood and tissue samples and the defendant made the request to avoid giving the samples. (see marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 25.) similarly, the court in tena -representation attorney who would subpoena the witnesses that he desired, rather than unequivocal faretta tena, supra, 156 cal.app.4th at p. 608; see people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269, -representation were 13 equivocal, born primarily of frustration regarding the granting of initial request for self-representation was not unequivocal.1 rather, the record with whether the police had obtained a warrant for the search of her apartment.2 notably, immediately after the trial court stated 1 the right to self-representation, we examine the entire record de people v. stanley, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 932, quoting people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, 217-218; see people v. mickel, supra faretta waiver de novo, and examine the entire record to determine the validity even if the trial herself the amount of discovery still outstandingwas arguably improperling if the record shows the court properly denied the request on other grounds. (people v. dent, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 218.) 2 at the february 10, 2015 hearing was whether the police had obtained a warrant for the search of her apartment, at the next hearing, when the court granted her request to represent herself, martin agreed to a 30-day continuance so she could learn something. whateverything they have. what search warrants 14 it was going to continue the matter over her objection, martin the court said she could not between wanting to fire her appointed counsel, represent herself, ruling, show that her request for self-representation was not unequivocal. nor does it matter, as martin asserts in her reply brief, gave no indication of ever considering that it could be denied for argument in marshall, corequest for self-the request as one for self-representation and made no express finding the request was equivocal. (marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 25; see tena, supra, on this matter does not oblige us to conclude that [the defendantfaretta b. the trial court did not deny martin her right to testify er 15 constitutional right to testify at trial in her defense. martin argues the ruling was an abuse of discretion and requires reversal. a criminal defendant has constitutional rights to testify on his or her behalf and present witnesses and evidence in support of a defense. (people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 218.) these ibid.) accommodate other legitimate interests in the criminal trial evaluate whether the interests served by a rule justify the rock v. arkansas (1987) 483 u.s. 44, 55-56; accord, people v. mickel, at pp. 218-219; see u.s. v. gallagher (9th cir. the right of a defendant to take the stand in his own defense and present relevant testimony . . . is not . . . without limitation in particular, a established rules of procedure and evidence designed to assure both fairness and reliability in the ascertainment of guilt and (chambers v. mississippi (1973) 410 u.s. 284, 302.) ordinary rules of evidence do not people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 218; see taylor v. illinois an unfettered right to offer testimony that is . . . otherwise people v. noori (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 964, 978application of provisions of the state evidence code law does not implicate a criminal defendan16 instead, because the trial court merely excluded some evidence . . . and did not preclude defendant from presenting a (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 957.) we review a trial questions of hearsay, for abuse of discretion. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 725; see people v. jonesexclude a hearsay statement . . . will not be disturbed on appeal absent a showing of abuse of martin does not challenge was hearsay, nor does she offer any potentially applicable hearsay exception. instead, martin argues that the trial court that the (then allow the prosecution to cross-examine her) in lieu of testifying on direct examination violated her constitutional right to testify. right to testify includes the right to play a recording of a police interrogation. she argues only, without citation to authority, although not mentioned by the parties, the california supreme court has provided guidance on this issue, and it s ruling. for example, in people v. williams (2006) 40 cal.4th 287 the defendant argued the trial -arrest police interrogation violated his constitutional rights to due process, a fair sentencing hearing, and a reliable penalty phase determination. (id. at p. 317). the supreme court disagreed, 17 concluding the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the tape as inadmissible hearsay. (id. at pp. 318-319.)3 in people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72 the supreme court held the trial made his statements during a postarrest police interrogation, when he had a compelling motive to minimize his culpability for the murder and to play on the sympathies of his interrogators, jurado, at pp. 128-130; see people v. kaurish (1990) 52 cal.3d 648, 704-705 [trial court police interrogation made shortly after arrest]; see also people v. livaditis required to admit evidence in a form inadmissible under state excludable under state law makes them excludable under the martin could have taken the stand and told the jury her version of the events. (see people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 605 efendant was free to present . . . informationby taking the stand 3 -examination did not cure the hearsay problem. the defendant in williams testified at trial, and the court still properly excluded the tape recording. (williams, supra, at 40 cal.4th at pp. 297-299; see people v. anderson (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 851, 877-878 [citing williams and rejecting the argument that the hearsay rule did not apply because the defendant testified at trial and subjected himself to cross-examination].) 18 himselftestify and tell the jury the same (or different) things she told the police in her interview, so the jury could evaluate her testimony live and under oath.4 martin chose not to do so. the trial court rights in excluding the videotape as hearsay. disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 4 on appeal martin suggests for the first time have been proper to require her to affirm orally in open court the content of her recorded statements after taking the witness oath and before the video was played and before she submitted to cross-in the trial court, however, she has forfeited the argument. (see people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 821.) in any event, the procedure martin proposes would not have changed the fact that her post-arrest statements were out-of-court statements, nor would it have cured the hearsay problems that playing the out-of-court statements by martin and the interviewing officer would have raised. 