filed 10/23/17 p. v. gouda ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george gouda, defendant and appellant. b267320 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma062594) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric p. harmon, judge. affirmed. winston kevin mckesson for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris and xavier becerra, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and shawn mcgahey webb, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction after hearing testimony that george gouda drove directly at a vehicle carrying his ex-girlfriend and her mother causing it to crash, a jury convicted gouda of, among other crimes, attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon. gouda argues the evidence was insufficient to support those convictions and his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. a violent relationship on march 24, 2014 samantha jameel spent the night with her boyfriend, gouda, in his bedroom at his in lancaster. when jameel woke the next morning, she tried to wake gouda so he could take her to the beauty school she attended. because gouda was uncooperative, jameel sent a text message to her mother, janette harris, asking her to come pick her up. meanwhile, angry jameel had awakened him, gouda kicked jameel. a fight ensued in which gouda got on top of jameel and hit her several times above the shoulders with a closed fist. after sister entered the room, the melee spilled into the hallway, where gouda punched jameel and hit her multiple times in the head and back with a piece of a metal bed frame. harris arrived a few minutes later and parked to wait for jameel outside the house, but when jameel tried to walk out through the front door gouda grabbed her by the hair and pulled her back inside. jameel managed to free herself and ran outside to meet harris 3 had gotten out of her car. gouda followed jameel outside, punched her in the head multiple times, and pushed her and harris to the ground. jameel and harris eventually made it to car, and drove directly to the lancaster sh station. at the station jameel and harris reported what had happenedalso obtained an emergency protective order against gouda. over the next two or three days, however, gouda attempted to contact jameel more than 50 times by phone or text message or through social media. s calls and did not respond to his messages, which included apologies for what he had done to her, promises to start a life together, threats he would kill himself if she left him, and claims because of these messages, jameel ; she capable of tjameel parked her car in the parking lot at her school, got out, and found gouda had parked his car behind her, blocking her. as gouda got out of his car, jameel screamed he was not supposed to be there and she had a restraining order against him. jameel jumped back into her car, locked the doors, and phoned the partment. gouda walked up to car window, asked and, when she answered yes, he punched the window several times as though to break it. gouda then got back in his car and moved it about 30 feet away, where jameel could still see him. there he made a slashing motion across his neck while mouthing afterward he got out of his car again, walked over to 4 car, punched the side of it, and ripped a plastic bug shield off the hood. when another student came around the corner of the school and saw what was happening, gouda fled. later a happened, and photographed the damage to her car. b. a car crash two days later, harris was driving jameel on a local two-lane road when jameel suddenly pointed at a brown suv she recognized belonged to gouda approaching in the opposite lane. jameel at that moment the brown suv, which was now seven to 10 car lengths in front of them, accelerated and moved into their lane. harris saw gouda driving the brown suv. harris swerved to avoid him; otherwise, he would have hit her car head-on. vehicle flipped, then rolled three times. the brown suv drove away without stopping. and the fire department removed jameel and harris from their vehicle. both women were conscious, but dazed. jameel told detective -boyfriend, george gouda, had just ran the detective also spoke with garret gutierrez, who had been riding on the same street at the time of the crash. gutierrez saw a ss deputies found gouda that night and took him into custody. c. a trial in connection with the car crash, the people charged gouda with two counts of attempted willful, deliberate, and 5 premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664)1 and two counts of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). in connection with the events of the days leading up to the crash, the people charged gouda with making a criminal threat against jameel ( 422, subd. (a)), assaulting her by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4)), misdemeanor battery of harris ( 242), and misdemeanor vandalism ( 594, subd. (a)). jameel, harris, and gutierrez testified at the jury trial, as did two women who dated gouda before jameel had. one of the latter two witnesses testified that during their relationship gouda sent text messages threatening that, if she refused to go mother. the other woman who previously dated gouda testified that during an argument he pinned her against a truck with his arms, grabbed her chin, said he would 2 for the defense s mother and his sister testified that on the morning of march 25, 2014 they heard jameel yelling at gouda to wake up and that, when they entered room, jameel was on top of him, either scratching him or pulling his shirt, saying she wanted to go to school. according to them, that was the extent of the physical altercation between jameel and gouda before jameel left the house with harris. 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 2 gouda does not contend the trial court erred in admitting kes 6 a defense medical expert testified about the effects of various prescription drugs harris took the day of the car crash, including a muscle relaxant and an anti-anxiety medication. in his opinion those medications, particularly when combined, had a ough the expert could not say what effect they had on harris specifically. the defense also called an accident reconstructionist who opined, based on the police report and other information concerning the car crash, it was a single-vehicle, rollover accident, rather than a collision between two vehicles. the jury convicted gouda on all counts, and the trial court sentenced him to state prison for 17 years 2 months. gouda timely appealed. discussion a. substantial evidence supports the convictions for attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder and assault with a deadly weapon when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] . . . we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact reasonably could infer from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably s findings, reversal of the judgment is not 7 warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. [citation.] a reviewing court neither reweighs evidence nor reevaluates a witness (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890; see people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 632; people v. jimenez (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1337, 1353-1354.) challenge to the evidence supporting the convictions related to the car crash goes solely to witness credibility. specifically, gouda concedes the testimony of jameel and harris was sufficient to support his convictions, but he suggests the jury should have rejected the -serving statements from the victims of what they believed happened did not happen the way the conflicted account. for example, he argues that, although harris claimed she saw gouda driving the brown suv, it is likely she it because as another example, he notes gutierrez testified he did not accident or engage in any improper driving. and having of the crash, gouda argues the evidence of his previous behavior toward other women was insufficient to prove he caused the crash. the jury, however, believed jameel and harrion appeal [w]e do not reweigh evidence or reevaluate a witness credibility. (people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59, 89.) gouda has failed to demonstrate substantial evidence did not support his convictions. 8 b. gouda has not demonstrated his trial counsel was ineffective to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendas performance was deficient [because] the representation fell below an objective standard of reasondeficient perfothere is a reasonable prs errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. (people v. arce (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 924, 930; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687.) if the defendant fails to satisfy one of these requirements, we need not address the other. (strickland, at p. 697.) moreovert is particularly difficult to prevail on an appellate claim of ineffective assistance. on direct appeal, a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance only if (1) the record affirmatively discloses counsel had no rational tactical purpose for the challenged act or omission, (2) counsel was asked for a reason and failed to provide one, or (3) there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. all other claims of ineffective assistance are more appropriately resolved in a habeas corpus (people v. hung thanh mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009; see people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198-199 ineffective assistance of counsel claims are rarely successful on direct appeal because the appellate record will often not sufficiently reveal why defense counsel acted or failed to act on any given occasion 9 gouda deficient because his counsel did not discover harris had previously been in a single-car accident caused by her inattention ert and liability expert to go out to the scene of the crime and determine the record, however, does not even establish that g trial counsel did not do these things, let alone reveal his reasons for supposedly not doing them. in fact, with regard to the first item, prior single-car accident, the record reflects that at least two months before trial s trial counsel informed the people that harris had previously been in an automobile accident and requested her dmv records, which the people provided. gouda also complains his trial counsel did not ensure that, before testifying at trial, the defense medical expert spoke with harris or her doctors and the accident reconstruction expert spoke with , which gouda maintains effectiveness. the experts did concede on cross-examination they had not spoken to the people in question. but, again, the record does not disclose what trial counsel did or did not do to ensure they did speak to them. because on this record gouda cannot establish what actions his trial counsel performed, he has not demonstrated his performance was deficient. (see people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 734-735 [claim of ineffective assistance of counsel failed on direct appeal because, among other reasons, the record did not establish what actions counsel took]; people v. williams (1988) 44 cal.3d 883, 917 [same].) 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. menetrez, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 