filed 2/17/17 p. v. howard ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. terrell howard, defendant and appellant. b267259 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba435636) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. melissa j. kim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and heather b. arambarri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant terrell howard (terrell)1 appeals his conviction of first degree residential burglary. we find no error, and thus we affirm. factual and procedural background on september 1, 2015, terrell was arraigned on an amended information charging him with one count of first degree residential burglary pursuant to penal code section 459.2 he pleaded not guilty. terrell was tried by a jury with two codefendants: his brother, tyler howard (tyler), and jhonay taylor (jhonay). a. testimony of jose ramos jose ramos (ramos) is the owner of a duplex located at 119 west 62nd street in los angeles. the duplex is made up of two units: a two-bedroom house at the front of the property, and a one-bedroom guest house at the back. there are two windows at the front of the main house, one on each side of the front door. each window is secured by metal security bars; between the metal bars and the windows are screens. security system and security cameras. two of the security cameras were at the front of the homeone pointing toward the front door, and the other pointing toward the drivewayand one camera was at the back of the home. 1 because some of the robbery participants have the same last names, we refer to them by their first names, with no disrespect intended. 2 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ramos testified he met jhonay in about 2010, shortly after he moved into the neighborhood. he saw her frequently, allowed her inside his home 15 to 20 times. he sometimes gave jhonay rides in his car, and he had given her his wi-fi password. ramos recognized tyler as someone he saw once or twice a money. so i give him some money. he also offered himself to do ramos also recognized terrell; ramos was not sure what but testified that at that point, the court interjected to say that the man to whom ramos was referring was terrell. ramos said terrell sometimes asked him for money, and he (ramos) had hired both terrell and tyler to do odd jobs and to wash his car. on march 27, 2015, before leaving for work, ramos locked his front door, made sure the windows were closed, and turned on his alarm system. later that day, he received a phone call from his alarm company indicating that someone was trying to break in or tamper with the front window of the living room. ramos told the alarm company to call the police, and then he left work and headed home. when ramos arrived at his residence, the police were outside. ramos observed that the security bars on the front left window had been cut, the screen had been removed, and the window glass was broken. pieces of broken glass were found 4 s house under the broken window, but nothing had been taken from the home. b. video footage of the break-in the march 27 break-i security cameras. the video footage of the break-in was provided to the police and played for the jury. the jury was first shown footage from the camera pointed toward the driveway. the video showed a woman, subsequently property. a few moments later, a man dressed in a white tank top and plaid shorts is seen jumping over a chain link fence from the jury was then shown video footage from the camera the first image is of front walk and sitting on his front porch. about nine minutes later, two men, one wearing dark shorts and one wearing tan the side of the house. the two men then return to the porch, and the man in tan shorts sits on a chair near the left front window and begins doing something to security bars. the man in dark shorts appears to leave the front yard, and about a minute later, a large duffle bag is tossed from beyond the front walkway towards jhonay, who is still seated on the porch. jhonay catches the duffle bag and hands it to the man in the white tank top, who is seated beside her; he hands it to the man in the tan shorts. jhonay and the man in the white tank top then leave the property. the man in tan shorts is seen continuing to attempt to pry the bars off the left front window with some kind of tool, while 5 the man in dark shorts stands (and then sits) next to him, facing toward the street. after several minutes, the two men lift the metal bars away from the window, and the man in tan shorts pulls out the window screen. the man in the tan shorts then picks up the duffle bag and the men both leave the porch. about six minutes later, the man in dark shorts returns alone to the porch, lifts the metal bars, and appears to be trying to push open the window. he then runs from the porch. ramos testified that he recognized all three of the men visible in the video. he identified the man in the white tank top as terrell howard; the man in dark shorts as tyler howard; and the man in tan shorts a taylor, who was not a defendant in the proceeding. immediately following this testimony, the jurors left the courtroom and advised the court believe that the witness has confused . . . terrell howard and tyler howard. . . . [i]t is tyler howard who jumped over the gate, over the fence, and sat on the front porch. it is terrell the window. the court asked counsel to draft a stipulation; they did so, and the following stipulation was read to the jury: confused tyler howard and terrell howard. in fact, it was tyler howard who jumped the fence and sat on the porch and terrell all parties also two fingers and a palm belonging to terrell howard, were lifted 6 c. conviction, judgment, and appeal the jury convicted terrell, and acquitted tyler and jhonay. terrell was sentenced to a state prison term of nine years. he timely appealed. discussion terrell contends (1) the evidence presented at trial was insufficient to prove his identity, and therefore cannot support his conviction for residential burglary, and (2) the trial court committed prejudicial error by failing to give the jury a unanimity instruction. for the reasons that follow, we disagree and affirm. i. substantial evidence supported conviction of residential burglary terrell contends that the evidence presented at trial was insufficient to prove his identity as a participant in the burglary. terrell acknowledges that he stipulated to his identity as the but urges that the offer clarification. instead, it lent to the confusion. the inexplicable misidentifications could not simply be undone with an agreement. [the stipulation], which essentially reversed explain how ramos could have continuously misidentified the two men in court. conclusion that terrell participated in the burglary. considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, 7 credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1104.) we begin by noting that terrell does not contend that he entered the stipulation involuntarily or that the stipulation is otherwise invalid. [w]hen a party enters into a voluntary stipulation, he generally is precluded from taking an appeal people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1328; see also people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 623 [same].) the issue before us, therefore, is not the validity of the stipulation, but rather whether the eyewitness and physical evidence, plus the stipulation, considered together, are sufficient to support having carefully reviewed the video of the burglary and testimony, we conclude that the conviction is supported by substantial evidence. significantly, the videos clearly show the roles of each of the two male defendants. the male defendant who is shown jumping the fence and is slender and wearing a white tank top and plaid shorts. the video shows him catching a black duffle bag and then leaving at approximately 2:16 p.m. the other male defendant is heavier set and wore a dark shirt and dark shorts. he is seen standing next to desean as desean pries open the security bars; 8 approximately six minutes later, he is seen pushing on the window glass, which ultimately broke. the video thus clearly shows the roles, but not the identities, of each of the two male defendants. the stipulationfills the gap, identifying the two defendants depicted in the video. taken together, therefore, the video and the stipulation are substantial evidence to support terrell residential burglary conviction. moreover, stipulation regarding identity are not the only evidence of the jury also heard evidence in the form of a stipulation that of two fingers and a [u]nder california law, it is established that fingerprints are strong evidence of identity and ordinarily are sufficient, without more, to identify the perpetrator of a crime. (people v. johnson (1988) 47 cal.3d 576, 601; people v. figueroa (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1584, 1588 [palm prints found on a window which was the point of entry for a burglary were sufficient for a conviction where there was no evidence the defendant, who had visited the apartment before the burglary, had been present after the window was cleaned and there was no evidence the defendant to gain surreptitious entry into the ]; people v. preciado (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 1244, 1247 [fingerprints on a wristwatch box in a burglarized apartment were sufficient for a conviction because the victim did not know the defendant and the box, which the victim received as a gift 18 months earlier, had 9 people v. tuggle (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 1071, 1076.) in the present case, although there was evidence that evidence that those jobs had ever given terrell occasion to place his hand on the exterior of the broken windowi.e., the side of the window protected by metal security bars. for all of these reasons, the evidence thus is sufficient to ii. the trial court did not err by failing to give a unanimity instruction terrell urges that the trial court erred in failing to give a one by desean and another by [terrell]were used by the prosecutor to support the entry element of the burglary charge: first, [the prosecutor] argued [that] desean made entry when he pulled out the window screen, and [terrell] aided and abetted the entry by sean to that end [citation]; second, the prosecutor also argued that [terrell] as a perpetrator entered the home when he lifted the metal bars and pushed on the window after desean had already removed the thus, terrell says, the court had a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury regarding the unanimity requirement evidence showed two different acts of entry with felonious intent and required a unanimous finding [terrell] was we conclude that a unanimity instruction was not required in this case. the elements of first degree burglary in california are: (1) entry into a structure currently being used for dwelling 10 purposes (2) with the intent to commit a theft or a felony. (people v. sample (2011) 200 cal.app.4th 1253, 1261 [a] burglary is complete upon the slightest partial entry of any kind, with the requisite intent . . . .people v. valencia (2002) 28 cal.4th 1, 8, disapproved on other grounds by people v. yarbrough (2012) 54 cal.4th 889, 894.) it is undisputed that in agree unanimously the defendant is guilty of a specific crime. [citation.] therefore, cases have long held that when the evidence suggests more than one discrete crime, either the prosecution must elect among the crimes or the court must people v. leonard (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 465, 491.) in deciding whether to give a unanimity instruction, the trial court must ask whether (1) there is a risk the jury may divide on two discrete crimes and not agree on any particular crime or (2) the evidence merely presents the possibility the jury may divide, or be uncertain, as to the exact way the defendant is guilty of a single discrete crime. [citation.] in the first situation, but not the second, it should give the unanimity instruction. people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 570.) in the present case, the evidence did not suggest, and the prosecutor did not argue, that the defendants committed two discrete burglaries. the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 1700 that an individual is guilty of the crime of burglary when he enter[s] a building with the requisite intenti.e., when some part of his or her body or some object under his 11 the evidence before the jury suggested that although desean attempted there was no actual entry until outer boundary. the video evidence of a single entry. in her closing argument, the prosecutor told the jury as followsdefendant[s] entering a building? yes, we do. who enters the building? mr. terrell howard. he entered the building, meaning the house, when he lifted those metal bars after desean had already removed the window screen and got into that outer boundary of the house and started pushing on the window, causing the window to break into the house. she repeated this in her . . terrell really did was shake and push on the window. and that, really, desean is the one that is responsible and not terrell. [] [t]he law tells you the completattorney] argued. the law tells you that you and take anything. you just have to have the intent to take something when you enter the outer boundary of the property. is true when you watch the the screen out from the frame . . . . [but] terrell is the one who comes back. one that gets under those bars and manipulates the window causing it to break, causing the entry with the shards of glass that are inside the residenceadded.) 12 in short, the prosecutor contended that there was only one s home, which occurred when the living room window was broken. on this record, the jury could not have convicted terrell of residential burglary without unanimously concluding that terrell exterior window. a unanimity instruction therefore was not required.3 (see people v. perez (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 214, 223 offense, second degree robbery, based on one discrete criminal event. there is no question as to which act constituted the robbery. witnesses testified the perpetrator entered the store, displayed a gun, took the money in the register and fled. however, there was conflicting evidence regarding which specific acts [defendant] committed during the robbery. [under these circumstances], it was not necessary jurors unanimously agree on whether [defendant] was the direct perpetrator or aided and abetted the robbery by driving the 3 terrell is guilty of this crime both as a perpetrator and as an aider and abettor because he did aid and abet desean prior to him coming suggest a different result. although the prosecutor described the several ways in which terrell had participated in the burglary, screen and got into that outer boundary of the house and started 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: aldrich, j. goswami* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 