filed 5/10/17 p. v. guyton ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jerrell guyton, defendant and appellant. b267187 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta134962) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed as modified. kelly c. martin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ 2 jerrell guyton appeals from the judgment following his jury conviction of conspiracy to commit a home invasion robbery for the benefit of a gang. we conclude that the conviction is supported by substantial evidence. we modify the judgment to replace the 10-year enhancement under penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) with a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under subdivision (b)(5).1 the judgment is affirmed as modified. factual and procedural summary sergeant frederick douglass reynolds, a homicide used harold morgan, a paid informant with an extensive criminal record, over several months in 2014. on september 3, 2014, morgan notified reynolds that appellant, a member of the rollin 60s gang, had asked him to participate in a home invasion robbery and murder of a drug dealer in lynwood. appellant had suggested that morgan dress as a police officer for the robbery. four of appellant were recorded.2 during the first recorded call, appellant told morgan that an unidentified man had proposed robbing the intended 1 subsequent undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the transcripts of the calls indicate they were made on september 3, 2014. reynolds confirmed that date at the preliminary hearing, but at trial, he testified that the last two representation, there is no uncertainty regarding the sequence of the calls, which can be determined from their substance. 3 house, but would not participate in the robbery itself because he was out of town. the man was related to an unidentified woman, during the phone calls. the woman was alternatively referred to bitch. the man who had proposed the robbery was identified as her daddyor her nigga,and the intended victim was describ appellant said his little cousin would participate in the robbery . immediately after talking appellant big riding on my little cousin. they boys. they be big riding, low key. ]s a real warrior out here, tattoos on his face, ready with the shit, the appellant was ambivalent about the size of his expected share, ways . . . appellant made several unclear references, implicating his own cousin and the during the second recorded call, appellant said he planned to join morgan in a conference call with the baby daddy,of town. at the same time, appellant explained that his own later in the call, appellant said: there and do your homewlater in the call, appellant said: gonna call me. so, i have to get in touch with him so, in the third recorded call, during which 4 home, appellant confirmed he had with baby daddy dude appellant made several other statements indicating that multiple individuals were involved in the conspiracy to commit you. . . . [] gwanted to see morgan because they did not know him, and that appellant explained ppellant said he now had to tell them, or he had em, that morgan had agreed to participate it . . . . . . . when he met with morgan, even though he told the general plan was that morgan would knock on the answered, the others would enter the house, tie up the victim, and rob himvictim would be maimed or killed if he resisted. appellant would supply morgan with a gun, and morgan would procure a police uniform on his own. although he discussed the robbery over the phone, appellant did so reluctantly. he warned talking on these phones. . . . you not understanding these at times when morgan pressed for the exact details of the plansuch as whether appellant would be armed as well, 5 who would be driving, or how the stolen property would be dividedappellant suggested they should he justified the need for a face-to-face meeting because of his [w]and then my couthere . . . . we go and sit at a round table and come with . . . the skit and my, my cousin, thowe sit down and talk to him, then he gonna understand like, oh appellant envisioned they would meet immediately before the robbery. he told he later said: [o]nly one i want to see is my cousin. the other and added after giving morgan the exact address and detailed directions to the intended house in the third recorded phone call, appellant suggested he and morgan should meet first in the daytime on appelof town, [a]nd then we can just meet up over there. once we when we get there and discuss shit! i just want to meet up over there and get in the last recorded phone call, appellant and morgan agreed to meet at a mcdonalds parking lot at 6:45 p.m. appellant said: e plan together, but my cousin . . . . so when we get to 6 the mcdonalds cuz, we gonna put it together. onna come out right. . . . [w]e meeting . . . [f]or you to give me the last, on what you fixing to do, how you gonna d appellant confirmed he would give morgan the gun when they met at mcdonalds, and morgan promised he would have the police uniform by then. after reynolds heard the phone conversations, he obtained a search warrant for the intended , set up a command post nearby, and arranged for surveillance of the mcdonalds parking lot where appellant and morgan had agreed to meet. detective george semenez, who surveilled the location, saw the two meet once in daylight. during a second meeting after sunset, semenez saw at least one other individual join them. the detective did not hear what was said during either meeting. at 8:09 p.m. that night, morgan texted reynolds that , he and crew will be at mcdonald, t, they got guns and one extra guy. . . . later, his has gotten way out of hand, . . . . . . how can i not get paid for all this. . . . [] 3 surveillance teams 3 reynolds admitted having been told by morgan that morgan did not meet with appellant because morgan believed appellant was going to kill him. 7 the officers followed the car after it left the parking lot and saw a handgun being thrown out of the front passenger window. a loaded gun was immediately recovered. when the car eventually stopped, the front passenger, tiyon jones,4 jumped out and ran, but was soon apprehended. appellant and the other passenger, clarence hill, remained in the car and were arrested. the site of the arrest was approximately 10 miles away from the intended 5 appellant identified hill as his cousin. like appellant, hill was a member of the rollin 60s gang, and he had gang tattoos on his face. jones, too, had tattoos related to the rollin 60s. morgan was a member of the 111 neighborhood crips, a gang friendly with the rollin 60s. appellant, hill and jones were jointly charged with conspiracy to commit home invasion robbery. ( 182, subd. (a)(1); 213, subd. (a)(1).) it was alleged that they had conspired rsons whose identity is unknownto commit the robbery and that they had committed an . gang allegations were 4 spelled 5 the amount of money and drugs found during the search of the house was significantly lower than morgan had led police to expect. no guns were found, contrary to representations appellant had made to morgan, and no woman was in the house at the time of the search. 8 attached. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c) & (5).)6 it also was alleged that appellant previously had been convicted of three serious or violent felonies that qualified as prior strikes, and that he had served a prior prison term. ( 667, 667.5, subd. (b), 1170, subd. (h)(3), 1170.12.) after a deadlocked jury resulted in a mistrial, appellant was allowed to represent himself at his second jury trial. on retrial, he was found guilty of conspiracy to commit home invasion robbery, and the gang allegation was found to be true. motion for new trial was denied and his request for counsel granted. the court found the prior conviction allegations to be true and sentenced appellant to 25 years to life in prison under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), plus 10 years for the gang enhancement. this appeal followed. discussion i appellant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conviction. in considering claims of insufficient evidence, we review the record in the light most favorable to the prosecution, drawing all inferences and resolving all conflicts in favor of the judgment. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) a reversal for insufficient upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial s verdictibid.) that the 6 jones and hill pled out of the case. a separate evading an officer count was later dismissed. gun use was not submitted to the jury. 9 circumstances may be susceptible to more than one interpretation does not warrant reversal. (id. at p. 358.) although it is the duty of the jury to acquit a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which muss guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. story (2009) 45 cal.4th 1282, 1296.) a conspiracy consists of an agreement to commit a crime, followed by an overt act in furtherance of that agreement. (people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 870.) there is no requirement that the conspirators actually meet to form an agreement. (people v. zamora (1976) 18 cal.3d 538, 559.) instead, the existence of the agreement may be proven circumstantially through the conduct, relationship, interests, and activities of the alleged conspirators before and during the alleged conspiracy. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1135.) [f]eigned participation of a false coconspirator or government agent in a conspiracy of more than two people does not negate criminal liability for conspiracy, as long as there are at least two other coconspirators who actually agree to the commission of the subject crime, specifically intend that the crime be committed, and themselves commit at least one overt act for the purpose of accomplishing the object of the (people v. liu (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1119, 1131.) appellant contends there is no evidence that anyone other than morgan, the informant, agreed to the robbery, or that any overt act beyond planning took place. these contentions are based on the assumption that the recorded phone calls show only 10 that appellant purported agreement to participate, but that he had not yet the record shows at most that appellant wanted to meet at we do not agree. in the first recorded call, appellant represented that there already was an agreement in place to proceed with the robbery if morgan was willing to participate dressed as a police officer. appellant told morgan: . . . . it work unless you wanna g once morgan agreed to procure the police uniform and participate, appellant said he was either going work it . . . . besides regularly speaking in the plural, appellant specifically identified the individual identified as the aby had proposed the robbery and expected to receive a ,even though he would not participate in the actual robbery and appellant was somewhat ambivalent about sharing the proceeds with him. (see people v. britz (1971) 17 cal.app.3d 743, 751 [conspirator need not participate in target crime].) appellant suggested he would get the fact that he obtained it before the third appellant had discussed the conspiracy with at least one other coconspirator in between his calls to morgan. appellant also repeatedly implicated his cousin in the conspiracy. hill, with whom appellant was arrested immediately 11 not only turned out to be n, but he had tattoos on his face, as appellant had described him to morgan. in the car did not establish his knowledge or intent to participate in the conspiracy. while taken in isolation that may be true, it is not unreasonable to infer statements in the recorded phone calls car was not accidental. appellant told morgan that the appellant also told morthat that cousin had the address and was respected by the man who proposed the robbery supports an inference that the cousin was an active participant in the conspiracy. (see people v. homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 870 [conspiracy may be inferred from relationship and activities of conspirators before and during conspiracy].) appellant argues that some of the statements he made during the recorded phone calls support a contrary inferencethat his cousin had not yet agreed to participate in the robbery. appellant points to his comment that registering to my, my cousin . . . . him right now. so when we sit down and talk to him, then he gonna understand like, oh all as we have discussed, appellant made many other statements indicating a preexisting agreement to rob the intended victim, so long as morgan agreed to impersonate a police officer. appellant repeatedly stated that, commitment in place, there would be no problem with proceeding with the robbery. the only detail that remained to be discussed 12 morgan was fixing to do, how you cousin, like appellant, already had agreed to participate in the conspiracy and only needed to know how morgan intended to accomplish the impersonation of a police officer. on appeal, we may not draw an inference favorable to appellant if the record also lends itself to an inference supporting his conviction. (see people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 357358.) appellant argues that his repeated references to the need stages. he claims an overt act since the jury was instructed with calcrim no. 415 that [t]he overt act must be more than the act of agreeing or planning to commit the crime . . . .people v. profit (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 849, 882 act committed by one or more of the conspirators which goes beyond mere planning or agreement to accomplish the , italics omitted.) appellant is mistaken. a continuous actconspiracy is said to be a continuing crime(people v. von villas (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 175, 244, citing people v. hess (1951) 104 cal.app.2d 642, 678.) an overt act is required to prove the existence of the agreement and give an opportunity to conspirators to withdraw. (people v. brown (1991) 226 cal.app.3d 1361, 1368.) the act done in pursuance of the crime and in manifestation of an intent or design, looking toward th (people v. zamora, supra, 18 cal.3d at p. 549, fn. 8, quoting chavez v. united states (9th cir. 1960) 275 f.2d 813, 817.) 13 nce a punishable agreement is formed, internal discussions and arrangements between coconspirators can easily constitute overt acts in furtherance of the conspiracy. (people v. von villas, supra, 11 cal.app.4th at pp. 244, 245 [affirming alleged overt acts consisting citation of s laying out the manner in which the conspiracy would be carried see also people v. sconce (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 693, 699 [alleged ovs pointing out intended victim to s solicitation of another s inquiries of one coconspirator to take care of and kill.) support an inference that he solicited morgan as an additional participant in an already existing conspiracy. reluctance to discuss details of the planned robbery over the phone does not mean there was no agreement or plan in place. rather, appellant indicated that the others involved in the conspiracy distrusted phone conversations and that he shared that distrust. nevertheless, the details of the plan appellant and reynolds that appellant had invited him to impersonate a police officer in a robbery before the recorded phone calls took place. nothing appellant said during those phone calls indicates the overall plan was expected to change significantly. the meeting at mcdonalds was neither intended nor necessary to form an agreement or plan to commit the robbery, as the general agreement and plan already were in existence, and 14 morgan had agreed to join the existing conspiracy. (see people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 934, 1001 [face-to-face meeting is not necessary for formation of criminal agreement since conspiracy does not require that participants know each other or know all details].) ommon design is the essence of a conspiracy and the crime can be committed whether the parties comprehend its entire scope, whether they act in separate groups or together, by the same or different means known or unknown to them, if their actions are consistently leading to the same unlawful result. . . .people v. means (1960) 179 cal.app.2d 72, 80.) support the conclusion that the meeting was an outward act the conspiracy since the stated purpose of the meeting was for the gun when they met. september 4, 2014 show appellant and two other men were headed to meet him, which is supported by the presence of hill they also show morgan was increasingly nervous about his continued feigned participation in the conspiracy. aseen parking lot twice, and detective semenez observed a meeting between morgan and appellant, followed by a meeting between the two of them and at least one other individual. in the recorded phone calls, appellant had stated he did not want his until game these statements support a reasonable 15 inference that appellant brought hill and jones meet morgan on their way to commit the robbery. appellant points to his statement that he needed to get his no robbery found in the car. in people v. dewitt (1983) 142 cal.app.3d 146, on which appellant relies, the agreement to commit a robbery was inferred from the presence of disguises, gloves, and expensive residence. (id. at p. 151.) that does not mean, however, that a conspiracy to commit robbery always must be proven through physical evidence. moreover, the only object appellant specifically promised to bring was a gun, and a gun was retrieved after having been tossed out of the car. to the extent the record supports conflicting inferences, we must resolve the conflict in favor of the judgment. (people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 357.) a conspiracy does not require that the target crime be committed or even attempted, or that the overt act be itself criminal. (see people v. johnson (2013) 57 cal.4th 250, 258; people v. von villas, supra, 11 cal.app.4th at p. 244.) therefore, the fact that no separate criminal act was committed is not material. the record sufficiently establishes that appellant had an agreement with others besides morgan to rob the intended . the record also sufficiently establishes that along with two other men (one of whom was a known coconspirator) was an overt act, intended to immediately precede the robbery, and therefore to further the object of the conspiracy. that parts of the record may support inferences favorable to 16 appellant is not a valid reason to overturn his conviction, which is supported by substantial evidence. ii respondent concedes that the 10-year gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) was incorrectly imposed, and that the trial court should have imposed a 15-year minimum parole eligibility period under subdivision (b)(5) instead. where a gang allegation is found true, section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) provides for a 10-year enhancement if the underlying crime is a violent felony under section 667.5, subdivision (c). conspiracy to commit residential robbery is not a violent felony under that statute. (in re mitchell (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 653, 657.) section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) imposes a 15-year minimum parole date if the underlying crime is a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for lifeexplained in people v. williams (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 733, 745, a sentence of 25 years to life imposed under the three strikes law, such as the one imposed here, is considered a life sentence subject to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). (williams, at pp. 742745, citing people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 10061007; people v. jones (2009) 47 cal.4th 566, 577578.)7 7 the true finding under section 186.22(b)(5), which provis a factor that may be considered by the board of prison terms when determining a s release date, even if it does not extend the minimum parole date per se. [citation.] (people v. lopez, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1009; see also people v. williams, supra, 227 cal.app.4th the board of parole hearings may 17 we modify the judgment to delete the 10-year gang enhancement and to insert the 15-year minimum term for parole eligibility. disposition the judgment is modified to delete the 10-year gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) and to replace it with the 15-year minimum term for parole eligibility under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation a certified copy of an amended abstract of judgment that reflects the modification. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. manella, j. consider [the gang enhancement] findings when determining s release date.) 