 filed 2/16/18 p. v. crockett ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. willie crockett, defendant and appellant. b267614 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa071297) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, elden fox, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. christopher allan nalls, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant willie crockett appeals his conviction of, among other things, robbery, aggravated assault, attempted murder, attempted robbery, and attempted premeditated murder of a police officer, with gang and firearm-use enhancements. he urges on appeal that (1) the gang enhancement with respect to one incident was not supported by substantial evidence; (2) each of the gang enhancements was based on inadmissible testimonial hearsay, in violation of people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez); (3) the jury was misinstructed on the natural and probable consequences doctrine; and (4) the case must be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise sentencing discretion. for the reasons discussed below, the judgment of conviction is affirmed, and the matter is remanded for resentencing as discussed more fully in sections (4) and (5). background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. robbery of wachovia bank (counts 13). on april 30, 2009, crockett entered a los angeles branch of wachovia bank. he approached samir a., a bank teller, and presented a note announcing that a robbery was in progress and that he had a bomb. as samir gathered money, crockett proceeded to christina m., the teller next to samir, and demanded money from her. crockett also handed the note to a third teller, anthony c. all three tellers gave crockett cash containing dye packs. 3 shortly after crockett left the bank, a bank employee saw a plume of red smoke consistent with a dye pack exploding. los angeles police department (lapd) officers later found some fingerprints and handwriting were found on the robbery note. samir and anthony identified crockett as the robber from six-pack photographic lineups. b. shooting during attempted pawnshop robbery (counts 49, 11). on june 9, 2009, jan s., jose c., jose r., and robert h. were working at the long beach pawn shop. crockett entered the store, approached jan, and said he wanted to buy a ring for his girlfriend. jan referred crockett to robert, who was in charge of selling jewelry. robert was armed with a handgun because there had been two prior attempted robberies at the store. when robert offered to assist him, crockett yelled out ,handgun from his waistband, and announced a robbery. a second gunman ran into the store and jumped over the counter. when crockett aimed his gun at jan, robert shot at him; robert believed he had hit crockett in the leg. the second gunman jumped back over the counter and started crawling toward the front door with crockett. a third man at the front door then started shooting into the store. robert was wounded by a gunshot to the face, but he was not sure which of the three perpetrators had shot him. long beach police detective donald collier testified that blood recovered from the sidewalk outside the pawnshop was matched to a man named baleegh brown. from the surveillance videotape, detective collier identified brown as the second 4 robber to enter the pawnshop. detective collier was not able immediately to identify crockett, but ultimately found a photograph on myspace of a man wearing the same orange suit crockett had worn during the robbery. all four of the pawnshop employees, as well as a customer, tracy w., identified crockett from photo arrays as one of the perpetrators. detective we call a takeover robbery where you have multiple suspects going into a commercial business with the use of violence or threatened attempted pawnshop robbery, detective collier contacted local hospitals to see if any of them had treated gunshot wounds; none had. c. shooting during c(counts 12, 15, 16, 19, 22, 23, 26, 27). crockett was a member of the black p stone (bps) gang. lapd detective cedric washington testified he had served as and had qualified as an expert in court regarding the bps gang. because of his knowledge of the bps gang, other police officers approached him for help in locating crockett in the aftermath of the wachovia and pawnshop crimes. detective washington testified that he had never had personal contact with crockett, but he knew of him detective washington continued, [crockett] around. i was familiar with him through confidential reliable informants. i was familiar with him through other gang members and other citizens and community members within the area that he resided and committed ultimately, detective washington traced crockett to 4611 martin luther king junior boulevard, 5 apartment 187 (apartment 187), and obtained a search warrant of the apartment. on july 1, 2009, police observed crockett and others in apartment 187. detective washington went to the location and everal known bps members, including christopher singh, j.b. jennings, and richard bennett were also seen in the apartment. when a swat unit arrived at the scene, crockett ran outside onto a patio, noticed the police presence, and ran back inside, where he was seen peering out from the apartment windows. members of the swat unit had already started to enter the apartment building, but after learning that the operation had been compromised, they stopped in front of a fire door leading to the hallway where apartment 187 was located. detective after crockett went inside, i heard several . . . gunshots going off two minutes later, crockett ran out of apartment 187 and into the hallway where the police were waiting. crockett was unarmed; he was tackled and arrested. an lapd criminalist testified that the gunshots fired from apartment 187 had gone through an adjoining wall to apartment 189; two bullets were found embedded in a second wall separating apartment 189 from the apartment building hallway. inside apartment 187, police found several loaded weapons: an ak47, a shotgun, and a .38-caliber revolver. they also found a bottle of lidocaine, a bandage in an open packet, two bottles of neosporin, scissors, gloves, gauze, iodine, bottles of hydrogen peroxide, latex gloves, and a medical dressing. detective characterized thes . . . that could be 6 as noted, ante, detective collier had checked with hospitals on the day of the pawnshop robbery for reports of gunshot victims, but he had not learned of any. x-rays taken in november 2011 disclosed two bullets lodged medical testimony indicated that such a wound would not necessarily require hospital treatment. d. gang lapd detective phil rodriguez testified as an expert about bps. he described bps as one of the largest african-american gangs in the country, with 950 to 1,000 members in los angeles, and about 15,000 members nationwide. he explained that the gang was roughly divided into two main cliques: the jungles clique and the bities clique. detective rodriguez testified the primary activities include robbery, assault with deadly weapons, narcotics trafficking, murder, attempted murder, carjacking, and rape. detective rodriguez testified crockett, a known bps member, although detective rodriguez did not know crockett personally, he had gang monikers admissions to other police officers. detective rodriguez was shown photographs of two of s: on the back of neck, and a large dollar sign on his torso. detective rodriguez testified the dollar sign tattoo signified that crockett was part of an inner [clique] within the jungles clique known as the stevely crew. the stevely crew was known for getting money by any means necessary, commonly bank robberies and street robberies. 7 detective rodriguez testified that he believed crockett to be an active bps member because crockett . . frequenting with other gang members. he was frequenting gang locations with gang tattoos, self-admitted to gang officers, and was arrested for gang crimes.any particular police officers on whom he relied for this opinion, detective rodriguez named three officers, but he did not reveal anything about the circumstances surrounding his conversations with those officers. detective rodriguez was shown photographs taken during the attempted pawnshop robbery, and he identified the other two robbers as baleegh brown and keshawn tyrell. detective rodriguez testified he had personal knowledge that brown was an active bps member in june 2009.1 shown the photograph that detective collier had found on myspace, detective rodriguez said crockett was standing next to christopher singh, whom detective rodriguez knew to be a bps gang member.2 detective rodriguez further testified that the building that housed apartment 187 was within bps gang territory. finally, he testified that he personally knew j.b. jennings, who had run from apartment 187 shortly before 1 -admitted numerous occasions. his moniker is g-snap, but his updated brown was part of the bities clique within bps. 2 self-admitted bps gang member h singh 8 the police raid, to be a member of the jungles clique of the bps gang. presented with a set of hypothetical questions based on the facts of this case, detective rodriguez testified that the attempted pawnshop robbery and the shooting at apartment 187 would have inured to the benefit of both the bps gang and the individual participants: would know who are actively doing these takeover robberies. . . . custody. how violent you were. did you lead them on a pursuit? did you fight with officers? did you shoot it out with officers? that is all taken into account as far as gang members and your the following colloquy then occurred: . . if a gang membwanted for some type of crime, while the police are serving a search warrant, rather than surrender, he shoots it out with the police or fires shots at or toward the police, does that affect his reputation? hat way? gang members and even older gang members, they take pride in that. it glorifiesa lot of these pursuits and shootings are on the news broadcast, so . . . you know what gang may be attached to that specific location. [] a lot of the gang members who resist glorified . . . for example, mr. crockett. i monitor social media. they are constantlyon his birthday they are requesting for free janky stone, real, true bps. 9 detective rodriguez testified that violent resistance to a warrant also helps the gangyoung gang members want to be part of . . . one of the bigger and violent gangs. part of it is money. the larger the territory you own . . robberies, burglaries, and not many people are going to confront 2. defense evidence. the defense rested without putting on any evidence. 3. trial outcome. the jury convicted crockett of three counts of robbery, with gang enhancements, arising out of the wachovia bank robbery (pen. code,  211, 186.22, subd. (b))3; one count of aggravated assault, one count of attempted murder, and four counts of attempted robbery, with firearm use and gang enhancements, arising out of the pawnshop attempted robbery ( 245, 664, 187, 664, 211, 12022.5, 12022.53, 186.22, subd. (b)); and three counts of attempted premeditated murder of a peace officer, one count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling, and three counts of aggravated assault on a peace officer, with firearm use and gang enhancements, arising out of the shooting incident during which crockett was arrested ( 664, 187, 246, 245, subd. (d)(2), 12022.5, 12022.53, 186.22, subd. (b)).4 3 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 4 additional convictions for possession of a firearm by felon ([former] 12021) and a prior serious felony conviction allegation ( 1170.12). 10 the court sentenced crockett to a total prison term of 238 years 8 months to life. that sentence did not include any time relating to enhancements.5 contentions crockett contends: (1) there was insufficient evidence to indings on the gang enhancement arising out of the shooting incident during which crockett was arrested; (2) all the gang enhancements must be reversed because the gang testimony was based on inadmissible hearsay evidence in violation of california law and the federal confrontation clause; (3) the attempted murder conviction arising out of the pawnshop attempted robbery must be reversed because there was insufficient evidence of premeditation; and (4) the case must be remanded for resentencing under the recent amendments to section 12022.53. 5 as it appeared that the trial court did not impose sentence on the gang enhancements, we asked the parties by letter dated january 16, 2018, whether any error resulting from the true findings on the enhancements was harmless. after reviewing the evidence to support the gang enhancement. 11 discussion 1. there was sufficient evidence to support the gang enhancements arising out of the shooting incident during which crockett was arrested. crockett contends the evidence was insufficient to support the gang enhancement related to the july 1, 2009, shooting incident during which he was arrested. we disagree. a. standard of review. review for determining the sufficiency of the evidence supporting an enhancement is the same as that applied to a conviction. [citations.] like a conviction unsupported by substantial evidence, a true finding on a gang enhancement without sufficient support in the evidence violates a defendants federal and state constitutional rights and people v. franklin (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 938, 947 (franklin).) evidence to support an enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify s findings, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reviewing court neither reweighs evidence nor reevaluates a 12 people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 5960 (albillar).) b. legal principles. in 1988 the legislature enacted section 186.20 et seq., known as the california street terrorism enforcement and prevention (step) act, to combat gang-related crimes and violence. (people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59, 6667.) section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), imposes various sentencing enhancements on defendants convicted of gang-related felonies committed with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. there are two prongs to the gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), both of which must be established by the evidence. [citation.] the first prong requires -[citations.] the second prothe gang- franklin, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 948.) defined in section 186.22[, subdivision] (f), which provides that rs 13 individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a enhancement, the prosecution may . . . present expert testimony on criminal stparticular criminal conduct benefitted permissible but can be sufficient to support [a] gang opinion assuming the truth of facts set forth in a hypothetical support [citation], or on speculative franklin, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at pp. 948949.) c. discussion. crockett contends there was insufficient evidence to support a gang enhancement relating to the shooting at apartment 187. he argues: saw appellant fire the gun; no one heard what appellant said, if anything, when he fired the gun; and the evidence showed that appellant was the only person in the apartment when he fired the gun. [] notably, the pinion that appellant committed the shooting for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with the gang; nor did the expert offer the opinion that appellant had the specific intent to benefit the gang when he we are not persuaded. as to the first prong, detective rodriguez offered his opinion that crockett had committed the shooting for the benefit of the bps gang because the reputation of the gang was enhanced whenever gang members fought the 14 police to try to avoid being taken into custody. as for speculation that fellow gang members and community members might never learn that crockett resisted arrest, the jury reasonably could have concluded that the appearance of a swat unit at apartment 187 would have telegraphed actions to the neighborhood. as to the second prong, intent element requires only further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1) (italics added); see people v. morales (2003) benefit the gang is this element may be satisfied even though arguably the only gang membercriminal conduct that was furthered was the criminal conduct of defendant himself: is no requirement in section 186.22, subdivision (b), that the gang members must relate to criminal activity apart from the offense defendant commits. to the contrary, the specific intent any -related criminal activity. no further evidence on this element people v. hill (2006) 142 cal.app.4th 770, 774 [gang enhancement properly imposed where defendant threatened victim with gun, after minor traffic accident, because he felt victim had disrespected his gang].) hence, the jury reasonably could have inferred that intended to promote criminal conduct by a gang member: he acted both to further his gang reputation and to enhance his own standing within the gang. 15 true finding as to the gang enhancements relating to the shooting incident at apartment 187. 2. crockett has not established that admission of gang expert testimony violated his confrontation rights or was prejudicially erroneous. crockett contends that, under the california supreme recent decision in sanchez, the admission of the prosecution gang testimony violated both california hearsay law and sixth amendment right of confrontation. crockett specifically asserts that detective rodriguez impermissibly relied on testimonial hearsay in offering his opinion that crockett belonged to bps because the opinion was based on case-specific, out-of-court statements by persons who did not testify and were not subject to prior cross-examination. crockett further contends that the admissible gang evidence was insufficient to prove either that he was a member of bps or that his involvement in the pawnshop and police shooting incidents were committed to benefit his gang.6 based on the legal 6 the attorney general argues crockett forfeited this issue or confrontation clause grounds at trial. however, any objection would likely have been futile because the trial court was bound to follow pre-sanchez case law, which generally held that evidence is not admitted for its truth, and thus, does not implicate the hearsay doctrine or the confrontation clause. (see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686, fn. 1basis testimony is not offered for its truth, or that a limiting instruction . . . sufficiently addresses hearsay and confrontation im. 16 principles set forth in sanchez, we conclude that there was no confrontation clause violation, and although the admission of some may have violated california hearsay law, admission of this evidence amounted to only harmless error. a. the sanchez decision. this court recently summarized the sanchez decision in people v. iraheta (2017) 14 cal.app.5th 1228 (iraheta), as follows: hat an accused has the right to be confronted with the witnesses against him. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 679.) in the seminal case of crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, the high court overruled its prior precedent and held that the sixth amendment generally bars admission at trial of a testimonial out-of-court statement offered for its truth against a criminal defendant, unless the maker of the statement is unavailable to testify and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination. (id. at p. 68; davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813, 821; sanchez, at p. 680.) although crawford set forth a new standard for admissibility, the court declined to provide a (crawford, at p. 68; people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104, 1134.) [] . . . [] in sanchez, the defendant was charged with drug and firearm offenses and active participation in the delhi street gang, along with a section 186.22 gang enhancement. at trial, a gang step notice,[7] police documents, and an fi 7 a step notice provides to the recipient information regarding potential penalties for gang-related criminal activity. the issuing officer also records the date, time, statements made 17 card[8] as the basis for his expert opinion. those documents indicated sanchez associated with, and had been repeatedly contacted by police while in the presence of, delhi gang members. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 671673.) the expert had never met sanchez and had not been present when the step notice was s other police contacts. his knowledge was derived solely from the police reports and fi card. based on the information in the step notice, the police documents, and the fi cards, and the circumstances of the offense at issue, the expert opined that sanchez was a member of the delhi gang and the charged crimes benefitted the gang. (id. at p. 673.) sanchez the case-specific statements related by the prosecuts gang membership constituted inadmissible hearsay under california law. they were recited by the expert, who presented them as true statements of fact, without the requisite independent proof. some of those hearsay statements were also testimonial and therefore should have been excluded under crawford. the error was not harm (sanchez, supra, at the time of the interaction, and identifying information. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 672.) 8 sanchez described fi cards thusly: record an officers contact with an individual. the form contains personal information, the date and time of contact, associates, the interaction. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 672.) 18 63 cal.4th at pp. 670671.) accordingly, the court reversed the true findings on the street gang enhancements. (id. at p. 671.) sanchez drew case-specific facts about which the expert has no independent knowledge. case-specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants alleged to have been in (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676.) at common law, the distinction between case-specific and background facts had been honored by the use of hypothetical questions, in which an examiner could ask an expert to assume certain case-specific facts for which there was independent competent evidence. (id. at pp. 676677.) however, over time the distinction between background information and case-specific hearsay had become blurred, leading to the rule that upon which he or she relied, even if that matter was hearsay. (id. at pp. 678679.) california testimony if a limiting instruction was given; in cases where an instruction was inadequate, the evidence could be excluded under evidence code section 352. (sanchez, at p. 679.) overruling prior precedent, sanchez this paradigm is no ls testimony regarding the basis for an opinion must be considered for its truth (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 679.) once we recognize that the jury must consider expert basis testimony for its truth s opinion, hearsay and confrontation problems cannot be avoided by giving a limiting instruction that such testimony should not be considered for its truth. if an expert testifies to case-specific out-of-court statements to explain the bases for his opinion, those statements are 19 necessarily considered by the jury for their truth, thus rendering them hearsay. like any other hearsay evidence, it must be properly admitted through an applicable hearsay exception. alternatively, the evidence can be admitted through an appropriate witness and the expert may assume its truth in a properly worded hypothetical question in the traditional manner (id. at p. 684, italics added, fn. omitted.) sanchez made clear that its holding did not do away with all gang expert testimony. any expert may still rely on hearsay in forming an opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms that that is, he or she may the kind and source of the (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685686.) gang experts, like all others, can rely on background information accepted in their field of expertise under the traditional latitude given by the evidence code. they can rely on information within their personal knowledge, and they can give an opinion based on a hypothetical including case-specific facts that are properly proven. they may also rely on nontestimonial hearsay properly admitted under a (id. at p. 685.) what an expert cannot do is relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by competent evidence or are (id. at p. 686.) thus, in regard to case-specific hearsay, sanchez jettisoned -admitted-for-its- rationale underlying the admission of expert basis testimony, and in the law. [citations.] sanchez then turned to consideration of what constitutes testimonial hearsay, a question not yet clearly defined by the united states supreme court. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at 20 p. 687.) prior testimony and police interrogations are clearly testimonial. (ibid.) sanchez explained that beyond these clear categories, the high court had articulated several formulations for determining the testimonial nature of out-of-court statements. under the primary purpose test, [t]estimonial statements are those made primarily to memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. nontestimonial statements are those whose primary purpose is to deal with an ongoing emergency or some other purpose unrelated to preserving facts for late (sanchez, at p. 689.) whether the statements were spontaneous or given in a formal or informal setting is also relevant. (id. at pp. 693694; see ohio v. clark (2015) 576 u.s. ___ [192 l.ed.2d 306, 135 s.ct. 2173].) sanchez concluded that statements about a completed crime, made to an investigating officer by a nontestifying witness (unless made in the context of an ongoing emergency or for some primary purpose other than preserving facts for use at trial), were generally testimonial. (sanchez, at p. 694.) accordingly, the police reports in sanchez were testimonial. (ibid.) likewise, at least the portion of a step notice retained by police is testimonial. that portion records the s biographical information, whom he was with, and what statements he made; s purpose is to establish facts to be later used against the defendant or his companions at trial; and the notice is part of an official pols sworn attestation. (sanchez, at pp. 696697.) the court concluded fi cards may be testimonial. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 697.) sanchez explained that [i]f the card was produced in the course of an ongoing criminal investigation, it would be more akin to a police report, rendering 21 (sanchez, at p. 697.) however, because the parties had not focused on the point below, and the origins of the fi cards at issue there were confusing, sanchez did not decide whether the content was testimonial or not, given that the expes testimony based on the police and step reports required reversal in any event. (id. at pp. 697698.)iraheta, supra, 14 cal.app.5th at pp. 12431246.) b. crockett has not established that detective nial hearsay; thus, he has not established a violation of the confrontation clause. crockett expert opinion was based on testimonial hearsayi.e., on the extra-judicial statements of the three non-testifying police officers to whom detective rodriguez had spoken. crockett there was other evidence linking appellant to the black p stonesnamely his tattoosthe jury surely relied in part on the improperly admitted fact that other, non-testifying officers there was, crockett argues, prejudicial error in admitting this evidence. we disagree. detective rodriguez opined that crockett . . . frequenting with other gang members. he was frequenting gang locations with gang tattoos, self-admitted to gang officers, and testified he k-admission to former gang officers, . . 22 based, general to allow us to determine whether the hearsay was testimonial in nature, and thus violated the confrontation clause. (see people v. vega-robles (2017) 9 testimony about information received from informants did not particular statement made by any one person to him about [co-information] was gathered as part of the investigation of completed crimes, and none of the information was sworn. as sanchez makes clear, to violate crawford, the out-of-court statement must be made under circumstances that entail some ; but see people v. pettie (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 23, 63 [confrontation clause violation occurred gang-relating clothing and associations with known gang members that had been gleaned from police reports documenting completed crimes and written by officers unavailable for cross-examination].) did not give enough information to determine whether the statements were testimonial . . . they should be treated as testimonial.the failure to develop the record in this regard as the court held in people v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575, 584585, 586 (ochoa), fn. omitted, italics added: contemporaneous [confrontation clause] objections during trial, the people, as the proponent of the evidence, would have had the burden to show the challenged testimony did not relate testimonial hearsay. [citations.] [] however, as no such 23 contemporaneous objections were lodged, we cannot simply assume the admissions of gang membership . . . were testimonial hearsay . . . . [] . . . [] to summarize, it is possible the admissions of gang membership related to the jury by [the testifying expert] came from police reports or other records and, thus, may have been testimonial hearsay under sanchez. clear enough for this court to conclude which portions of the testimony involved testimonial hearsay. accordingly, defendant has not demonstrated a violation of the confrontation ee also people v. vega-robles, supra, 9 cal.app.5th at p. 415 sanchez, it appears that testimony about a ut-of-court admission that he or she is a gang member, offered to prove he or she is a gang member, is hearsay. [citation.] however, no crawford objection was interposed as to the classification forms on which [the witness] made his admissions, and the record does not contain sufficient information from which we can determine whether the .) accordingly, crockett has not demonstrated a violation of the confrontation clause. c. any violations of state hearsay law were harmless error. crockett did not object at trial to admission of the challenged testimony on hearsay grounds. nonetheless, there is an arguable claim that, under sanchez, admission of some of the experts testimony at issue violated california hearsay law. thus, we consider whether were prejudicially impacted by the improper admission of 24 hearsay evidence under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. (see people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 671 [harmless error test for wrongful admission of evidence is watson test of whether it is reasonably probable more favorable result would have been reached without the error].) it seems clear that the hearsay at issue in the present case-admission of his gang membership to other officersis case-specific, rather than general background. however, although detective rodriguez arguably related inadmissible hearsay to the jury, it is not reasonably probable crockett was prejudiced by its admission because there was other, significant, non-hearsay evidence tending to prove gang membership. that evidence included the following: (1) tattoo evidence: detective rodriguez testified that crockett had two body tattoos that signaled his membership in the bps gang. first, torn by bps members. seconddollar-sign, whichaccording to detective rodriguezsignaled [(itself a subset or clique of the bps gang) which was named] the 9 9 generic, not-necessarily-a-gang-tattoo at issue in people v. iraheta, supra, 14 cal.app.5th at p. 1254 [tattoo evidence was ttoo did not necessarily indicate gang membership. 25 (2) association with other known bps members: detective rodriguez identified the person standing next to crockett in the myspace photograph as christopher singh, whom detective rodriguez personally knew to be a member of bps.10 two other police officers, officer corso11 and detective washington, also testified singh was present in apartment 187 at the time of the police raid. detective rodriguez also testified that he had examined surveillance footage from the attempted pawnshop robbery and had identified baleegh brown, whom he personally knew to be an active bps member, to be one of the three participants. finally, detective rodriguez testified that he personally knew j.b. jennings, whom officer corso testified had run from apartment 187 shortly before the police raid, to be a member of the jungles clique of the bps gang. (3) regarding his efforts to locate crockett: lapd detective washington testified that because of his expertise regarding the bps gang, police investigators came to him for help in locating crockett following signify gang allegiance in the way that a more specific tattoo, ely tattoo was precisely the kind of testimony held admissible by our supreme court to establish gang membership. (see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 677.) 10 detective rodriguez testified he had had numerous contacts with singh and knew him to be a bps gang member. 11 lapd officer alfred corso, part of the swat team e saw singh run from apartment 187 just before crockett started shooting. 26 the wachovia bank and pawnshop crimes. although detective washington had not had any direct personal contact with crockett, he testified he was familiar with crockett . . i had seen him in [bps member of the black p detective washington testified he knew that the bps gang had taken control of apartment 187 from its tenant, richard bowens, and that gang members were using the apartment for drug trafficking. detective washington testified that by talking to people (both gang members and other citizens) in the area where crockett hung out, he located several residences frequented by crockett, one of which was apartment 187. detective washington was insistent that he had not done any special research to prepare his trial testimony because he s familiar with [crockett] through other gang members and other citizens and community members taken together, the totality of this non-hearsay evidence provided overwhelming proof that crockett was a bps member. accordingly, the admission of hearsay testimony to establish 3. the jury properly found crockett guilty of premeditated attempted murder. crockett contends finding that the attempted murder of the pawnshop victim was premeditated was based on a natural and probable consequencestheory of liability, and thus that it must be reversed. we disagree. in people v. favor (2012) 54 cal.4th 868 (favor), our w]ith respect to the natural and probable consequences doctrine as applied to the premeditation allegation under section 664(a) [the statute defining premeditated 27 attempted murder], attempted murder not attempted premeditated murder qualifies as the nontarget offense to which the jury must find foreseeability. accordingly, once the jury finds that an aider and abettor, in general or under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, has committed an attempted murder, it separately determines whether the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated. [] under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, there is no requirement that an aider and abettor reasonably foresee an attempted premeditated murder as the natural and probable consequence of the target offense. it is sufficient that attempted murder is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the crime aided and abetted, and the attempted murder itself was id. at pp. 879880.) people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155 [(chiu)], subsequently held convicted of first degree premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. rather, his or her liability for that crime must be based on direct aiding and abetting id. at pp. 158159, second italics added.) crockett argues the reasoning of chiu overruling of favorcrockett also notes that favor may be overruled in the future because our supreme court has granted review in people v. mateo (rev. gtd. may 11, 2016, s232674.) to abettor of attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, must a premeditated attempt to murder have been a natural and probable consequence of the target offense? in other words, should people v. favor[, supra,] 54 cal.4th 868 be reconsidered in 28 light of alleyne v. united states (2013) [570 u.s. 99] [133 s.ct. 2151] and people v. chiu (2014) 59 in his reply brief, crockett acknowledges the attorney favor remains good law it must be followed by this court. (see auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) the attorney general is correct. until our high court overrules favor, it remains good law and precludes crocketts argument that he must have personally foreseen the premeditated nature of the attempted murder and cannot be sentenced to life imprisonment without a jury finding of that fact. 4. sentencing claim based on new statutory authority. crockett contends he is entitled to the benefit of senate bill 620, which went into effect on january 1, 2018. we agree. in post-argument briefing, crockett contends that, as a result of senate bill 620, signed by governor brown on october 11, 2017, this matter must be remanded for the trial court to exercise discretion as to whether to strike the section 12022.53 enhancement. as relevant here, senate bill 620 provides that effective january 1, 2018, section 12022.53 is amended to permit the trial court to strike a sentencing enhancement under that section. the new provision states as follows: the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur pursuant (stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) senate bill 620 went into effect january 1, 2018. because the matter remanded for resentencing because the amended 29 statute granting discretion to the trial court has the potential to lead to a reduced sentence. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 748 [for a non-statute mitigates punishment and there is no saving clause, the rule is that the amendment will operate retroactively so that the people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 7578 [where statute enacted during pending appeal gave trial court discretion to impose a lesser penalty, remand was required for resentencing].) 5. the gang enhancements and articulation of sentence. when the trial court sentenced crockett, it noted that the jury had made true findings as to the charged gang enhancements. nonetheless, the court neither imposed nor struck the additional punishment associated with those findings, stating that such additional punishment was not applicable under people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1006 [holding that a gang-related first-degree murder could not be enhanced by 10 years as a violent felony under section 186.22, subdivision is governed instead by the 15-year minimum parole eligibility b)(5)]. the court explained referenced in people [v.] lopez, the court is apprised of the fact that the 10-year enhancement [( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c))] is not applicable to the life sentences in this matter and that its impact is only the minimum eligibility parole date which is 15 years [( 186.22, subd. (b)(5))]. in light of the sentences, in essence, [section 186.22, subd. (b)(5)] does not have any application because the sentences are in excess of the 15-year parole 30 in a letter dated january 16, 2018, we asked the parties to either strike or impose sentence in connection with true findings on the gang enhancements resulted in an unauthorized sentence. the parties did so on january 19 and 26, 2018. conclude that as to counts 6, 7, 8, and 9, the trial court was required to either impose or strike the additional punishment associated with the gang enhancements. in people v. montes (2003) 31 cal.4th 350, 352 (montes), our supreme court held that the lopez rule applies by its own terms, the felonies of which defendant was convicted in counts 6, 7, 8, and 9 ; instead, those felonies carried determinate base terms, to which were added 25-year-to-life enhancements pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). accordingly, the trial court was required to 6, 7, 8, and 9, pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the trial court also was required to impose or strike the additional punishment associated with the gang enhancement as to count 4. as to count 4, the court imposed a life sentence on the base term (making defendant eligible for parole in seven years) ( 3000.1, subd. (a)(2)), to which was added a 25-year-to-life enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). accordingly, under montes, the court was required to either impose or strike a 15-year minimum parole eligibility on the base term pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). finally, as to count 22, the court imposed a five-year base term, with no additional sentence for the gang enhancement. 31 under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(b), however, the court was required to sentence defendant to an indeterminate term of 15 years to life. on remand, therefore, we direct the court to either strike or impose sentence pursuant to section 186.22 as to counts 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9; and to apply the alternative sentencing scheme of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(b), as to count 22. we further direct the trial court on remand to separately articulate the sentence, as required by section 669, subdivision (a). disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the matter is remanded for resentencing in a manner consistent with this opinion. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: lavin, j. dhanidina, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 