filed 2/1/17 p. v. linares ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alexander linares, defendant and appellant. b267709 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba342569) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. curtis b. rappe, judge. affirmed as modified, with directions. richard d. miggins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant alexander linares (defendant) appeals from the judgment entered after he was convicted of four felony counts alleging burglary and sexual assault. defendant contends: (1) that the verdict in count 1 was unsupported by substantial evidence; (2) that it was error to admit photographs found in his wallet; (3) that the court erred by excluding defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to urge admissibility under evidence code section 1240; (4) that the trial written copy of defense closing argument; (5) that the trial court errsurnames, leaving only first names and last initials; (6) that defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object to use of 7) that the trial court erred by imposing enhancements under both sections 667.5, subdivisions (a) and (b), and that the subdivision (b) enhancements should be stricken; and (8) that clerical errors in abstract of judgment should be corrected. we find that the trial court erred by imposing enhancements under both sections 667.5, subdivisions (a) and (b), but we agree with respondent that the subdivision (b) enhancements should be stayed, rather than stricken, and we modify the judgment accordingly. we also order the correction of clerical errors in the abstract. finding no merit to the remaining contentions, we otherwise affirm the judgment. background defendant was charged with four felonies, as follows: two counts of assault with intent to commit a felony during the 3 commission of first degree burglary, in violation of penal code section 220, subdivision (b),1 (counts 1 and 2); one count of lewd act upon a child under the age of 14, in violation of section 288, subdivision (a), (count 3); and first degree residential burglary, in violation of section 459 (count 4). the information further alleged that defendant had suffered nine prior serious or violent convictions, within the meaning of sections 667, subdivision (a)(1), and pursuant to 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). it was also alleged that defendant had served six separate prison terms within the meaning of 667.5, subdivision (a), and five prison terms within the meaning of 667.5, subdivision (b). as to count 3, the information alleged pursuant to 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d), that defendant committed the current offense during the commission of a burglary; and pursuant to section 667.71, that the defendant was previously convicted of kidnapping for sexual purposes. a jury convicted defendant as charged, and found true the allegation that defendant committed count 3 during the commission of a burglary. in a subsequent bench trial, the court found true all the allegations regarding prior convictions and prison terms. the court then determined that the prior crimes had been part of a single prosecution and prison commitment in san mateo county superior court no. sc037559a (the san mateo case). the court thus set aside the true finding on all but one of the priors alleged under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), as well as all but one prison prior alleged pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (a), and all but one alleged pursuant to section 667.5, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 4 subdivision (b). the court left standing the true finding as to three counts of the san mateo case, and entered a finding of not true as to the others. in addition, finding that count 4 was a lesser included offense of counts 1 and 2, the trial court dismissed count 4. on october 9, 2015, the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for 34 years to life on count 1, comprised of 25 years to life as a third strike, plus five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a), based on count 1 of the san mateo case (attempted murder); three years pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (a), based on count 12 of the san mateo case (kidnapping with the intent to commit rape); one year pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b), based on count 4 of the san mateo case. as to count 2, the court imposed a term of 34 years to life, calculated as in count 1 which was stayed pursuant to section 654. as to count 3, the court imposed 84 years to life, comprised of a consecutive term of 25 years to life pursuant to section 667.71, tripled as a third strike, plus the prior conviction enhancements as calculated in counts 1 and 2. defendant was given 3,064 days of presentence custody credits. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. prosecution evidence in 2008, samantha g. and ricardo g., lived with their seven-year-old daughter sereth, and three-year-old son in apartment a of a building within a complex on park paseo lane, los angeles. their building was located in the back of the complex, near mission road. at approximately 9:00 p.m. on june 22, samantha followed her usual bedtime routine of lying down with her children in their upstairs bedroom for a while. she fell 5 asleep next to her son on his bed, on top of the blankets. ricardo, who usually participated in the bedtime routine, remained downstairs until he later went to bed in the master bedroom, also on the second floor. samantha testified that she wore pajamas, a t-shirt, and underwear. sometime after midnight, she woke up to someone touching her in the area of her vagina. she thought it was her they had fallen asleep facing each other and hugging, so she went back to sleep. she is a heavy sleeper. she then felt the touching again in her vaginal area, but with more pressure. she could not see the hand she felt moving over her clothing. it hurt and she was upset. she looked toward the foot of the bed and saw a nearly naked man, whom she and ricardo both later identified as defendant, lying on his side on the floor. thinking it was ricardo, samantha stretched toward him, pulled up her pajamas, slapped him on the head, and told him to stop touching her. as she did this she felt a cap on and asked why he was wearing a cap, and fell back to sleep. samantha woke again to the sound of her daughter crying. sereth samantha got up, saw a naked man lying on bed, and thought it was her husband, until he stood. realizing it was not her husband, samantha started hitting him, asked him what he was doing, and tried to hold him. the man pushed her away, opened the bedroom door, and left. ricardo, who s, came out of his bedroom to see defendant running downstairs, naked from the waist down. he and samantha followed defendant downstairs to the kitchen, where ricardo grabbed him by the neck and fought 6 with him while samantha called the police. during the struggle, defendant screamed and said, ricardo was holding him by the neck as the police arrived. when samantha returned to the children, sereth was still crying and both children were scared. sereth told samantha that the man had claimed to be her dad and told her to keep quiet. she said he covered her mouth and then touched her private parts, in the area of her vagina. sereth was wearing something on her top, but was naked from the waist down. there was a pair and spink underwear on her bed. samantha later pointed out to the police, several pubic hairs her vagina, which were then collected. samantha later noticed that the bottom part of her own pajamas had been pulled down a bit, and were no longer resting on her waist. sereth testified that she was seven years old in june 2008. she remembered going bed one night and waking up with defendant next to her. she asked whether it was her father and she tried going back to sleep, but felt tugging on her underwear, felt his hands on her legs taking off her pajamas and underwear, and then felt a body rubbing up and down on top of her on her private sectio her vagina. he did not wear underwear. realizing it was not her father, screamed as he covered her mouth. her mother woke up, and both parents chased him downstairs. forensic exams were conducted on samantha, sereth, and defendant. dna swabs were taken, and the evidence and reports were sexual assault kits. later dna 7 tests revealed that the swabs of seretharea contained en. nurse practitioner elsie alfaro, who examined samantha, testified to having observed swelling of the labia, small cuts, and bruising under the skin of genital area. in opinion, the injuries were consistent with both sexual assault and the yeast infection samantha had at the time, and could have been caused by either. samantha, ricardo, and sereth all testified that they had never seen defendant before that night. he did not have permission to enter their house. samantha and ricardo did not know how defendant had entered the apartment, as they always locked the doors and downstairs windows at night. to the right of the front entrance, there was a sliding patio door behind an iron railing, and there was a window to the left of the front door. ricardo recalled locking both doors, closing the front window, and turning out the lights downstairs before going to bed. after the incident, the window was open, the window screen was newly torn, and all the downstairs lights were on. samantha testified that the television and lamps were on and the bedroom door open when she and the children went to bed the night before. when she woke up, the door was closed and the television and lamps were off. defendant was holding his clothes in front of him when ricardo confronted him. samantha and removed his wallet. inside were photographs of two adult women in provocative poses, and a copy of the famous photograph of the vietnamese naked running girl. investigators found a $100 bill, and other bills in or near the kitchen. money (a $100 bill and some smaller bills) were , 8 which he had kept in his pants hung over an ironing board when he went to bed. the prosecution presented evidence of two similar crimes committed by defendant. brenda d. testified that in september 1993, when she was 19 years old, she lived with her father, sister, brother, and two nephews, in a one-bedroom apartment. one night she was alone in the bedroom, asleep in the upper bunk, when she was awakened by a sudden sensation of being touched on bare skin. a man she had never seen before was standing close to her legs, but he backed away when she saw him, and left the room when she screamed. got up, and her father found the man in their bathroom. when the police arrived brenda identified defendant as the man who touched her and he was arrested. one morning in september 1994, victoria s., her husband juan, her brother, sister, and three daughters were asleep in their one-bedroom duplex apartment. about 2:00 or 3:00 a.m., while victoria and juan were sleeping next to each other on their mattress on the living room floor, victoria woke after feeling a hand touching her stomach and trying to unbutton her shorts. when she touched the hand she knew that it was not her husband, so she told juan that someone was trying to touch her. she jumped up, turned on the light, and saw a man later identified as defendant. juan grabbed defendant, but believed his claim that he had intended to visit a friend, but made a mistake. juan opened the front door to let defendant go, but victoria stopped him saying defendant had been unbuttoning her shorts. when juan opened the front door, he saw two boxes filled onl brother came in, and the two men held defendant until the police arrived and arrested 9 him. all windows and doors were locked when the family had gone to bed the night before, and after the incident, the living room window was open. defense evidence defendant cousin, merys vasquez (vasquez), testified that in june 2008, her mother, father, and brother lived in the same apartment complex as samantha and ricardo. although the vasquez family apartment was in a different building in the complex, it was also apartment a. the buildings in the complex looked the same, unit did not have a fenced patio in front or a sliding patio door, and was not near mission road. r lived -year-old brother. at that time, defendant stayed there periodically, spending some days there, other days with an aunt who lived elsewhere. the last time vasquez saw defendant before the incident in 2008, she smelled alcohol on his breath. she thought it was the morning before the incident, but she was not certain about the day. vasquez identified photographs of the front of her mothers unit window and the front of samantha and ricardounit, and agreed that her . vasquez testified that the lighting conditions in the complex in 2008 were such that apartment numbers were not visible. discussion i. substantial evidence supports count 1 defendant contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction of count 1, assault during the commission of a burglary, with intent to commit sexual penetration, in violation of section 220, subdivision (b). 10 as relevant here, sexual penetration means causing the of sexual arousal, gratification, or abuse, by any foreign object, or any part of the body, when the person is unconscious of the nature of the act because the person is asleep. (see  289, subd. (d), (k)(1)-(k)(2);  220, subd. (b).) evidence in a criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. jones applies when the conviction rests primarily on circumstantial (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, nferences that the jury might have drawn from the circumstantial evidence. people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 396.) from all of the facts and circumstances disclosed by the evidence. people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1130, overruled in part on other grounds in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) must begin with the presumption that the evidence . . . was efendant, people v. hamlin (2009) 170 cal.app.4th whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support [the 11 people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) defendant concedes that the evidence showed that he samantha testified that she felt the pressure on her vagina. nevertheless, he contends that the intent to penetrate remained unproven, because there was no evidence that defendant touched her unclothed vagina, or evidence that he did in fact penetrate her vagina. defendant concludes from this argument that the evidence proved no more than an intent to touch her. defendant also argues that because there was no penetration of the victims in the prior uncharged incidents, those incidents did not give rise to a reasonable inference that it was his intent to penetrate samantha. his conclusions. proof of an intent to commit sexual penetration requires no physical evidence of a sexual attack. (see people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1130 [rape2].) moreover, there was l area under her clothing: she felt pain and the touching on her legs and vaginal area. afterward, samantha noticed that her pajama bottoms had been pulled down, she felt pain in her vagina, and she had injuries consistent with sexual assault. simply entering the bedroom of a sleeping woman at night without consent and touching her genital area, or even just her shoulder, can give rise to a strong inference of an intent to rape 2 sexual penetration in violation of section 289 and rape are different forms of the same crime, and courts often refer to speople v. quintana (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1362, 1370.) 12 or commit some other sex crime, particularly when, as here, there is evidence the defendant committed other, similar crimes. (see people v. nible (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 838, 846-850.) evidence of prior sex crimes need not be identical to be probative of intent or lack of accident. (people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 841.) substantial evidence of a defendantcommit rape was reasonably inferred in people v. hermes (1946) 73 cal.app.2d 947, from evidence that the defendant entered a sleeping at 4:00 a.m. without consent, exposed his penisanywhere and have a sex desire and he was liable to break into a (id. at pp. 958-959, 953.) in people v. padilla (1962) 210 cal.app.2d 541, an intent to rape was sufficiently supported by evidence of the defendant having where he pushed a handkerchief over her face, and when she screamed and (id. at pp. 542-544.) even without additional evidence of sexual motivation, an intent to commit rape may be reasonably inferred when an unknown man enters a sleeping womanom, assaults her, but is deterred from further action resistance. (see, e.g., people v. pendleton (1979) 25 cal.3d 371, 377; people v. nye (1951) 38 cal.2d 34, 37.) in light of these authorities, even if we agreed with defendant that there was no evidence that he touched unclothed vaginal area and no evidence that he penetrated her vagina, we would find substantial evidence that he intended to commit sexual penetration. defendant, a stranger to samantha, entered her bedroom at night without consent while she slept, demonstrated sexual interest by rendering 13 himself nude at least from the waist down, by touching her genital area, and by sexually assaulting sereth after he was apparently deterred by scolding and slap. defendant had previously bedrooms to touch them. we conclude that substantial evidence supported ii. photographs a. relevance defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting the photographs of nude women and the vietnamese girl, found in his wallet. he argues that the photographs were irrelevant, and that admitting them resulted in a denial of due process and a fair trial under the state and federal constitutions. relevance of evidence [citations] . . . people v. heard (2003) 31 of discretion (people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 337), and we discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage (people v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 266.) defendant has not caused the exhibits to be transmitted to this court for review, but instead relies on the description of them given by counsel and the court at the time he objected to their admission as irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative. -- the famous photograph of a the prosecutor represented that two of the 14 photographs were of adult women in provocative poses but not naked. despite defendant that the adult women were depicted in provocative poses, he now about them because they -type photographs, and because the photograph of the running vietnamese girl was historic. defendant also argues that the photographs were irrelevant or of no probative value because not imply an intent to commit sex crimes; and he suggests that the possession of such photographs could have no tendency in entry into a home was not the result of the mistaken belief it was the home of a defendant frames the as the following abstract question[d]oes mere possession of photographs of historical nude figures or playboy-type nudes establish an intent to commit sex crimes? if it does, defendant argues, possession of playboy magazine photographs or the criminals millions of men (and women) over the last half the trial court did not conclude that the photographs established , as he asserts; rather, the court concluded that the photographs were relevant to the issue of by equating defendant has effectively formulated a rule under which evidence would be considered relevant only if it is sufficient, by itself, to establish the fact for which it is offered. defendant then 15 concludes that because the photographs were insufficient to establish intent, finding them relevant was absurd. we instead apply evidence code section 210, which defines relevant evidence any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of (italics added.) vancy is whether the evidence tends, logically, naturally, or by reasonable inference to establish a material fact, not whether it conclusively proves it. [t]o be admissible, evidence need not absolutely confirm anything. it is axiomatic that its weight is for people v. dellinger (1984) 163 cal.app.3d 284, 307.) here, the trial court viewed the photographs, considered the totality of the circumstances, and noted that the defense would suggest that defendant was in samantha and s home by accident and thus did not intend to touch them in a sexual manner. we agree with the trial court that under such circumstances, photographs of a nude child, albeit historic, and of women in provocative poses would be probative of intent and lack of accident. defendant has not shown that the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner. further, defendant has failed to demonstrate that admission of the photographs resulted in a miscarriage of justice. people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 (watson). (people v. paniagua (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 499, 524.) under the watson test, 16 result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in twatson, supra, at p. 836.) defendant contends that the photographs were inherently prejudicial, but offers no discussion of prejudice until his reply brief, in which he concludes, without discussion of other evidence, that without the photographs, the people would have been unable to prove intent, and he would have been acquitted of the sex charges. intent was compelling. a stranger to samantha and her family, defendant entered the bedroom at night without consent while she slept, rendered himself nude at least from the waist down, ed sereth, leaving semen and pubic hairs as overwhelming proof of his act. further, apartment defense was severely damaged by evidence that defendant had previously entered the bedrooms of sleeping women unknown to him, touched one on the bare legs, and the other on her stomach, while he tried to unbutton her shorts. in addition, as respondent points out, the suggestion that defendant thought he was inside was proven false by the testimony of was the only woman living in her apartment, and that the only child living with her was her 13-year-old son. moreover, any such defense was wholly unsupported by substantial evidence, as no one testified that defendant was in fact mistaken about the apartment that night. vasquez testified that although her apartment was similar to the apartment of samantha 17 and ricardoapartment had no fenced off patio or a sliding patio door. case and the weakness of the defense, there is no reasonable probability that the result would have been different without the photographs. b. first amendment defendant contends that the photographs were admitted in violation of his first amendment right to possess such material. as respondent observes, defendant has failed to preserve this issue, as he did not object on this ground in the trial court. a judgment may not be reversed by reason of the erroneous objection to or a motion to exclude or to strike the evidence that was timely made and so stated as to make clear the specific (evid. code,  353, subd. (a).) the rule applies to constitutional challenges, as well. (people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 292.) defendant relies on general authority that an objection may be excused if futile. (see, e.g., people v. carrillo (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 94, 101.) however, he merely argues that because the trial court had already overruled objections on other grounds it would most certainly not entertain another objection. bare assertion that further objection would have been futile. (people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 84.) as defendant fails to explain how the record supports this argument that the trial court would not entertain an objection on this ground, the futility exception does not apply. (see people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 138-139.) defendant has thus forfeited his constitutional challenge. 18 in any event, although there is no indication in the record that the trial court would not have entertained the objection, it is very unlikely that the court would have favor. there is no per se barrier to the admission of evidence simply because the evidence itself may be constitutionally protected. (dawson v. delaware (1992) 503 u.s. 159, 165.) people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 629, citing dawson, supra, at p. 164.) as we have found no error in issues of intent and accident, we would also find that the admission of the photographs was not prohibited by the first amendment. iii. defendant contends that the trial court erred by sustaining that defendant made while fighting with ricardo. although defendant suggests that the trial court excluded just the statement that he made a mistake, which he attempted to elicit from the several witnesses. on direct examination, samantha testified that while defendant and ricardo were when defense counsel asked samantha what else she heard defendant say, the prosecutor objected. after ricardo testified that he remembered hearing defendant say he was sorry, defense counsel asked what else defendant said. the court later, after detective teresa curtis testified without objection that samantha heard defendant pleading with ricardo to let him go, 19 defense counsel asked the detective whether samantha had told her that defendant said that he had made a mistake. the court sustained a hearsay objection to that question. defense counsel explained to the court that he was trying to elicit defendant, a mistake, in order to show his state of mind. the trial court noted that already in evidence, and ruled that it would be cumulative to add, defendant now contends that the statement was admissible as an excited utterance or spontaneous statement under evidence code section 1240, but concedes that defense counsel did not urge this ground of admissibility in the trial court, and that a party may not argue on appeal a theory of admissibility of evidence not raised at trial. (see people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 713.) he contends that any forfeiture of the issue should be excused on the ground that defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by not arguing the grounds he now urges. to prevail on an ineffective assistance claim, a defendant must not only demonstrate that his counsel erred, he must probability that, but result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687, 694.) the reviewing court may proceed directly to the issue of prejudice if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on that basis. (people v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1241; see strickland v. washington, supra, at p. 687.) 20 we have already concluded that the mistaken apartment defense was wholly unsupported by substantial evidence,3 and we do not discern how would add any support to that defense. quately conveyed his niece. as defendant did not have a niece who lived in his -the mistaken belief which was already in evidence. we thus agree with the trial court that the statement was cumulative. the erroneous exclusion of hearsay evidence is harmless when the excluded evidence was people v. helton (1984) 162 cal.app.3d 1141, 1146.) defendant asserts that the excluded statement was not cumulative to other evidence received, but he does not contend explain how he came to his conclusion. instead, defendant would have explained that he did so because he was drunk, offer of proof did not include such statements. further, defendant does not contend that he was deterred from testifying the record is devoid of any such indication. even if we agreed that the statementive, there is no reasonable probability that the result would have been different had the statement been 3 see discussion, section iia, above. 21 admitted. overwhelming evidence demonstrated that whatever his mistake, it was not in believing that he was in apartment. once inside the apartment, defendant turned on all first floor lights, giving him ample ability to see the apartment. he then wallet, which was illuminated by the lamps and television, again giving him another opportunity to see opportunity to see that samantha was not his aunt and that neither her son nor sereth -year-old nephew or his mystery niece. we conclude that there was no reasonable probability that the result would have been different if defendant had urged a different hearsay exception. defendant has thus failed to meet his burden to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel. further, given the overwheland absence of mistake, we would find any erroneous exclusion of harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. iv. jury request defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by denying the jurys request to have a written copy of performance of its functions includes the power to order argument by counsel to be reread to the jury or to be furnished to that body in written form. the exercise of such power must be as a result, review must be conducted under the deferential abuse-of-discretion people v. gordon (1990) 50 cal.3d 1223, 1260, overruled on another point in people v. edwards (1991) 54 cal.3d 22 787, 835.) . . . vested in the trial judge, his or her exercise of that wide discretion must not be disturbed on appeal except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest people v. jordan (1986) 42 cal.3d 308, 316.) respondent contends that defendant has forfeited this issue by failing to object. we agree. a party must object to the to preserve the issue on appeal. (people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 430.) after reading the jury note to counsel, the trial court indicated that it explaining that it would tell jury that closing argument was not evidence and that they were to confine their considerations to the evidence. the court asked counsel if there was any objection to its proposed response, and thus, defendant not only refusal and proposed explanation. furthermore, the trial court elaborated on its explanation to the jury, sta copy of closing argument because, although it might help the jury to focus their deliberations, it was not evidence. the court also told the jury that providing one then make it which would take too much time. although defendant now contends that some of these additional reasons were erroneous, he failed to object to them, or to request clarification or correction. defendapeople v. 23 kageler (1973) 32 cal.app.3d 738, 746; see people v. boyette, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 430.) in any event, defendant has not demonstrated an abuse of discretion. we have reviewed defense closing argument and note that nearly half the argument consists of mostly reading excerpts images in photographs (as exhs. b, c, d, and 48), and paraphr the exhibits were available to the jury during deliberations. the rest of the argument consists of many confusing rhetorical statements and questions that defendant might have thought, said, or asked. as the prosecutor described it efense counsel got up here and essentially, in essence, kind of stepped in the shoes of the defendant and was asking questions as if it was the defendant inquiring about all of these different things. there the trial court was justly concerned that if the jury had a it would have to provide the which would potentially result in an undue consumption of time. a trial court retains wide discretion to impose reasonable time limits during trial. (people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 854-855.) and it is the trial expeditious and effective ascertainment of the truth regarding 1044.) we conclude that texercise of its discretion and duty was neither arbitrary, capricious, nor patently absurd. moreover, defendant has failed to demonstrate a miscarriage of justice. defendant claims burden to establish that the asserted error was harmless beyond 24 a reasonable doubt under the standard applied to federal constitutional error in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). on the contrary, an erroneous refusal to permit a the test of watson. (people v. sims (1993) 5 cal.4th 405, 453, disapproved on another ground by people v. storm (2002) 28 cal.4th 1007, 1031-1032.) when the watson test is applicable, it is the people v. hernandez (2011) 51 cal.4th 733, 746.) defendant contends that defense counselcritically important because he had been prevented from offering evidence which would have explained why he was in samantha , because the prior incidents did not involve penetration, and because his prior victims were not little girls. defendant was not prevented from offering evidence to show why prevented from eliciting the cumulative out-of-court statement that he made a mistake.4 furthermore there was no reference in to s prior victims or the absence of penetration. indeed, the only reference to the prior incidents was an imaginary conversation between defendant and a police officer in which counsel spoke as defendant, . twenty-two -- we review nonexistent points in an argument, or its inability to review argument about nonexistent evidence. 4 see discussion, section iii, above. 25 defendant has not demonstrated the reasonable probability of a different result had the jury been given a copy of the argument, the same argument they heard in court. moreover, if we were to apply the chapman test, as defendant urges, we would still find any error harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, given the overwhelming . defendant contends that the trial court erred in ordering the redaction of the victsurnames, leaving only first names and last initials. defendant argues that the trial court should have followed the procedures set forth in section 293.5, which authorizes courts to protect the privacy and identities of the victims of certain sex offenses by ordering that such victims be referred to as jane doe or john doe, if the victim so requests and the court gives the admonition required by that section. (see people v. ramirez (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 47, 52-53.) defendant contends that he was denied due process and a fair trial because there was no request by the victims, no reasoned decision on such a request, and no jury instruction such as calcrim no. 123 or caljic no. 1.12.5 respondent contends that defendant has forfeited the claim, as he did not object to the surname redaction in the trial 5 ((john/jane) doe/ <insert other name used>). this name is used only to protect (his/her) privacy, as required by law. [the fact that the person is identified in this way is not evidence. do not substantially similar. where section 293.5 is applicable, the trial court must give such an instruction sua sponte. (see  293.5, subd. (b); people v. ramirez, supra, 55 cal.app.4th at p. 58.) 26 court. while defendant concedes he did not object or ask the trial court for an order or admonition, he contends that if the issue is deemed forfeited, defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to research the law and appropriate jury instructions. whether defendant claims that the trial court erred or that defense counsel erred, it is his burden, as the party challenging the judgment, to affirmatively demonstrate error. (people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 746.) as defendant has not shown that defense counsel was aware or unaware of the law and jury instructions relating to section 293.5, he has not demonstrated counsel error under this theory. (see people v. jenkins (1975) 13 cal.3d 749, 753-755.) nor has defendant demonstrated error by the trial court. the trial court did not use jane doe, john doe, or any other fictitious name, but merely called witnesses by their first names and last initials. thus, under the plain language of section 293.5, that statute is it is a cardinal rule that courts may not add people v. hunt (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 939, 946.) as section 293.5 is inapplicable, the trial court was not required to follow its procedures, and did not err by failing to do so. further, in the absence of a statute, rule or precedent, a trial court has the implied power to fashion any reasonable procedure or to alter any inconvenient practice. (people v. jordan (1884) 65 cal. 644, 646-647.) thus, it follows that as section 293.5 is inapplicable, and defendant has pointed to no statute, rule or precedent forbidding the practice, the trial court had the inherent authority to use initials or abbreviated forenames to protect the privacy of victims and witnesses. (see, e.g., people v. cavallaro (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 103, 106, fn. 3.) 27 cn unmeritorious motion or request was not ineffective assistance. (see people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 387.) defendant contends that the redaction of last names at trial violates constitutional rights to a jury trial, confrontation, and due process. defendant did not object to the practice or make a constitutional challenge below, and as he has not demonstrated error, the issue does not become cognizable on appeal as an additional consequence of trial court error. (see people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 435-439.) we further neffective by failing to make a constitutional argument below. suggesting that counsel erred in failing to raise a confrontation claim, defendant compares the redaction of first names to the nondisclosure of the identity of a witness. (see, e.g., smith v. illinois (1968) 390 u.s. 129.) however, defendant makes no claim that he was kept ignorant of the identity of the witnesses or victims. as it does not appear on this record that defendant was denied reasonable pretrial discovery or access to witnesses as necessary to prepare a defense, s right of confrontation or due process due to the use of abbreviated names. (see alvarado v. superior court (2000) 23 cal.4th 1121, 1144-1146.) further, under such circumstances defendant has not shown that any objection by counsel would have been sustained. (people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 587.) defendant also argues that he suffered prejudice because the use of first names only implied that the victims and complaining witnesses so named were already proven to be defendant was guilty and needed protection from him. defendant 28 has pointed to no evidence that the jury drew such inferences, and the trial court instructed the jury that defendant was presumed innocent until proven guilty by the prosecution beyond a reasonable doubt, that the jurors were the sole judges of the believability of the witnesses, and that they were not to take a what the judge might believe. we presume the jurors followed these instructions and any possible prejudice was dispelled. (see people v. ramirez, supra, 55 cal.app.4th at pp. 58-59.) finally, defendant has not shown that the use of first names undermined the reliability of the verdicts. we have determined elsewhere in this opinion that the evidence of supported his defense of mistake. under such circumstances, if defendant had established a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, we would find beyond a reasonable doubt that the redaction did not affect the outcome in this case. vi. rape kit defendant contends that it was unduly inflammatory to to the evidence packet prepared by the sexu defendant further contends that defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object to the term, because it was not only inflammatory, but also unnecessary, as there were other, more neutral terms for the evidence, and defendant was not charged with rape. initially, we observe that defendant has failed to demonstrate that the term was repcites three occasions in the testimony of detective david cedeno when the term was used. defendant has not shown that the term 29 was otherwise mentioned in the evidence, arguments, or instructions. a defendant claiming ineffective assistance of counsel, failure to object amounted to strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 687.) we do not find that three references to the name of an evidence collection package, over five days of testimony to be so inflammatory or prejudicial that a failure to object to use of the name suggests that defense counsel was not functioning as effective counsel. moreover, defendant must demonstrate failure to object to the term undermined the reliability of the verdicts. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at pp. 687-688.) defendant merely f then concludes that it was harmful. defendant otherwise makes no effort to demonstrate a reasonable probability that the outcome of the trial would have kitthree times. instead, overwhelming evidence established that defendant entered the home with intent to commit sexual penetration and that he sexually assaulted sereth. we discern no reasonable probability that use of the term in this context affected the reliability of the verdicts. vii. prior prison enhancements defendant contends that the trial court erred by imposing additional terms of imprisonment under section 667.5, subdivisions (a) and (b), as both enhancements were based on the same prison term served after conviction of multiple felonies in san mateo county. 30 section shall mean a continuous completed period of prison incarceration imposed for the particular offense alone or in combination with concurrent or consecutive sentences for other as the evidence showed that defendant served a single prison term in the san mateo case, only a single enhancement may be imposed under section 667.5. (people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 739; people v. james (1980) 102 cal.app.3d 728, 733.) the three-year enhancement of section 667.5, subdivision (a), applies here, as the new offenses were violent felonies specified in subdivision (c), the prior separate prison term served was for one of the violent felonies specified in subdivision (c), and defendant committed the current offense within 10 years of his release.6 thus the one-year enhancement under subdivision (b) is inapplicable. (see  667.5, subd. (b) [subdivision (b) applies [e]xcept whe defendant asks that each one-year enhancement imposed under section 667.5, subdivision (b), be stricken. respondent agrees that the court erred in imposing enhancements under section 667.5, subdivision (b), but contends that the inapplicable enhancements must be stayed, not stricken. (see people v. brewer (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 98, 104 (brewer); cal. rules of court, rule 4.447.7) 6 see section 667.5, subdivision (c), subparagraphs 14, 15, 16, and 21. 7 california rules of court, ran enhancement may be stricken or dismissed because imposition of the term either is prohibited by law or exceeds limitations on 31 california rules of court, rule 4.447, applies to mandatory enhancements, those which must either be imposed or stricken. (people v. lopez (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 355, 365.) when such an enhancement is barred by an overriding statutory prohibition . . . and [in] that situation only -- the trial court can and should stay the enhancement. [citations (ibid.; see also brewer, supra, 225 cal.app.4th at p. 104; see, e.g., people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1127-1130 [multiple firearm enhancements under sections 12022.53 and 12022.5].) section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements are mandatory (people v. langston (2004) 33 cal.4th 1237, 1241), and in this case, were barred by section 667.5, subdivision (g), and the application of subdivision (a). reliance on people v. jones (1993) 5 cal.4th 1142, 1153, people v. langston, and people v. jordan (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 349, 368, is misplaced, as those authorities did not involve or discuss the proper remedy under these circumstances or the application of california rules of court, rule 4.447. thus, the correct procedure people v. walker (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 782, 794, fn. 9.) the imposition of multiple enhancements. the sentencing judge must impose sentence for the aggregate term of imprisonment computed without reference to those prohibitions and limitations, and must thereupon stay execution of so much of the term as is prohibited or exceeds the applicable limit. the stay will become permanent on thsentence not stayed. 32 viii. correction of abstract defendant points out that the enhancements orally imposed by the trial court under section 667.5, subdivision (a), were erroneously noted in the abstract of judgment as having been imposed pursuant to 667(a). the trial court is directed to prepare an amended abstract which conforms with the oral statement. disposition the judgment is modified to stay the one-year enhancements imposed under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the superior court is ordered to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect this modification, and to correct the statutory authority for the three-year enhancements imposed pursuant to section 667.5, superior court is directed to forward a copy of the amended abstract to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. __________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst __________________________, j. hoffstadt 