filed 10/11/16 p. v. dennis ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. keith d. dennis, defendant and appellant. b267237 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma063306) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, daviann l. mitchell, judge. affirmed. siri shetty, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 keith d. dennis appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by a jury for attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder, assault with a semiautomatic firearm and making a criminal threat with special findings by the jury he had used a firearm in committing each of the offenses. dennis contends the evidence at trial was insufficient to support his convictions for attempted murder and aggravated assault. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the incident on june 14, 2014 roy swims, his wife, ryan smith, their son and several of in-laws and their children spent the day together at a family gathering at . dennis was at a neighboring apartment with his girlfriend (or, perhaps, former girlfriend), tamika williams. dennis had been drinking vodka throughout the afternoon. late in the afternoon dennis accused williams of having an affair with swims. williams denied the , rang the door and, when swims went out to meet him, confronted swims near the adjacent garage. dennis, who appeared angry and upset, accused swims of sleeping with williams. swims denied the allegation. dennis pulled a gun from his waistband and pointed it at ryan smith, who had looked out a window after the doorbell rang and saw dennis approaching her husband, yelled that the man had a gun and ran outside. as she was coming out the door, smith saw dennis pull back the slide of his semiautomatic handgun before pointing it at swims and heard him say smith also heard dennis tell swims he was going to shoot him: was gonna blow his brains out the gun at this point was 3 approximately two inches from swiw dennis pull the trigger once 1 the gun did not fire. brenda smith-in-law, followed her daughter outside after ryan smith called out that dennis had a gun. brenda smith saw dennis with a gun aimed at bitch. . . . 2 ow your woman. . . you do. yes, you dohead. according to brenda smith, when she ran a little past the garage, she heard a clicking sound and then, as she came a little closer to dennis, saw and heard him cock the gun (or, as she subsequently described, rack the slide). according to swims, when dennis initially confronted him and accused him of being intimate with williams, dennis had a glass in his hand. he then set the glass down, dennis had his finger wrapped around the trigger. swims testified at both the preliminary hearing and trial that he did not see dennis pull the trigger and did not recall hearing any kind of click from the gun. however, los angeles county deputy sheriff scott carter, one of the officers who responded to the emergency call, testified swims reported when interviewed on the day of the incident that dennis had pulled the trigger several times after the slide was racked and that swims had heard a clicking sound.3 1 ryan smith testified at trial she was having some difficulty recalling the precise sequence of events in the confrontation between dennis and her husband. 2 brenda smith testified that swims owned a cadillac. 3 deputy carter, who prepared a report based on his post-incident interviews, testified during cross-because of the condition of the weapon being that the safety was on, that the defendant was 4 brenda smith managed to place herself between swims and dennis and told dennis he should not kill swims in front of the children. as this was taking place, swims was able to run inside his home and call the police emergency number. as he began , shu the prosecutor played the audio tape of the emergency call for the jury. on the oot ; swims gave his residence address and urged a quick response by law enforcement. surveillance footage showed dennis leaving the handgun in the apartment complex garage. dennis was arrested nearby, and the firearm was recovered. the prosecutor played an audio tape show-up, which included the following exchange: trying to get him to focus on me sheriff deputy 2: brenda smith: out the way, 2. trial evidence regarding the handgun the firearm used by dennis was a nine-millimeter semiautomatic handgun (a luger) with one round in the chamber and an additional nine rounds in the magazine. when the gun was recovered, the safety lever was activated. a senior criminalist testified for the people that the handgun, in general, and the safety lever, in particular, were functional. the criminalist demonstrated for the jury that unfamiliar with it, and the pulling of the trigger with the safety on caused it not to fire, but i believe that he had every intent to fire that weapon at mr. swims 5 the gun was designed for the safety lever to be turned off and on (enabled or disabled) by he explained, unless a safety latch malfunctions, which is possible, the gun will not fire when the lever is activated because a pull of the trigger does not actuate the hammer. in this particular model, the safety mechanism can be partially activated in a middle positionhalfway upwhich will still prevent the gun from firing. the criminalist also testified it is possible for the safety lever to be accidentally activated, either fully or partially, when the slide is pulled back (racked) to chamber a round. if that occurred, the gun would not fire even if the shooter intended to have the firearm be in the firing position. when a person pulls the trigger of a gun with the safety lever activated, the trigger spring makes a noise. the criminalist demonstrated that sound for the jury. when a person pulls the trigger of a gun with the safety lever off but no round in the chamber, it makes a louder noise, which the criminalist also demonstrated for the jury. the defense firearm expert similarly testified the recovered handgun was functional, there were no defective parts that would have caused it to jam or misfire, and someone would hear a trigger spring if the trigger was pulled when the safety latch was engaged. 3. instructions and closing argument the trial court read the substantive portion of the jury instructions prior to closing arguments. using calcrim no. 600 the court instructed, in part, to prove dennis guilty of attempted murder, the people were required to prove he intended to kill swims. using calcrim no. 875 the court instructed, in part, to prove dennis guilty of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, the people were required to prove dennis did an act with a semiautomatic handgun that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person (swims). the court also explained that attempted murder was a specific intent crime, aggravated assault was a general intent crime. in her closing argument the prosecutor acknowledged the recollection of ryan smith, brenda smith and roy swims of the events of june 14, 2014 had changed 6 somewhat from their statements to responding sheriff deputies on the day of the incident and that, by the time of trial approximately one year later, the three percipient witnesses did not remember those events in precisely the same way. nonetheless, she argued, both ryan smith and brenda smith had at the earlier time described dennis as having first pulled the trigger whilhead and then racking the slide while reasonable inferences from these facts, she continued, was that dennis intended to shoot swims in the head; the gun initially did not fire because the chamber was empty; dennis then racked the slide to chamber a round; and, in doing so, he accidentally activated the safety lever, at least in part, which prevented the gun from firing when, as brenda smith recalled, he pulled the trigger a second or third time. counsel was recovered and both expert witnesses had agreed the firearm and the safety were fully functional. she argued her client, who was jealous and angry and probably also a little drunk, : wanted to kill that man, he would have turned the safety off, and he would have blown his brains out. that gun was working. there were bullets in the chamber, there were recall the trigger being pulled by dennis; all he heard was the racking of the gun. in her final argument the prosecutor reiterated the only reason to rack a round when the gun did not fire after the first trigger pull was to carry out the ongoing threats to out is enough. pointing it is enough. the only reason that he pulled the trigger, racked trying to 7 4. verdict and sentencing the jury convicted dennis of attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664) (count 1), assault with a semiautomatic firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (b)) (count 2) and making a criminal threat (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)) (count 3) and found true the special allegations he had personally used a firearm in committing the three offenses (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (b), as to count 1; 12022.5, subds. (a) & (d), as to count 2; 12022.5, subd. (a), as to count 3). the court sentenced dennis to an indeterminate life term in state prison for attempted murder plus 10 years for his use of a firearm. sentence on the other two counts was imposed and stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. discussion 1. governing law and standard of review attempted murder is a specific intent crime. (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th people v. gonzalez intent to kill, attempted murder  21a.) ilty person need not intend to take life; but to -doer must specifically contemplate taking life; and though his act is such as, were it successful, would be murder, if in truth he does not mean to kill, he does not become guilty of an people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 327-328.) people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 457; accord, people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741 attempted murder, may in many cases be inferred from the defe 8 aggravated assault (here, assault with a semiautomatic firearm), like a simple assault, does not require a specific intent to injure the victim. (people v. wyatt (2012) 55 cal.4th 694, 702.) coupled with a present ability, to commit a violent injurits nature [citation.] no actual touching is necessary, but the defendant must do an act likely to (wyatt, at p. 702; see people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 788 [defendant need not be subjectively aware of the risk a battery might occur but must have actual knowledge of those facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize a harmful or offensive touching .) emphasizing that dennis told brenda smith as he walked away following his confrontation with swims that he had never intended to shoot anyone, that the gun did not fire when dennis pulled the trigger, and that the safety was activated on the semiautomatic handgun when it was recovered by incident, dennis argues no rational jury could conclude he had the specific intent to kill swims. similarly, because the safety was apparently on when he pulled the trigger as he , dennis contends the evidence does not support a finding he had engaged in an intentional act that would probably and directly result in the application of force against swims. in considering claims record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support 9 of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from en testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; accord, people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 423; people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) the standard of review is the same in cases in which the people rely mainly on circumstantial evidence to prove one or more elements of their case. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 625; people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1006.) is the duty of the jury to acquit a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which must be convinced of the uilt people v. story (2009) 45 cal.4th 1282, 1296.) ra contrpeople v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 358; accord, clark, at p. 626.) 2. and aggravated assault the jury heard evidence head and repeatedly stating in an angry voice that he was going to kill him, dennis pulled the trigger and, when the gun did not fire, racked a round into the chamber and pulled the trigger again. thluger could accidentally engage the safety enough to prevent the gun from discharging. expected the handgun 10 to fire and intended to kill swims and its implicit conclusion he did not intentionally activate the safety prior to pointing the gun at swims. to be sure, there was inconsistent testimony whether dennis pulled the trigger one or more times, as well as whether he did so only after racking a round into the chamber, and not before. it may be that the evidence, viewed in a different manner, permitted a reasonable inference that dennis was aware at all times the safety was on and intended only to scare swims. but argument the evidence was insufficient to show either that he intended to kill swims or that he engaged in an intentional act that would probably and directly result in the application of force against swims necessarily fails. disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j. 