filed 3/27/17 p. v. gonzalez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. margarito gonzalez et al., defendants and appellants. b267319 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa078797) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. hayden zacky, judge. affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant margarito gonzalez. adrian k. panton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jesus antonio soto. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, corey j. robins, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendants margarito gonzalez and jesus soto (collectively defendants) guilty of home invasion robbery, first degree residential robbery, first degree residential burglary, and four counts of assault. on appeal, defendants argue: (1) the evidence was insufficient to support the robbery convictions; (2) penal code1 section 1157 requires that the convictions for first degree robbery and first degree burglary be reduced to second degree offenses; and (3) section 654 required the trial court to stay the sentence on an assault count involving the victim who was also the subject of the robbery. we find no merit in these claims. soto additionally contends: (1) the trial court erred in imposing a five-year prior serious felony enhancement as to the indeterminate and determinate portions of his sentence; and (2) the prior conviction findings must be vacated because he did not admit the prior conviction allegations. we disagree with the first contention, but agree with the latter. defendants further argue, and the people concede, that (1) the convictions for first degree residential robbery must be vacated because the crime was a lesser included offense of the home invasion robbery charge; and (2) firearm enhancements imposed on the assault counts must be stricken because arming was an element of the underlying crime. we vacate these we also strike the firearm enhancement imposed on the burglary count. 1 all further section references are to the penal code. 3 factual and procedural background we summarize the evidence in accordance with the usual rules on appeal. (people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1263.) on october 20, 2013, maria favela, roberto villa, two adult children, mayra olvera and joaquin frausto, were at austo were in the living room; favela and villa were in a bedroom. gonzalez, known as jojo, jesus soto, known as capone, gerardo lopez, known as lalo, and a fourth man approached the apartment. gonzalez, soto, and lopez were all known to police as members of the langdon street gang.2 the fourth man had a gun. the group threatened to shoot or break in the door. olvera and frausto opened the door. the men punched olvera in the face and hit the back of her head. the gunman attacked frausto, punching him. gonzalez and lopez stood at the front door. the gunman and soto then went into the bedroom with the gun. they asked for carlos patino. patino was a friend of olvera and frausto; he sometimes stayed at favela favela heard the sound of something being broken in the living room, then a man burst into the bedroom. villa testified the man -jumped on his homeboy. . . the man was yelling and seemed frustrated. he pointed a gun at villa and favela. favela asked the man who he was looking for and what he wanted, but he did 2 fourth man and the gunman. however, the jury acquitted murillo of all charges. gerardo lopez was not tried with defendants and murillo. 4 not answer. the gunman grabbed a hearing-aid container out 3 the men outside the bedroom asked the gunman, , gungunman told villa and favela 4 during the incident, gonzalez and lopez stood in the doorway. they everything perceived gonzalez and lopez as instigating or encouraging the violent behavior.5 olvera saw gonzalez in the doorway. she told 3 at trial, villa testified the gunman opened the hearing aid container, then threw it toward the living room, where villa found it later that evening. but he admitted that at the preliminary hearing he testified the gunman left with the container. villa also told police one of the men grabbed a plastic container out of his hand and fled with it. frausto told police the what villa told him. 4 favela and villa testified they did not recognize any of the defendants in court as the men who barged into the bedroom during the incident. 5 frausto agreed at trial that at the preliminary hearing he described gonzalez and lopez as they stood in the doorway: was kind of a mutual giggle. kind of sitting, laughing at the 5 shit to you, duapartment to tell his associates to stop. the group left. a television in the living room was severely damaged after the men . . . threw a chair or something broke two angel figurines. frausto had a large bruise on his back and a mark in the shape of a tennis shoe. olvera had a black eye. frausto was hysterical and crying. olvera told favela she had seen the men before on the street but had not spoken to them. the family did not call the police. in a recorded other two men before. she knew one of them she also identified photographs of two men wo other mencapone and another manbut she was unsure. olvera and frausto told police the attack occurred because patino looking for patino. frausto identified defendants, lopez, and murillo from photographic lineups. frausto identified murillo as the gunman, soto as the man who attacked olvera, and gonzalez and lopez as the two men who stood in the doorway. the investigating officer wrote in his report that frausto indicated the gun6 the jury acquitted murillo of all charges. it found gonzalez and soto guilty of home invasion robbery ( 211; count 1); first degree residential robbery ( 211; count 2); first degree 6 in his preliminary hearing and trial testimony, frausto denied making this statement to the officer. 6 residential burglary ( 459; count 3); and four counts of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); counts 4-7). as to count 1, the jury found true the allegation that the offense was committed in concert with two or more individuals within the meaning of section 213, subdivision (a)(1)(a). as to count 3, the jury found true the allegation that during the commission of the offense, there was a person present other than an accomplice in the inhabited dwelling. as to all counts, the jury found true gang enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b). the jury further found true the allegation that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1) as to counts 1, 2, 3, and that a principal was armed with a firearm within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) as to counts 4 through 7. the trial court sentenced gonzalez to a total prison term of 55 years to life. the court sentenced soto to a total prison term of 65 years to life. defendants timely appealed. discussion7 i. sufficient evidence supported the robbery convictions defendants contend there was insufficient evidence to support the robbery convictions. we disagree. a. standard of review verdict, a reviewing court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses 7 applicable. 7 evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable jury could find the defendant guilty beyond a r (people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 617.) [i]t is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not subspeople v. white (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 305, 315, fn. 13.) this standard of review applies to claims involving both direct and circumsinferences that the jury might have drawn from the evidence susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court that muss the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of facs conclusion the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) b. discussion possession of another against the will and from the person or immediate presence of that person accomplished by means of force or fear and with the specific intent permanently to deprive 8 ([citation]; see  211.) people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 943.) this case involved an aiding and abetting theory as to defendants. [citatpeople v. smith, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 616.) sufficient in itself to sustain a conviction, it is a circumstance which will tend to support a finding that an accused was a principal. [cdetermining whether a defendant aided and abetted a crime. (people v. miranda (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 398, 407.) here, there was evidence defendants encouraged, instigated, and facilitated the robbery. soto entered the bedroom with the gunman and was acting with him as the gunman aid container out of his hand. the jury could reasonably infer g the commission of the robbery, facilitating and ensuring its commission. the whole situation which the jury could infer included the robbery in the bedroom. villa testified that while he was in the bedroom, the gunman was busy talking with people in the 9 living room, which the jury could interpret as an indication that gonzalez was aware of and encouraging the robbery, as well as the assaults. further, while there was conflict in the evidence about exactly what happened in the apartment, favela testified at trial that all of the men were standing at the bedroom door when the gunman entered. this evidence indicated gonzalez was not a distant bystander, but was instead encouraging the gunman, in close proximity to the robbery as it occurred. he was also blocking favela and villa from leaving the bedroom, and preventing frausto or olvera from entering. this evidence was sufficient for the jury to reasonably conclude defendants aided and abetted the robbery. we also reject defendants argument that there was insufficient evidence for the jury to conclude defendants had the intent to permanently deprive villa of his hearing aid container. at trial, villa testified the gunman snatched the container out of his hand and threw it toward the living room. however, there was also evidence villa told frausto and an investigating law enforcement officer that the gunman took the container and fled. villa also testified at the preliminary hearing that the gunman left with the container. on appeal we do not resolve evidentiary conflicts, but w the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced (people v. manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 87.) villa statements indicating the gunman took the container and fled supported a finding that there was an intent to 10 permanently deprive villa of the container. (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 252.) ii. section 1157 does not mandate a reduction of the first degree robbery and burglary convictions to second degree offenses a crime or attempt to commit a crime which is distinguished into degrees, the jury, or the court if a jury trial is waived, must find the degree of the crime or attempted crime of which he is guilty. upon the failure of the jury or the court to so determine, the degree of the crime or attempted crime of which the defendant is guilty, shall be deemed to be of the lesser degree. in this case, the verdict forms presented to the jury concerned only first degree robbery and first degree burglary. defendants therefore contend that under section 1157, the jury was prevented from determining the degree of the crime and the convictions must be reduced to second degree offenses. we disagree. as an initial matter, defendants have forfeited this argument by failing to raise it below. (people v. johnson (2015) 61 cal.4th 734, 784.) but even if the argument were preserved, we would reject it. risk that the degree of the crime might be increased after judgment. (people v. selivanov (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 726, 756 (selivanov).) the only theory in this case was that of first degree robbery and burglary. in other words, was that the crimes were committed in an inhabited dwelling. ( 212.5, subd. (a) [robbery perpetrated in an inhabited dwelling house is first degree robbery];  460, subd. (a) [burglary of an 11 inhabited dwelling house is first degree burglary].) the evidence established that if a robbery or burglary occurred, the crimes took place in an inhabited dwelling. the information and verdict forms permitted a conviction only for first degree robbery and burglary, thus, applying section 1157 would not serve the avoiding a post-judgment increase of the degree of the crime. (selivanov, supra, 5 cal.app.5th at p. 756.) find for that reason, requiring application onable, for it would require courts to deem a conviction to be of a degree that was never at issue and that the jury was neither asked nor (selivanov, supra, 5 cal.app.5th at p. 756, citing people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896, 911.) that the trial court instructed the jury on degrees of robbery and burglary does not change our analysis, in light of the evidence and the theory argued in this case. (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1270 [section 1157 did not require jury to make determination of degree of murder when substantial evidence did not exist that would warrant the jury to consider the homicide to be anything less than first degree murder].) iii. the trial court did not err in failing to stay the sentence on count 6 under section 654 defendants argue the trial court should have stayed the sentence on count 6 under section 654 because the assault on 12 villa was incidental to the accomplishment of the robbery charged in count 1. we find no error. in general, a person may be convicted of, although not punished for, more than one crime arising out of the same act or course of conduct. in california, a single act or course of conduct by a defof any number of the offenses charged. [citations.] [but] ection 654 bars separate punishment for multiple offenses arising out of a single, [citation.] its purpose to ensure s punishment will be commensurate with his culpability. people v. deegan (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 532, 541.) section 654 has been applied not only where there was act in the ordinary sense . . . but also where a course of conduct violated more than one statute . . . within the meaning of [] whether a course of criminal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of such offe [citations.] [] but it may give rise to multiple divisible in time. people v. deegan, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at pp. 541-542, original italics.) trial court, and its finding will be upheld if there is substantial people v. buchanan (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 603, 611.) 13 in this case, there was substantial evidence supporting the y and assault on villa were the result of different criminal objectives. there was evidence that, with the assistance and encouragement of defendants, the gunman first assaulted villa. the gunman pointed a gun at villa, yelled about the previous attack on gonzalez, and demanded that villa get down on the floor. then, only after realizing patino was not in the apartment, the gunman snatched and left. in the preceded the separate grabbing of the hearing aid container. the evidence supported a conclusion that the initial assault was not for the purpose of carrying out the robbery. instead, the revenge on patino; the robbery was a separate crime that occurred only after they realized patino was not there. there was sufficient evidence of divisible intents in the commission of the two crimes. the trial court did not err in imposing punishment for both crimes. iv. the trial court did not err in imposing the five-year prior serious felony indeterminate and determinate sentences the home invasion robbery charge, the trial court imposed a sentence of 15 years to life pursuant to the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4) gang enhancement; the sentence was doubled pursuant to section 667, 14 subdivision (e)(1); and the court imposed an additional five-year term under section 667, subdivision (a)(1).8 as to counts 4 through 7, the assault charges, the trial court imposed an aggregate term of 30 years, and further imposed an additional five-year term under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). on appeal, soto contends the trial court could not properly impose the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement on both the indeterminate and determinate terms. we disagree.9 in people v. misa (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 837 (misa), the court rejected the argument soto makes here. in misa, the defendant, like soto, was a second-strike defendant. he was sentenced to an indeterminate term on a charge of torture, and a determinate term on an assault count. both terms were enhanced under section 667, subdivision (a). on appeal, the 8 of a serious felony who previously has been convicted of a serious felony in this state or of any offense committed in another jurisdiction which includes all of the elements of any serious felony, shall receive, in addition to the sentence imposed by the court for the present offense, a five-year enhancement for each such prior conviction on charges brought and tried separately. the terms of the present offense and each enhancement shall run co 9 although we conclude below that the prior conviction due to the absence of an admission or trial court finding following a bench trial, we remand so that soto may admit the prior conviction or be tried on the allegations. we therefore consider his argument regarding the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) five-year enhancement. 15 defendant argued the court improperly imposed the serious felony prior enhancement twice. (misa, at pp. 840, 846.) the appellate court disagreed. the court followed people v. williams (2004) 34 cal.4th 397 (williams), in which the california supreme court concluded a section 667, subdivision (a) enhancement was properly imposed as to multiple indeterminate sentences. the williams court explained that section 667, subdivision (e) indicated the section 667, subdivision qualifying felony of which the defendant (in that case, a third (misa, supra, 140 cal.app.4th at p. 846.) the williams subdivision (a) enhancement was enacted as part of a statutory and constitutional scheme intended to increase sentences for misa, supra, 140 cal.app.4th at p. 846, citing williams, at pp. 404-405.) the misa court accordingly concluded the statutory language in section 667, subdivision (e) discussed in williams similarly applied to second strike sentencthe conclusion that a logical application of the williams analysis in this context would require the imposition of the prior notwithstanding that the enhancement was also imposed as a status enhancement relating to the determinate term on the misa, supra, 140 cal.app.4th at p. 846.) moreover, the misa court reasoned the williams analysis regarding the three strikes law also applied. the court concluded the of recidivism to separately increase the sentence imposed for each new offense applied equally to misa as a second-strike defendant. 16 we find the misa nce on people v. sasser (2015) 61 cal.4th 1 (sasser), for a contrary result, is misplaced. in sasser, the california supreme court concluded that as to a second-strike offender, a prior serious felony enhancement could be applied only once to the determinate portion of his sentence. as in people v. tassel (1984) 36 cal.3d 77, overruled on another ground in people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 401, the court concluded section 1170.1 governed the determinate portion of the sentence, and the prior conviction enhancement could be added only once as the final step in computing the total determinate sentence. (sasser, at pp. 15, 17.) sasser is inapposite here because it did not concern indeterminate sentences. as the sasser question before us is whether the trial court erred in adding a five-determinate sasser, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 12, italics added; people v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 155 [an opinion is not authority for propositions not considered].) we thus reject sasser has invalidated the reasoning in misa, which is directly on point with the facts of this case. v. the finding that soto suffered a prior strike must be vacated soto contends the prior strike finding was improper because he did not admit the prior strike conviction. we agree, vacate the prior strike finding, and remand. in the information, the people alleged soto suffered a prior a serious or violent felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (d) and section 1170.12, subdivision (b)a 2006 17 conviction for assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). the same conviction formed the basis of the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) prior serious felony allegation. soto waived his right to a jury trial on the prior conviction have been informed that mr. soto will be admitting his prior correct, your honor. but before we go forward, mr. soto would like to go pro per on his sentenc, the court and soto discussed self-representation, and the court determined soto was in fact asking to replace his counsel. the court accordingly conducted a marsden hearing and subsequently marsden request. after the conclusion of the marsden hearing, the trial court sentenced soto. the transcript does not include any indication that the trial court first gave advisements regarding the waiver of the right to trial on the prior strike allegations, or that the court actually elicited the expected admission. on appeal, the people contend the record shows soto admitted the prior conviction. a minute order from the proceedings notes soto admitted the prior conviction, and the court, in a subsequent brief proceeding, stated soto admitted his the five-year prior sectproceedings reveals no such admission. harmonized if possible. [citation.] if it cannot be harmonized, whether one portion of the record should prevail as against 18 contrary statements in another portion of the record will depend on the circumstances of each particular case. (ibid. (people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 226; people v. thompson (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 974, 978.) here, there is no indication that proceedings occurred during the sentencing hearing that were not recorded or that the thus, although the people contend defendant has failed to provide an adequate record for review, we cannot agree where it appears all of the proceedings were recorded accurately and all transcripts were supplied to this court. (people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, soto waived his right to a jury trial on the prior strike allegations, but we cannot conclude he also waived his right to a bench trial and admitted the prior. we therefore vacate the prior strike finding and remand. soto may be retried on the prior conviction allegations. vi. the conviction on count 2 must be vacated defendants argue, and the people concede, that first degree robbery (count 2) was a lesser included offense of home invasion robbery while acting in concert (count 1), thus defendants could not validly be convicted of both counts. we agree. as the people concede, count 1 charged defendants with robbery, committed in an inhabited dwelling house, while acting in concert with others. count 2 charged defendants with first degree residential robberyrobbery committed in an inhabited dwelling house. count 1 included all 19 of the elements of count 2. [i]f a crime cannot be committed without also necessarily committing a lesser offense, the latter is a lesser inclpeople v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224, 1227.) the conviction on count 2 must be vacated. vii. the section 12022, subdivision (a) firearm enhancements on counts 4 through 7 must be stricken defendants argue, and the people agree, that the section 12022, subdivision (a) enhancements imposed as to counts 4 through 7 must be stricken because use of a firearm was an element of the offenses charged in those counts. we agree. armed with a firearm in the commission of a felony . . . shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of section 1170 for one year, unless subdivision (a)(2)the offense charged in counts 4 through 7 [a]ny person who commits an assault upon the person of another with a firearm shall by punished by imprisonment in the state subdivision (a)(2). as a result, a section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement was not properly imposed. we strike the section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) enhancements imposed on counts 4 through 7. 20 viii. the section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1) enhancement imposed on count 3 must be stricken finally, we strike the section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1) enhancement imposed on count 3.10 as to both defendants, on count 3 (first degree burglary;  459), the jury found true the allegation that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1). section 12022.53 sets forth sentence enhancements for persons convicted of enumerated felonies who use a firearm in the commission of the crime. the statute applies to crimes listed in section 12022.53, subdivision (a). the list does not include section 459. further, count 3 did not charge a felony punishable by death or life imprisonment. ( 12022.53, subd. (a)(17).) a section 12022.53 enhancement could not properly be imposed on count 3. (people v. yang (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 148 [section 12022.53 enhancement can only be applied to convictions of enumerated crimes].) we therefore strike the section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1) enhancement imposed on count 3. 10 on appeal, defendants argued they failed to receive fair notice of the section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1) enhancement eventually imposed on count 3. we invited the parties to submit supplemental briefing discussing whether a section 12022.53, subdivision (b) and (e)(1) enhancement could properly be applied to a section 459 count. defendants then argued the enhancement could not be imposed. the people agree and so do we. because we conclude the enhancement could not arguments regarding notice. 21 disposition the conviction on count 2 is vacated as to both defendants. hearings. as to gonzalez, we strike the section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) firearm enhancements imposed on counts 4 through 7 and the section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1) firearm enhancement imposed on count 3. as to defendant soto, we strike the section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) firearm enhancements imposed on counts 4 through 7 and the section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1) firearm enhancement imposed on count 3. we further vacate the prior conviction findings and remand for trial or admission of the prior conviction allegations and resentencing. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: flier, j. sortino, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 