filed 3/14/17 p. v. magallanes ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. valentin magallanes et al., defendants and appellants. b267655 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba361451) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. marta i. stanton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant valentin magallanes. alan s. yockelson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jorge aguirre. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, jonathan j. kline and amanda v. lopez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________________ 2 valentin magallanes and jorge aguirre each pleaded guilty to one count of attempted murder and admitted related sentencing enhancements. on appeal from the judgments entered following their guilty pleas, magallanes and aguirre contend the trial court abused its discretion when, prior to sentencing, it denied their motions to withdraw the pleas based on newly discovered information pertaining to the deputy sheriff who had authorized the destruction of evidence in their case. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the preliminary hearing two witnesses testified at the preliminary hearing held on may 27, 2010.1 harold cruz testified that in 2007 he was an inmate in los angeles county jail and was associated with the southside gang. on june 15, 2007 cruz was beaten by seven or eight prisoners while in the laundry room during the daily cruz received a five-to-six-inch cut to the face requiring 27 stitches. he believed the beating was retribution for the loss of drugs that had been given to him for distribution by the southside gang. cruz did not identify magallanes as one of the inmates who had attacked him. los angeles county deputy sheriff francis hardiman, who in 2007 was assigned to the gang unit in the jail, testified 1 the preliminary hearing was held following the filing of a criminal complaint that named magallanes and three codefendants but not aguirre. aguirre was initially charged in a separate proceeding. the cases were consolidated on december 16, 2011, at which time the people filed an amended information in this case adding charges against aguirre. 3 regarding a series of telephone calls made from the county jail where cruz was incarcerated. on june 13, 2007 a call took place between two of codefendants in which they name of cruzon the call the hard candy. hardiman testified, based on his experience investigating gang activity in the jail, including activities of the candy,be killed. on june 15, 2007 magallanes participated in a three-way call with a codefendant and a third individual. magallanes told the codefendant serio had been moved to his tier in the jail and asked what action he should take. the codefendant stated serio deputy sheriff him. ten minutes later a call occurred between magallanes, another codefendant, angel avalos, and a third party. magallanes asked avalos that we can hit avalos within a few hours of this call cruz was attacked in the laundry room. deputy sheriff hardiman also testified, based on his training, experience and his interactions with the defendants, each defendant was a member of the southside gang in 2007 and orchestrated the attack on cruz interests. 4 cruz was not addressed at the preliminary hearing because he was not a defendant at the time.2 during argument in the trial court aguirre was in the laundry room during the attack; and the second amended information alleged, pursuant to the conspiracy to murder cruz, aguirre armed himself with a sharp object and aguirre and/or avalos attacked cruz with the knife-like object. the record also refers to a tape recording of a conversation between aguirre and another inmate during which aguirre allegedly made an incriminating statement. 2. the destruction of the shank after the june 15, 2007 attack on cruz, the prison-made knife that had been used was recovered and placed with the department central property division. pursuant to standard procedure every six months the central property division sent the investigating officer on the case a form asking whether the evidence should be kept or destroyed. an evidence form was sent to the investigating officer in this case in october 2010. the officer indicated the weapon should be destroyed and returned the form to the evidence lieutenant for approval. the evidence lieutenant at the time was lieutenant greg thompson, who approved destruction of the shank on october 28, 2010. the shank was destroyed on december 22, 2010. in the two months destruction, counsel for avalos requested production of the shank for dna 2 it appears from the record aguirre was indicted by a grand jury, but a copy of the indictment was not included in the record on appeal. 5 testing; but the shank was destroyed before testing could take place. during 2012 trial, lieutenant thompson testified regarding the destruction of the shank. thompson stated, when he received the form indicating the shank should be destroyed, he confirmed through the online database of criminal investigations that the case was closed. based on that information he signed the form authorizing the destruction. 3. the second amended information in a second amended information filed april 13, 2012 magallanes and aguirre were each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit murder (pen. code,  182, subd. (a)(1))3 and one count of attempted premeditated murder ( 664 and 187, subd. (a)). the second amended information specially alleged both offenses had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), magallanes had served three separate prison terms for felonies ( 667.5, subd. (b)) and aguirre had suffered one prior conviction for a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). on april 13, 2012 magallanes and aguirre each pleaded not guilty to both counts and denied the special allegations. 4. entry of the guilty pleas on march 21, 2013 the parties advised the trial court a plea agreement had been reached. pursuant to the negotiated agreement, the people moved to amend the second amended 3 statutory references are to this code unless otherwise stated. 6 information to add an allegation aguirre had served one separate prison term for a felony ( 667.5, subd. (b)) and to strike the premeditation allegation in the charge of attempted murder as to both magallanes and aguirre. magallanes and aguirre agreed to plead guilty to the attempted murder charge with magallanes to be sentenced to a state prison term of nine years (the upper term) plus 10 years for the criminal street gang enhancement and aguirre seven years (the middle term), plus 10 years for the criminal street gang enhancement and one year for the prior prison term enhancement. the deputy district attorney took a formal waiver of constitutional rights from each defendant and asked each defendants answered affirmatively. the trial court then asked change of heart, that you will not be allowed to set aside your pmagallanes and aguirre then pleaded guilty to attempted murder and admitted the gang enhancement, and aguirre admitted a prior prison term. the matter was set for sentencing in june 2013. 5. the motions to withdraw the pleas prior to the sentencing hearing the parties learned lieutenant thompson was a defendant in a civil action brought had been involved in obstructing an investigation by the federal bureau of investigation and covering up an incident involving a white supremacist deputy. the sentencing hearing was continued to allow the parties time to assess the impact of the thompson 7 investigation on the case. on august 16, 2013 the district attorney filed a notice pursuant to brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 [83 s.ct. 1194, 10 l.ed.2d 215] formally notifying defendants of the allegations against thompson and the 4 on july 17, 2015 magallanes moved to withdraw his guilty plea on the ground a recent court of appeal decision, people v. velasco (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 66, had changed the law concerning proof of a criminal street gang enhancement and, as a result, there was insufficient evidence to support admission of the gang allegation. during oral argument on the motion on august 31, 2015, counsel argued for the of lieutenant thompson. at that point counsel for aguirre stated aguirre also wished to withdraw his plea because he would not have pleaded guilty had he known of the investigation. the trial court denied the motions to withdraw the guilty pleas, finding the pleas had been knowing and intelligent. the court relied on the fact the defendants knew of the destruction of the shank at the time they pleaded guilty. the court found l involvement in this case and alleged misconduct in unrelated cases did not constitute good cause for setting aside the pleas. instead, the court concluded, 4 on february 14, 2014 magallanes moved for production of the personnel records of lieutenant thompson pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 and evidence code sections 1043 and 1045. aguirre joined the motion. the trial court denied the motion on august 31, 2015. magallanes and aguirre do not challenge that ruling on appeal. 8 the later discovery of misconduct by lieutenant thompson simply caused defendants to have concerning their pleas. the court agreed to issue a certificate of probable cause (see people v. johnson (2009) 47 defendant must obtain a certificate of probable cause in order to appeal from the denial of a motion to withdraw a guilty plea, even though such a motion involves a proceeding that occurs after and sentenced magallanes and aguirre in accordance with their plea agreements. magallanes and aguirre filed timely notices of appeal. discussion 1. governing law a defendant may move to set aside a guilty plea for good cause at any time before the entry of judgment. ( 1018.)5 good cause includes mistake, ignorance, fraud, duress or any other and must be shown by clear and convincing evidence. (people v. cruz (1974) 12 cal.3d 562, 566; people v. breslin (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 1409, 1416.) it is not enough that a defendant has concluded he or she wrongly assessed the wisdom of the plea bargain or otherwise has had a change of mind. (people v. huricks (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1201, 1208; people v. knight (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 337, 344.) a bargain should not be set aside lightly and finality of proceedings 5 sany time before judgment . . . the court may, . . . for a good cause shown, permit the plea of guilty to be withdrawn and a plea of not guilty substituted. . . . this section shall be liberally 9 people v. ravaux (2006) 142 directed to give a liberal construction to the provisions of section people v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 793, 796-797 (giron); accord, people v. clancey (2013) 56 cal.4th 562, 584.) a decision to deny a motion to withdraw a guilty plea rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will be affirmed on appeal unless the defendant can show a clear abuse of discretion. (giron, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 796.) we are required to accept the . (people v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1254; see people v. archer (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 693, 702.) 2. denial of discretion magallanes and aguirre contend their guilty pleas were based on such faulty or incomplete knowledge that their ability to exercise free judgment was overcome. specifically, they argue the suspicious timing of the destruction, six weeks after avalos had requested its production for testing, coupled with 6 and lack of 6 the record on appeal does not contain any information concerning other than a 2013 newspaper article discussing the civil complaint filed against thompson and others department. the parties refer to a federal indictment and conviction but do not provide any details of the 10 neither people v. dena (1972) 25 cal.app.3d 1001 nor people v. ramirez (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1501, the cases on which magallanes and aguirre primarily rely, supports a finding the trial court abused its discretion in this case. in dena the prosecution purposely failed to disclose the time at which a post-booking blood sample had been taken. as a result, the defendant was unable to argue he suffered from diminished capacity due to intoxication at the time of the offense, a potential defense to the specific intent element of the charge of burglary. (dena, at pp. 1006-1007.) after learning the time of the blood draw dena moved to withdraw his guilty plea. (id. at p. 1007.) the court of a suppression of evidence that ndant of the right to id. at p. 1009.) similarly in ramirez, after defendant had pleaded guilty, defense counsel discovered a previously undisclosed police report that contained potentially exculpatory statements from previously unknown witnesses. (people v. ramirez, supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1504.) division eight of this district held of free judgment in entering his plea because the report new defense custody exposure, and provided possible defenses to several charges, thereby casting the case against him in an entirely (id. at p. 1508.) the circumstances here are far different from those in dena and ramirez. the parties agree the prosecutor in this case 11 was not aware of the federal investigation of lieutenant thompson at the time the pleas were entered. there was no deliberate suppression of favorable evidence, and there can be no argument prosecutorial misconduct interfered with s ability to exercise their free will and independent judgment as occurred in dena and ramirez. further, unlike the evidence suppressed in dena and ramirez, the information misconduct did not have the potential to directly exculpate magallanes and aguirre: the newly discovered information did not provide the identities of previously unknown witnesses or support a new defense or theory of innocence. magallanes and aguirre assert only that the investigation of lieutenant thompson would have undermined his credibility at trial and an argument the shank was destroyed on purpose would have been more persuasive if they could have demonstrated or convicted of yet at the time they entered their guilty pleas, magallanes and aguirre were fully aware of the salient facts regarding the destruction, including the timing and identity of the officers involved. they could have investigated the incident, seeking additional discovery and developing an argument the shank had been destroyed to hinder their defenses. instead magallanes and aguirre elected to make a deal, limiting their exposure by pleading guilty to reduced charges. the fact they have now discovered evidence bolstering their impeachment of a previously known witness regarding previously known events does not render their pleas involuntary. (see people v. grand (1971) 16 cal.[n]or may the defendant enter a plea of guilty confident that if by some 12 fortuitous circumstance his chances of an acquittal are substantially improved, he may thereafter withdraw his guilty further, substantial evidetermination motions to withdraw by an inability to exercise free judgment. magallanes and aguirre unequivocally stated they understood their pleas at the time and acknowledged the pleas could not be withdrawn, all while knowing the facts regarding the destruction. once they misconduct, magallanes and aguirre waited more than two years to assert any argument that knowledge of the investigation would have influenced their decision to plead guilty. as for magallanes, his written motion to withdraw his plea was based on a purported change in the law. it was not until oral argument on the motion that either man asserted he would not have pleaded guilty had he was reasonable for the trial court to conclude magallanes and aguirre were motivated by a change of heart rather than a genuine belief the investigation would have affected their willingness to plead guilty. accordingly, magallanes and aguirre failed to show good cause for withdrawing their pleas. the the motions was well within its discretion. 13 disposition the judgments are affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j. 