filed 11/1/16 p. v. deweese ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rachel lauren deweese, defendant and appellant. b267753 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na068601) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. jerome j. haig, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 rachel deweese appeals from the denial of her motion to vacate and withdraw her no contest plea to charges of assault with a deadly weapon and causing injury while driving with a blood alcohol content of at least 0.08 percent. deweese filed the motion nine years after entering her plea, and the superior court denied it as untimely. abuse of discretion. we disagree and affirm. factual and procedural summary i. underlying plea in july 2006, the los angeles county district attorney filed an information charging deweese with five felonies: assault with a deadly weapon, an automobile (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)) 1; causing injury by driving under the influence (dui) (veh. code,  23153, subd. (a)); causing injury by dui with a blood alcohol content of at least 0.08 percent (veh. code,  23153, subd. (b)); leaving the scene of an accident (veh. code,  20001, subd. (a)); and resisting an executive officer ( 69). the information further alleged that assault a serious felony within the meaning of penal code section which the prosecution dismissed the charges of causing injury by dui, leaving the scene of an accident, and resisting an executive officer. the prosecution amended the remaining assault with a deweese pleaded no contest to that charge and to causing injury by dui with a blood alcohol content of at least 0.08 percent. during the change of plea hearing, the 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 at you are pleading to, assault with a deadly weapon in violation of penal code section 245.a(1) [sic] is a felony ain the future if you are convicted of a felony in the future, your future penalty or sentence under that future felony would be doubled based on your plea here today. deweese acknowledged that she understood. she also stated that she understood a within the meaning of penal code section 1192.7(c) deweese an understanding of the nature and consequences thereof appear it accordingly accepted her pleas of no contest. the court suspended imposition of sentence and placed deweese on five years of formal felony probation. the court continued, . . mr. silver did a very good job in representing you and i also worked with mr. silver. you got a brea ii. motion to terminate probation and reduce convictions five years later, deweese, represented by different counsel, moved to terminate her probation and reduce her convictions to misdemeanors pursuant to section 17, subdivision (b) and section 1203.4. 2011. section 1203.4, subdivision (a)(1) provides that 4 prosecution of the defendant for any other offense, the prior conviction may be pleaded and proved and shall have the same effect as if probation had not been granted or the accusation or iii. motion to vacate and withdraw plea oand withdraw plea of guilty [writ of error coram nobiscourt. she alleged that the attorney who represented her at the time of her plea only serves to double any subsequent felony conviction if that conviction was for a violent she further alleged that the attorney told her he would -approach the trial court about this case in a few years, which left [her] under the mistaken impression that her felony plea in this case would be subject to withdrawal once she completed the deweese also claimed that her ten years would automatically be treated as a felony dui be (6) six years at 80% time because she was also entering a plea deweese provided her own declaration, as well as declarations from her parents, attesting to the facts she alleged. according to the uncited facts stated in the peoplebrief, deweese struck a park ranger with her car as he tried to closing time. deweese also claimed her couns 5 deweese argued that alleged misrepresentations and omissions constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. she argued that the inaccurate and incomplete information her counsel furnished intelligent, knowing, and informed decision about whether to plead no contest. the people opposed they argued that the motion was motion was discoverable in 2011demonstrate due diligence in discovering it. the people also challenged the substantive underpinnings of the motion on numerous additional grounds, including that it was not a proper vehicle by which to allege ineffective assistance of counsel.2 the 2 ted on coram nobis. (people v. kim (2009) 45 cal.4th 1078, 1095 (kim).) on appeal, the attorney general takes this argument one step further and urges corpus, which may allege ineffective assistance of counsel. because the denial of a writ of habeas corpus is not an appealable order (people v. garrett (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 1419, 1421-1423), appeal. however, deweese was not even arguably in custody prerequisite to gaining relief people v. villa (2009) of his liberty, under any pretense whatever, may prosecute a writ that conviction are not themselves sufficient to render an villa, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1071.) we 6 people attached to their opposition various documents, including the information filed against deweese in 2006, a transcript of of plea hearing, the filings deweese made pursuant to sections 17, subdivision (b) and 1203.4, various clets report. according to the rap sheet, deweese sustained convictions for reckless driving in 2006 and 2013. the rap sheet further indicated that, at the time of her motion, deweese was facing charges for dui and dui with a blood alcohol content of 0.08 percent or more, both of which were enhanced by allegations that she had sustained a dui conviction within the preceding 10 years. (veh. code,  23152, subs. (a) & (b), 23550.5.) the superior court held a hearing on the motion on october 20, 2015. at the hearing, the court asked the parties to address why it took nine years to file the motion and whether the delay precluded granting the motion. that the issue first came to light in 2013, when deweese was charged with a dui offense in orange county.3 according to d they all of habeas corpus. 3 that the orange county district attorney charged deweese with dui (veh. code,  23152, subd. (a)), dui with blood alcohol content of 0.08 percent or greater (veh. code,  23152, subd. (b)), and reckless driving (veh. code,  23103, subd. (a)). it further indicates that deweese was convicted of the reckless driving charge, and that the two dui charges were dismissed. the clets indicates that deweese was alleged to have sustained previous dui convictions such that vehicle code section 23550 applied. 7 was appropriate to bring before judge ferrari. - - they turned down the work. but they sought th counsel in other words, the possibility of enhanced future 06 plea arose in 2013. she elected not to pursue relief from the 2006 plea at that time and did not take further action because the dui charges then pending against her were dismissed. counsel explained that he looked at the issue of undoing the 2006 plea currently pending dui charges. he learned from learned of the true facts of what had really gone on as a larger recently. the court indicated that it was skeptical the motion was and the legal theory was what was recently discovered. the people agreed they further argued that the motion should have been brought in 2011, when deweese moved to terminate her probation and reduce her felony convictions to misdemeanors, because section 1203.4 specifically cautions that, in future prosecutions, a prior been granted or 8 her 2011 motions. been retained on a very limited basis, to file motions pursuant to sections 17, subdivision (b) and 1203.4. he did not interview deweese in connection with that engagement. the court told the court nonetheless found that untimely. described to make the motion to withdraw a plea happened in 2006. ms. deweese and a third party, that being her father, was a participant in a discussion with a lawyer. . . . and in this particular case, the consequence of whatever that discussion is - - the consequence 2011 when they could have brought th[counsel] brings this motion because we need to do something i think that the 4 deweese timely appealed. discussion a nonstatutory motion to vacatto be the legal equivalent of a petition for a writ of error coram 4 the a shorthand for unreasonable delay and lack of diligence by deweese. laches is an equitable defense. it requires which plaintiff complaints or prejudice to the defendant resulting johnson v. city of loma linda (2000) 24 cal.4th 61, 68.) 9 nobis (kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1096.) the purpose of such from a judgment rendered while there existed some fact which would have prevented its rendition if the trial court had known it and which, through no negligence or fault of the defendant, was not (id. at p. 1091.) we review s ruling on the petition for an abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 1095.) to demonstrate entitlement to a writ of error coram nobis, a petitioner must make a three-part showing: (1) a fact existed that, through no fault or negligence on his or her part, was not presented to the court and would have prevented the rendition of judgment if it had been; (2) the newly discovered fact does not go to the merits of the case; and (3) the fact was not known to the petitioner and could not in the exercise of due diligence have been discovered by him or her at any time substantially earlier than the time he or she sought the writ. (kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 1092-1093.) the superior court concluded, without analyzing the first two requirements, that deweese had not satisfied the third. this was not an abuse of discretion. prerequisite to the availability of relief by motion for coram nobis. (kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1096.) the party seekifacts upon which the basic claim rests, but also the time and circumstances under which the facts were discovered, in order that the court can determine as a matter of law whether the litigant proceeded with due diligence; a mere allegation of the ultimate facts, or of the legal conclusion of diligence, is (id. at p. 1097, emphasis in original.) 10 obstacle placed randomly before litigants seeking relief, but finality of decided cases and its interest in providing a reasonable avenue of relief for those whose rights have allegedly been (ibid.) deweese was advised that her pleas could have collateral consequences during her change of plea hearing in 2006. she did not ask any questions or request clarification at that time, and she told the court that she had not been promised anything in exchange for her plea. the statute under which she hired an attorney to pursue relief in 2011section 1203.4states that any subsequent conviction of the defendant for any other offense, the prior conviction may be pleaded and proved and shall have the same effect as if probation had not been granted or the ( 1203.4, subd. (a)(1).) according to her counsel, deweese did not meet with him to seek an explanation of that language. counsel represented to the court that deweese and her family consulted with three separate attorneys in 2013 regarding the collateral consequences of and potential relief from her 2006 plea. deweese did not actually pursue any relief, however, until she filed the present writ petition in 2015when she was charged with dui offenses for the third time in 10 years. the court was well within its discretion when it concluded that deweese did not demonstrate the diligence necessary to warrant writ relief. y appreciate[ ] this contention is representation to the superior court that three attorneys looked 11 into the issue at her request in 2013, when she also was charged with dui offenses. in any event, whether deweese fully appreciated the facts in a timely fashion is not the pertinent question; the important consideration is whether she knew or should have known the relevant facts substantially before filing the writ petition. moreover, even if deweese had presented her claims in a more timely fashion, the superior court would have been correct to deny the writ. the writ of error coram nobis -all by which those convicted may litigate and relitigate the propriety of their convictions ad infinitum. (kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1094.) ibid.lie to enable the cou (id. at p. 1093.) an incorrect belief regarding the consequences of (see people v. mcelwee (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 1348, 1352.) relief under the writ doeknowledge of the facts pleaded guilty or admitted alleged prior convictions because of ignorance or mistake as to the legal effect (kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1093.) facts that merely would have affected the willingness of a litigant to enter a plea, or would have encouraged or convinced him or her to make different strategic choices or seek a different disposition, are not facts that would have prevented rendition of (id. at p. 1103.) deweese thus failed to satisfy the other requirements necessary to warrant the issuance of a writ of error coram nobis. 12 disposition the order of the superior court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 