filed 7/25/16 p. v. white ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alfonso l. white, defendant and appellant. b267521 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma055259) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric p. harmon, judge. affirmed. julia j. spikes, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 defendant alfonso l. white pled no contest to burglary and attempting to dissuade a witness. he court imposed sentence, suspended his sentence, and placed him on probation. defendant later violated his probation, and the court then imposed the suspended sentence. pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wendecounsel filed an opening brief requesting that this court review the record to determine whether any arguable issue exists on appeal. we find no arguable issue and affirm. backround 1. events underlying defendants plea at the preliminary hearing, tyeisha mercer testified that defendant was her ex-boyfriend. on january 31, 2012, at approximately 9:30 p.m., she was home with her friends tyla ashe, dee, and mike, and her three children. (the record does not provide dee or mikes surname.) defendant door, ordering her four or five times to open it. mercer told defendant to leave. she called the police. defendant held a hammer and threatened to tth the hammer. , as they were leaving, defendant grabbed . defendant pulled mercer outside the house and dragged her on the ground. he dragged her through the grass and ripped her shirt, removing it. . he then continued to drag her. . mercer told defendant she was calling the police, and he grabbed . mercer ran to her . ashe testified that she heard defendant banging on the door and saw him holding a hammer. when mercer opened the door, defendant pulled her hair and dragged her outside the door. defendant hit mercer and tried to kick her in the face. defendant pushed ashe, who fell and hit her knee. ing. 2. defendant pled no contest to one count of burglary (pen. code,  459) and one count of attempting to dissuade a witness by preventing a report of victimization to law enforcement (pen. code,  136.1, subd. (b)(1)). defendant was ordered to serve six years eight months in 3 state prison. the sentence was suspended, and defendant was placed on five years of formal probation with several terms and conditions. 3. defendant violates probation and the suspended sentence is imposed defendant did not comply with his payment obligations or reporting obligations. he did not complete the required domestic violence program. defendant then stopped reporting to probation, and his whereabouts were unknown for one and a half years. the probation department reported that in may 2015, defendant was arrested for a assault with a deadly weapon, criminal threats, and threatening a victim with a weapon. according to the probation department, defendant pled guilty to a misdemeanor offense. defendant later admitted that he violated probation and had been arrested. he admitted that he failed to comply with other conditions of probation. the court imposed the suspended sentence. this appeal followed. discussion we appointed counsel to represent defendant. counsel identified no issues. we advised defendant that he had 30 days to submit a letter identifying any contentions, and defendant did not file a letter. we have examined the entire record. we are satisfied no arguable issue exists, and defenwende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, 441-443; see people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 123-124; smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 279-284.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 