filed 10/16/17 p. v. hart ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. taro hart, defendant and appellant. b267057 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa089117) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark e. windham, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. christine c. shaver, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction appellant taro hart appeals from a five year prison sentence following his conviction for grand theft of personal property. appellant contends his sentence, which was enhanced as a result of a prior conviction and prison term, was unauthorized because no evidence was submitted to prove the prior conviction. respondent concedes the sentence was unauthorized, and requests this court remand the matter for a new trial on the prior conviction allegations. for the reasons set forth below, we conclude that the sentence was unauthorized and that remand is the appropriate remedy. accordingly, we affirm the conviction, vacate the sentence, and remand for further proceedings. factual background and procedural history1 appellant and the victim, robert grahm, were friends and fellow musicians. appellant often visited grahm, and he liked to looupstairs master closet where grahm stored his watches and his gun collection. grahm had shown some of the gun cases and watches to appellant. on the evening of july 7, 2014, appellant brought nerses karagezyan to grahm as a potential investor in grstudio. while grahm and karagezyan were in the living room, appellant excused himself and went upstairs for approximately 15 minutes. throughout the evening, both appellant and karagezyan periodically left the living room. 1 as the facts of the underlying conviction are not relevant to the sole issue on appeal, we provide only a brief summary. 3 a few days later, grahm noticed that two watches and four guns were missing from his closet. after contacting appellant, grahm recovered one of the watches and one of the guns in a trashcan at a nearby drugstore. according to appellant, he had recovered the items from karleft them in the trashcan because he was scared appellant was unable to recover any of the other stolen items, so he told grahm to grahm filed a police report on the remaining missing property. video surveillance from security cameras installed o showed karagezyan holding the largest of on march 12, 2015, appellant and karagezyan were charged by amended information with grand theft of personal property, to wit, a watch, (pen. code,  487, subd. (a)),2 grand theft of a firearm ( 487, subd. (d)(2)), and first degree burglary ( 459). it was further alleged that appellant had suffered a prior ithin the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12) and a prior conviction resulting in a prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). a jury convicted appellant of the crime of grand theft of personal property. as to the remaining charges, the jury could not reach a verdict, and on the they were dismissed. on august 12, 2015, appellant agreed to waive his right to a jury trial on the prior conviction 2 karagezyan is not a party to this appeal. all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 4 allegations. the trial can set that trial. if you want to do that tomorrow week. otherwise put to permit defense counsel time to prepare a motion to on pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, the co trial to september 8, 2015. on september 8, the court granted on september 29, the matter was trailed until the next day. on september 30, 2015, the trial court asked defense counsel if there was any legal cause to delay sentencing, and counsel responded romero motion, the court denied it. the court then sentenced appellant to the middle term of two years in state prison on the grand theft count, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus one year for the prior prison term. no objection was raised to the lack of a trial on the prior conviction. appellant timely appealed. discussion people v. delgado (2008) 43 cal.4th 1059, 1065, citing people v. tenner (1993) 6 cal.4th 559, 566.) here, the people offered no evidence on the prior conviction, appellant did not admit the truth of the prior conviction allegations, and the trial court made no true findings. thus, it was not proven that appellant had suffered a or a prior conviction resulting in a prison term. accordingly, the sentencing enhancements, viz., doubling of the base term and adding one year, were unauthorized. 5 respondent requests this court vacate the sentence and remand for a new trial on the prior conviction allegations. appellant contends that no authority supports remand. as explained below, we conclude remand is the appropriate remedy. reversed, such reversal shall be deemed an order for a new trial, more specifically, it is well-established that wof the prior convictionsre capable of correction in a new trial, de the true findings and order a new trial on the challenged convictions and resentencing afterward. (people v. morton (1953) 41 cal.2d 536, 544.) doing ment, proportionate to their persistence in crime, of those who have proved immune to escaping the penalties imposed by those statutes through technical defects in pleadings or proof. it affords the defendant a fair hearing on the charge, and if it cannot be proved he will not id. at pp. 544-545.) the retrial of a prior conviction allegation in a noncapital case does not violate the double jeopardy protections of either the federal constitution or the california constitution. (people v. monge (1997) 16 cal.4th 826, 829 (monge).) as our supreme gender is at issue, the prior conviction trial merely determines a s continuing status, irrespective of the idit has not acquitted the defendant of his prior conviction status. [citatindant can of that status any 6 of being a certain age or sex or id. at p. 839, quoting durham v. state (ind. 1984) 464 n.e.2d 321, 324.) reallege and retry that status in as many successive cases as it is monge, supra, at p. 839.) nor is a retrial of prior conviction allegations barred by the constitutional requirement of fundamental fairness. (people v. barragan (2004) 32 cal.4th 236, 239 (barragan).) in barragan, a jury found true the allegation that the defendant had suffered a prior strike, but the court of appeal determined the evidence was was impermissible. (id. at p. 240.) the people filed a petition for review, and the supreme court granted it. (ibid.) in arguing against retrial, the defendant asserted that a new trial would violate the doctrine of fundamental fairness incorporated in the due process clauses of the federal and state constitutions because it would penalties id. at p. argument. o[e]ither a defendant has the requisite number of prior convictions, or he does not,a second proceeding at which the state has the opportunity to show those convictions is not unfair and will enhance the accuracy of the proceeding by ensuring that the determination is made on the basis of competent evidence. (barragan, at p. 245, quoting caspari v. bohlen (1994) 510 u.s. 383, 396, italics omitted.) numerous courts of appeal have authorized a new trial of prior conviction allegations where the evidence presented in the trial court was insufficient to support the true findings on the 7 allegations. (see, e.g., people v. marin (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1344, 1366 [reversing judgment as to true finding on strike allegation; allowing prosecutor to retry strike allegation on remand]; people v. roberts (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1106, 1133-1134 [same]; people v. valenzuela (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 316, 324 [same].) retrial on a prior conviction allegation also has people v. cheatham (1968) 263 cal.app.2d 458, 464.) appellant contends the cases permitting retrial of prior conviction allegations are inapposite, as here no trial was held. he cites no published decision -- and we have located none -- holding that under these circumstances, remanding for a trial on the prior conviction allegations is prohibited. more important, we discern no legal significance between the cases permitting retrial and the instant case. in those other cases, the people presented no evidence or insufficient evidence to prove the truth of the prior conviction allegations. nevertheless, our high court permitted the people to retry the prior conviction allegations. appellant does not suggest he was denied notice of the prior conviction allegations. nor did his counsel object when the sentence included enhancements based on those allegations. romero motion would have been irrelevant in the absence of a prior strike. this is simply a case in which the prosecutor, the defense counsel, and the court mistakenly thought a trial had been held on the prior and proceeded to sentencing. on these facts, we discern no basis for denying the people the opportunity to prove the allegations. to the extent appellant was denied the opportunity to challenge the truth of the prior conviction allegations, in a new trial on the 8 prior he will be accorded that right, along with all other constitutional rights to which he is entitled. disposition the conviction for grand theft of personal property is affirmed, the sentence is vacated, and the matter remanded to the trial court for further proceedings. on remand, the prosecution may elect to retry the prior conviction allegations. regardless of whether the prosecution elects to retry the allegations, the court shall resentence appellant. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. collins, j. 