filed 4/29/16 p. v. dominguez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mark albert dominguez, defendant and appellant. b267627 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va138898) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for the county of los angeles. yvonne t. sanchez, judge. affirmed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 this is an appeal from a motion to suppress evidence. court-appointed counsel for defendant mark albert dominguez independent review of the record under people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). we affirm the judgment. an information filed may 7, 2015, charged defendant with two felonies: possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)), and possession of ammunition ( 30305, subd. (a)(1)). the information also alleged defendant suffered two prior convictions for which he served prison terms. ( 667.5, subd. (b).) defendant pled not guilty, and filed a motion to suppress the evidence based on described the basis for the traffic stop during which the evidence was found (failure to stop at the limit line at an intersection (veh. code,  22450, subd. (a)); furtive movements and belligerence; the discovery of a firearm in plain view on the driver seat after defendant got out of the vehicle; live rounds found and magazine; and the later discovery, during an inventory search of the car, of a black suitcase containing 355 live rounds of .22 caliber ammunition. the court granted a pitchess1 motion and ordered two items of discovery to be provided to the defense. on october 8, 2015, the the evidence. defense counsel announced that the only issue being contested was deputy isidro villasenor, a patrol deputy with the los angeles county department, testified that on april 8, 2015, he was working in a marked patrol car in the city of whittier. he observed a small, compact car going southbound on crowndale avenue, just north of washington boulevard. when the car approached the stop sign at washington boulevard, the driver stopped beyond the limit line, a violation of the vehicle code. 1 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 3 deputy villasenor conducted a traffic stop, using the public address system on his patrol car to ask defendant to back up and pull over on the access road. on cross-examination, deputy villasenor testified that defendant complied with his directions to back up and pull over, but that subsequently defendant was very belligerent and uncooperative. defendant testified that he was pulled over before he reached washington knowledge committed no vehicle code violations. on cross-examination, defendant testified that when he was driving southbound on crowndale avenue the defense presented two other witnesses. sean bresach testified that he had a -testified that he and his sister were pulled out of the car, searched and placed in the back sister was arrested. (deputy villasenor remembered the incident with mr. bresach t he pulled the car over either because the vehicle tags were expired or the registered owner did not match the person who was driving, and then he saw some drug paraphernalia. . . either of them.) julian lugo testified that deputy villasenor falsely accused him of assault on a peace officer. this occurred when many police officers responded to a noise complaint lugo. they had a conversation, and as mr. lugo got 4 then deputy villasenor let mr. lugo walk back into the house. mr. lugo was arrested about 20 minutes later, and charged with assault on a peace officer. mr. lugo testified that deputy villasenor lied about the assault; mr. lugo later went to trial and was found not guilty. deputy villasenor testified to a different version of the events preceding mr. keeping us from doing our evidence presented in this matter, i find that the officer did have a reasonable suspicion that the defendant may have violated a particular section of the vehicle code and the stop defendant then changed his plea to no contest, in exchange for a term of two years eight months in state prison. he was advised of the maximum sentence and waived his constitutional jury trial rights. the court found the defendant voluntarily and intelligently waived his rights, and found there was a factual basis for the plea. the court denied probation, and sentenced defendant to two years in state prison (the midterm) on the firearm possession count, and eight months consecutive (one third the midterm) on the ammunition possession count. the court ordered credits for 101 days of actual custody plus 100 days of good time/work time credits. the court also ordered a restitution fine of $300; a parole revocation fine of $300, suspended; a court operations assessment of $40 per count; a criminal conviction assessment of $30 per count; and submission of a dna sample. defendant filed a timely appeal from the denial of his motion to suppress evidence. court-appointed counsel filed a wende brief requesting our independent review of the record. ing declaration states that he has written to defendant explaining his evaluation of the record on appeal; informed defendant of his right to file a supplemental brief within 30 days; and sent defendant the transcripts of the record on appeal and of copy of his wende brief. no brief or letter has been received from defendant. 5 we have reviewed the entire record in this case, fully described above, and have found no arguable issues. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109-110; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) the record shows no error in the denial of motion to suppress the evidence. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 