filed 9/7/16 p. v. lopez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose aristides lopez, defendant and appellant. b267082 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba393896) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, leslie a. swain, judge. affirmed. janyce keiko imata blair, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and abtin amir, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 a jury convicted appellant jose aristides lopez of first degree murder, and found the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); 186.22, subd. (b).)1 on appeal, lopez argues the trial court erred in giving aiding and abetting instructions during jury deliberations, in response to a jury question. we affirm. facts background a few years after immigrating to this country, brian dieguez was member of the harvard criminal clique of the mara salvatrucha criminal street gang, also known as ms-13. the harvard criminal clique of ms-13 and the hollywood locos clique of ms-13 have . dieguez and other ms-13 gang members when he became a member of the hollywood locos. dieguez knew ms-13 and the 18th street gang have been involved in a long, bitter rivalry for many years, and are ly and throughout central and south america. as explained by dieguez at trial, if he or another ms-13 gang member saw an 18th street gang member on the street, he wouldwithout saying anythingkill the 18th street gang member if he had a gun, or fight him if he was unarmed. the shooting during the afternoon of january 11, 2010, dieguez and two other ms-13 gang members, temper2 and listo, were drawing graffiti when a group from a rival gang drove up and insulted them, and the two groups exchanged gunfire.3 after the confrontation, dieguez, temper and listo went to a lopez and other ms-13 gang members. lopez told his fellow gang members that he knew the 1 all undesignated section references are to the penal code. 2 dieguez identified for the harvard criminals. 3 according to dieguez, listo had the gun that was fired for the harvard criminals; he did so at the direction of temper and dieguez. 3 location of a guy . . . emeaning l go 4 listo gave the gun he had to lopez. lopez, dieguez, and listo went to a bakery where the murder victim, william zambrana, worked as a security guard. when lopez and the other ms-13 gang members arrived at the bakery, dieguez saw a . dieguez decided to go inside to warn his friend that dieguez going to hit somebody right 5 as dieguez walked into the bakery to warn his friend, he saw lopez walking toward the parking lot area where zambrana was standing. at about 8:00 p.m. on january 11, 2010, zambrana was on security guard duty in a uniform in the parking lot in front of the bakery.6 just before the shooting, zambrana was facing away from the bakery when he got a feeling that he should turn around. when he turned around, he saw lopez walking towards him, about three feet away, and pointing a revolver at him with his finger on the trigger. zambrana knew try to stop lopez from shooting him, and grabbed hand. as the two men struggled, lopez tried to point the gun at ultimately, lopez fired a shot that struck zambrana in the arm. zambrana started 4 the previous day, lopez had gotten into an argument with a person outside the front of the bakery, and the murder victim, william zambrana, had asked lopez to calm down because his yelling could be heard inside the bakery. during the encounter, lopez security guard. zambrana was in his mid 40s; he had been a member of the 18th street gang when he was young man. although he had not been active in the gang for at least 20 years, he still had a visible 18th street gang tattoo on his pinky. 5 at trial, the prosecution showed a surveillance video of the inside of the bakery. the video showed a person walking up and saying something to a person in a white hat. dieguez identified himself as the person who spoke to the person in the white hat. 6 hearing. his pthe facts describing the shooting largely come from mony at the preliminary hearing. 4 to fall. lopez then fired a second shot that entered cord, rendering him quadriplegic. as noted above, zambrana died from complications of this gun after the shooting, lopez went the home of another ms-gang member, feris street gang at a bakery. further, lopez stated that he got the gun from listo. lopez said he knew the victim was a member of the 18th street gang because of a tattoo on his hand. at an ms-13 gang meeting the next day, calderon heard lopez announce that he shot a security guard from the 18th street gang the day before. lopez showed fellow members of the gang a .38 revolver that he said he had used to do the shooting.7 the criminal case in february 2013, the people filed an information jointly charging lopez and dieguez with murder. ( 187, subd. (a).) further, the information alleged as to lopez that he had personally discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), that a principal had discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)), and that the murder had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)). in september 2014, dieguez agreed to plead guilty to voluntary manslaughter with a 21 year sentence in exchange for his truthful testimony at trial against lopez and in three other cases in which he had not been accused. in summer 2015, the charge and allegations against lopez were tried to a jury, and the prosecution presented evidence establishing the facts summarized above. lopez did not present any defense evidence 7 record . when members of the ms-13 gang heard that calderon had testified at the preliminary hearing, they carved a ms-13 tattoo out of the skin on his hand while he was in custody. calderon was deported; he refused to return to the united states to testify for fear of reprisal from the ms-13 gang. 5 not be found credible because of the stress and excitement of the shooting, and that the as not credible in that they were looking out for themselves. initially, the trial court instructed the jury on first degree murder, second degree murder and voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. further, the court instructed on the allegation that lopez personally used and discharged a firearm causing death. verdict sheets were given to the jury accordingly. during the first day of deliberations, the court gave supplemental instructions on aiding and abetting, and allowed further argument on the issue of criminal liability as an aider and abettor. the supplemental instructions are discussed below. ultimately, the jury returned a verdict finding lopez guilty of willful, deliberate and premeditated murder, with a finding that the murder had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. the jury found the personal use of a firearm allegation not true. the trial court sentenced lopez to a term of 25 years to life on his first degree murder conviction. the court ordered the gang benefit finding stayed. discussion lopez contends the trial court erred in giving aiding and abetting instructions for the first time in response to a jury question during deliberations. we disagree. the trial circumstances the prosecutor argued to the jury that the evidence showed that lopez was the shooterthe ll obviously be if you believe h defense counsel argued proof beyond a reasonable doubt because of the stress of the shooting events, and that the other two gang member witnesses who implicated lopez, namely, dieguez and calderon, swhose testimony also should not be accepted. the trial court then instructed the jury on murder, including first and second degree murder, and voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. further, the court instructed on the allegation that lopez personally used and discharged a firearm causing death. the instructions did not cover the subject of criminal liability based on aiding and 6 abetting. at 2:45 p.m., on july 31, 2015, a friday, the court ordered the bailiff to take charge of the jury, and continued the proceedings to monday morning, august 3, 2015. the jury began deliberations at 9:40 a.m. on monday, august 3, 2015. at 2:10 p.m. that day, the jury submitted a note and the trial court informed the lawyers that the court had received a note from the jury asking the following question: if we believe that [appellant] was there and not the trigger can we still find the court solicited responses from the lawyers after hearing a series of exchanges between defense counsel (advocating that aiding and abetting instructions should not be given) and the prosecutor (advocating that aiding and abetting instructions should be given), the trial court ruled as follows: all right. i think under the circumstances it would be improper for the court to write back and say that the answer is no. rect statement of the law under the circumstances. the jury has invited the court to steer them on this matter and i believe that the correct way to do that would be to provide the jury instructions which the court would have given had this been requested or had the court considered [] but aiding and abetting. the trial court told much time as [he] prepare his argument and to argue the matter to the jury. the court granted trial day early to allow him time to prepare his argument on aiding and abetting the next day. the following day, the trial court instructed the jury on aiding and abetting using calcrim nos. 400 and 401, and the prosecutor and defense counsel argued for and against finding lopez guilty under an aiding and abetting theory of liability. the prosecutor pointed to evidence that implicated lopez as an aider and abettor, including encouraging ms-13 members to kill zambrana, then accompanying and supporting them during the commission of the crime. further, the prosecution reminded the jurors that 7 dieguez, a former codefendant, had pled guilty to aiding and abetting lopez in the shooting. defense counsel were unreliable, and that there was no credible evidence that lopez was present or participated in the shooting. the governing law under california criminal law pleading practice, a defendant may be convicted as an aider and abettwithout the accusatory pleading reciting the aiding and abetting theory so long as defendant is charged in the pleading as a principal to the substantive offense and thus receives notice of the charge against him. (people v. garrison (1989) 47 cal.3d 746, 776, fn. 12 (garrison), quoting people v. greenberg (1980) 111 cal.app.3d 181, 188.) this said, a defendant has a due process right to notice of the prosecution theory of a case, and not to be affirmatively misled or ambushed in preparing and presenting his or her defense. (people v. quiroz (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 65, 70-71 (quiroz).) notice of a new theory of criminal liability raised for the first time at . . . alerted to the theory by the evidence presented at the preliminary hearing . . . that theory before or during trial sufficiently in advance of closing argument . . . (quiroz, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at pp. 70-71, citing people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1024; people v. scott (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 707, 717; people v. crawford (1990) 224 cal.app.3d 1, 8-9, and similar cases.) in sheppard v. rees a rule of automatic reversalupon finding that a prosecutorambush trial tactics effectively denied [the defendant] quiroz, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at p. 71cases where a new theory is introduced late in the game for reasons other than prosecutorial gamesmanship, courts have employed a harmless error test. prevented [defense counsel] from arguing his or her defense to the jury or . . . substantially mislead [counsel] in formulating and presenting (quiroz, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at p. 71, quoting united states v. gaskins (9th cir. 1988) 849 f.2d 454, 458 (gaskins), and also 8 citing people v. bishop (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 220, 234 (bishop).) gaskins and bishop applied this test to evaluate whether supplemental instructions responding to jury notes (quiroz, at p. 71.) case here presents the same situation of supplemental jury instructions responding to a jury note, we too will apply the gaskins/bishop test. analysis lopez contends there was gaskins/bishop error in his case because denied the opportunity to prepare and to focus solely on the direct liability theory. in this vein, he postulates that the prosecutor planned to conceal his intent to prove an aiding and abetting theory of liability by arguing only a theory of direct liability until the last possible moment. we find no error for various reasons. the initial problem gaskins/bishop error argument is that it imparts to the prosecutor the prescience to have known that the jury would ask its question to the trial court, thus giving the prosecutor an opening to pursue new theory of aiding and abetting liability. if there had been no such jury question, then no aiding and abetting instructions would have been given. we cannot see how the prosecutor pursued a plan to spring an aiding and abetting theory at the last minute. further, if the prosecutor strategy that lopez sees, the prosecutor would also have had to predict correctly that the trial judge would decide to give the aiding and abetting instructions in response to such instructions. for these reasons, the only reasonable reading of the record must lead to the conclusion that the prosecutor presented a direct liability theory to the jury because he was convinced that lopez was the shooter and that the jury would agree, not that he was employing an ambush strategy to gain an advantage with a belatedly sprung new theory of criminal liability. 9 secondthat he did not have an . . . evidence in support of a defense against the aiding and abetting theory. plainly, the prosecutestablish that lopez was the shooter. but which may be seen to have necessarily deterred lopez from developing evidence showing that he had no involvement in the shooting at all, whether as the actual shooter or as an aider and abettor. indeed, the substance of the argument that lopez presented to the jury was that there was no credible evidence to support a finding that he was involved at all. we see no reason, could not have buttressed his defense theory with further evidence. plainly, lopez had an opportunity to develop evidence that would have worked against an aiding and abetting theory in the same manner as it would against the direct shooter theory. specifically the testimony of dieguez, showed that lopez suggested the shooting, and suggested the target. the motive and preparation develop evidence challenging testimony would have been different had an aiding and abetting theory been offered from the beginning of trialo conclude that the fact that the jury asked whether lopez could be liable for murder even in the event he was not the actual triggerman, standing alone, shows that lopez denied the opportunity to develop evidence challenging an aiding and abetting theory. this is particularly true in lopez argues his defense counsel reasonably chose not to drill down in his cross-of the lack of notice that alternative theory of liability here, lopez contends his defense counsel reasonably chose not to cross-examine dieguez about his testimony that lopez argument is that his defense strategythroughout the trial, including both before and after the supplemental aiding and abetting instructions and during both the pre and post supplemental instructions argumentswas only to urge the jury to question the 10 credibility of the gang witnesses against him. as we have said, the defense strategyfrom beginning to endwas consistently based on disproving any theory of liability, which would encompass aiding and abetting liability. thus, defense counsel would have had the same incentive to cross-examine dieguez irrespective of the supplemental instructions, and there is no showing in the record to support the argument that the supplemental instructions had a prejudicial effect on trial tactics or its implementation. after reviewing the record in its entirety, including the events that occurred during jury deliberations and thereafter, we are not persuaded that lopez was denied assistance of counsel, or that he was denied proper notice of, or a fair opportunity to respond to, his potential liability under an aiding and abetting theory. accordingly, we find the trial s on the new theory were proper. disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: flier, j. rubin, j. 