filed 1/11/17 p. v. perez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose miguel perez, defendant and appellant. b267648 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta132938) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded for resentencing. law offices of william j. kopeny, william j. kopeny; quinn law, stephane quinn, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendant and appellant jose miguel perez guilty of the attempted murder of jaime jauregui (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a)1), assault with a firearm on carmen gamez ( 245, subd. (a)(2)), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246). with respect to each offense, the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)); as to the attempted murder offense, the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally used and personally and intentionally discharged a handgun causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)); and as to the shooting at an occupied motor vehicle offense, the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the trial court sentenced defendant to 59 years, eight months to life in state prison. defendant contends the trial court erred in failing to instruct, sua sponte, on heat of passion; his due process rights were violated by the combination of the argument and a unanimity instruction; testimony from a police detective object to that police testimony was ineffective assistance of counsel; the trial court improperly restricted ufficient evidence supports a great bodily injury finding under section 12022.7, subdivision (a); and the amended information did not give him notice of the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) allegation as to the 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 shooting at an occupied motor vehicle offense.2 we asked the parties to submit letter briefs addressing whether the trial court: (1) should have imposed and stayed the term for the section 12022.7, subdivision (a) enhancement found true as to the attempted murder offense; (2) erroneously stayed the term on the assault with a firearm offense as the victim in that offense was different from the victim of the attempted murder; and (3) should have imposed and stayed the term for shooting at an occupied motor vehicle because a term was imposed on the attempted murder offense and the multiple victims exception to section 654 permits only one unstayed sentence per victim of all the violent crimes a defendant commits incidental to a single criminal intent (the verdict forms for both offenses identified jauregui as the victim). we hold that the trial court should have stayed the section attempted murder offense pursuant to section 654; the trial court a firearm offense pursuant to section 654; and the trial court should have shooting at an occupied motor vehicle offense. accordingly, we reverse resentencing; we otherwise affirm the judgment. 2 defendant also initially claimed insufficient evidence supports the jurwith respect to the shooting at an occupied motor vehicle offense. he concedes in his reply brief that sufficient evidence supports the finding. 4 background gisela martinez lived with her aunt and defendant, her cousin, at 2402 bliss avenue in los angeles county. between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on april 15, 2014, tood beside her van of the driveway. martinez looked over and saw defendant bent down next to a car, at some point, the to an occupant of the car e in the tone of the conversation caused martinez to walk toward the car. by the time martinez opened the gate at the end of the driveway, point, martinez heard a gunshot. martinez then saw defendant holding a gun in his hand. his arm was extended and he was pointing the gun at the driver. hearing the gunshot upset martinez, and she yelled up her pace and moved to a position between defendant and the driver. the driver appeared to martinez to be a hispanic man between 20 and 30 years old. his left elbow. martinez also saw a female in the car. she had the same complexion as the driver. the driver appeared to be in shock, and stared at defendant before speeding away. as martinez and defendant walked back toward the gate, defendant stopped, pointed a long barreled 5 revolver at the back of the car, and fired a shot. martinez did not know if the shot hit the car. aunt refused to allow martinez to use the phone, saying keys, and left in a blue suv. martinez also left, driving to the comptstation, she was redirected to the alameda station. recovered a .357 revolver from the car. there were four live particles of gunshot residue were found. between 9:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., on april 15, 2014, jauregui and gamez arrived by car at his stepmother alejandra moradriving. mora got in the car and drove jauregui and gamez to the hospital. during the drive to the hospital, gamez did not speak to mora. mora did not realize gamez was injured until as they arrived at the hospital. a video of the area outside of the hospital was played for the jury. the video showed gamez on her hands and knees in the front of the hospital. deputy sheriff oscar rodriguez responded to the hospital. there, rodriguez saw a vehicle just outside of the emergency room that appeared to have a gunshot to the rear window and blood inside. he also saw a male hispanic and a female hispanic gunshot victims. the male appeared to have a through-and-through gunshot wound to his left elbow and a gunshot wound to 6 his left chest. the female appeared to have a gunshot wound either above or below her elbow. she was bleeding, but rodriguez did not sshe had personally cleaned the wound. the female hysterical, and while at the hospital, rodriguez recovered bloody clothes. he turned the clothes over to another deputy sheriff who found a bullet fragment stuck to the blood on the clothes. another bullet fragment was recovered from the street at the scene of the shooting. both were examined and determined to have been fired from the .357 revolver recovered from defenda bullet fragment recovered from jauregui had a circumferential groove consistent with the fragment having been fired from a revolver, but the fragment could not be matched with the .357 revolver in this case. discussion i. heat of passion instruction defendant contends his convictions on all counts must be reversed because the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, with an instruction on heat of passion attempted voluntary manslaughter. because substantial evidence did not support such an instruction, the trial court did not err. a. background martinez testified she saw defendant speaking to someone in a car. she walked over to the car when there was a change in an occupant of 7 the carmartinez was referring to defendant. b. application of relevant principles crime with which the defendant is charged, but also on any lesser offense that is both included in the offense charged and shown by [citations.] any lesser offense unless there is substantial evidence to support [citation.] any evidethe greater, was committed. [citations.] [citation.] we review independently the question whether the court failed to (people v. castaneda (2011) 51 cal.4th 1292, 1327-1328; people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 1137-1139 [a trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on heat of passion theory of attempted voluntary manslaughter when supported by the evidence].) into two classes, the greater offense of murder and the lesser included offense of manslaughter. the distinguishing feature is that murder includes, but manslaughter lacks, the element of malice. killing of a human being . . 8 anslaughter is the unlawful killing of a human being people v. randle (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 994, overruled on another point in people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1201.) kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. [citation.] attempted murder requires express malice, that is, the assailant either desires the victims death, or knows to a substantial certainty that the victimpeople v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1217.) heat of passion has both objective and subjective components. objectively, the victims conduct must have been sufficiently provocative to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. [citation.] . . . [] . . . [] subjectively, the accused must be shown to have killed while under the actual influence of a strong passion induced by such provocation.people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 759; people v. williams (1988) 199 manslaughter under the heat of passion theory, both provocation based on the evidence adduced at trial, the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct on heat of passion. no evidence was presented to satisfy the first component of heat of passioni.e., provocative to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due people v. enraca, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 759.) the only evidence shooting was ? 9 no evidence was presented about response. because substantial evidence did not support a heat of passion instruction, the trial court did not err. (people v. houston, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1217; people v. enraca, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 759.) apparently also in support of his heat of passion argument, defendant cites the toledo doctrine (people v. toledo (1948) 85 cal.app.2d 577) which the california supreme court described introduced by the prosecution and which are irreconcilable with guilt, but this concept is applicable only where there is no other [citation.] (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 248.) the toledo doctrine has no application in this case. defendhis guilt. and the forensic bullet fragment evidence was other competent and substantial evidence of guilt. (ibid.) ii. the unanimity instruction a argument defendant argues his right to a unanimous verdict on counts 1 (attempted murder of jauregui) and 2 (assault with a firearm on gamez) was violated because, in argument to the jury, the prosecutor elected the act that constituted each crime but the court nonetheless instructed on unanimity thereby allowing the jury to use the act that the prosecutor relied on for the assault 10 offense to find him guilty of attempted murder, and vice versa. because the trial court did not instruct the jury with a unanimity a. background defendant does not provide record cites to those parts of are under no obligation to search the record for support of a claim on appeal (niko v. foreman (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 344, 368; people v. sanghera (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1567, 1574), it appears defendant relies on the following: in closing argument, the prosecutor said: of the firearm caused great bodily injury. now, this would work for either [jauregui] or [gamez], because both of them were shot. shooting him with the gun, but he was unsuccessful, but he hurt him greatly. that the defendant used a gun and hurt the female car with people in it. later, the prosecutor said, t point blank range at this man, how do we know that he really wanted to kill him? because after that, after seeing all of that enough for the defendant. he fired another shot at the car, a car that was taking off, that not only had that man in it but also had a young still later, the prosecutor said, 11 goes to count 1. couspecific intent to kill involved. how do we know that took place? sense really. right into the abdomen, right into the chest area of the male erywhere. that alone would be enough for an intent to kill. but how do we know that that that guy was going to get away? no. he fi b. application of relevant principles -standing rule where, as here, the people offer evidence of two distinct acts that could constitute a charged crime, is that the people must either elect a single act that constitutes the offense, or the jury must be informed that to convict, it must find the people have proven the first act beyond a reasonable doubt. [] . . . [] the problem in this case is that both the following occurred: (1) the prosecutor did clearly elect which act constituted which charged crime; and (2) the trial court still gave a unanimity instruction. [] . . . [] the result of giving with the fact that the prosecutor relied heavily on the second shot, which purportedly was not may have been, rendered this unanimity instruction hopelessly confus that the trial court instructed the jury with a unanimity instruction. as the attorney general points out and 12 defendant concedes in his reply brief3, the trial court did not give a unanimity instruction. accordingly, the jury could not have non-existent unanimity instruction. confronted with the flaw in his argumentthe absence of a unanimity instructiondefendant argues in his reply brief for conflated the maliciousness element of section 246 with the malice element of homicide. the elements of an attempted murder offense and shooting at an occupied vehicle offense are argument first raised in a reply brief, absent a showing why the argument could not have (people v. newton (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1000, 1005.) defendant has made no such showing. defendant next turns the argument he raised in his opening brief on its head and claims the error at trial was the failure one discrete act supported the attempted murder charge. this is problematic, especially since . . . the jury was not actually given again, we do not consider issues raised for the first time in the reply brief on appeal absent a 3 even though a unanimity instruction under calcrim no. 3500 is included in , the jury was not actually ended in mistrial after the jury was unable to reach a verdict, and not from the trial at issue in this appeal. 13 demonstrated justification. (people v. newton, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 1005.) iii. testimony defendant appears to contend the trial court improperly permitted los angeles police department detective marc boisvert testified the version of the shooting martinez provided the police matched the evidence he saw at the scene. because defendant appellate review of the issue. a. background in the prosecution case, on direct examination, boisvert testified: at the time you spoke with ms. martinez, had you been to the scene of 2402 bliss? at the timethe very first time that i spoke to her, i had not been at the scene. but then, during the interview, i had been at the scene. and she told you that there had been a shooting at 2402 bliss? yes. and when you went to the scene, did you see evidence consistent with that? i did. she told you that the shooting had taken place basically right by where she stayed at 2402 bliss? 14 yes. she explained it to me, saying she lived in the area of largo and bliss and that the incident had occurred staying at. when you went to the scene, was what she said verified by what you saw at the scene? yeah. when i went to the scene, everything was consistent with what she had told me, that there was a shooting that occurred directly outside the driveway where she hadwhere she was inside of her vehicle. when you spoke to her, did she tell you how many shots that had taken place? she did. what did she say? she stated two shots werehappened. when you went to the scene, and through further investigation, did that match up with the evidence that you saw? when i went to the scene, i seen [sic] one bullet matched up with her telling me it was a revolver, because there was no bullet casings at the scene but there was that one bullet fragment on the ground. so, again, it was consistent with the information that she was relaying to me or had relayed to me. [] q now, what did [martinez] tell you regarding who was inside the car? a [martinez] explained to me that there was a male individualunsure if he was white or hispanicthere was a female, and she was very nervous that there was possibly a baby because she had seen a car seat. 15 q now, when you investigated this further, was there a baby car seat in that car? a there was. q did she tell you, at the time that you interviewed her, that the male had been shot? a she did. what did she say? she stated that he had been shot in the elbow area. and later on, when you were able to see mr. jauregui, was he shot in the elbow area? he was. q to be clear, did she tell you if it was the left elbow or the right elbow? a yes. she would point to her left elbow, explaining to me the area where he was shot. [] . . . [] did she tell you if she saw a lot of blood? she explained the large blood pool in the street . . . . q did she tell you, other than that shot at the male, if any other shots were fired? a and then she explained to me a second shot was fired as the car was driving away. q did you later have an opportunity to look at that car to see if evidence on that car matched up with what she said? a yes. what did you see that matched up with what she said? i was able to see that, again, her statements were consistent with the vehicle evidence of a shota bullet hole in the rear window. 16 boisvert later testified: q despite the fact that you were not at the scene with ms. martinez, did what she tell youwhat she told you happened match up with the evidence that you saw at the scene? a yes, it did. b. application of relevant principles whether a witness is telling the truth, for the determination of credibility is not a subject sufficiently beyond common experience that the experts opinion would assist the trier of fact; in other words, the jury generally is as well equipped as the expert to people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 82 (coffman).) s particular statements is inadmissible and irrelevant on the issue people v. zambrano (2004) 124 cal.app.4th 228, 239, 21.) the failure to object and move to strike of claims concerning the admission of the testimony. (evid. code,  353, subd. (a); coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 81-82 [expert witness].) expert opinion on a specialized subject, i.e., the interpretation of a crime scene (evid. code,  801), or an improper opinion coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 82) is arguable. it certainly was not an outright opinion that martinez was telling the truth. rather, it was an assessment that the scene of the crime was consistent with the type of shooting described by martinez. (compare people v. torres 17 (199; people v. sergill (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 34, 39 [improper for officers to render an opinion about whether child was telling the truth].) nonetheless, defendant did not provide the trial court with an testimony or instruct the jury on the appropriate consideration of it because he did not, at any time, voice a concern that the testimony forfeited the appellate claim. iv. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant claims defense counsel was ineffective when he shooting martinez provided the police matched the evidence he saw at the scene. demonstrated prejudice. e reversed based on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel unless the defendant establishes both of the following: representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness; and (2) that there is a reasonable probability that, but for people v. foster t is not enough for the defendant to show that the errors had some conceivable effect on the outcome of the proceeding. . . . the defendant must show 18 unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217-218.) if the defendant fails to make a sufficient showing either of deficient performance or prejudice, the ineffective assistance claim fails. (people v. foster, supra, 111 cal.app.4th at p. 383.) ve was corroborating fact testimony, afailure to object to it was not prejudicial. (in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1079 [a reviewing court need not determine the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies. . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we ting strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697; people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 430-contention that his counsel were ineffective for failing to object, no prejudice says is backed up instead, the admission of is no reasonable probability that the jury would have acquitted defendant if the testimony had been excluded. (people v. ledesma, supra, 43 cal.3d at pp. 217-218.) absent that 19 testimony, the jury still cousin, testify that shot and saw defendant standing next to the car with a gun in his hand. his armed was extended and he was pointing the gun at jauregui. she further testified that when drove away, she saw defendant fire a shot at the car with a long barrel revolver. lver. bullet discovered at the crime scene and in bloody clothing retrieved from the hospital. shortly after the shooting, there was gunshot ound to his left elbow, just as explained by martinez. and, a pool of blood was found in the precise area martinez described as the location of the shooting. account of the events. even if defense counsel could have successfully excluded the above-referenced testimony of the detective, there is no reasonable probability the result of the trial would have been different. v. defendant argues ngs sustaining the violated his federal constitutional right to due process by interfering with his right to a fair trial and to present his defense. even assuming the trial court erroneously restricted 20 right to due process, any such error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. a. background excerpts argument: excerpt 1 seat, with his elbow on the door, and his arm hanging over the steering wheel. bjection. misstates the evidence, improper argument. your argument and demonstrations on facts that were presented excerpt 2 counsel]: the bullet fragment. [] . . . [] now, my client is accused of firing a second shot as the car sped away, and that second shot went through the back window, went through the headrest on the back t elbow, and then that bullet fragment somehow ended up in the bloody clothes. 21 excerpt 3 elbow, the shot into the chest, with no exit, and we have the fragment that was actually matched to the gun in the car, and window of the car that went through the headrest, and we had the nice picture with the yellow pole through it. okay. rear window, headrest. again, on that one, no exit wound. can come up. identified there was an entrance wound, and i asked him if he saw testimony fferent point and can say that the deputy testified, when he observed it, he saw 22 just an entrance wound, and you can draw a conclusion thatbut excerpt 4 counsel]: now, again, if we look at my no. 4, 5, and 6, is it reasonable that the shot that went through the back window, hit the headrest, also hit her in the left arm? did anybody testify that she wher left arm up? not in evidence, misstates evidence. air, so your demonstration might not be based on anything th excerpt 5 cinvestigation. he interviewed her for 17 minutes. he said he evidence. you saw ms. martinez. osecutor]: objection. misstates testimony. excerpt 6 counsel]: their biggest indication of my client being guilty is that, when he was pulled over in compton, a young hispanic man, he stuck his hands out the window. really? 23 nowdays excerpt 7 nthis will become important laterthat she was just stuck on the victim. you know, he was in shock. and for one minuteone minutea minute is a long timei looked at his face. time a time. experiments[] . . . []back there. want to encourage anyone t b. application of relevant principles justice is that partisan advocacy on both sides of a case will best promote the ultimate objective that the guilty be convicted and the innocent go free. in a criminal trial, which is in the end basically a factfinding process, no aspect of such advocacy could be more important than the opportunity finally to marshal the (herring v. n.y. (1975) 422 u.s. 853, 862.) doubt that closing argument for the defense is a basic element of the adversary factfinding process in a criminal trial. accordingly, it has universally been held that counsel for the defense has a right to make a closing summation to the jury, no matter how 24 strong the case for the prosecution may appear to the presiding id. at p. 858, fn. omitted.) nevertheless, it is the trial 4; people v. nails (1963) 214 cal.app.2d a violation of a under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24i.e., reversal is required in the case of the deprivation of due process rights unless the state can prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the error did not contribute to the verdict. (people v. zamora (1980) 28 cal.3d 88, 104, fn. 11.) even assuming federal right to due process, any such error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24.) we have previously addressed the issue of prejudice when considering whether defendant was deprived of his right to the effective assistance of counsel. the thrust of the analysis also applies here. as we pointed out, martinez provided an eye-witness account of many aspects of the first shooting and an eyewitness account of the entire second shooting and her version of the events was corroborated, with some precision, by other argument in its entirety, it is quite clear counsel was able to make his case that, because the prosecution team did not test certain blood found at the scene and martinez was not able to identify jauregui as a victim when she was shown a picture of him, defendant was not the shooter; rather he simply picked up the gun after it was used in the shooting. we are comfortable 25 holding any erroneous restriction of argument was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. vi. sufficiency of the evidence that defendant inflicted great bodily injury on gamez defendant contends insufficient evidence supports the z within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a).4 sufficient evidence supports the finding. evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) we ost favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 319.) in so ent the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the people v. kraft (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715.) 4 who personally inflicts great bodily injury on any person other than an accomplice in the commission of a felony or attempted felony shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of 26 the reasonabpeople v. ugalino inferences that the jury might have drawn from the people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357-358.) in determining reweigh the evidence, resolve conflicts in the evidence, draw inferences contrary to the verdict, or reevaluate the credibility of people v. little (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 766, 771, citing people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314.) we review a claim of insufficient evidence to support an enhancement finding under the same standard of review that we use for a claim of insufficient evidence to support a conviction. (people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 806.) section 12022.7 is to be applied broadly. (people v. sainz (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 565, 574.) section 12022.7, subdivision (f) defines great bodily injury pthe significant or substantial physical injury no specific requirement that the victim suffer permanent, or people v. escobar (1992) 3 cal.4th 740, 750.) great bodily injury is essentially a question of fact, not of law. bodily injury is a question of fact for the jury. [citation.] if there injury, we are bound to accept it, even though the circumstances ibid., fn. omitted.) 27 during the drive to the hospital, gamez did not speak to as they arrived at the hospital. a video was played for the jury that showed gamez on her hands and knees in the front of the hospital. rodriguez testified he saw gamez at the hospital and observed a gunshot wound either above or below her elbow. gamez was bleeding, but rodriguez did not see too much blood because gamez had g, a bit hysterical, and seemed a reasonable juror could conclude from the evidence that gamez suffered a gunshot wound that: bled and caused her to lose consciousness in the car on the way to the hospital; forced her to her hands and knees after getting out of the car at the hospital; and caused her to cry and become hysterical. we hold this type of gunshot wound constitutes great bodily injuryi.e., a significant or substantial physical injurywithin the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). defendant contends the evidence showed that gamez suffered a minor and not a great bodily injury. he bases his contention on evidence that gamez did not speak during the drive to the hospital and thus did not complain about her injury, she was alert enough at the hospital to speak with boisvert, and she cleaned up her wound herself even though she was in a hospital and could have obtained any needed assistance. defendant also notes the prosecution did not provide evidence that gamez had surgery on her elbow, was hospitalized, or suffered from pain or lasting ill effects. he characterizes as loved one who had sustained a bullet wound to the chest than 28 with someone who had suffered a minor injury that required no medical attention. and come to a conclusion different from the jury. that is not our role. as explained above, when addressing a sufficiency of the evidence claim, we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict (people v. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 715) and do not reweigh or resolve conflicts in the evidence or draw inferences contrary to thpeople v. little, supra, 115 cal.app.4th at p. 771). even if the facts might be reconciled determination because sufficient evidence supports it. (people v. escobar, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 750.) vii. notice of the firearm discharge allegation as to the shooting at an occupied motor vehicle charge in the amended information defendant argues the amended information did not give him notice the prosecution was alleging he personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death under section 12022.53, subdivision (d) in connection with the charged offense of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. the failure to give such notice was, he claims, a violation of his right to due process. because defendant did not object when the trial court informed the parties that it was modifying the verdict forms to include a section 12022.53, subdivision (d) allegation, he has forfeited this argument. 29 a. background as to count 3, the original and amended informations alleged a violation of section 12022.5, subdivision (a). neither alleged a violation of section 12022.53, subdivision (d) with respect to count 3. when the amended information was filed, the following discussion took place: [] . . . [] defendant waive formal reading of the amended information, statement of rights, enter a plea of not guilty, deny all special allegations? the only difference from the other information is that in count 2 a g.b.i. was also added. while the jury deliberated, the trial court discussed with the parties changes to the verdict forms as follows: with regard to the verdict forms, i know that probably going to have to do a couple of changes on there because i do note that, people, i think you had alleged a 12022.5 in count 2, but let me and count 3maybe not count 2, but in c think it applies, so i would grant the 1118 motion as to that. and the additional 12022.53(d) does apply to count 3. the next morning, the trial courtjudge eleanor hunter 30 judge ocampo stated he had been informed that the jury had reached a verdict and he intended to take the verdict if there was no objection. neither party objected, and judge ocampo then clarified the charges with the parties as follows: ]efore we bring in the jurors, i just want e same page as everyone. murder, with the special allegation under 12022.53(a) through (d); 12022.7, subsection (a). as to count 2, 245(a)(2); 12022.7, subsection (a), special allegation. and the count 3, the 246. it has 12022.53, subsection (d) and the 12022.7, subsection (a). is that correct? [the prosecutor]: yes. just want to make sure. that wayanything we need to take up beforehand? [the prosecutor]: no, your honor. [defense counsel]: no, your honor. the jury found defendant guilty on count 3 and found true the allegation that he personally discharged a firearm which caused great bodily injury to jauregui, within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d). b. application of relevant principles due process requires the prosecution to give a criminal defendant fair notice of sentence enhancements to allow the defendant to prepare a defense and avoid unfair surprise at trial. (people v. dixon (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 985, 1001.) however, it has been uniformly held that where an information is amended at trial to charge an additional offense, and the defendant neither 31 objects nor moves for a continuance, an objection based on lack of notice may not be raised on appeal. [citations.] there is no difference in principle between adding a new offense at trial by amending the information and adding the same charge by verdict forms and jury instructions. [citation.] the risk of unfair surprise to the defendant is the same in either case, as is the potential benefit to the defendant of affording the jury a wider range of verdict options. to prevent speculation on a favorable verdict, a reasonable and fair rule in both situations is that a failure to promptly object will be regarded as a consent to the new charge and a waiver of any objection based on lack of notice.(people v. toro (1989) 47 cal.3d 966, 976, fn. omitted, disapproved on another point in people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 568, fn. 3.) s that the amended information did not initially allege a section 12022.53, subdivision (d) enhancemshe argues, inter amendment, no o to object to the addition of the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) allegation to the verdict forms with respect to count 3 forfeited his challenge on appeal. (people v. toro, supra, 47 cal.3d at p. 976.) viii. section 654 we asked the parties to submit letter briefs addressing whether the trial court made certain sentencing errors under section 654, as set forth above. the parties agree, as do we, that: the trial court should have stayed the section 12022.7, subdivision (a) enhancement as to defendant 32 offense pursuant to section 654 because the trial court also imposed a section 12022.53, subdivision (d) enhancement as to that offense ( 12022.53, subd. (f); people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1129-1130); the trial court erroneously stayed the term on the assault with a firearm offense pursuant to section 654 because defendant inflicted injury on different victims in committing that offense and the attempted murder (people v. deloza (1998) 18 cal.4th 585, 592; people v. young (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 1299, 1311-1312); and the identification of jauregui as the victim of both shooting at an occupied motor vehicle and attempted murder required the trial court to impose and stay the term for shooting at an occupied motor vehicle because a term was imposed on the attempted murder offense and the multiple victims exception to section 654 permits only one unstayed sentence per victim of all the violent crimes a defendant commits incidental to a single criminal intent (people v. garcia (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1756, 1784-1785). accordingly, we reverse 33 disposition the matter is remanded for resentencing; the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. kumar, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. baker, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 