filed 10/18/17 p. v. brown ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. cameron brown, defendant and appellant. b267336 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba255206) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed as modified. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kathleen a. kenealy, acting attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 introduction in 2015, a jury found defendant and appellant cameron brown guilty of the first degree murder of his four-year-old daughter, lauren key. the jury found true the special circumstance allegations that the murder was intentional and carried out for financial gain, and that it was committed by means of lying in wait. brown had been tried twice before. the two previous proceedings resulted in mistrials due to deadlocked juries.1 on appeal, brown contends the third trial was barred by the prohibition against double jeopardy. he further argues the judgment must be reversed because of erroneous trial court evidentiary rulings, prosecutorial misconduct, and ineffective assistance of counsel. we strike the parole revocation fine but otherwise find no reversible error and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background we summarize the facts in accordance with the usual rules on appeal. (people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1263.) brown and sarah key met and began dating in november 1995.2 brown was a baggage handler for an airline. after around one month of dating, key-marer learned she was 1 at the first trial in 2006, the jury was divided with two jurors voting for manslaughter, two for first degree murder, and eight for second degree murder. as discussed in further detail below, at the second trial in 2009, the jury was again divided with votes for involuntary manslaughter, second degree murder, and first degree murder. 2 key married in 1997 and changed her name to sarah key-marer. for clarity, we hereinafter refer to her by her married name. 3 brown wanted key-marer to have an abortion. she refused. brown would not discuss the pregnancy. in february or march 1996, the two stopped seeing each other. key-marer, a british citizen, was working in the united states without authorization. in or around april 1996, brown told key-marer he had called immigration services to have her deported. brown told several friends and acquaintances about key-ortion. he also told several people he had tried or would try to have key-marer deported and he did not want to be responsible for the child. an acquaintance to pay child support. he wanted to know how he was going to get just wanted to be done with it in august 1996, key-marer gave birth to lauren key. key-marer did not contact brown and did not hear from him. key-marer feared that if she contacted brown he would try to get her fired. a human resources officer at her job had told her previously that the company received an anonymous telephone call accusing key-marer of stealing from the company. key-marer recognized the telephone numberit was for in april 1997, key-marer requested child support from brown february 1999, the family law court ordered brown to pay over $1,000 per month in child support. his wages were garnished. brown was upset at having to pay child support and dithe amount he was going to have to pay. 4 by july 1999, brown had neither met almost three-year-old lauren nor expressed interest in having any contact with her. however, around that time he filed for joint legal custody, visitation, and a reduction in his child support obligation. brown told a friend he had learned that to reduce his child support payments he should try to get visitation with lauren. in november 1999, brown began having supervised visits with lauren. brown told a work acquaintance that as long as he was -marer, or a . the two men commiserated about paying child support. around three times brown told this acquaintance, kidkids brown appeared to be serious. the acquaintance distinctly killing the mother, rarely do they talk about killing the kid. . . . nobody talks about getting rid of the kid. getting rid of the . . . . the acquaintance and rios to get rid of the when brown began visitation with lauren, key-marer told brown she wanted lauren to get to know . lauren visiting her. when brown and key-marer were dating, he told her he hated his parents. key-marer contacted 5 mother on her own and arranged for lauren to visit her. although and lauren appeared to develop a loving relationship, brown made negative comments about his and a liar. brown and key-marer argued because she asked him not to make such comments in front of lauren. the relationship between brown and key-marer grew more tense. in january 2000, a court temporarily stestimony that he was not working. in february 2000, key-marer spoke with brown about the possibility of her husband adopting lauren. key-marer told brown the adoption would relieve him of any further financial obligation for lauren. brown agreed. he later told key-marer he intended to move north with his girlfriend, patricia kaldis, and he wanted the adoption completed in one month. brown said if the adoption did not happen within a month it would not happen. around one month later, brown married kaldis. during a visit with , kaldis said she and brown were going to try to get full custody of lauren because key-marer had abused her. brown did not say anything or make eye contact with the friend. the friend found the situation odd. a few months later, brown called the friend and told him he and kaldis would be moving to utah. brown seemed happy and excited. he explained that key-adopt lauren so he would no longer have child support obligations. at the time, request for a reduction in child support was pending. key-marer response to the request included a declaration in which she stated brown showed little 6 interest in lauren, he did not have a good relationship with his parents, and brown had agreed that key-adopt lauren. in march 2000, the court reinstated the full child support amount based on documentation indicating brown was still earning $4,000 per month. after the hearing on the child support reduction request, brown angrily confronted key-marer in the courthouse hallway. brown told key-marer: s get you for this, and that she was just like his mother. key-marer was scared. brown told her not to speak to him. from that point on, brown no longer spoke to key-marer when he dropped lauren off after his visits. his demeanor toward key-marer was angry and aggressive. around this time, lauren told key-marer: lauren also told a family friend and babysitter: in june 2000, lauren began having overnight visits with brown and kaldis. on one occasion, kaldis arrived at key--marer asked where brown was, kaldis at some point, kaldis wrote brown a note, instructing him to ask for sole legal and physical custody of lauren. she wrote: 3 after overnight visits began, brown 3 the prosecution argued kaldis was too old to have children of her own and . the prosecution theory was that brown wanted the adoption to occur before he married kaldis, and he was angry about key-because, at that point, kaldis knew about the adoption and 7 accused key-marer of physically abusing lauren. the department of children and family services determined the abuse allegations were unfounded. in june 2000, brown again filed a request for a reduction in child support and a 50 percent custody timeshare. key-marer grew concerned for la-marer conveyed a message to brown from his mother, he responded . this caused key-marer e he was so abusive in his after unsupervised visits began with brown, key-marer noticed that lauren was more upset, anxious, and withdrawn around the time of the visits. lauren repeatedly told key-marer she did not want to go on the visits. an employee of the preschool lauren attended noticed that when brown arrived at the school to pick lauren up, she would hide behind the teachers. the employee observed brown tell lauren, o observed brown grabbing lauren by the hand or arm in a forceful way. the employee suggested to brown that pickup might go more smoothly if brown brought a toy or candy. brown responded that the employee was not mother and she should not tell him what to do.4 [kaldis] was going to agree to give up lauren and allow her to be 4 on cross-examination, this witness admitted she had previously told a detective there were times brown picked lauren up from school and everything was fine. 8 november 8, 2000 on november 8, 2000, brown picked lauren up from preschool for a regularly scheduled visit.5 lauren had cried all a short time after noon. he took lauren to a beach area in rancho palos verdes. when they arrived at a parking lot area, lauren was sitting in the front seat of the car and was not wearing a seat belt or any other safety restraint. the employee at the parking lot children the employee had seen who were excited to be at the beach. the employee wondered if lauren was being kidnapped. individuals in the area saw brown and lauren on trails leading to inspiration point. lauren was walking several feet behind brown. to one witness, lauren seemed tired and out of breath. she was dragging behind brown. witnesses testified they had never seen a child on the trails near or on inspiration point before; one indicated he himself had only hiked the point one witness recalled that 30 to 45 minutes after he saw brown and lauren on the trail, he heard a faint scream coming from the inspiration point area that he thought may have been the cry of a seagull. jeremy simmons was sitting on the beach when he heard brown calling out, asking if anyone had a cell phone. brown said his daughter had fallen or slipped off the cliff. brown seemed upset but not frantic. simmons let brown use his phone. 5 the internet browsing history from computers seized from suggested that while brown was picking lauren up from preschool on the day of the incident, kaldis was visiting websites regarding the custody rights of fathers. 9 simmons notas he called 911.6 simmons began to wonder whether brown was belongings. eventually, brown returned the phone and went back up the trail. firefighters and paramedics responded to the call. brown led them to lauren was lying on a picnic table near an archery range. although brown said he had been performing cpr on lauren, the responding fire captain did not see blood or biological material s facial hair. brown seemed dazed, calm, and detached. lauren was pronounced dead at the scene. on the night of the incident 1. statement to fire captain the fire captain asked brown what happened. brown said he was on inspiration point with lauren, she was throwing rocks, he turned around, and when he turned back she was gone. brown reported he yelled for help, then he looked over the cliff and saw lauren in the water. he left the point to find a phone to call 911. after making the call, brown took a trail out to the cliff and saw lauren in the water next to rocks. he picked her up, carried her to a picnic bench, started cpr, and waited for help. the fire captain noted brown did not appear upset. he had never seen a parent react in this way to the loss of a child. 6 on cross-examination, simmons testified that when he listened to the 911 call, he thought brown seemed less frantic in the recording than simmons remembered. the jury heard a recording of the 911 call. at one point during the call, brown told people nearby they might want to get dressedthe beach was a nude beachbecause emergency personnel would be arriving soon. 10 2. statements and lieutenant too asked brown what happened. brown told deputy jessica brothers when he and lauren arrived at the beach area, she played on swings at a playground for around 20 minutes, then they hiked toward inspiration point. brown reprimanded lauren for throwing rocks on the trail and going close to the edge of the cliff. when brown and lauren arrived at inspiration point around 15 minutes later, she was throwing rocks, brown did not see her go over the cliff. after finding a phone and calling 911, brown went to the other side of inspiration point, stripped to his underwear, and retrieved laurerocks, removed his wet underwear, and re-dressed. he then carried lauren over his shoulder to a picnic table and attempted brothers saw blood an richard erickson testified he asked brown to walk him to the scene and explain what happened. brown told erickson what he told brothers, with minor variations. brown told erickson that when he and lauren got to the top of inspiration point, he sat on a rock to rest while lauren continued to walk toward the edge of the cliff and began to play around, throwing rocks off the cliff. brown warned lauren to get away from the edge of the cliff. however, he turned his gaze away from her so she was out of sounded like loose gravel, and at that point he turned and noticed erickson found brown to be unusually calm as he recounted what happened. the only 11 emotion erickson observed was after their walk. brown sat on the picnic table, put his head in his hands, and let out a heavy sigh. as brown spoke to the deputies, his demeanor was matter of fact. brown volunteered that lauren had been enjoying herself. he tried to give deputy brothers a disposable camera with pictures he had taken that day. when media helicopters began flying overhead, brown said he did not want to be filmed. he asked that someone call his wife to let her know he would be late. he did not want kaldis to find out about what happened on television, but he did not express concern that key-marer might find out that way. brown did not attempt to approach body or say goodbye. he put his head in his hands two or three times and appeared to sob, but brothers saw no tears. brown complained about his boots being wet. he also asked brothers if she knew who had won the presidential election. 3. statement to detective leslie detective jeffrey leslie interviewed brown. at the scene, brown appeared indifferent. when leslie asked brown to go to the lomita police station, brown agreed but expressed concern that he would be seen by the media and that a surfboard on top of his car would be stolen if he left the car parked where it was. brown described the incident to leslie as follows. lauren played at the playground at abalone cove for around 20 minutes. then she wanted to go on a hike. lauren had so much energy that brown struggled to keep up with her. she led the way to inspiration point while brown followed. lauren went out to the end of inspiration point toward the ocean. 12 brown then gave three different versions of what happened next. first, brown said he and lauren were four feet from the edge of the cliff. brown was seated. as brown was looking to his left, he heard a nervous lauren was gone. she had been off to his right side. the second time, brown said he was looking off to his left, lauren was on his going over the cliff head first. he saw her feet going over. the third time, brown said he was pointing off to the left, he heard a nervous -oh,her arms going forward. he saw the left side of her body and back as she went over the edge of the cliff. brown displayed no emotion as he recounted the incident. brown told leslie he could not see lauren when he looked over the edge of the cliff, contradicting what he told the fire captain at the scene. he did not tell leslie he heard a slipping or sliding sound. he told leslie that after calling 911, he ran back up the west side of inspiration point, but the detective noted there were no physical indications brown had done so, such as cuts, abrasions, or scuff marks on his clothes. brown said he was running as hard as he could but was also watching his step. brown explained he took the time to remove his clothes before going into the water after lauren because he had seen it on baywatch, and he did not want to be cold or wet later on. he told leslie he performed cpr on lauren for around one minute, then removed his wet boxer shorts and put his dry clothes back on. he picked lauren up, placed her over his shoulder, ran back toward the archery range, placed her body on a table, and 13 she went off the cliff but he did not yell for help from the top of the cliff. when leslie asked why brown would take his four-year-old daughter to such a dangerous place, brown said interview was indifferent, unemotional, and matter of fact. leslie told brown he was responsible for his daughter; brown responded: out there. i just followed her. found it strange brown showed no emotion, brown said he was emotional earlier and had been unable to stop crying on the 911 call. however, leslie was struck at the lack of urgency in brown adamantly denied having any physical contact with lauren when she went over the cliff.7 scott simonson, called brown. when brown answered the phone, he addressed simonson by saying, casual words and tone of voice did not seem right to simonson. simonson expressed his condolences; brown responded: it . . . cliff . . . but, you kni seem upset or concerned about what had happened. 7 the interview was not recorded. leslie testified he and his partner felt pressed for time. e station and the detectives wished to get a statement. no video-recording facilities were available at the lomita station, thus leslie went forward with the interview without a recording device. 14 although key-marer repeatedly called brown to ask him what had happened, he never returned her calls or gave her any information about how lauren died. on one call, brown answered but acted as if he could not hear key-marer, repeating, -marer heard brown chuckling in the background. in january 2001, key-marer went to the parking lot at to her by law enforcement. key-marer pleaded with brown to tell her what happened on inspiration point. brown said he could not talk to her because his lawyer said he could not. as key-marer grew increasingly agitated, brown repeated that he could not talk to her, then he rode away on his motorcycle. brown subsequently made a false report to police, accusing key-marer of threatening to kill him during their interaction. additional evidence at trial the people offered evidence regarding on the day lauren died, brown had a total of $96.21 in his three checking accounts, negative credit activities, accounts that had gone to collection agencies, and three tax liens. kaldis also had past due debts and had been terminated from her employment.8 the people also offered the testimony of freda clifford, a woman who dated brown in 1986. clifford described brown as controlling, selfish, and manipulative. on one occasion, when brown was unhappy that clifford had gone to denver without him, she returned to find that brown had thrown her possessions over a cliff that was 20 yards away from the cabin where they were living. he once smashed damaging it. clifford was not present, but brown later admitted 8 kaldis had additional financial resources that were in her name only. 15 he had damaged her car. clifford was afraid of brown and ended the relationship soon after. brown never confronted clifford directly with any anger he had towards her; his approach was always indirect. testified about incidents in which brown displayed anger, such as when he made angry comments to his father, insulted a former girlfriend during an argument, and threatened to beat up a neighbor. prosecution witnesses testified lauren was generally obedient, cautious, careful in new and unfamiliar situations, and not adventurous. according to key-marer, lauren did not like walking and still rode in a stroller at four years old. during a church camping trip in august 2000, lauren refused to go hiking. a friend of key-marer testified lauren once got scared on a seven-foot play structure and would not come down. the witness also recalled lauren was afraid of the water and wanted to be held on walks to the park or around the mall, even at three and a half years old. after visiting believe lauren would have voluntarily gone there. key-marer likewise did not believe lauren would have initiated a hike to inspiration point. law enforcement investigation on november 9 and november 10, law enforcement officials returned to inspiration point to gather evidence and document the crime scene, including by rappelling over the cliff. they did not locate any blood, biological material, hairs, fibers, or points of impact on the side of the cliff. they also did not discover physical evidence of a person slipping and falling off the cliff, such as twigs rubbed off the hill, slide marks, slips marks, or vegetation or twigs disturbed by the edge of the cliff. they did 16 discover a set of impressions or depressions near the edge of the cliff, as discussed in greater detail below. prosecution expert opinions 1. berkowitz in march 2001, a group of experts and detectives returned to the scene, including pediatrician carol berkowitz, one of the examiner who performed the autopsy, and the then-coroner for los angeles county, dr. lakshmanan. berkowitz and two detectives hiked the route they believed brown and lauren took on the day of the incident. berkowitz, who had run marathons, found the approximately 50-minute hike to be strenuous. based on her education, professional experience, training, and experience of doing the hike, berkowitz found not credible claim that lauren led him on the hike at such a brisk pace that he could barely keep up. berkowitz opined that after 20 minutes of playing at the playground, most four-year-old children would be a little tired. though the child might go racing off on a hike, it would be difficult for her to sustain that level of energy on such rugged terrain. berkowitz further noted lauren had recently returned from overseas, introducing an element of jet lag, and she had been crying that morning, which would have affected her overall energy level. s determination was also based on the terrain and degrees of elevation. she opined challenging for a four year old. berkowitz concluded lauren would not have initiated the hike and, if she hiked for a short period of time, she would not have had the stamina or interest to complete the hike on her own. berkowitz opined lauren would have completed the hike 17 only with assistance, such as being carried or out of fear or coercion. 2. chinwah dr. chinwah testified regarding the injuries he found on ions, lacerations, extensive skull fracture, and neck dislocation.9 he concluded the cause of death was blunt force trauma. chinwah further opined and the circumstances surrounding the injuries. he testified the injuries were not consistent with slipping and sliding, but were chinwah admitted he was unable to make a determination as a result, he relied in part on his observations from his visit to the scene. he explained that if someone were to fall from the edge of some attempt to to rescue yourself from falling, and so you would be grabbing on the vegetation, and your clothes would probably be torn and so forth. but there was little or no injury on other partchinwah based this opinion on his observation of the contours of the cliff and the vegetation that was there. lauren had no such injuries and her clothes were clean. chinwah also did not see injuries consistent with multiple impacts on the cliff.10 9 10 on cross-examination, chinwah admitted his opinions were based in part on information he received from leslie and berkowitz, including that lauren had been crying the morning of 18 3. hayes the people offered the testimony of dr. wilson hayes, an expert in injury biomechanics. hayes described injury biomechanics as an understanding of how a fall might produce injuries. significant detail below. ultimately, hayes concluded laurenother factors in the case were consistent with lauren being thrown from the cliff, and were inconsistent with her slipping or tripping and falling. defense evidence defense witnesses testified brown was adventurous. he liked to be a leader in outdoor activities. btestified he was an accomplished outdoorsman who was not money oriented. brown also offered evidence that he had an easygoing personality . one friend testified he could not recall seeing brown angry or upset. the same friend testified he did not know brown to be driven by a desire for money or concerned with making a lot of money. brown also adduced evidence that he appeared to have a loving relationship with lauren. defense witnesses testified brown appeared to be happy about getting partial custody of lauren, he appeared happy and proud to have a daughter, and he the incident, that she was on the hike only reluctantly, and that the hike was difficult even for berkowitz. chinwah also admitted his observations from the visit to the scene included the finally got tlooked like a god-forsaken place, you know, to take a little child, even to on top of the place. it was very scary. it was scary for 19 also seemed upset about her death. one witness testified he spoke with brown after the incident. brown did not look happy. his eybrown told this witness lauren had fallen off a cliff and was killed. brown as he spoke. . lauren ran to the water at the beach, jumped on beds, and once ran across a busy bike path, nearly getting hit by a bicycle. distances on the beach and rarely demanded to be carried. mother said lauren and brown were affectionate with one another. it seemed that brown took pride in being a father. brown appeared to be genuinely concerned that lauren was being abused. brown and his mother argued because while she was making an effort to see lauren, a family court order prevented brown from seeing lauren. further testified that she had a good relationship with brown when he was growing up and they continued to have a strong and close bond. she recalled that both brown and key-marer said negative things about the told both of them to stop. a family court mediator testified brown never told her he was not interested in forming a relationship with lauren. instead he said he wanted to have more time with lauren. emotional demeanor when with the mediator varied 20 e also sometimes had a 11 brown also offered testimony of three witnesses who saw him with lauren on the day of the incident. one witness saw them hiking and thought lauren looked happy. one recalled seeing lauren walking a few steps ahead of brown. a third witness saw lauren and brown on a bluff as lauren ran back and forth to the edge of the bluff and threw rocks over the edge. to this witness, lauren appeared to be smiling and happy; brown looked relaxed. later, the same witness saw lauren crawling up a narrow strip to inspiration point, 10 to 15 feet ahead of brown. the witness did not hear lauren scream, cry, or complain, nor did he see brown push, pull, or force lauren along.12 defense witnesses also testified that detectives investigating the case seemed biased against brown. one witness testified the two detectives told him they were going to . another 11 on cross-examination, the mediator testified she had not want lauren to have a relationship with his mother. 12 on cross-examination, the witness testified lauren appeared to struggle along the trail to inspiration point. brown was three feet behind her. the witness found it odd the two were not dressed for hiking. as lauren crawled up the trail, brown girl, good girl. until the witness saw brown and lauren, he thought someone was talking to a dog. 21 defense expert testimony 1. siegmund brown offered the testimony of dr. gunter siegmund, a mechanical engineer and expert in biomechanics. we discuss this testimony in detail below. ultimately, siegmund opined possible loose soil slope at the top of the cliff, or overstepping after evidence to suggest one explanation was more likely than the other. he could not discern, based on the physical evidence, whether lauren was thrown or fell. 2. booker according to trauma specialist dr. post-traumatic psychological shock. booker explained a component of psychological shock is having a difficult time recalling specific details. a person who has experienced psychological shock may exhibit unconventional behavior. such unconventional behavior could include the absence of any expressed overt emotion, detachment, and inappropriate affect. booker opinetone of voice and statements during the 911 call were consistent with the behavior of a person who has experienced psychological shock. verdict the jury found brown guilty of first degree murder (pen. code,  187) and found true the special circumstances that 1) the murder was intentional and carried out for financial gain (pen. code,  190.2, subd. (a)(1)) and 2) that brown intentionally killed lauren by means of lying in wait (pen. code,  190.2, subd. 22 (a)(15)). brown was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole. i. double jeopardy did not bar a third trial on first degree murder brown contends the california constitutional prohibition against double jeopardy barred his retrial for first degree murder. brown asserts the trial court failed to give the deadlocked jury an opportunity to enter a partial acquittal on first degree murder at the 2009 trial. we disagree. a. background second trial took place between july and september 2009. on september 23, 2009, the jury sent the court a note stating: we, the jury, unanimously feel further deliberations will not change us from a non-unanimous verdict. the court summoned the jurors and asked the foreperson: before, i believe, the jury indicated to the court that it was deadlocked. juror 7, as foreperson of the jury, is there a answered: the court asked if further instructions, argument, or anything else might assist the jury to arrive at a verdict. the foreperson indicated the jury was hopelessly deadlocked. the court then asked: reasonable probability that with further deliberations, this jury could reach a verdict on any count or charge in foreperson answered: a similar question of each juror individually. each juror indicated the jury was, in fact, hopelessly deadlocked. the court and the foreperson then had the following colloquy: 23 jit, there is a split of votes? juror no. 7: yes. court: there are various permutations in this case. juror no. 7: yes. court: i want some numbers. juror no. 7: yes. court: attached to any tag. juror no. 7: okay. court: are there two numbers, three numbers, four numbers in terms of the split, in terms of which way individual jurors are voting, if you can understand what juror no. 7: court: all right. the jury has the option of finding the defendant guilty of murder in the first degree, murder in the second degree, involuntary manslaughter, or not guilty of all charges. juror no. 7: right. court: has the jury taken votes on all those permutations? juror no. 7: yes, they have. court: are there numbers which designate one or more splits? there are 12 members of the jury. juror no. 7: yes. court: the jury is divided? juror no. 7: yes. court: there are certain jurors who have one opinion, others who have a different opinion. juror no. 7: yes. court: are there more than two opinions? are there three? are there four? juror no. 7: there are two opinions. court: okay. so we are talking about two numbers? juror no. 7: yes. 24 court: now, do those two numbers relate to degrees of murder, or murder versus involuntary manslaughter, versus not guilty? juror no. 7: they relate to murder versus involuntary manslaughter. court: without telling me the particular numbers, do the two numbers add up to 12? juror no. [7]: yes. court: give me one number. juror no. 7: six. court: and the other number? juror no. 7: six. court: may i see counsel. the court asked counsel if they believed it should make any additional inquiries of the jurors. defense counsel argued the court had to inquire whether the jury had reached a verdict on first degree murder. the court responded: they were given a caljic jury instruction which talks about unanimity issues, and it appears as though they are deadlocked. they understand the distinction, and they are told in the jury instruction that they can make a decision on first. and when they do, then they go to discussion with counsel, the court stated it would ask if the jurors had reached a unanimous decision on any charged or lesser included crime in the case. the following colloquy ensued: juror 7, i want to clarify in my own mind, in a very cautious way, has the jury reached a unanimous verdict on any charged crime or lesser included crime in this case? juror no. 7: no. court: and the jury understands that if the jury were to vote and find that the pt proven beyond reasonable doubt that mr. brown committed first degree 25 murder, they should vote to find him not guilty of that, then they go to any lesser charge. juror no. 7: s correct. court: you are familiar with that procedure? juror no. 7: i am familiar. court: so with regard to either the charged crime of murder in the first degree or the lesser included crimes of murder in the second degree and involuntary manslaughter, is there any unanimous decision? juror no. 7: there is not. court: is that a correct statement of the other members of the jury? the jurors: yes. court: (italics added.) at that point, the trial court declared a mistrial. however, the court then asked the foreperson additional questions: juror 7, the six/six split, are the six that you mentioned all for one crime charged or lesser? juror no. 7: i dont understand. court: you gave me two numbers. juror no. 7: yes. court: the first number six stands for what verdict? juror no. 7: murder in the second degree. court: and the second figure of six stands for? juror no. 7: involuntary manslaughter. court: did the jury reach any verdict as to the charged crime of murder in the first degree, or is the jury deadlocked on that? juror no. 7: no. the jury was not deadlocked on that. court: then i am confused. 26 juror no. 7: okay. court: the court told counsel it now did not know if there was an acquittal on first degree murder or whether there was just a split vote, but indicated it did not believe it had jurisdiction to discuss the issue with the jurors any further. the prosecutor agreed. defense counsel argued the court could inquire and poll the jury as to whether they acquitted brown of first degree murder. still, defense counsel agreed that once a mistrial is declared, the court had no further jurisdiction. the court then concluded: jurors, including the foreperson, agreed that there was no unanimous decision as to any charged or lesser included crime. there certainly are cases where there is just that type of bargaining that goes on with the jury. that may be the case. but i made inquiry, and i declared a mistrial. that is the current state of affairs. so in december 2009, brown filed a motion seeking either entry of a judgment of acquittal of the first degree murder charge or an order dismissing the charge in the interests of justice. brown argued the jury expressed its intent to acquit him of first degree murder, thus the prohibition against double jeopardy barred retrial for first degree murder. in opposition to the motion, the prosecutor offered declarations from seven jurors, each of whom stated: count of votes for the jury before the mistrial was declared was five jurors voting for involuntary manslaughter, six jurors voting for second-degree murder, and one juror voting for first-degree he made a mistake when he told the court the final vote tally was six jurors 27 for involuntary manslaughter and six jurors for second degree murder. the trial court denied motion. in its ruling, the court explained that, with or without the juror declarations, it would conclude no verdict was reached and there was no unanimous verdict on first degree murder. brown challenges this ruling. b. applicable legal principles the federal and california constitutions provide a guarantee against double jeopardy. these guarantees protect a defendants interest in not being subjected to successive prosecutions for the same offense. (people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 824 (marshall).when a jury indicates it is unable to reach a verdict, double jeopardy rules bar retrial unless the defendant consents to the discharge of the jury [citation], or the trial court determines further deliberations are not reasonably likely to result in a verdict ( 1140), in which case legal necessity exists for a declaration of mistrial (id. at p. 825.) in stone v. superior court (1982) 31 cal.3d 503 (stone), the california supreme court obligated to afford the jury an opportunity to render a partial verdict of acquittal on a greater offense when the jury is deadlocked only on an uncharged lesser included offense. failure to do so will cause a subsequently declared mistrial to be without id. at p. 519.) the court then suggested two procedures a court may use to meet the requirements of the rule: offense and on an uncharged lesser included offense, one appropriate course of action would be to provide the jury with 28 forms for a verdict of guilty or not guilty as to each offense. the jury must be cautioned, of course, that it should first decide whether the defendant is guilty of the greater offense before considering the lesser offense, and that if it finds the defendant guilty of the greater offense, or if it is unable to agree on that offense, it should not return a verdict on the lesser offense. [] alternatively, the court may decide to wait and see whether the jury is unable to reach a verdict; if it is, the court should then inquire whether the jury has been able to eliminate any offense. if the jury declares itself hopelessly deadlocked on the lesser offense yet unanimous for acquittal on the greater offense, and the court is satisfied that the jury is not merely expressing a tentative vote but has completed its deliberations, the court must stone, supra, 31 cal.3d at pp. 519-520.) in marshall, the court reiterated that the ruling in stone is limited to when the jury is deadlocked only on an uncharged on an uncharged lesser included offense, the suggested procedures in stone do not come into play. if the jury, in announcing apparent deadlock, gives such an indication, or if counsel so requests, the trial court, under stone, should inquire further and determine whether any offenses c(marshall, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 826.) thus, in marshall, a case involving murder charges, the jury informed the trial court it was deadlocked, with seven jurors voting to acquit and five to convict. when the jury indicated it could not overcome the deadlock, the court declared a mistrial. the court did not inquire whether the jury was able to reach a partial verdict of acquittal on any of the charged offenses and the 29 marshall, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 824.) they had agreed to acquit defendant of first degree murder and mistrial was a matter of legal necessity.13 (id. at pp. 826-827.) in people v. mcdougal (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 571 (mcdougal), the defendant was charged with murder, among other crimes. the jury was provided verdict forms for each count, including forms for any lesser crimes included in the charged crimes. the trial court also instructed the jury with caljic no. 8.75, which informed the jury it was to first decide if the defendant was guilty of the crime charged in each count; it could determine the defenda-included crime only if the jurors unanimously agreed he was not guilty of the greater crime; and if they unanimously determined the defendant was not guilty of the greater crime, they were to sign and return the verdict form so stating. (id. at pp. 574-575.) when the jury reported it was deadlocked in an even split on the murder count and six to five on attempted murder, the trial court declared a mistrial and rejected that it question jurors on 13 people v. chaney (1988) 202 cal.app.3d 1109 (chaney), [e]vidence of an actual implied acquittal is unnecessary to take a declaration of mistrial outside the concept of legal necessity; it is enough if the trial court fails to afford the deadlocked jury with an opportunity to render a partial verdict of acquittal. (marshall, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 826, citing chaney, supra, at p. 1122chaney is therefore misplaced. 30 whether there were any acquittals or whether the jury had been unable to agree only on the degree of murder. (id. at p. 576.) motion to dismiss on double jeopardy grounds, based on the first if the jury acquitted the defendant of the greater offenses. the court of appeal concluded the dismissal was error. the court noted stone set forth two alternative procedures, one in which the trial court provides the jury with verdict forms of guilty or not guilty as to each offense and instructs the jurors to first decide whether the defendant is guilty of the greater offense before considering the lesser offense. (mcdougal, supra, 109 cal.app.4th at p. 578.) the first trial judge in mcdougal followed this alternative. the court reasoned that since the jury did not sign and return a verdict form reflecting the jurors had reached a unanimous verdict of not instructions given to them, the inescapable conclusion is that (ibid.) court must question the jury about its findings in any case in which counsel asks for that procedure. instead, reviewing stone and marshall, the court concluded: been given verdict forms on the greater and lesser included offenses, and they have been instructed that they must return a verdict of acquittal on a greater offense if they unanimously find the defendant not guilty of the greater offense before they decide whether the defendant is guilty of the lesser included offense, the s failure to return any verdict form establishes that the jury did not acquit the defendant of the greater offense. to require 31 the court nonetheless to question the jury further would be pointless, at least in the absence of evidence indicating some mcdougal, supra, 109 cal.app.4th at pp. 579580.) c. discussion s essential argument is the trial court erred in failing to reconvene the jury to determine whether there was a partial acquittal. we find no error. 1. the court properly followed the stone procedures as in mcdougal, the court in this case followed the first stone alternative.14 14 the court instructed the jury: forms for the charged crime of murder in the first degree and for the lesser included crimes thereto. murder in the second degree is a lesser included crime to that of murder in the first degree. involuntary manslaughter is a lesser included crime to that of murder in the second degree. thus, you are to determine whether the defendant is guilty or not guilty of murder in the first degree or of any lesser included crime thereto. . . . [] before you return any final or formal verdict or verdicts, you must be guided by the following: [] . . . [] 2. if you are unable to reach a unanimous verdict as to the charged crime of murder in the first degree, do not sign any verdict forms, and you should report to the court your disagreement. [] . . . [] 4. the court cannot accept a verdict of guilty of the lesser included crime of murder in the second degree unless the jury also unanimously finds and returns a signed verdict form of not guilty as to the charged crime in the first degree. 32 in light of these instructions, as in mcdougal, the the jury was unable to reach a unanimous verdict on first degree murder. further, while the trial court was not required to also question the jurythe second stone alternativeit did so, and the overwhelming majority of that questioning similarly led to the conclusion that the jury was unable to reach a unanimous 5. if you unanimously find the defendant not guilty of the crime of murder in the first degree but you cannot reach a unanimous agreement as to the lesser included crime of murder in the second degree, your foreperson should sign and date the not guilty of murder in the first degree form, and you should report to the court your disagreement. do not sign any other verdict forms. 6. if you unanimously find the defendant not guilty of the crime of murder in the first degree but guilty of the crime of murder in the second degree, your foreperson should sign and date the corresponding verdict forms. do not sign any other verdict forms. 7. the court cannot accept a verdict of guilty of the lesser included crime of involuntary manslaughter unless the jury also unanimously finds and returns signed not guilty verdict forms as to both the charged crime of murder in the first degree and the lesser included crime of murder in the second degree. 8. if you unanimously find the defendant not guilty of the crime of murder in the first degree and not guilty of the crime of murder in the second degree, but you are unable to agree unanimously as to the lesser included crime of involuntary manslaughter, your foreperson should sign and date the not guilty verdict forms as to both the charged crime of murder in the first degree and the lesser included crime of murder in the second 33 verdict on any charged or uncharged crime, including first degree murder. with stone issues in mind, the trial court specifically asked the foreperson if the jury had reached a unanimous verdict the foreperson answered that it had not. the court then confirmed brown committed first degree murder, they should vote to find him not guilty of that, then they go foreperson indicated the jury understood this procedure and again answered there was no unanimous decision on first degree murder, second degree murder, or involuntary manslaughter. the jurors collectively affirmed that the forwas correct. on this record, there was no hint or other indication that the jury required further opportunity to render a partial verdict. the court had instructed the jury to return a not guilty verdict on first degree murder if the jurors unanimously agreed the people did not prove the charge. the jury did not return this verdict. then, following proper questioning by the trial court, the jurors again stated they had not reached a unanimous verdict on any charged or uncharged crime. at that point, legal necessity existed for declaration of a mistrial. 2. the trial court did not err in failing to reconvene the jury brown contends the trial court erred in concluding it had no jurisdiction to inquire further when, after the court had declared a mistrial, the foreperson said the jury was not deadlocked on first degree murder. we agree that the trial court 34 did not lose jurisdiction and could have made further inquiry of the jurors, but find no prejudicial error. if the verdict is incomplete or otherwise irregular, the court retains jurisdiction to reconvene the jury if the people v. kimbell a]ny error in the verdict may be corrected by reconvening the jury, as long as the jurors have not lost their character as jurors by, for example, discharge or receiving information inadmissible in the relevant phase of the people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1208.) there was no verdict in this case, complete or incomplete, court could have reconvened the jury to make further inquiries. however, we disagree that the court was required to reconvene the jury under the circumstances of this case. the court had already conducted a thorough inquiry of the entire jury, in which all of the jurors agreed they had not reached a unanimous decision on any crime at issue, including first degree murder. tcourt engage in additional inquiry. we find instructive people v. griffin (1967) 66 cal.2d 459 (griffin), a case the stone court distinguished but did not reject. in griffin, the defendant was charged with first degree murder. a first conviction was reversed on appeal. the jury at a second trial could not reach a unanimous verdict and the trial court declared a mistrial. y was discharged, the foreman disclosed in open court that the jurors had stood 10 for acquittal griffin, at p. 464.) 35 the defendant argued these facts established an implied acquittal of first degree murder, thus the third trial that subsequently ensued placed him twice in jeopardy of first degree murder. the griffin court rejected the argument, noting the defendant did not deny the jury was properly discharged pursuant to penal code section 1140.15 the court further reasoned: s statement that the jury had unanimously agreed to acquit of first degree murder. there is no reliable basis in fact for such an implication, for the jurors had not completed their deliberations and those voting for second degree murder may have been temporarily compromising griffin, supra, 66 cal.2d at p. 464.) here, the jury did not clearly favor acquittal on first degree murder; instead the opposite was true. as in griffin, in this case there was no reliable basis for the trial court to suspect the jury had a final intent to acquit brown of first degree murder. a mistrial contradicted the statements of the entire jury made only moments before. acquit brown of first degree murder, since the jury had already collectively indicated it had not reached a unanimous decision on first degree murder. thus, as in griffin, the trial court properly 15 penal code section 1140 provides: except as provided by law, the jury cannot be discharged after the cause is submitted to them until they have agreed upon their verdict and rendered it in open court, unless by consent of both parties, entered upon the minutes, or unless, at the expiration of such time as the court may deem proper, it satisfactorily appears that there is no reasonable probability that the jury can agree. 36 the court had declared a mistrial, the court still had no reliable basis to suspect the jury had come to a unanimous decision of not guilty as to first degree murder. 3. the juror affidavits are admissible and confirm there was no unanimous agreement to acquit on first degree murder moreover, the affidavits of several jurors provided in opposition to dismissal motion collective statement, made prior to the mistrial declaration, that there was no unanimous decision on any crime. winadmissible. under evidence code section 1150, subdivision (a), only certain facts may be proved to impeach a verdict. as our high court explained in people v. hutchinson (1969) 71 cal.2d overt conduct, conditions, events, and statements . . . . this limitation prevents one juror from upsetting a verdict of the processes or reasons for assent or dissent. the only improper influences that may be proved under section 1150 to impeach a verdict, therefore, [are] those open to sight, hearing, and the other senses and thus subject to corroboration. . . . admission of jurors affidavits within the limits set by section 1150 protects the stability of verdicts, and allows proof by the best evidence of misconduct on the part of either jurors or third parties that should be exposed, misconduct upon which no verdict should be id. at pp. 349350.) 37 assuming evidence code section 1150 applies to this situation, the affidavits offered in this case do not run afoul of the rule.16 the affidavits referred only to the final vote reached by the jurorsfive voting for voluntary manslaughter, five voting for second degree murder, and one juror voting for first degree murder. the jurors did not make statements regarding mistaken beliefs or other reasoning processes of the individual juror, which can be neither corroborated nor disproved . . . . people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1261.) thus, the jurors affidavits did not violate limitations on proof. (cf. chaney, supra, 202 cal.app.3d at p. 1121 [juror declaration, that she personally believed defendant was guilty of first degree murder but voted for lesser included offense in an effort to reach a verdict, was thought processes, not the nature and course of jury deliberations].) based on the unequivocal indications the jurors collectively made before the trial court declared a mistrial, and the affidavits confirming the validity of those statements made at trial indicating no unanimous decision had been reached on any charged or uncharged crime, we conclude that even if the trial 16 we note section 1150 is concerned with the stability of verdicts and limitations on how verdicts may be impeached. although this case involves juror affidavits, there was no verdict. further, the juror affidavits were offered not to impeach the ultimate conclusion the jurors reached and collectively stated in courtthat they had not reached a unanimous decision on any charged or uncharged crime. instead, the affidavits affirmed that ultimate conclusion. 38 court could have reconvened unclear statement, it did not err by failing to do so. the trial court followed both stone procedures and allowed the jury ample opportunity to enter a partial acquittal. the jury clearly indicated it could not eliminate any offensestatement following the declaration of mistrial did not, under the circumstances of this case, trigger a requirement that the trial court reconvene the jury and engage in another round of stone inquiry. finally, wour decision should be informed by people v. aranda (2013) 219 cal.app.4th 764 [superseded by grant of review dec. 18, 2013, s214116] (aranda). in aranda, the jury gave an indication that the jurors may have reached a unanimous decision on first degree murder, and were deadlocked only on lesser included offenses. the jury had not been provided with not guilty verdict forms for each charged and uncharged crime. the trial court refused to give the jurors a not guilty verdict form for first degree murder so that they might enter an acquittal and instead declared a mistrial. a second trial judge granted a motion to dismiss the subsequent prosecution for first degree murder, based on stone. the issue in aranda was whether blueford v. arkansas (2012) 566 u.s. 599, abrogated the stone requirement that the jury be allowed to enter a partial acquittal when there is a suggestion that it is deadlocked only on uncharged lesser included offenses. in aranda, the people argued the california stone was based only on the federal constitution, and since blueford held the fifth amendment did not require a partial acquittal rule, blueford implicitly overruled stone. the people do not make a similar argument here and the 39 issue does not affect the outcome of this case. assuming the stone partial acquittal rule survives blueford, we have concluded stone. ii. expert evidence a. issues regarding the biomechanics expert evidence 1. background the parties presented competing testimony from biomechanics experts. we describe the testimony in detail. a. prosecution expert hayes hayes reviewed materials such as police reports, autopsy reports and photographs, aerial photographs of the cliff, and a detailed analysis of cliff topography prepared by a surveying firm. he also visited inspiration point in 2002 and again in 2005. at trial, hayes identified three significant issues that informed his conclusions. the of interacted with the cliff to produce the injuries that we see. and the fundamental question there is how many impacts occurred, how many sautopsy photographs and the reports of a pathologist, the deputy off the cliff at sufficient speed to clear the top of the cliff, to hit thno evidence of multiple impacts. the injuries also indicated to hayes that lauren did not slip and fall backwards, she did not run off the cliff, and she did not slide on the cliff. the second significant issue was the topography of the cliff, which hayes determined based on aerial photographs and the aerial topographic map of inspiration point an engineering firm 40 produced in 2003. hayes identified possible points of departure, based on the evidence provided to him and the fact he considered about where he and lauren were on the point when she went off the cliff, and a law enforcement report. hayes isolated a potential area of departure of approximately 8 by 12 feet. . a projectile. hayes explained the parabolic trajectory of a of gravity. the prosecutor asked: now, in order to predict how a body, whether be center of gravity or a tennis ball, would move through space, are there certain things complicated. you actually need to know the speed at which you hayes conducted determine a starting point speed if lauren were thrown from the cliff. hayesthrew a 40-pound weight fast as possible. hayes testified: for the backyard experiments, and that was to determine how fast . . . needed to determine a -pound weight going from from the backyard experiments, hayes settled on a launch speed of 15 feet per second. he explained: important to know this information because we were about to conduct a set of analyses which means the path of motion from the top of that cliff to 41 examine how that path of motion would relate to the geometry of the cliff. we needed a starting point for that analysis . . . . we learned from the backyard experiment where we have to start those studies, so we picked 15 feet per second, or 10 miles an hour, as an initial examination of the path, or trajectory of this with this information, hayes trajectories, predicted on the basis of the fundamental physics of projectile motion, for cases in which [lauren] slipped and/or tripped and fel based on these calculations, hayes opined: 1) if lauren had slipped or tripped, she would have hit the cliff at the top, almost immediately. because hayes did not see scraping, abrasions, or evidence of anyone tripping or sliding at the edge of the cliff, hayes ruled out that scenario. 2) if lauren were thrown at 10 feet per second, 4 feet from the edge of the cliff, her body would have hit the cliff once, bounced off the cliff shelf, and gone into the water. hayes thus concluded: -marer had to have been assisted from the top of inspiration point to sustain the injuries she did, and could not have tripped, slipped, or run off the cliff and produced the injuries and position of rest where she these conclusions were reflected in an initial 2003 report. hayes and his staff subsequently conducted additional experiments in 2005.17 at inspiration point, hayes and his staff 17 hayes conducted the additional experiments in response to issues the trial court raised in 2005. according to the supplemental report: 42 used a pelican boxa rigid plastic box filled with 45 pounds of weights. they did not use a dummy because: center of gravity . . . spine, about halfway between, where you can consider all of your body weight to be concentratthe one thing that we can be absolutely certain of is that, no matter what you do with your arms, your legs, your head, anything else . . . that point in your body called the center of gravity follows a very predictable and simple motion. that motion is called a parabola, but just think of it as a gentle curve. . . . we were interested in the path of that arc as opposed predict with high precision these motions . . . motion . . . . all that physics is exquisitely well known and quite predictable. . . . going to go, and if iafterwards hayes explained the pelican box experiment at inspiration the launch scenarios he had previously calculated and included in the 2003 report. of his earlier conclusions: earlier experiments to determine the launch velocity and angle necessary for lauren to have cleared the top of the cliff, impacted the cliff once, and then ended up in the water, were applicable to the launch conditions at inspiration point itself. to address this question, we returned to inspiration point, identified the point of departure, and used the same experimental subject to launch a 43 right, that the laws of projectile motion work. and, in fact, it predicted exactly where between those two [velocities], 10 and 15 [feet per second] that we had looked at, would be expected to hit hayes, describing a video of the pelican box experiment, narrated: of the inlet, strikes on the shelf that is part of that particular contour, bounces off the shelf to impact the inlet some 40-further testified: reproduced the facts surrou the prosecutor then asked: is. we looked at the projectile motion predictions, or the hayes then explained he used other, more sophisticated modeling approaches, body with the cliff face in greater deta modeling approaches that let us use all of the information we had about the contours of the cliff, and actually start looking at not t at what happens to the rest of her body. for instance, i said with simple projections, with how lauren would have bounced, if she bounced off the cliff face, or how she would have interacted at the top if she were slipping 44 -conducted to consider possible descent scenarios. a computer or trip gone over the cliff based on the variables used in the model. a launch simulation indicated lauren would have a massive impact on the cliff shelf, face in, head down, then her body would fall into the water. hayes thus opined being launched forcefully from the point of departure, impacting b. defense expert siegmund (2015 trial) defense biomechanics expert siegmund also reviewed materials such as photographs, the autopsy reports, and police reports, as well as siegmund did not exhibits, including injuries on . he testified portions of the topographical map hayes used were inaccurate. siegmund for a slip/trip scenario, the path plotted out was unrealistic because it stopped at the intersection with the cliff. siegmund testified a body hitting the cliff after a trip or slip would be redirected by the cliff interaction, and if it bounces enough to come off the cliff, we would then get another projectile motion, another parabolic arc, until it interacted with either the bottom or the cliff face again, at which point it would either slide along the cliff or bounce off again, and then there would be another trajectory, another parabolic arc . . . 45 ainto account all possible scenarios involving lauren slipping or additional numbers had been included, they would have shown that a trip/run scenario could have led to a single impact on the portion of the cliff that hayes indicated could only be reached by a throw. siegmund also conducted an experiment with two girls s size to evaluate their body movements when throwing golf balls, as a means to plot a fall trajectory resulting using the data gathered from this experiment, and entering those numbers into siegmund plotted an additional trajectory. the resulting graphs showed it was possible for lauren to run, stumble, and strike the cliff face in the region hayes opined she struck, without contacting the upper portion of the cliff. overstepping after throwing a rock could explain the single impact and was therefore another scenario in which a slip, trip, mpact with the cliff shelf. he further opined that departure points closer to the cliff edge would allow lauren to move at slower initial speeds and still clear the cliff and strike the cliff shelf. according to siegmund, also have resulted from her hitting the cliff face more than once. abrasions on her abdomen, shoulders, knees and thighs could have been caused by interaction with the top of the cliff face. siegmund explained it was possible lauren struck her head and chest during an initial contact with the cliff face but those injuries 46 he shoulders occurred at the same time as her face and chest injuries. siegmund therefore siegmund included being pushed or thrown, but also tripping or stumbling near tthe cliff, or overstepping after throwing a rock. he agreed that lauren could have been thrown from the cliff in the manner hayes proposed. but iphysical evidence to suggest one explanation was more likely than the other and he could not discern, based on the physical evidence, whether lauren was thrown or fell. c. siegmund (2009 trial)the rescue dummy experiments in the 2009 trial, siegmund testified in part based on experiments he conducted the siegmund testified the purpose of the experiments with the interacted with the cliff on the way down. horder to demonstrate that, i chose to use a dummy and run siegmund explained his experiments were an alternative to the computer simulations hayes conducted. in describing the benefits and weaknesses of using a rescue dummy as opposed to a computer model 47 out that neither one of these two models is lauren. so neither the computational model nor my rescue model is lauren on that cliff falling, so they are both imperfect models. still, he explained he chose to do an experiment because, unlike a you know that all the exact amount of friction relevant for the incident, rather than to account different materials on different portions of the cliff. siegmund described five tests he conducted with rescue dummies. the first simulated a forward fall, the second and third attempted to mimic the path and speed of a body after tripping and stumbling, and the fourth and fifth involved releasing the dummy as if it had tumbled or gone into a somersault. because: tually hold itself up while it the jury saw a video of the experiments. in the first computer simulation of a fall, the dummy interacted with the cliff three times. the head and face of the dummy hit the cliff on the first impact, the head and shoulder hit the cliff on the second impact, and the entire body, including the face, interacted with the cliff on the third impact. siegmund pointed out where the body of the dummy hit the cliff on each impact. he explained that each time the dumotion thing, there is a new set of initial conditions for new 48 when defense counsel asked if the test with the dummy and face injuries were due to only one impact was incorrect, the prosecutor objected. the prosecutor argued there was no evidence the water rescue dummy had been scientifically validated to show injuries to a human being. he objected to the use of the dummy as the basis of an opinion about the impacts to lauren. the court sustained the objection. still, the court allowed siegmund to testify siegmund testified about the other four experiments conducted with the dummies interactions with the cliff. siegmund found that in four of the five tests he ran, interaction at the top [of the cliff] followed this was in siegmund ultimately opined: degree of scientific certainty distinguish between mr. brown throwing lauren off the cliff or lauren accidentally falling off that cliff . . . . this case that it is possible to be definitive on whether it is a on cross-examination, the following colloquy ensued: now, the water rescue dummy, has that been validated as a human surrogate in the study of falls from great heights? a: no. i thought i was really clear when i explained that this was not lauren. this is a dummy without muscles, without a lot of things that humans have. it is a mass basically that we were releasing off the cliff. it has a human like form more so than, say, a pelican box, but it is 49 not human, a living human, going off inspiration point. q: in fact, it has never been validated as a human surrogate for the study of falls, for example? a: that. i thought i was clear. q: would bounce and slide off of a cliff? a: it shows how a limp human shaped object might interact with the cliff. q: but assuming that you have a living, breathing human being as opposed to a limp human shaped object, it does not represent how a living human, breathing human being, would interact with the cliff? a: there is no dummy that i could use that does that. on redirect, siegmund testified he believed the water rescue dummy experiments, among other things, showed have been thrown from the cliff.18 when asked if the water rescue dummy is a better representation than a pelican box with respect to falling and impacts, siegmund answered: is going to follow the same path as center of mass of the pelican box. where the dummy differs from the pelican box is it has its mass distributed in a way that is more human than 45 pounds inside a plastic box. that mass distribution is 18 siegmund explained: what dr. hayes is trying to do is show that only one thing is possible. that is throwing. in order to prove that, you need to show that every other thing is impossible. so if you can show that any other thing is possible, 50 important when it comes to rotation. it is not important when it comes to just its linear motion. that is its translation. but as soon as you get into rotation, the distribution of the mass is very important. so having the mass distributed in human-like manner is better than the d. motion to exclude the rescue dummy experiment evidence in the 2015 trial at the 2015 trial, during the defense case, but before moved to exclude evidence of the water rescue dummy experiments, invoking kelly, frye, daubert, relevance rules, and evidence code section 352.19 the prosecutor argued the water rescue dummies had not been validated as a human surrogate for studies of falls off cliffs, thus the experiment using the dummies was irrelevant to suggest any interaction lauren had with the cliff when she went over the edge. the prosecutor further argued if the purported relevance was to show the interaction of a water rescue dummy with the face of the cliff, that was also irrelevant since brown was not charged with throwing a water rescue dummy off the cliff. to the weight of the evidence, rather than admissibility. he asserted that if there was an argument that the water rescue . . . argument that should be made based upon whatever counsel thinks are the distinguishing features [from the pelican box] that 19 people v. kelly (1976) 17 cal.3d 24 (kelly); frye v. united states (1923) 293 f. 1013 (frye); daubert v. merrell dow pharmaceuticals, inc. (daubert) (1993) 509 u.s. 579. 51 the court asked the prosecutor to differentiate between the siegmund dummy experiments and the hayes pelican box experiment. the prosecutor argued: ayes . . . used the pelican box to simulate projectile motion through space. [] if dr. siegmund had thrown this water rescue dummy weighing and used it to simulate laurens motion through space, that would have been one thing, because physics and projectile motion will tell us what an object of that weight at that launch velocity and angle will do as it travels through space. s not what this is being offered to do. this is being offered to show interaction with the cliff, which it cannot do, just like i could not roll a bowling ball off of the cliff and say this is how lauren would interact the court ruled as follows: there is a different commitment by the experts here. one is the dynamics and interaction of that object as it travels through space. this one is - - if your expert is prepared to state that it replicates lauren and how she would have -- or the object is meant to show how it interacts with the cliff, thats different. if he commits to the s introducing it for purposes of dynamics i the court and parties revisited the issue after defense counsel consulted with siegmund. in subsequent argument, defense counsel asserted the use of the pelican box and the use of the dummies were equally imprecise since neither contained all of the factors of a human body. defense counsel further stated sieonce an object hit the cliff face, the second arc is independent of the first, and the dummies demonstrated that idea. 52 the prosecutor countered that once there is interaction with the cliff, neither the pelican box nor the dummy offered an accurate representation of what would happen. the prosecutor thus argued: what his entire video is about, is what happens to the dummy after it impacts the cliff and how many impacts it has and where it impacts. . . . interaction of the dummy with the cliff and what the dummy does after it interacts with the cliff. . . . defense counsel responded: . . . he had a simulation where he had that stiff stick figure . . . with the hits the cliff . . . and then the figure continues down. those are . . . inaccurate, as well, in a way that the dummy demonstrates. and the stick figure there is not in any way representative of an actual human body, and that was admitted by dr. hayes, but he nonetheless used it in order to try to demonstrate . . . what he claimed was going to be the arc and then the impact on the cliff and the continuing fall to the water. and what dr. siegmund will do with the dummies is show that actually you have . . . two independent arcs . . . each of them a projectile motion . . . that is distinct . . . as compared to . . . the claimed consistent forward motion without there being any the prosecutor again argued using the dummies was not that they more accurately simulated 53 projectile motion through space and siegmund did not throw the dummies off the cliff in the manner hayes used the pelican box. the court expressed its view to somehow get this in through the back door. he is only allowed to argue with respect to the projectile motion through space, and it seems to me that he is trying to get through the back door . . . reacted once it left the cliff, had impact with the cliff, and how it reacted after that. . . . and the court has already ruled on that, the parameters the prosecutor further dummy experiment witinaccurate. the court offered a final comment: kelly-frye and daubert with respect to the scientific community recognizes the dynamics of a dummy and it never has been recognized. and he, by his own admission in his prior testimony, stated he was not offering it for that purpose, and that no dummy could re-create the dynamics of a human body versus the dummy, and so there is going to be a real problem with his testimony if that is the characterization of his proposed dr. defense would eliminate the film of the dummy experiment from the defense presentation of evidence. siegmund did not testify about the rescue dummy experiments. 54 2. the trial court did nor err in excluding evidence of the siegmund rescue dummy experiments on appeal, brown contends the trial court erred in excluding evidence of siegmurescue dummy experiments. experiment should have been admitted as well. he contends this error violated his federal and state constitutional rights to due process and to present a defense. we find no error. a. applicable legal principles on experimental and scientific evidence the trial court has broad discretion in determining whether to admit expert opinion testimony.20 (people v. son (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 224, 241.) similarly, the admissibility of trial court, and such a test is merely a circumstance to be considered in connection with other evidence in the cdirosario v. havens (1987) 196 cal.app.3d 1224, 1232.) 20 decision . . . which concerns the admissibility of evidence, is subject to review for abuse of discretion. this is especially so when, as here, the evidence comprises expert opinion testimony. [citations.] underlying determinations, of course, are scrutinized pursuant to the test appropriate thereto. the conclusion that a certain legal principle, like the kelly-frye rule, is applicable or not in a certain factual situation is examined inpeople v. rowland (1992) 4 cal.4th 238, 266.) 55 when a party seeks to introduce evidence based on a new scientific procedure or novel method of proof, three foundational elements must be met, under kelly, supra, 17 cal.3d 24. (people v. hood (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 965, 969.) the first element is that the proponent of the evidence must establish the reliability of the method is generally accepted by recognized authorities in the relevant scientific field. (in re jordan r. (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 111, 122.) the proponent of the evidence must also show the witness testifying about the method is a properly qualified expert on the subject and that the person performing the method in question used correct scientific procedures. (people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 315 (jackson).) [e]xperimental evidence has long been permitted in california trial courts . . . . [] evidence depends upon proof of the following foundational items: (1) the experiment must be relevant (evid. code,  210, 351); (2) the experiment must have been conducted under substantially similar conditions as those of the actual occurrence [citation]; and (3) the evidence of the experiment will not consume undue time, confuse the issues or mislead the jury [citation]. [] in the case of experimental evidence, the preliminary fact (see evid. code,  403, subd. (a)(1)) necessary to support its relevancy is that the experiment was conducted under the same or similar conditions as those existing when the accident took place. people v. roehler (1985) 167 cal.app.3d 353, 385.) in this case, siegmund admitted at the 2009 trial that the use of a water rescue dummy to replicate how a human body might interact with a cliff during a fall had not been recognized as scientifically valid. he suggested use of the dummy was more useful than a pelican box in showing how a human-shaped mass 56 would interact with the cliff and rotate during a fall and impacts. but he also testified that the dummy could not demonstrate how a living human body would interact with the cliff during a fall. when presented with this testimony, the trial court was well within its discretion to exclude evidence of the rescue dummy experiments as offered to suppoth the cliff during a fall and whether that interaction could have caused the injuries she sustained. to the extent the issue necessitated an analysis under kelly because it involved a new scientific technique, the defense did not meet its burden on the very first requirement: that the reliability of the method must be established, usually by expert testimony.21 (people v. dellinger (1984) 163 cal.app.3d 284, 294 (dellinger).) siegmund testified the use of the dummy had not been scientifically validated to serve as a human surrogate to analyze falls. the trial court properly excluded this evidence. similarly, when considered as experimental evidence, mined the foundational elements necessary for admission of the evidence. siegmund admitted a rescue dummy was not comparable to a human body in evaluating interaction with the cliff, thus brown did not meet his burden to show the experiment was relevant, or that it was 21 kelly only applies to a technique, process, or theory which is new to science. (jackson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 316.) the prosecutor invoked kelly and the dellinger case from 1984, which noted that, at that time, no california case had considered the use of anthropomorphic dummies. defense counsel did not argue or science, or that kelly did not apply for other reasons. nor does brown advance such an argument on appeal. 57 conducted under substantially similar conditions as those of the actual occurrence. indeed, on appeal, brown fails to argue the rescue dummy experiment evidence was independently admissible. he instead contends only that the court should have admitted the evidence because it admitted the hayes pelican box evidence. however, the foundation laid for the pelican box experiment was that it was confirmation of trajectory calculations based on fundamental newtonian physics. the foundation for the hayes computer incorporated physics principles, were widely used and validated under many circumstances, and had been used for the study of falls. brown did not challenge the adequacy of this foundation. he further did not establish a similar foundation for the rescue aspect of the rescue dummy experiment, siegmund testified that the dummies were useful in observing rotation, and they allowed him to observe how an object fell down the cliff and interacted with the cliff. but unlike the foundational testimony that s computer simulations, there was no clear argument or evidence establishing that using a water rescue dummy as siegmund did was a scientific procedure of sufficient reliability to be relevant to the question of what may have happened had lauren tripped, slipped, or stumbled off the cliff in the same fashion. there was also no testimony establishing the rescue dummy experiments were a reasonably accurate 58 demonstration of a conclusion siegmund had reached through other means.22 the water rescue dummy experiments were offered to show something different and more complex than the pelican box experiment. a proper, independent foundation for this evidence was required. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that foundation was not laid. (compare dellinger, supra, 163 cal.app.3d at pp. 292-296 [proper foundation not laid under kelly for scientific conclusions based on tests conducted with anthropomorphic dummy to determine amount of force stairs] with people v. roehler, supra, 167 cal.app.3d at pp. 388-390 [evidence of testing and conclusions from tests involving anthropomorphic dummy properly admitted; extensive preliminary testimony supported reliability of the method, which 22 in the 2006 trial, the defense offered the testimony of a different biomechanics expert, dr. gary yamaguchi. yamaguchi did not testify he conducted experiments with crash test dummies while physically at inspiration point. instead, using anthropomorphic crash test dummies, he created a series of most well-accepted program in the industry for simulating high speed impacts of humans and crash test dummies in realistic environments. madymo has been used to create hundreds of 59 b. brown has not established defense couns failure to object to evidence of the hayes pelican box experiment was ineffective assistance of counsel brown contends on appeal that if the trial court properly excluded the evidence regarding the siegmund dummy experiments, his counsel should have sought to exclude evidence invalid to show interaction with the cliff. we conclude brown has not established ineffective assistance of counsel. i. applicable legal principles counsel has failed to provide adequate legal representation is by now well known: first, a defendant must show his or her [] . . . omission. [citation.] we will find prejudice when a defendant unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence imust also be shown that the [act or] omission was not attributable to a tactical decision which a reasonably competent, (people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 610611.) 60 ii. analysis s argument focuses solely on the trial court ruling excluding the siegmund rescue dummy evidence to the extent cliff. brown contends the hayes pelican box evidence was also offered to show how lauren would have interacted with the cliff, thus defense counsel should have objected to the hayes pelican box evidence 23 he also asserts defense counsel alternatively should have requested a jury box evidence to showing the path of the object through space. as an initial matter, we note brown has not established, or even argued, that the pelican box evidence was independently siegmund rescue dummy evidence. still, we acknowledge the prosecutor conceded the pelican box experiment was relevant only to show projectile motion through space, and that it could not legitimately be offered to show interaction with the cliff. yet, , in fact, concern interaction with the cliff, in that he narrated how the box hit the cliff, then bounced off and landed in the inlet. seek exclusion of this portion of the pelican box experiment evidence was deficient performance. assuming evidence of the 23 case-in-chief, after hayes had already testified, but before ense case. although on appeal testimony, testimony that had already been given and to object to any rebuttal testimony. 61 cliff should have been excluded, brown has not demonstrated a reasonable probability that, but seek to strike that portion of pelican box experiment evidence or to request a limiting instruction, the result of the proceeding would have been different. (people v. mesa (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1000, 1008) [reviewing court may examine prejudice without first , citing strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697].) several texperiment was intended to illustrate only the trajectory of the center of gravity of a 44-pound weight up to the point of impact. box experiment illustrated, he could not predict how lauren would have bounced off the cliff. further, the fundamental question in the case was whether lauren accidentally fell or was thrown. the pelican box experiment evidence played only a minor role in haon the question because it started from the conclusion that she was thrown and her body hit the cliff once. hayes reached that conclusion s injuries and the topography of the cliff. although hayes insisted all phases of his analysis mattered, he describalong with the other factorswell before performing the pelican box experiment, hayes had, through other means, concluded lauren did not slip, trip, or stumble then fall down the cliff, and that her injuries resulted from a single high-velocity impact with the cliff, because in his view her injuries were inconsistent with more than one cliff interaction. the 62 pelican box confirmed , but the other process and testimony concerned the second, critical conclusionthat lauren did not accidentally fall. hayes came to this conclusion based on his initial analysis, calculations, and computer simulations, not because of the pelican box experiment. this point was illustrated during the direct examination of siegmund, when he testified: nched at between 10 and 15 feet per second from point of departure. i agree. this is one scenario of how lauren sustained her injuries. she could have been thrown from the cliff. there is nothing in my analysis that rules that out. it is a possibility just like slipping and even if defense counsel had objected and succeeded in regarding the path of the pelican box at or after impact, it is not reasonably probable that the result of the proceeding would have been different. thus, we find no ineffective assistance of counsel to the extent it exceeded the trial court in limine ruling. b. exclusion of regarding shoe impressions 1. background detective leslie testified that on november 9, 2000, he observed depressions or impressions in the soil on a particular area of inspiration pointdisturbance . . . scould not get close enough to discern what they were. 63 los angeles county returned to the crime scene to collect evidence on november 10, 2000, two . he was a member of the dsaw what he believed were five shoe impressions on inspiration point, four of which were in a straight line, and one of which was close to the edge of the cliff. there was no detail in the impressions. they appeared to be similar to the impressions he himself was making as he walked back and forth in the area. falicon marked and photographed the impressions. he also took a casting of four of the impressions. falicon did not use the photographs when evaluating whether the impressions were shoeprints; instead based on his training, education, and experience, the depressions appeared to him to be footprints. on cross-examination, falicon admitted his expertise was not, and had never been, shoeprints. his job was to gather evidence and document the scene; another group of experts examined and analyzed the evidence. t senior criminalist steve schliebe was one person who, as part of his job, would review photos of what falicon believed were shoe impressions, to determine what the photographs depicted. falicon with any degree of certainty or probability . . . to say this is or is not a shoeprint . . . . in the 2006 and 2009 trials, brown countered similar falicon testimony with that of schliebe. at the 2009 trial, schliebe testified that in 2004 he reviewed falphotographs of the impressions. schliebe testified: made the depression as opposed to maybe an unshod foot or a 64 knee or a hand or something. something got pressed into the schliebe told detective leslie the soil on the hillside was dry and loose and, in such conditions, it is nearly impossible for a shoe impression to retain any size or shape. on cross-examination, schliebe testified he only looked at photographs and did not visit the crime scene. before the 2015 trial, the people moved to exclude schlitestimony as limited to a statement that, based on photographs, he did not know if the impressions at the scene were footprints. the people argued this testimony had no tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact of consequence to the determination of the case. brown opposed the motion. the trial court excluded the schliebe testimony. the court proposition that indeed shoe or other impressions were found on scene . . . . the court explained falicon had testified that he was unable to say for a fact that the impressions were footprints. the court further explained: felt they were footprints, they looked to me to be footprints, but i sure that they were, but still based on my experience i felt after this initial indicated ruling, the argument turned to hat he saw photographs alone. defense counsel argued the photographs were pristine, falicon took them as part of his job, and, in the normal course, schliebe or someone in the same division would 65 analyze the evidence based on the photographs. position was that schliebe was not at the scene and could not offer any relevant evidence because he could only testify from the photographs. the court indicated it would stand by its initial ruling. at trial, falicon testified as described above. hayes testified he considered in determining the region of departure: of impressions that weret certain as to what they came from, could not, in my view, be connected with particular kinds of footprints, but were impressions leading in a fairly straight line down to this same region.24 in closing argument, the prosecutor argued the physical evidence, including the alleged shoeprint around, throwing rocks, and fell: and there were also the footprints that deputy falicon and detective leslie saw. at the u-shaped area, the part that slopes down, next to the bush that the defendant pointed out to deputy brothers . . . the projection that he described to sergeant erikson as they stood at the base, where the defendant pointed up, part of only a limited area where lauren could have gone off the cliff and ended up in the water, detective leslie and deputy falicon saw five footprints, just like deputy falicon was making when he was walking up and down the side of the slope. [] there is no physical evidence whatsoever that lauren was walking or running around in that area on that slope, just these five footprints that were just like deputy falicons. he doesnt 24 hayes futhere was no evidence of sliding, slipping, or disturbed rocks at the edge of a sloped portion of the cliff. 66 find any other footprints. he doesnt find any evidence near the edge of that cliff that lauren slid off. 2. discussion the principles governing the admission of evidence are well settled. only relevant evidence is admissible (evid. code,  210, 350), and all relevant evidence is admissible unless excluded under the federal or state constitutions or by statute. (evid. code,  351; see also cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. (d).) [citation.] the test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts such as identity, intent, or motive. . . . . [] the trial court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence. [citation.] we review for abuse of discretion a trial courts rulings on the admissibility of evidencepeople v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 337.) on appeal, brown contends the trial court erred in excluding the schliebe testimony. he asserts the testimony that schliebe could not say whether the photographs depicted shoe guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. ability to testify based only on the photographs did not render the evidence inadmissible. we agree that the trial court erred in excluding the schliebe testimony. falicon testified his job was to take photographs and collect evidence for analysis by others, including criminalists like schliebe. there was no evidence that the photographs falicon took in this case were somehow unsuited for that purpose. that schliebe did not see the impressions in person at the scene affected the weight of the testimony, but not i 67 whether the impressions depicted in the photographs were shoeprints undermined the testimony of faliconnot an expert in shoeprint evidencewhen he indicated the impressions appeared to him to included his statement to detective leslie that it was typically very difficult for a shoe impression to retain any size or shape in soil like that found on inspiration point. this was relevant to disprove the inference the prosecutor sought to draw, which was that there were shoeprintssthat led up to the edge of the cliff, and no other shoeprints. however, we conclude the error was harmless. it is not reasonably probable that the outcome would have been more favorable to brown had the court allowed the schliebe testimony. falicon admitted he was not a shoeprint evidence expert and he did not definitively testify that the impressions he observed were shoeprints. instead, he offered only the weaker, non-expert opinion that the impressions appeared to be shoeprints to him. the defense effectively cross-examined falicon, revealing the weaknesses in his testimony. further, there was no evidence actually identifying the shoeprints as probably coming from considered it in mapping out the possible point of departure for point of departure analysis was he topography of the -expert testimony about possible shoeprints was his unrelated, and unchallenged, testimony that he did not see any evidence of slipping or sliding at the edge of the cliff. we acknowledge that the prosecutor argued the absence of other footprints in the area. 68 nevertheless, we conclude it is not reasonably probable that, with respect to the schliebe testimony, brown would have received a more favorable outcome. moreover the error did not render the trial fundamentally unfair. (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) iii. ineffective assistance of counsel a. counsel was not ineffective for failing to call dr. ophoven or consult with another forensic pathologist 1. background a. prior trials at the 2006 and 2009 trials, the defense offered the testimony of dr. janice ophoven, a forensic pathologist with special training and experience in pediatric forensic pathology. at the 2009 trial, challenged questioned the validity of biomechanics as a useful tool in understanding blunt force trauma. she opined, based on an examination of the autopsy, that the number of impacts on the cliff could not be that lauren must have only impacted the cliff once. she -pound object could go off the cliff other than being thrown, and critiqued the hayes analysis in that only the throwing theory was examined at the cliff. she opined so many elements of the case were unknown correct or verified or validated b also contradicted that of dr. chinwah, the deputy medical examiner. ophoven testified about a 69 impact. chinwah did not note the contusion in the autopsy report. ophoven opined there were blunt force injuries to the impact to the face or upper chest. the injuries she saw were opinion, a forensic analysis could not determine how lauren went off the top of the cliff. however, on cross-examination the prosecutor minimized her appear defensive and biased in favor of the defense. she admitted she is not board certified in pediatric pathology and conducted no autopsies between 1989 and 2001. as ophoven tried to rehabilitate herself, she volunteered answers the prosecutor was then able to suggest were inflated descriptions of her work.25 the prosecutor asked ophoven about her testimony in 2006, in which she disagreed the hike to inspiration point was extremely arduous. ophoven admitted that although she had testified she found the hike 25 for example, after ophoven testified she performed no autopsies between 1989 and 2001, the prosecutor asked if she began conducting autopsies again in 2001. ophoven answered: -time forensic pathology, including -time fshe was actually serving as a part-time deputy medical examiner, on call one week per month. ophoven testified that for the previous five years she had been on call two weeks each month, only to have the prosecutor return to the fact that at that time, she was on call only one week per month. ophoven answered: 70 nowhere near as arduous as berkowitdid not hike the route as berkowitz had. the prosecutor also asked about three cases in which ophoven as to each case, including two in which additional information revealed that deaths she believed were accidental were in fact homicides, the prosecutor was still able to ask the question, over a defense objection: tten away with in 2009, the defense also offered the testimony of dr. david posey, a forensic pathologist, in surrebuttal. based on a review of the autopsy photographs, posey opined a mark visible on the usion or bruise. this undermined that he did not find a large that the mark could have been dirt, mud, blood, or an abrasion. b. 2015 trial testimony. following the trial, brown made a marsden26 motion. one of his arguments was that defense counsel failed to call ophoven in time to secure her attendance at the third trial, so counsel leaving the defense with no pathologist. defense counsel responded that he contacted ophoven six months to a year before she would have testified in 2015. ophoven was unavailable until months after the trial was scheduled to take place. b 26 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 71 testimony in an alternative fashion, defense counsel carefully reviewed her , and she got trashed by the prosecution because, compared to their expert, it was clear that ophoven was actually giving too counsel further explained he decided not to call ophoven or make special arrangements for her testimony because he present, and that [ophoven] was going to be someone who would distract from our defense by allowing her to be attacked by the cross that 2. failure we find no ineffective assistance of counsel in defense at the third trial. the decision was a tactical decision and one a reasonably competent, experienced criminal defense attorney would make. the defense had an expert witness available to s injuries would only have been caused by a single massive impact on the cliff face. siegmund, a biomechanics expert like hayes, testified about consistent with multiple impacts. weaknesses as a witness on cross-examination outweighed the potential support her testimony would give to the defense. reviewing courts will reverse convictions on direct appeal on the ground of inadequate counsel only if the record on appeal affirmatively discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose for [his or her] act or omission. (people v. 72 vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 875.) there was a rational tactical testimony for the third trial. (people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 567 [no ineffective assistance where counsel concluded expert testimony might not hold sway with jury and did not present the testimony].) 3. failure to consult or offer the testimony of a different forensic pathologist we also find no ineffective assistance of counsel arising out , or offer the testimony of, another forensic pathologist. defense counsel had available to him the testimony of two forensic pathologists: testimony testimony in the 2009 trial. this testimony provided counsel with a sense of what another forensic pathologist could say that would be beneficial to the defense. further, the post-trial marsden hearing suggests defense counsel in fact had a rational tactical purpose for not offering the testimony of a defense forensic pathologist. he felt it was topics. siegmund did in fact testify abohe opined they were consistent with multiple impacts. he pointed out injuries hayes had overlooked. siegmund further injuries necessarily showed a single high-velocity impact to the cliff face. decision not to call a defense forensic pathologist, and to instead injuries, fell within the range of reasonable professional assistance. (in re valdez (2010) 49 cal.4th 715, 729-730 [reviewing court must indulge strong presumption that the 73 challenged action might be sound trial strategy; court must b. counsel was not ineffective for eliciting a w opinion that brown was guilty 1. background friend, jon hans, testified he had known brown a long time and they had a close relationship. even after lauren died, hans and brown continued discussing personal matters, but brown never talked brown also never appeared to be sad, upset, or remorseful about laurens death. after brown was arrested, hans supported him and continued talking with him by phone. but after learning more detailooking at photos, and reading the grand jury transcript, hans changed his mind. hans testified he had told others he no longer believed brown was innocent.27 on cross-examination, hans testified he knew that when brown was in custody he was represented by counsel and was not supposed to discuss details of the incident. hans admitted he also knew that in the grand jury proceedings, there was no defense attorney present to offer defense evidence. he admitted he looked at websites on which people without any personal knowledge of the incident discussed it. 27 this testimony was in the context of hanshis attempt to have a pro-brown website remove a letter hans wrote supporting brown. when the person in charge of the website refused to remove his letter, hans wrote another website, stating: that i know where this happened . . . i just want you to know 74 defense counsel asked if hans knew brown was under the advisement of counsel not to discuss the incident, from the very beginning. hans answered: he had told me that he situation. but there was nothing mentioned about anything, even that she had fallen, or what it was, or anything, until she told me the story of how it happened. and then when i saw those photos on the coastal projectsand i know what cliffs are like for me. there it was, over and over and over, everything accumulated. i saw those photos and i was totally convinced. i mean, there was defense counsel interrupted: hans answered: after a lunch break, the cross-examination continued. hans testified he had considered brown to be a very thoughtful person and, when asked by detectives, hans had to think a long time before he could remember seeing brown angry. he testified he knew of no situation in which brown physically assaulted another person or living thing. he wrote a letter of support for brown when he was accused of murder. defense counsel suggested hans felt betrayed because brown had not told him anything about the incident, leading to the following colloquy: q: and so . . . part at a certain point, instead of feeling being used. a: the . . . it happened really quickly. once i read the thing, saw the photos . . . that coastal website, and it was, like, then i . . . came out and finally asked him, point blank, 75 you know, what was going on. and then he became completely defensive, and that was it. i felt then, like, he e i mean nothing. q: trip. a: like i would expect my brother to do, yes. q: exactly. that is your expectation of what you would expect your brother to do if he was in jail. 2. discussion brown argues his counsel was ineffective because he of murder. we disagree. on direct examination, hans had already revealed his opinion that brown was not innocent. cross examination appeared to be designed to show hans was biased to him openly about the iadmissions that his information all came from the internet and that his conclusion was tied to his personal feelings about laure. it is apparent this questioning had a rational tactical purpose of damaging testimony on direct examination. (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 542 [defense counsel questions resulting in some damaging testimony not ineffective assistance where they 76 -will toward and probable bias against defendant].) this was not ineffective assistance of counsel. c. counsel was not ineffective for failing to object estimony regarding discussions with the chief coroner 1. background during the direct examination of chinwah, the following colloquy ensued: you also told us that the actual coroner of los angeles county, the chief medical examiner, was present at inspiration point with you; is that correct? a: q: did you discuss your findings and conclusions with dr. lakshmanan, the chief medical examiner for the entire county of los angeles? a: yes, i did. q: did you review with dr. lakshmanan all of your findings with regard to the autopsy that you conducted on a: yes, i did. q: was there anything that the radiologist, the neuropathologist, or the head of the department of coroner discussed with you which caused you to in any way doubt death was homicide? a: defense counsel did not object to this testimony. 77 2. discussion brown contends the testimony regarding the discussion between chinwah and lakshmanan was inadmissible hearsay and its admission violated his confrontation rights. brown therefore argues he was deprived of the effective assistance of counsel because his attorney did not object to the question regarding lakshmanan. we disagree because we conclude the prosecutor did not elicit inadmissible hearsay. hearsay may be briefly understood as an out-of-court statement offered for the truth of its content. evidence code section 1200, subdivision (a) formally defines hearsay as evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated. oral or written verbal expression or the nonverbal conduct of a person intended by him as a substitute for oral or written verbal expression. (evid. code,  225.) senate committee comments to evidence code section 1200 explain that a statement offered for some purpose other than to prove the fact stated therein is not [citations.] thus, a hearsay statement is one in which a person makes a factual assertion out of court and the proponent seeks to rely on the statement to prove that assertion is true. hearsay is generally inadmissible unless it falls under an exception. (evid. code,  1200, subd. (b).)people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 674.) the challenged testimony regarding lakshmanan was not hearsay. the prosecutor asked chinwah whether he discussed his findings with lakshmanan, but did not elicit testimony about any statements lakshmanan made in those discussions. further, the only follow up question was whether anything lakshmanan 78 (or two other doctors) discussed with chinwah caused him to cide. this question did not elic concerned only the effect of the discussions on chinwah. (browne v. turner construction co. (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 1334, 1348-1349 hearsay because it did not purport to recount a statement or the testimony did not introduce hearsay, and the confrontation clause was not implicated because no out-of-court testimonial statement from lakshmanan was admitted. (people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 680 [admission of a hearsay statement violates right to confrontation if the statement is testimonial hearsay].) defense counsel was not ineffective for failing to object to this testimony. iv. other evidentiary rulings a. prior uncharged conduct (freda clifford) brown contends the trial court erred in admitting evidence that, in 1986, he threw his ex- and once damaged her car. brown asserts the evidence was inadmissible under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), and evidence code section 352. we disagree. 1. procedural background in advance of trial, the people sought to introduce the -girlfriend, as evidence of prior bad acts under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). the people plan, in which brown dealt with conflict against women he was dating by indirectly lashing out at them. brown opposed the motion, arguing the proposed evidence was irrelevant except as inadmissible, speculative character evidence. brown further 79 argued the prior acts were remote, there was no nexus between the acts and the charged crime, and the potential prejudice would outweigh any probative value of the evidence. s motion as to testimony, concluding the evidence tended to establish a common plan or scheme, and the probative value was not substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect. as described above, at trial, clifford testified brown threw her belongings off a cliff when he was angry and he smashed his car into hers to damage it. 2. discussion evidence code section 1101(b) authorizes the admission of a crime, civil wrong, or other act to prove something other than s character . . . . the conduct admitted under evidence code section 1101(b) need not have been prosecuted as a crime, nor is a conviction required. [citation.] . . . [t]he uncharged act must be relevant to prove a fact at issue (evid. code,  210), and its admission must not be unduly prejudicial, confusing, or time consuming (evid. code,  352). [] the relevance depends, in part, on whether the act is sufficiently similar to the current charges to support a rational inference of intent, common design, identity, or other material fact. [citation.] . . . greater similarity is required to prove the existence of a common design or plan. in such a case, evidence of unchargnot merely a similarity in the results, but such a concurrence of common features that the various acts are naturally to be explained as caused by a general plan of which they are the individual [citation.] to show a common deevidence that the defendant has committed uncharged 80 criminal acts that are similar to the charged offense may be relevant if these acts demonstrate circumstantially that the defendant committed the charged offense pursuant to the same design or plan he or she used in committing the uncharged acts. people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 597-598.) common plan, or identity, the trial court then must consider outweighed by the probability that its admission [would] . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of mislead 1101 and 352 . . .] are reviewed for an abuse of discretion. ot be disturbed, and reversal . . . is not required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in people v. rogers (2013) 57 cal.4th 296, 326.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding the clifford evidence was admissible to show a common design or plan. the clifford evidence indicated brown was in a relationship with clifford, he grew angry with her, but instead of confronting her directly, he engaged in aggressive behavior that would affect her: damaging her car and throwing her possessions off a cliff. the evidence in the instant case indicated brown had been in a relationship with key-marer, he was angry with her, he stopped directly engaging with her and refused to talk with her, and he took several actions that would affect her, such as seeking 81 visitation -marer, telling lauren malicious things she repeated to key-marer, and culminating with the fatal incident. the trial court could reasonably conclude the clifford testimony was relevant to show a common design or plan. (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 12711272 [evidence that defendant followrace and gender as murder victims, who had also been followed, admissible as evidence of common scheme or plan].) further, the trial court did not err in concluding the probative value of the evidence outweighed any prejudice. the clifford indirect approach to conflict. (people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 519620 [evidence that defendant liked to sneak up on people was relevant to demonstrate he had the ability to surprise the victims and showed opportunity].) moreover, in contrast to the charged crime, the clifford testimony was not particularly inflammatory. testimony did not consume a substantial amount of time. (people v. leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 599600.) the jury was also instructed that the prior acts could only method, plan, or scheme in the commission of an act or acts constituting a crime or crimes similar to the method, plan or (people v. rogers, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 332.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding the clifford testimony was admissible under evidence code sections 1101 and 352. b. bcomments about his mother brown also argues the trial court erred in admitting evidence that he told key-marer he hated his mother, he did not care if she died, and he would not attend her funeral. as we 82 understand his arguments on appeal, brown asserts the evidence was irrelevant, inadmissible hearsay, improper character evidence, and was overly prejudicial. we find no abuse of before trial, brown moved to exclude evidence of his alleged animosity toward his mother. the trial court denied the motion. the court explained it would admit the evidence because it was relevant to brownmotive for the charged crime, specifically his anger at key-marer for establishing a relationship between lauren and her grandmother. the court further indicated the evidence was she and brown had a positive relationship. we find no abuse of discretion in the trial court ruling regmother. (people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 491.) the evidence had a purpose other than to prove the truth of the statements eanimosity toward his mother was relevant to illustrate the further deterioration of his relationship with key-marer after she relationship between the grandmother and lauren. the evidence also undermined the crwished to see her dead contradicted this testimony. the evidence was not of a nature likely to inflame the emotions of the jury, remote, or unduly time consuming. (people v. scott, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 490491.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting key- 83 c. evidence of brown destroying ar and threatening to beat up his neighbor before trial, brown moved to exclude key-anticipated testimony that incident in which, during an argument with his brother at a family meal, brown wecar, and destroyed it. brown contended the evidence was inadmissible hearsay and should be excluded under evidence code section 352. the people argued the evidence was not offered for its truth but was admissible evidence of key-state of mind. the people asserted the evidence explained why key-the court denied motion, concluding the evidence was relevant to key- g her fear with respect to the issue of allowing visitation and unsupervised visits between the defendant and the victim. we agree the trial court abused its discretion in admitting this evidence. key-regarding visitation with lauren was not relevant to any material issue in the case. further, the defense did not raise any issue concerning key-relevant to the question of whether brown killed lauren. (people v. noguera (1992) 4 cal.4th 599, 621 [essential requirement of the evidence code section 1250 state of mind exception to relevant].) similarly, there was little or no probative value in the testimony from threatened to beat up another man. brown objected to this 84 testimony as irrelevant and inadmissible hearsay. the trial court ruled the evidence was relevant because one of the aspects 28 yet, that brown made a threatening statement out of anger was not relevant to prove motive, intent, or murder. to the extent the defense attempted to establish brown did not generally show emotion, tanger in threatening a neighbor did not shed light on his demeanor with no legitimate basis for the court to admit the evidence, and a potential for it to be used for an improper, prejudicial purpose, the court should have excluded the evidence as either irrelevant or unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. however, we find the error in admitting these two piece of evidence harmless.29 these portions of testimony were brief, removed from the significant issues in the case, and not overly inflammatory. there was significant evidence against brown, notably his own statements expressing his desire to 28 the trial court overruled the hearsay objection on the ground that there was an adoptive admission of the statements. brown appeal. 29 in his appellate briefing, brown mentions other evidence evidence that he called a girlfriend names during an argument and that he once became angry at his father for being late to breakfast. however, brown did not object to this evidence at trial. any claim based on this evidence is forfeited. (people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 194.) 85 get rid of lauren, his decision to take lauren to a dangerous outdoor area, and his callous and indifferent attitude after it is not reasonably probable that, absent the error, brown would have received a more favorable result. (people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 934, 1018.) further, (people v. partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 439.) v. prosecutorial misconduct brown contends during closing argument constituted misconduct. we disagree. a prosecutor engages in misconduct by misstating facts, but enjoys wide latitude in commenting on the evidence, including the reasonable inferences and deductions that can be drawn therefrom.people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 928.) s misconduct violates the fourteenth amendment to the unitinfects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due p [citations.] in other words, the misconduct must of sufficient significance to result in the denial of the defendant [citation.] a prosecutors misconduct that does not render a trial fundamentally unfair nevertheless violates california law if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. [citation.] . . . . we consider the assertedly improper remarks in the context of the argument as a whole. people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 894.) 86 it is well established that the defendant must object to prosecutorial misconduct in the trial court to create a basis for relief on appeal. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 679-680; people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298.) a defendants failure to object and to request an admonition is excused only an objection would have been futile or an admonition ineffective.fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 679.) a. challenges to the pcomments rega the case were forfeited for lack of an objection at trial; neither situation constituted ineffective assistance of counsel 1. comments regarding dr. lakshmanan in his closing argument, the prosecutor argued the jury ing: reviewed the information with his boss, the coroner of la county, dr. lakshmanan. he goes over all of the information with dr. lakshmanan, and dr. lakshmanan concurs. and dr. on appeal, brown contends the prosecutor committed misconduct because was a homicide was inadmissible hearsay. defense counsel did , and we do not find the statement was so egregious that it could not have been cured with an admonition. any objection was forfeited. (people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 734; people v. kegler (1987) 197 cal.app.3d 72, 91.) brown further asserts defense counsel was incompetent for failing to object. however, the record reveals no explanation for the failure to object. s 87 testimony with respect to lakshmanan did not put inadmissible hearsay before the jury. thus, at most, the prosecutor could be said to have inaccurately construed the evidence by asserting even if this was an impropethree phrases in a long closing argument. the jury was instructed that the arguments of counsel were not evidence. we cannot conclude there could be no rational tactical basis for not objecting to the statements, or that it is reasonably probable the jury would have reached a different verdict absent these comments. we reject the claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. (jackson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 350.) 2. ack of investigation testimony, the prosecutor argued: the defense never has [siegmund] prepare a report that can be reviewed and critiqued. he first reviews the materials in 2004, but dot prepare the powerpoint until over ten years later, the week before he testifies. [] and his powerpoint is, and some comments written on it. he spends a whole bunch of time critiquinvirtually none of his own. [] he does one single trajectory -year-injuries. he does no computer simulations. [] although, 88 with multiple injuries from the cliff if you drop the apple and it lands in the same place tw defense counsel did not object to this argument. we again conclude this statement was not so egregious that it could not have been cured with an admonition. any objection was forfeited. moreover, we disagree that the comment constituted misconduct. rather than to his experiments. the challenged comment came hayes powerpoint, which was largely based on calculations, and a reference to information other than the pelican box experiment. further, when siegmund was allowed to testify about the rescue dummy experiments in 2009, the evidence offered was a video of the dummies falling and impacting the cliff. there was no additional computational analysis relating to the rescue dummies. as explained above, the pelican box experiment was presented as merely confirming the calculations and analysis hayes had already performed predicting the trajectory of an object launched from the top of the cliff. the comments regarding siegmund could reasonably be interpreted as referring not to an alleged lack of experiments, but instead to a lack of trajectory calculations and computer simulations. the scalculations as the starting point for his own opinions in the case. this was an acceptable comment on the state of the evidence, even considering the dummy experiments. thus, we reject the argument that 89 below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. b. comments regarding the lack of evidence that anyone had ever accidentally fallen from inspiration point 1. background during cross-examination, key-marer admitted that in february 2001, she made a presentation to the rancho palos verdes city council in which she asked the council members to install parents would be made really aware of just how dangerous inspiration point was. . . .-marer admitted she told the de future -marer testified that at the time she made the presentation she did not know whether was an accident or a murder. she also testified that the two deaths off inspiration point she knew of were suicides, not people accidentally falling off the point. in his rebuttal closing argument, the prosecutor argued brown failed to proffer any evidence establishing there had ever been other accidental falls at inspiration point, leading to a defense objection: we also know that there is absolutely no evidence that anyone has ever accidentally fallen from inspiration point. and you can bet if there was evidence of that, the defense would have presented it. so heres the defense story. [defense counsel]: i object to that as arguing facts that are not in evidence. 90 the court: all right. your objection is noted for the record. [prosecutor]: the only person to accidentally fall off inspiration point just happens to be lauren, a little four-year-old girl whose mother the defendant despises, whom s costing him over $1,000 a month, and whose wife, patty, is nagging him to adopt. [defense counsel]: your honor, i object. that is prosecutorial misconduct to argue facts not in evidence. the court: overruled, counsel. [prosecutor]: what an amazing coincidence that the source s problems just happens to be the only person on the planet to ever accidentally fall off inspiration point; on the one day a week he has unsupervised visits . . . . 2. analysis rosecus failure to introduce material eviden is not improper.people v. wash (1993) 6 cal.4th 215, 263.) the evidence of other accidental falls was a permissible comment on the failure to introduce material evidence or call logical witnesses. particularly in light of the cross-examination of key-marer, in which the defense attempted to show her concern about other fatal falls from inspiration point, the prosecution could permissibly argue the defense would have proffered such evidence if it existed. it is well established that not in evidence is misconduct. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 828.) in isolation, t-repeated argument 91 that lauren was the only person to have ever accidentally fallen off inspiration point could appear to be an impermissible suggestion of the existence of facts not in evidence. however, on hen the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion.people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841.) in light of the immediately preceding statement regarding the defense failure to offer evidence of accidental fallsthe jury that the arguments of counsel were not evidence, we al misconduct. vi. no abuse of discretion in allowing the jury to visit the scene over a defense objection, the trial court allowed the jury to visit the crime scene. on appeal, brown contends this was an abuse of discretion. brown contends photographs, video recordings, and a topographical model adequately informed the jury of all aspects of the scene, thus the only purpose of the jury view was to allow the jurors to imagine the horror of a child falling off a cliff. brown asserts any probative value was outweighed by the potential prejudice. we find no error. the to view the place in which the offense is charged to have been committed, or in which any other material fact occurred. ( 1119.) we review for abuse of ds motion for a jury viewpeople v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 610.) here, the court 92 understanding visually factors such as depth, height, and/or steepness, ruggedness, distances, as well as relevant vantage points where obs this ruling was not arbitrary, capricious, or outside the bounds of reason. the evidence adduced at trial was significantly linked to the physical landscape at and around inspiration point, such as the difficulty of the hike to inspiration point, the location and relative positioning of brown and lauren when they were on top of the cliff, and the paths brown took to get help and to retrieve laurentestimony and were illustrated by various visual aids, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding a visit to the scene would further aid the jury. moreover, the jury had already heard lengthy testimony which allowed them to imagine the potential prejudice arising from a visit to the scene outweighed the probative value of the visit. vii. no cumulative error claim that the cumulative effect of the trial court error and prosecutorial misconduct rendered his trial unfair and denied him of due process. cumulative error doctrine, we reverse the reasonable possibility that the jury would have reached a result more favorable to defendant absent a combination of errors.people v. poletti (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1191a claim of cumulative error is in essence a due process claim and is often presented as such [citation]. the litmus test for cumulative error is whether defendant received due process and a fair trial.people v. rivas (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1410, 1436.) 93 we have identified only two instances of error: the trial f the schliebe testimony indicating he could not tell if the photographs from the scene depicted shoeprints and the past conduct. we have found each of these errors harmless on their considering them together, we likewise conclude their cumulative effect does not warrant reversal of the judgment.(people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 884.) we also have found no ineffective assistance of counsel, either because deficient, it may have had a tactical purpose, or it was not prejudicial. lengthy criminal trials are rarely perfect, and this court will not reverse a judgment absent a clear showing of a miscarriage of justice.(people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 844, citing cal. const., art. vi,  13 and chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) on the complete record, the errors we have identified were minor and did not, even when combined, rise to the level of reversible, prejudicial error. viii. parole revocation fine is stricken brown argues, and the people concede, that the trial court erred in imposing but staying a parole revocation fine since brown was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole. we agree and strike the parole revocation fine. (people v. oganesyan (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1178, 1183.) 94 disposition the parole revocation fine is stricken. the trial court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment that does not reflect the imposition of a parole revocation fine and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. 