filed 5/9/18 p. v. capers ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael capers et al., defendants and appellants. b267823 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta125615) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed as modified, remanded with instruction. randy s. kravis for defendant and appellant michael capers. law office of david carico and david d. carico for defendant and appellant daynell bernard bell. 2 xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael j. keller and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ factual and procedural background 1. introduction following a jury trial appellant michael capers was convicted of the first degree murder of jamil lyles (count i), attempted murder of brent exley, jerry sims, estvon johnson, deshawn needham, and darlene allen (counts iiv and viii), and the second degree murder of diamond johnson (count vii.) appellant daynell bell was convicted of the first degree murders of marvin nichelson1 and diamond johnson (counts vi and vii, respectively) and the attempted murder of darlene allen (count viii.) capers was sentenced to state prison for life without the possibility of parole, plus 140 years to life. bell was sentenced to state prison for life without the possibility of parole, plus 75 years to life.2 the court ordered both appellants to pay restitution 1 ut the court transcripts, as well as the verdict the court will use 2 both parties agree the record contains a discrepancy the trial court sentenced bell to life without the possibility of 3 jointly and severally and also a parole revocation fine. bell and capers both appeal from the judgment. each alleges numerous errors, including challenges to the cell phone tracing evidence that placed appellants near the scene of these three murders, dna evidence that matched with bell, challenges to statements by a detective and by percipient witnesses, trial, cumulative error, incompetence of counsel, and sentencing errors. we affirm the convictions but modify the judgment by striking the parole revocation fine and striking the restitution order. we also remand the restitution order to the trial court to reassess the award and enter a new payment order. 2. the nightclub shooting (counts iv against capers) on the night of july 19, 2009, brent exley went to the second ii none motorcycle nightclub at 131st street and broadway. most of the people in the club belonged to the crips, a gang associated with the color blue. a group of women from parole plus 85 years. however, the minute order reflects the sentence was life without the possibility of parole, plus 82 years, and the abstract of judgment reflects a sentence of life without the possibility of parole on counts vi and vii, plus life with the possibility of parole, with a minimum parole eligibility after seven years with respect to count viii. bell addresses this discrepancy in his statement of the case, but he does not raise it as an issue on appeal. both parties agree that the court misstated the sentence at the hearing and the court clerk miscalculated the sentence in the minute order, but that the abstract of judgment does not reflect these errors. we agree this discrepancy was merely a clerical error and will remand to correct the record. 4 d were there, wearing and displaying red and pink in their hair and clothes. presumably because of the association between the color red and a rival gang, the bloods, a fight broke out between two groups of girls. during the brawl, a woman, tori mcbride, was stabbed in the face. also during the fight, a man whom exley identified as appellant capers brandished a gun in front of janika nelson, who had gone to the club with mcbride. while exley was helping the group of women who were wearing red and pink, including mcbride, capers pointed the gun bloods. exley told capers that he was a crip, and then capers helped stop the fight. exley retrieved his van in order to take mcbride to the hospital. exleys friends jerry sims, estevon johnson, deshawn needham, and jamil lyles got in his van. as he turned left at the intersection of broadway and 131st street, exley heard a female bullets then hit the van from both sides. exley identified capers as the shooter who was firing moments later, realizing that jamil lyles had been shot, exley drove to a local hospital. by now it was approximately 5 a.m. lyles died at the hospital from a bullet wound to the head. at the scene of the shooting, investigators recovered both nine-millimeter and .380 cartridge cases and bullets. investigators determined that lyles had been killed by a nine-millimeter bullet. s death, exley and the rest of the 5 sheriff stefanie barragan and sergeant gray. initially the group was uncooperative. exley told the deputies that the shooting took place on el segundo blvd. and that the shooter was a light-skinned mexican. later, as exley testified at trial, he decided to tell the truth in part because he had learned that lyles had died. exley admitted to lying to the detectives because he just wanted to be let go. -photographs and immediately identified capers as one of the shooters. exley identified bell as looking familiar and having been at the club on the night in question, but he did not identify bell as one of the two shooters. exley also identified capers at the february 3, 2014, preliminary hearing. after testifying at the preliminary hearing, exley received relocation funds in the form of first and last mont. then he left his gang. on october 12, 2009, at 12:30 p.m., marvin nichelson, a 13-year-old boy, was walking home from an education center located at alondra and grandee avenue. his home was located at 915 south grandee avenue. an administrator of the center who was watching nichelson saw the boy make an apparent gang sign at a car. the car made a u-turn and drove towards nichelson. shots were fired, and marvin nichelson died. as she looked through the window of her home, mother, saw her son killed. two patrolling los angeles county sheriff deputies heard the gunshots, and after heading in their direction, they came face-to-face with the suspectcar. they could not identify the driver or the passenger. the suspect 6 vehicle maneuvered past the deputies, and they later lost sight of it between central avenue and aprilia street. after losing sight of the suspect vehicle, the deputies were alerted that phillipa hudson observed a car parked behind her home. the deputies recognized that vehicle (which was now empty) as that of the suspects. it was a gray dodge stratus, near the dodge stratus police investigators recovered a .45 caliber cartridge case and a .45 caliber firearm. at the site of the shooting, police recovered eight nine-millimeter cartridge cases. campbell was preparing to drive in his toyota camry away from his home by alondra and cypress streets. suddenly, a man got into his car. the man was sweating and breathing heavily and told campbell campbell told the man to get out, but the man said he needed a ride to visit his sick mother. campbell agreed to drop the man at the nearest bus stop. campbell noticed that the man had a cut on his finger, which left a blood smudge in the vehicle. five days after the incident, according to campbell, the man appeared at his house and offered to pay him money. police investigators recovered dna profiles from the blood the man had to the full dna profile recovered from equating to a frequency of one out of 430 quintillion (a 1 followed by 18 zeros) people. forensic scientists were unable to definitely match bell to any of g wheel, its gear shift, or from the .45 firearm. 7 4. viii against capers and bell) on december 29, 2009, police officers discovered the body 42nd street. crayon was a member of a crips subset, the four-deuce gang. bell and capers also belonged to this group. the gave bell the motive to commit the diamond johnson murder. on january 3, 2010, at approximately 1:30 p.m., darlene s house at 1196 east 33rd street, which is on the corner of 33rd street and naomi avenue. johnson was wearing red basketball shorts and was standing with allen on the porch. suddenly, an african-american man of average height and weight shot allen three times and johnson twice. allen recovered, but johnson died from a gunshot to the head. juan funes, who was cleaning the porch of a house also at the corner of 33rd street and naomi avenue, heard the gunshots, as the gunman fled, his cap fell off, and when he stooped to pick it up, he dropped his cell phone. he retrieved the phone, but some parts remained on the ground. at the scene of the shooting, police recovered nine-millimeter shell casings, a cell phone clip, and the back of the blackberry cell phone. almost a month later, on january 27, 2010, two detectives interviewed donald streeter, another associate of the four deuce gang. streeter told the detectives that two days after crayoresidence. bell was armed with a glock handgun and capers had a nine-millimeter pistol. capers going to show you 8 n-----s how we do this, how the four-deuces really get down. then the appellants left for between 20 and 30 minutes. after that he and d two slobs members of the bloods in the area near jefferson high school. the detectives later served streeter with a subpoena to testify at the preliminary hearing, which was scheduled for december 21, 2010, but streeter became uncooperative and denied everything he had previously said to them. in june 2011, detectives interviewed streeter regarding an unrelated murder. streeter initially pointed to two other men, but when interviewed a second time, confessed to the murder. streeter pleaded guilty to that crime and received a 25-year sentence. streeter refused to testify at the trial of capers and bell; he even refused to leave his jail cell to come to court. the court found him unavailable, anpreliminary hearing was read into the record. discussion i the trial court correctly ruled on the issues with respect to cell phone evidence a. the facts l phone records and reached the following conclusions: cell phone registered calls at 3:14 a.m. and 4:56 a.m. on a tower roughly one-half mile from 131st and broadway, the closest tower 9 to that location. a different tower registered a call at 4:53 a.m. that tower was roughly one and one-third miles from 131st and broadway. a fourth call was made at 4:56 and 45 seconds, which connected to the original tower half a mile from the shooting. 2) on october 12, 2009, the day of the marvin nichelson murder, an analysis of cell phone records revealed that a call at 12:26 p.m. used a tower about three-quarters of a mile from 915 south grandee avenue. calls at 12:33 and 12:36 p.m. registered on a tower one and a half miles from grandee, indicating that the cell phone was moving. 3) on january 3, 2010, the day of the diamond johnson tower a mile and three quarters from 1246 east 42nd street, the location of the murder. the phone registered another call at 1:02 p.m. using a different tower 1,000 feet from that address, again indicating that the cell phone was moving. 4) ds cell phone, revealed two calls on january 3, 2010 at 12:53 p.m. and 1:38 p.m. registering on a tower that was less than 2,000 feet from 1246 east 42nd street. bell requested a kelly-frye3 hearing, that is, foundational evidence disclosing general acceptance of the test within the relevant scientific community and a hearing under evidence code section 402 as to whether respondent could lay foundation sufficient records. the court denied the motion, reasoning that the argument went to the weight of the evidence. 3 people v. kelly (1976) 17 cal.3d 24 (kelly) and frye v. united states (d.c. cir. 1923) 293 f. 1013 (frye). 10 b. standard of review we review these rulings for abuse of discretion. expert opinion is offered, much must be left to the trial courts discretion [citation.] the trial court has broad discretion in deciding whether to admit or exclude expert testimony [citation], and its decision as to whether expert testimony meets the standard for admissibility is subject to review for abuse of discretion. [citations.] (people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 426.) c. no kelly hearing was necessary. california adheres to the kelly admission of expert testimony regarding new scientific (people v. leahy (1994) 8 cal.4th 587, 591.) the proponent of such evidence must establish (1) the new methodology is reliable by showing it has gained general acceptance in the relevant scientific community; (2) the witness furnishing the testimony is qualified as an expert to state an opinion on the subject; and (3) correct scientific procedures were used in the particular case. (kelly, supra, 17 cal.3d 24, 30.) however, as our supreme court has explained, this test applies class of expert testimony which is based, in whole or part, on a technique, process, or theory which is new to science and, even (people v. leahy, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 605, quoting people v. stoll (1989) 49 cal.3d 1136people v. garlinger (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1185, 1194 (garlinger).) appellant insists that in reaching her conclusions and tracing caperss the granulization theory. appellant admits, however, that ms. 11 haas did not use any particular nomenclature to describe her methods. our review of the record leads us to conclude that she did not use the granulization theory. the granulization theory is explained in united states v. evans (n.d. ill. 2012) 892 f.supp2d 949 (evans). evans was discussed at length in garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th 1185. there, the court described granulization as follows: determine the location of a cell phone using the theory of granulization, special agent raschke (the expert who testified in evans) first identifies (1) the physical location of the cell sites used by the phone during the relevant time period; (2) the specific antenna used at each cell site; and (3) the direction of the antennas coverage. he then estimates the range of each antennas coverage based on the proximity of the tower to other towers in the area. this is the area in which the cell phone could connect with the tower given the angle of the antenna and the strength of its signal. finally, using his training and experience, special agent raschke predicts where the coverage area of one tower will overlap with the coverage area of another. [] applying this methodology, special agent raschke testified that he could estimate the general location of evanss cell phone during an 18-minute period (from 12:54 p.m. to 1:12 p.m.) on april 24, 2010, during which time evanss phone used two cell towers to place nine calls. according to special agent raschke, based on his estimate of the coverage area for each of the antennas, the calls made from evanss phone could have come (garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th. p. 1197.) detective bearor, the expert who testified at the trial in garlinger, 12 special agent raschke, detective bearor did not purport to have estimated the coverage area of specific cell towers based on their proximity to other towers. nor did he claim to have determined the location of defendants cell phone based on his ability to predict overlapping coverage areas. those were the salient aspects of granulization theory found to be lacking in reliability. while detective bearor did perform the initial steps taken by the expert in evans, i.e., he identified the locations of the cell sites used by defendants phone before and after the robbery, the specific sector of those towers receiving the signal from defendants phone, and the direction of that sectors coverage, nothing in the evans decision casts doubt on the ability of an expert to testify to these matters or to the relatively common sense deduction that the phone must have been in the general area of the cell tower and in the general direction of coverage. indeed, other federal district court decisions, involving expert testimony far more analogous to that given by the detective in this case, have found such testimony to be reliable . . . . [citations.] as we have already explained, we conclude such testimony does not describe and therefore, kelly does not apply. [citation.] (garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th, p. 11981199.) turning to the instant appeal, the record reflects that romy haas never said her cell site mapping was precise, only that she obtained general information from which one could estimate location and movement. many factors impact which sector on a tower receives a call. according to haas, cell phones initially pick the closest tower with the strongest signal. she explained that if there is an obstruction, a cell might communicate with a tower offering a stronger signal even if it is 13 located farther away. haas said that with her cellhawk mapping software program and call detail records, the best she could determine was that the handset was somewhere within range of a particular tower. with the aid of cellhawk, haas was able to she looked first cell tower . . . that was hit during the phone pie likely within a certain area. haas notes that the tower the cell tower to the phone, but admits that during peak hours, the phone will haas also testified that the general areas indicated in the exhibits were only of the direction that the handset would have been in relation to the whole enter [sic] haas fed information into the cellhawk program, which then plotted cell tower locations on a map in order to 1) determine the location of sites depicted in call detail records, 2) pull out tower locations and create pie slices with respect to which of the three sectors were used to service the call, and 3) set the size of the pie slice depending on the value of the radius haas input. hass also assumed that the direction of the antennae or the sector getting the call is the direction from which the cell phone call originated. combined with her assumption of the cell phone within a three-quarter mile radius of the tower to which it connected. the program did not calculate coverage area of the cell tower based on the relative signal strength of other towers. haas picked and inputted a .75 14 . . . based off of ause it was easy to visualize on a map and would avoid creating overlapping circles. based on this evidence, ms. haas avoided the second and third steps in granulization analysis, that is, estimating the range of an coverage based on its proximity to another antenna, and then predicting where the coverage area of one tower will overlap with the coverage area of another. rather, haas roughly and pie slices which cellhawk produced. haas said mapping implied a very good estimate of the direction of the caller in relation to the tower, and she performed independent testing to see if her mapping of the location of the was correct. s mapping resembled the procedure used in garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th 1184. both methods allow one to determine the general direction from which a particular call connects to a particular tower and a very . neither haas nor the garlinger expert looked to the potential coverage areas of other towers to determine a more specific location estimate. of specific cell towers based on their proximity to other ts cell phone based on [her] ability to predict overlapping coverage (garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1198.) the only variables at issue were the coordinates of the tower the cell phone connected to and the direction. we conclude that ms. haas did haas relied on techniques that have been generally 15 accepted in the scientific community. as the court explained in garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at pages 1195119here, while cell phones are relatively new devices, the methodology is not new. sending and receiving a radio signal to and from a cell tower and base station in their general vicinity. [citation.] the area of the particular towercell. as the cell phone user moves from cell to cell, the wireless company transfers the call to the new cells tower and base station. [citation.] as previously stated, the transmission of radio signals from one place to another is a technology that has been around for more than a century. [citation.] there is nothing new or experimental about this technology. nor is there anything dubious about sciences understanding of radio waves; as relevant here, they generally travel in a straight line. [citation.] thus, determining the general location of a cell phone based on which sector of the particular cell tower to which that phones signal connected cannot be considered a new scientific methodology. [citation.] this is all detective bearor purported to do in his garlinger went on to note, with four examples, that rial courts of this state without any suggestion the kelly test applies.supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1196.) in one of the cited cases, people v. hollinquest (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1534, 1544, qualified as an expert in cell phone records and call origins, analyzed the records. phones, as revealed by the cell sites or towers where the calls originated, grew increasingly close, until the last call was registered at the same cell site on harbour way in richmond, 16 which indicated that the two phones were then in very close (ibid.) there was no challenge to the admission of this evidence under kelly. garlinger concluded (garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th, at p.1196.) since factors giving rise to a kelly hearing were not present here,4 the trial court correctly denied a kelly hearing with respect to the tracking of the cell phones. d. no evidence code 402 hearing was necessary request for a hearing pursuant to evidence code section 402 in order to determine if romy haas qualified as an expert in cell identification technique and whether the methods she followed met the foundational requirements under evidence code sections 801 and 802, subdivision (b)abuse of discretion (people v. mcdowell, supra, 54 cal.4th 395, 426) and conclude that the trial court correctly denied this request. appellants rely on sargon enterprises, inc. v. university of southern california (2012) 55 cal.4th 747 (sargon). sargon, they court decision in kumho tire v. carmichael (1999) 526 u.s. 137). kumho tire applied daubert v. merrell dow pharms., inc. (1993) 509 u.s. 579 across the board to all types of expert testimony. . .this is not entirely correct, as explained in one of the articles appellants cite. (imwinkelried and faigman, sargon enterprises 4 detective gray also said cell analysis is generally used and commonly factor 17 v. usca different perspective 27 california litigation 14 (2014).) . . . the (kelly) frye sargon, 55 cal.4th at p. 772, fn. 6) . . close reading of sargon demonstrates that when justice chin described the nature of the inquiry under sargon, he did not go as far as justice blackmun. justice chin stated that trial judges shouas a matter of logic, the studies and other information cited by the experts adequately support the conclusion that the expertsargon, 55 cal.4th at p 772 . . . . thus sargon stops short of authorizing as probing an inquiry as daubert stressed that the seventh amendment counsels that judges must be (id. the record shows that ms. haas qualified as an expert. she was a crime analyst with four years of experience with cell tracking and mapping, 30 hours of training in cell phone analysis, and membership in the cellular analytical survey team. ms. haas described the exact processes she performs for from the cell carrier, analyzing the call data such as time and parties to the call, and cell phone mapping. s background suffices to qualify her as an expert. to the weight of the evidence. with respect to the substantive evidence about which ms. haas testified, one must remember that sargon did not do away with evidence code section 801(b). the question remains whether ms. s 18 be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to which his [or her] testimony relates, . . . (garlinger, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1199.) ms. haas did not use new methodology. she testified that cell phone mapping implied a tower. she employed her own testing to determine the accuracy of her mapping. detective gray testified to the regular and general use of cell phone analysis. ms. haas never said that her mapping was precise. instead she gave general information to enable a person to estimate the handsein relation to the towers. (cf. garlinger, supra, at p. 1192.) haas acknowledged several factors that could affect which sector on a tower receives a call: signal strength, topography, call volume, the design of the cell site, and the presence of obstructions. she agreed that calls would jump to the next-closest tower in a period of high-call volume. (since she was tracing activity in the early morning hours, we doubt this was a high-volume period.) moreover, while evidence code section 802 allows the trial court said in explaining what she did justified exclusion of her testimony. this evidence contains no new scientific techniques; moreover, it satisfies the requirements of evidence code sections 801(b) and 802. experts in the field could reasonably look to and base their opinions and reasoning on these factors, and based on the cases cited in garlinger, they have. we are not dealing with evidentiary voids of the magnitude that justifies a court in excluding testimony, such as, for example, lockheed litigation cases (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 558, 563564, and pacific gas & electric co. v. zuckerman (1987) 189 calapp.3d 1113, 1135. the trial court acted well within its discretion in declining 19 to conduct a hearing under evidence code section 402. ii the court properly excluded the codis letter along with testimony about it with respect to the dna evidence as he fled from the scene of the johnson/allen shooting, bell lost his cap when a low hanging tree branch knocked it off. when he returned to pick it up, he dropped his blackberry cell phone. bell retrieved it, but not the phone clip. that remained on the ground at the scene. stacy vaderschaaf, a crimand sent the samples to a contract laboratory for dna analysis. she recovered a minimal amount of dna, but what she recovered was over the target amount for testing, which is .125 nonograms. the contract laboratory found the dna of at least three people. the lab analyst, kristen hammonds, concluded that with . . . we could kind of see a major person contributing a little more dna than the other individual present. so at seven different areas,[5] we could definitely pull out a major profile. and so at those seven areas, we compared them to daynell bell, and at those seven areas, he was consistent. we said he could not be excluded at those seven hammonds added that the estimated frequency of this genetic profile at seven loci in five north american populations is one in 339.8 million unrelated individuals in the african-american population, 1 in 30.18 million in the caucasian population, one in 315.8 million in the southwest hispanic population, one in 41.53 million in the southeast hispanic population, and one in 35.18 million among general asians. 5 witnesses referred to these areas as loci. 20 steve renteria, forensic scientist for the los angeles , performed a dna analysis on the blood sa he received a full profile (15/15) from the blood stain on the passenger seat. bell could not be excluded as possible major contributor of the dna. tdna index system (codis), and it came back with a hit on bell. when detective daniel asked him about a letter dated may 24, 2010, from the texas department of public safety. subject inmate who was six feet one inch tall, white with blue eyes. detective gersna did not recall ever seeing this letter until august 26, 2015, the day he testified at trial.6 the los angeles police criminalist who had received this letter. respondent objected for lack of confirmatory testing, argu. . . respondents counsel represented that the investigator in the case never saw the letter letter that was supposedly sent to thomas thompsonfirst of all erial number and they sent it to a lieutenant thomas thompson. so they sent it to the wrong person . . . so they never received the letter, so how could they have followed up on any investigation if they never received it . . . this is just a lead and nothing more than that . . . 6 at that time, the letter was not marked as an exhibit nor does it appear to ever have been marked. 21 steve renteria testified that unless three positive comparisons confirm a codis hit, it remains nothing more than . . . for the detective to do more work and we require them to get another sample from that named individual so we could reanalyze it all over again . . . so we the court sustained an objection to the letter on, among other grounds, lack of a sufficient foundation and, under evidence code section 352, that it was more prejudicial than probative. a. standard of review a]n appellate court applies the abuse of discretion standard of review to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence, including one that turns on the relative probativeness and prejudice of the evidence in question [citations].people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 724.) b. the trial court properly excluded the codis letter along with testimony about it. no one came forward to testify, or even present an offer of proof, that would have laid an adequate foundation for the codis letter and taken it out of the realm of hearsay. the record reflects that counsel showed it to detective gersna, but he had never seen it before the trial. although the letter had apparently been mailed, there was evidence that it was sent to the wrong person, with the result that the investigators in the instant case never saw it. the record contains nothing that 22 would satisfy evidence code section 1400.7 there was no evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that the codis letter was what the proponents claimed it to be. nobody attempted to authenticate the letter, as required by evidence code section 1401.8 worse yet, the letter did not become part of the record. no one marked it, and it is not before us. on that basis alone, we do not have a sufficient basis to decide whether it might have been admissible. even assuming a proper foundation had been laid and assuming further the absence of any hearsay issue, the trial court still ruled correctly. evidence code section 352 allows a court in its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will . . . (b) create substantial danger of undue in this case, all of these factors justify sustaining the objection. this hit represents nothing more than an investigative lead. respondent argues, and rightfully so, that if the court had 7 evidence code section 1400 provides as follows: authentication of a writing means (a) the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is or (b) the establishment of such facts by any other means provided by law. 8 evidence code section 1401 provides as follows: (a) authentication of a writing is required before it may be received in evidence. (b) authentication of a writing is required before secondary evidence of its content may be received in evidence. 23 have been confused and misled and a mini-trial would have been appellant argues that the only reason he wanted to admit the codis letter was to impeach the credibility of respondent would occur once out of 339 million african-there was a second hit in a database containing only a fraction of the dna profiles from the united states prison population (1.6 million as of december 2010), casts serious doubt on the from his analysis of the blood sampltoyota. , as steve renteria explained, the texas hit represents nothing more than an investigative lead. without any follow-up, the hit fails to impeach the probability data. and even if it were relevant, the section 352 factors substantially outweigh the probative value of the codis letter for the same reasons as the court explained above. the trial court ruled correctly with respect to the codis letter.9 9 appellant further contends that his constitutional rights were violated, including the right of confrontation and the right to present a defense. these rights do not require a court to admit unauthenticated hearsay in the form of an unconfirmed investigative lead which the investigator never saw and whose author remains unknown. criminal defendant has a constitutional right to present all relevant evidence of significant probative value in his favor [citations], n unlimited inquiry may be made into collateral matters; the proffered evidence must have 24 iii the court properly admitted charles lees statement appellants claim a violation of the confrontation clause by into evidence without any finding that lee was unavailable to testify and whether there had been an earlier opportunity to cross-examine him. we find no error. stephanie thompson, a person unrelated to this appeal, was murdered. detective gersna initially talked with streeter about this shooting, and when he did so, streeter falsely implicated two people who did not exist. about a month later, streeter confessed that he had shot ms. thompson. appellant capers claims that streeter engaged in the same dishonest behavior in the instant case. s attorney asked to question detective gersna about thompson respondent objected, arguing that in the stephanie thompson murder, streeter was trying to shift the blame from himself while in the instant case, [h]to mr. capers and mr. bell, plotting to go out and kill somebody after further colloquy, the court asked the past? mr. salcido: oh, yes. absolutely. the court: so more than slight-relevancy [citation.][citation] (people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 865.) 25 you want? mr. salcido: and justof course, very quickly, just to line up the similarities: instances, falsely accusing mr. bell and he falsely accused these other two people over here. (the two whom streeter named by their ersatz gang monikers). issue . . . . . . and said . . . and named two people and then, subsequent to that, he confessed? mr. salcido: yes the court: so those are your parameters. mr. salcido: yes. yes. the court: okay. the court warned counsel that the people would be able to say, well, he gave two names in this situation. were you how were you able to confirm it? boom-boom-boom-boom. mr. salcido: sure. i understand that. s the court: just so you understand the door is open to 26 mr. salcido: co-defense counsel joined. detective gersna took the stand and testified that when streeter named ca counsel objected on hearsay grounds. at the sidebar, the court reminded him that letting in evidence of the earlier lies and corroborate. i said they would be able to do that. since you brought in the issue about verifying, the people would be able to do it with regard to mr. streeter. . . you said, , kind of, semi-quote you. mr. salcido: yes. and the court is correct in its semi-quote. testimony resumed. detective gersna said that he verified or corroborated what mr. streeter had told him, and that his source of the corroborating information was charles lee, another four-deuce gang member. then the court sustained an objection to the question whether what lee said was consistent with what streeter said. later, the court gave the jury a limiting instruction with respect to charles lee to the effect that the evidencoffered for its truth. court also instructed the jury with calcrim no. 303. appellant now insists the court erred by admitting an out 27 of court statement by charles lee without finding him unavailable. appellant asserts constitutional and evidence code violations. we disagree. a. standard of review we independently review whether a statement was testimonial so as to implicate the sixth amendment. we evaluate the primary purpose for which the statement was given and taken under an objective standard, considering all the circumstances that might reasonably bear on the intent of the participants in the conversation. (people v. nelson (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1453, 1466.) as we stated earlier, we evaluate evidentiary rulings for abuse of discretion. b. admitting the lee statement violated no constitutional rights because it was not hearsay before the testimony at issue came in, the court made it clear that if mr. salcido planned to impeach streeter with his to corroborate the information streeter gave him with respect to capers and bell. after the detective testified, the court instructed the jury not to consider what he had said for its truth, but only to show his efforts to find corroboration.10 therefore, the statement is not hearsay (evid. code,  1200 subd. (a).) it follows that appellantstitutional right of confrontation was not violated. in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 681, our neither the hearsay doctrine nor the 10 we presume the jury understood the limiting instruction and followed it. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th, 393, 414.) 28 confrontation clause is implicated when an out-of-court statement is not received to prove the truth of a fact it asserts. (see crawford v. washington [(2004)] 541 u.s. 36, 59, fn. 9; tennessee v. street (1985) 471 u.s. 409, 413414 to the same effect is people v. hopson (2017) 3 cal.5th 424, 432. hopson quoted crawford to the effect tthe use of testimonial statements . . . (ibid.) c. s waived their right of confrontation ied as hearsay, appellant waived his constitutional argument. in people v. hopson, supra, 3 cal.5th 424, 443, the supreme court noted the well-impeach a testifying defendant, just like any other witness. (citation.) the prosecution is always entitled to point out a defendants motivation to divert blame to an unavailable accomplice and present admissible facts that contradict the defendants story. and it may be possible, in appropriate cases, for the prosecution to argue that the defendant has opened the door to admission of otherwise inadmissible testimonial the door exception to the confrontation right or decide the scope of any such exceptit did not rule out the ability to waive. (id. at p. 443.) in her dissent, chief justice sakauye cited a united states supreme court case to the effect that to confrontation may, of course, be waived, including by failure to object to the offending evidence; and states may adopt procedural rules governing the exercise of such objections. (citation.) 29 similarly, in people v. stevens (2007) 41 cal.4th 182, 199 we concluded that the defendant had waived his initial confrontation clause objection concerning the admission of a codefendants statements to police because his defense counsel eventually expressed satisfaction with a redacted version of the statements. (stevens, at p. 199 (people v. hopson, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 464.) part of appellantsstreeter gave to law enforcement when he named names in connection with an earlier murder and then argue that streeter lied again with respect to the instant crimes. the court warned counsel what would likely ensue, and more than once counsel acknowledged what could occur. appellants cannot have it both ways. they cannot use the confrontation clause as a sword.11 as respondent says in its questioning woulwe might not have even heard about . . . in this trial will come in, as to comparing the two situations . . . cho we find no error with respect to how the trial court handled charles lee. iv the trial court properly admitted capersout of court statements a. the facts pursuant to evidence code section 402, respondent filed a 11 see united states v. lopez-medina (10th cir. 2010) 596 f.3d 716, 726, 730733. 30 motion to admit a redacted recorded statement which capers had given to detective gersna. s statement to the jury, respondent edited it, a task respondent did not find difficult because with one exception, capers had not referred to bell. (early on during the interview, he said he knew bell, but that portion was redacted.) the basic thrust of the statement was to place capers at 33rd and naomi, the scene of the diamond johnson shooting. after persistent questioning by detective gersna, capers admitted that he drove to (or at least near) the scene in order to pick somebody up. . . . you want i capers gave different versions of what happened before he drove to the scene: i was at home. somebody called my girl and, damn. i say, i was was in mingled around for a little bit trying to, you know, figure out (inaudible) funeral, when was that going on. . damn. you know, like wow. so (inaudible) give me his keys, and i go. like damn. during the oral argument, counsel for bell cited the court statement: entire family . . . i knew him, 31 you know. i been knowing him sincethey be knowing me appellant contended that this last passage made it clear to the jury that capers was going to pick up bell and no one else. we interpret this passage differently. its context does not limit the individuals to whom capers made reference nor does it suggest that he was picking up bell. when capers arrived at or near the scene, he said that a bushes or alley or l] like . . . in like no panic or nothing like that or what you trying to say or nothing like that . . . so i s statement was played for the jury, the court instructed the jury that it could be considered only against him, not against bell. (calcrim no. 305.) someone sixth amendment right of confrontation was violated as to counts vi and vii. we conclude otherwise. b. the basic aranda/bruton principles in people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518, 530531, our introduce into evidence an extrajudicial statement of one defendant that implicates a codefendant, the trial court must adopt one of the following procedures: (1) it can permit a joint 32 trial if all parts of the extrajudicial statements implicating any codefendants can be and are effectively deleted without prejudice to the declarant. by effective deletions, we mean not only direct and indirect identifications of codefendants but any statements that could be employed against nondeclarant codefendants once their identity is otherwise established. (2) it can grant a severance of trials if the prosecution insists that it must use the extrajudicial statements and it appears that effective deletions cannot be made. (3) if the prosecution has successfully resisted a motion for severance and thereafter offers an extrajudicial statement implicating a codefendant, the trial court must exclude it if effective deletions are not possible. (ibid., fn. omitted, abrogated on other grounds as stated in people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 868, fn 10.) in bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123, the united states supreme court held that the admission of one codefendant violates the right of confrontation despite a jury instruction to consider the statement only against the declarant. there is too great a risk that the jury will not follow such a cautionary instruction. (id. at pp. 135137.) c. capers statement was sufficiently edited in people v. fletcher (1996) 13 cal.4th 451, 456 (fletcher), our supreme court addressed the issue whether it was confrontation clause, that a nontestifying codefendants extrajudicial confession is edited by replacing all references to the nondeclarants name with pronouns or similar neutral and nonidentifying terms. such a confession is facially incriminating in the sense that it is 33 sufficient by itself, without reference to any other evidence, to incriminate someone other than the confessing codefendant. it is not facially incriminating only in the sense that it does not identify this other person by name. the fletcher court concluded that whether this kind of editingwhich retains references to a co-participant in the crime but removes references to the co-sufficiently protects a nondeclarant defendants constitutional right of confrontation may not be resolved by a bright line rule of either universal admission or universal exclusion. of this form of editing must be determined on a case-by-case basis in light of the other evidence that has been or is likely to be presented at the trial. the editing will be deemed insufficient to avoid a confrontation violation if, despite the editing, reasonable jurors could not avoid drawing the inference that the defendant was the co-participant designated in the confession by symbol or (fletcher, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 456.) the statement fletcher disapproved placed both of the two defendants in a car moments before the shooting occurred. it put cables or some kind of ruse to get people to stop so that they could rob them. (fletcher, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 458459, 469.) substituting a pronoun or other neutprovide sufficient assurance that the average reasonable juror would obey an instruction to disregard the confession when considering the guilt of the nondeclarant. (id. at p. 465.) the appeal before us presents a different set of facts. capers did not facially implicate bell to the point that the jury could not follow a limiting instruction. capers statement did 34 not place bell at the scene when the shooting occurred. indeed capers did not discuss the shooting at all. capers did not (see, fletcher, supra, 13 cal. 4th at p. 466.) capers did not single out bell with neutral terms. in one of capers versions, capers was mingling with others in his neighborhood when yet another person handed him a set of car keys and asked him to pick somebody up. in other words, several people may have been involved in this entire incident, not just bell.12 unlike fletcher, where both co-defendants were present at the scene when the crime occurred, capers showed up later, and whoever he picked up did not, according to capers, appear to be excited or under any stress caused by just having shot two people. people v. archer (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 1380 provides another example of a statement that did violate the sixth amendments right of confrontation. although the statement by defendant baserga had been redacted to delete any mention of in several aspects of the statement. baserga told the investigator that he picked up the victim, john pate, and suggested to pate that they go to 4181 la madera avenue. according to baserga, the plan was to attack john pate by surprise as he walked into 12 we know from people v. jefferson (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 830, 845, that a redacted statement does not pass muster when the group of co-participants mentioned in the confession numbers only three. while we do not have a set number of individuals with whom capers was mingling in the neighborhood, we can infer from the record that the group exceeded three, which makes the capers statement more protective of bell. 35 the back yard of 4181 la madera avenue. the jury previously had heard testimony that 4181 la madera was appellants home address. baserga stated he knew that bringing pate to that address was gonna set him up. address, baserga opened the gate and walked into the patio area; pate was behind me, and then pate was stabbed. pate tried to escape, but i didnt know what to do, so i held him. baserga stated that he stabbed pate in the arm, maybe twice . . . . baserga believed john pate was stabbed more than 10 times, mostly in the chest or in the stomach. these portions of the statement leave no doubt that the serious stab wounds were inflicted by someone other than baserga, and that this other person was waiting at appellants house for baserga to arrive with pate. []. . .[] use[d] something to move [the body] from the ground there in the back yard and put it in the back of the hatchback, the little ford escort with a plate number 2 mna 526? baserga replied: yeah. used the wheelbarrow to move the body and put it in the back of the car. the jury previously had heard testimony that appellants car was a 1989 blue ford escort with that same license number. (people v. archer, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at pp. 13881389.) moreover, basergas statement was not redacted by using neutral pronouns or symbols to indicate deletions. instead, pronouns and names were omitted without any indication of an omission. the resulting ungrammatical sentences raise as strong a suspicion that names have been omitted as a neutral pronoun or symbol would have done. for example, baserga described the disposal of the body: first broke open, opened up the lock 36 with bolt cutters, and then at that time i held the gate and drove in and just parked. and then opened the back of the car and got (people v. archer, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at pp. 13881389.) despite the editing, baserga jury that baserga planned the crime with someone else, that the other person was waiting at appellants house for baserga to arrive with pate, and that the other person stabbed pate at least eight times in the chest or stomach, while baserga stabbed him only twice in the arm. someone other than baserga moved the body from the patio to the back corner of appellants yard and covered the body with dirt. someone other than baserga cut the head off the body and disposed of it. the body was moved from that location by baserga and someone else, in appellants car. baserga and this someone else removed the body from appellants car, sawed off the hands, left the body near some rocks, and drove away in appellants car [] . . . [t]he existence of another participant is obvious from the statement itself. . . . moreover, appellants home address and car license plate number figure prominently in the description of the commission of the crime. a eyes to [appellant], sitting at counsel table, to find what will seem (gray v. maryland [(1998)] 523 u.s. [185,] 193.) the statement, even with redaction, facially incriminates appellant. the average juror, viewing the confession in light of the other evidence introduced at trial, could not avoid drawing the inference that the nondeclarant is the person so designated in the confession and the confession is powerfully incriminatingon the issue of the nondeclarants guilt. (people v. fletcher, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 467people v. 37 archer, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at pp. 13891390.) the capers statement did not place bell at the scene when the shooting occurred. the person capers described was not excited as one would expect a person to be following a murder. capers statement implicates at least one other person besides bell whoever gave capers the car keys. we find that his statement was sufficiently edited so as to comply with the aranda/bruton rule. moreover, the prosecution did not misuse the statement during final argument. v on january 27, 2010roughly three weeks after diamond johnson and darlene allen were shotdetectives interviewed donald streeter. streeter told them that he had been with both bell and capers carried pistols. -----s how we do thi streeter indicated that capers went on to say, we laid two slobs down in the bottoms. on december 21, 2010, streeter was called to testify at s preliminary hearing. he denied everything he had told the detectives on january 27, 2010. counsel for bell and capers cross-examined streeter during the preliminary hearing. on august 6, 2015, appellants filed a written motion 38 testimony, arguing that they did not have an adequate opportunity to cross-examine streeter because at the time of the hearing, they had not seen his mental health records and were unaware of his involvement in an unrelated murder of stephanie thompson.13 the court did not issue a final ruling, but noted that because streeter had at the preliminary hearing, he was subject to the cross-examination on the same areas that we are dealing with in the [h]e essentially denied everything and had to be en laid in order to be able to allow the people to use his prior testimony at the preliminary hearing. streeter was unavailable. on august 24, 2015, the court r. streeter. and he is refusing, as he has consistently over the last week, to come out of extract him, if we had toa farce to strategically extract him from the jail cell forcibly, to bring him up here, potentially 13 capers also argues that this court should independently treatment by dr. ehab yacoub. s independent review of the mental health records. these records were reviewed in camera by the trial court, which found that none of the records was properly discoverable. we have reviewed the records and conclude that there is nothing within them which is properly discoverable. more important, we also conclude that nothing in these records would have changed any of the trial courts rulings or the result in this appeal. 39 injuring the deputy, himself, or other inmates. and the court is inclined to accept his representation that he is refusing to come up and refusing to take the only thing the court could do at this point would be to hold custody on his own so me holding him in contempt has maybe a lot of bark but no bite. so, at this point, the court is inclined to deem him representations from officers of the court as to what we would have to do in order to get him up here the court formally ruled on the matter on august 26, 2015. [streeter] refused to come up into court. that was relayed to me by my bailiff. he continually refused to come into court and indicated to everyone around him that he was going to have to be extracted and would use force or resist if he was extracted. . . . based on the totality of the situation and based on what the court is faced with, and using the balancing with regard to safety of not just mr. streeter but the officers and other inmates and people in this court, the court is going to find that he is unavailable as a witness, pursuant to evidence c when counsel of bell and capers insisted that the court could not find him unavailable because it had not actually held him in contempt, the own voluntary manslaughter charge, so any threats or any action the court would [take] to hold him in contempt would be was read into the record. next, a detective testified that he had 40 interviewed streeter on june 29, 2011 about stephanie thompsons murder. -s-as suspects, but denied any direct involvement. detectives were unable to corroborate the existence of any such-named individuals. however, following another interview on july 5, 2011, streeter confessed that he had shot stephanie thompson. streeter pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter and was sentenced to 25 years. counsel for bell and capers cross-interviews, including his original lies about his lack of involvement. capers argues that the trial court erred in finding admitting his preliminary hearing testimony. capers also argues that he did not have an adequate opportunity to cross-examine streeter at the preliminary hearing, claiming a violation of the a. standard of review [citation.] the proponent of the evidence has the burden of showing by competent evidence that the witness is unavailable. [citation.] (people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 609 (smith).) constitution gives a criminal defendant the right to confront and cross- (people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 576.) evidence is at issue . . . the sixth amendment demands what the common law required: unavailability and a prior opportunity for cross-crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 68.) 41 witness is unavailable at trial and has testified at a previous judicial proceeding against the same defendant and was subject to cross-examination by that defendant, the previous testimony may be admitted at trial. [citations.] (smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 609.) courts should generally apply the de novo or independent standard of review to claims that implicate a defendants constitutional right to confrontation. [citation.] (people v. sweeney (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 210, 221.) however, as correctly (see people v. seijas (2005) 36 cal.4th 291, 304 [applying deference to factual findings involved in a sixth amendment issue].) b. unavailability although not mentioned in the briefs, the record reflects that all counsel stipulated in front of the jury that donald streeter is still alive; however, the court has deemed him unavailable to testify in this case. because this stipulation does not recite that appellants concede that streeter was unavailable, we proceed to discuss the issue. s determination of the historical facts of what the prosecution did to locate an absent to reasonable diligence sufficient to sustain a finding of (people v. bunyard [(2009)] 45 cal.4th [836,] people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 503.) he did not fall within any of the six categories set forth in 42 evidence code section 240. we consider only the categories that apply to the facts here. cphysically available yet refuses to testify, after the court has used all available avenues to coerce such testimony, is unavailable. this is true even though such a witness does not fit neatly into (people v. francis (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 579, 587.) our supreme court circumstances under which a witness may be deemed legally [citation.] who is physically available but who refuses to testify (without making a claim of privilege) if the court makes a finding of unavailability only after taking reasonable steps to induce the witness to testify unless it is obvious that such steps would be [citations (smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 624.) it is true that the trial court never formally lodged contempt charges against streeter, and therefore this situation however, the facts set forth above generally fit subsection (a)(4). streeter was absstreeter to testify at trial. those attempts failed, and the court continually refused to come into court and indicated to everyone around him that he was going to have to be the trial court declined to go through a formal contempt proceeding because it would 43 charge, so any threats or any action the court would [take] to hold based on these circumstances, the trial court correctly found streeter to be unavailable. c. opportunity for cross-examination unavailable witness may be admitted at trial without violating a defendants constitutional right. (people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 499.) in thomas, our supreme court upheld the admission of prior testimony from an unavailable witness at a preliminary hearing held as long ago as 15 years before the pertinent criminal proceedings, even if that preliminary hearing occurred in an entirely different criminal matter. (id. at p. 503.) the opinion cited an earlier case, people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, upholding the introduction of a transcript of a preliminary hearing in a prior criminal conviction conducted 11 years before the trial of the charged offense. -examine a witness who has become unavailable is considered an adequate substitute for present cross- [citation.] thus, as a defendant was provided the opportunity for cross-examination, the admission of preliminary hearing testimony under evidence code section 1291 does not offend the confrontation clause of the federal constitution simply because the defendant did not conduct a particular form of cross- (people v. andrade (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 1274, 1295.) 44 here, both capers and bell had an opportunity to cross-examine streeter. apreliminary hearing, attorney salcido asked him about his learning disability. defense attorney johnson asked streeter if the detectives had promised to let him go if he told them salcido also asked streeter if the detectives had told him he would stay in jail unless he talked with them. capers now argues that his ability to cross-examine streeter at the preliminary hearing was not an adequate substitute for cross-examination at trial because he did not have the opportunity to ask streeter about his inconsistent statements regarding the murder of stephanie thompson. while this is so, the trial court allowed streeter to be impeached on that very basis. was read into the record, a detective testified about the thompson murder and his interviews with streeter, and then salcido had an opportunity to cross-examine the detective on those issues. s attorneys had an opportunity to effectively cross-examine streeter to impeach his credibility during the preliminary hearing. was to essentially deny that the recorded voice was his, but that if it was his voice, he had lied to the detectives. later facts would tend to impeach his credibility even further. cross-examine a witness at the time of his or her prior testimony, that testimony is deemed sufficiently reliable to satisfy the confrontation requirement [citation], regardless whether subsequent circumstances bring into question the accuracy or the completeness of the earlier testimony. [citations 45 (people v. andrade, supra, 238 cal.app.4th at p. 1295.) the vi there was no need for the trial court to give accomplice instructions bell argues that the trial court failed to instruct the jury to determine whether capers and streeter were accomplices of bell determined the appellants were accomplices, the jury should have been instructed to view their statements with caution. because the court instructed the jury not to s statement whatsoever we find that the failure to include accomplice instructions was harmless. we also find no evidence that streeter was an accomplice to the diamond johnson murder. it follows that the trial court did not err in not including accomplice instructions. a. the law in this area accomplice unless it be corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense; and the corroboration is not sufficient if it merely shows (pen. code,  1111.) liable to prosecution for the identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the cause in which the concluding that a witness was an accomplice of the defendant in 46 the crime or crimes for which the defendant is on trial, the trial court must instruct the jury to determine if the witness was an (people v. hayes (1999) 21 cal.4th 1211, 12701271.) ning the evidence or the inferences to be drawn from the evidence, whether a witness is an accomplice is a question for the jury. on the other hand, the court should instruct the jury that a witness is an accomplice as a matter of law when the facts establishing the witness [citations. (people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 472.) however, matter of law to support a finding that a witness is an accomplice, the trial court may make that determination and, in that situation, need not instruct the jury on accomplice (people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 879.) speculative inferences alone are insufficient to support a finding that a witness was an accomplice. (people v. lewis (2001) the crime and had intimate knowledge of the robbery and murder, this fact without more merely means that he was an there is sufficient corroborating evidence. corroborating evidence may be slight, may be entirely circumstantial, and need not be sufficient to establish every element of the charged (people v. hayes, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 1271.) whenever an accomplice, or a witness who might be determined by the jury to be an accomplice, testifies: 47 accomplice gives testimony that tends to incriminate the defendant, it should be viewed with caution. this does not mean, however, that you may arbitrarily disregard that testimony. you should give that testimony the weight you think it deserves after examining it with care and caution and in the light of all the (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569.) b. s statement it is undisputed that capers was an accomplice with bell with respect to the diamond johnson murder. it also is undisputed that the trial court did not instruct the jury either that it must determine whether capers was an accomplice with s testimonyin the form of his interview with detective gersna despite conceding that capers was an accomplice, respondent argues that s statement that he received a phone call, or instructions, scene of the shooting does not bell contends, however, that similar to the issues discussed in the aranda/bruton portion of this opinion, the jury would reasonably conclude that in his statement, capers was referring to bell. s statement implicates bell, the failure of the trial court to include either of the accomplice instructions is harmless. s statement could only have been used against bell to show that he was in the area of the crime when it occurred. however, there was abundant corroborating evidence placing bell at the scene, including the dna on the cell-phone clip, the cell 48 capers were both armed, left a gathering together, and upon their return, one of them admitted that they killed two members of the bloods in the neighborhood where the murders occurred. moreover, the failure to instruct the jury to s or innocence is harmless in light of the limiting instructions the court did gi the court s statement at all in determining the guilt of bell. assuming, as we do, that the s statement guilt. s because the two were accomplices would not only have been superfluous, but likely confusing to the jury. c. although the trial court did not instruct the jury to determine if streeter was an accomplice of bell in the murder of diamond johnson, we conclude that such an instruction was unnecessary because there was no evidence that streeter was involved in that murder. bell argues that because streeter was a resulted in bell and capers leaving the record does not support the only from his statement itself. that with bell and capers when they left for twenty minutes and later 49 bragged about what they had done does not equate to involvement in the murder. nor is there any evidence that streeter knew what bell and capers were planning to do and encouraged the murder. in comparison, the identical offense charged against the defendant by reason of being a direct perpetrator, aider and abettor, or coconspirator. (people v. mohamed (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 152, 161.) criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of committing, or of encouraging or facilitating commission [citation.] in other words, an aider and abettor of a specific intent crime shares the perpetrators specific intent when he or she knows of the perpetrators criminal purpose and aids, promotes, encourages, or instigates the perpetrator with the (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1224.) there was no evidence that streeter shared bells and capersintentions, nor that he instigated them or encouraged them to commit the crime. accordingly, the trial court correctly determined that no accomplice instructions were necessary with respect to bell. d. calcrim no. 707 in a related argument, bell states that the trial court erred by not instructing the jury with calcrim no. no. a special circumstance based on a crime other than the murder charge to which it applies. for the same reasons as we have discussed above, we find that any failure to instruct the jury on s statement was 50 harmless, and that there was no evidence that streeter was an accomplice of either bell or capers in the murder of diamond johnson. vii s convictions for attempted murder, and any kill zone instructions would have been superfluous capers was convicted of the attempted murders of estvon johnson, deshawn needham, jerry sims, and brent exley, all of lyles, was shot and killed. this incident occurred on the evening of july 19, 2009. capers argues that the evidence was insufficient to support these verdicts because 1) there was no evidence of his intent to kill the four other passengers in the van theory of attempted murder. respondent concedes that the court did not give the jury a 14 nevertheless, there was substantial johnson, needham, sims, and exley. respondent also contends, and rightfully so, that zone liability is not a legal doctrine requiring a special jury instruction. it is merely an inference that the jury may draw in a given conclusion under the ordinary instruction on attempted murder. 14 the court gave calcrim no. contained in the model version of the instruction. 51 a. standard of review when reviewing challenges to the sufficiency of the evidence supporting whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty (people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578.) mere speculation cannot support a conviction. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 35.) (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331, quoting people v. redmond (1969) 71 cal.2d 745, 755.) bl required to convict capers of attempted murder unlike murder, where the doctrine of transferred intent supports a conviction even if the person killed was not the one whom defendant intended to kill (people v. cardona (2016) 246 ca[a]ttempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. [citations.] (people v. superior court (2007) 41 cal.4th 1, 7, citing pen. code,  21a.) intent to kill or express malice, the mental state required to convict a defendant of attempted murder, may in many cases be inferred from the defendants acts and the circumstances of the crime. [citation.] (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741.) in people v. stone (2009) 46 cal.4th 131, 136 (stone) the 52 the intent-to-kill requirement. specifically, the question is whether the intent must be to kill a particular person, or whether a generalized intent to kill someone, but not necessarily a specific the supreme court reviewed a previous case, people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313 (bland), which the stone court summarized as holding: particular person, under some facts a jury could find the person also, concurrently, intended to killand thus was guilty of the attempted murder of (stone, supra, at p. 137.) bland target does not transfer to a survivor, the fact the person desires to kill a particular target does not preclude finding that the person also, concurrently, intended to kill others within what it (bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 329.) affirmed convictions requiring the intent to kill persons other (id. at p. 330) bland involved a gang-related shooting in which the defendant and his companions fired multiple shots at a car, killing the driver and wounding two passengers. (bland, supra, 28 cal.4th p. 318.) the evidence suggested that the defendant may only have wanted to kill the driver but not the passengers. (id. at pp. 318319.) did not apply, the circumstances warranted a finding by the jury that the defendant had a concurrent intent to kill everybody in multiple persons. (id. at p. 319.) bland mentioned out of state 53 cases that distinguished is [citation.] (bland, supra, at p.329.) the facts in bland, which are close to ours, not only a similar inference. even if the jury found that defendant primarily wanted to kill wilson rather than wilsons passengers, it could reasonably also have found a concurrent intent to kill those passengers when defendant and his cohort fired a flurry of bullets at the fleeing car and thereby created a kill zone. such a finding fully supports attempted murder convictions as to the passengers. (id. at pp. 330331.) a footnote in bland intent theory is not a legal doctrine requiring special jury instructions, as is the doctrine of transferred intent. rather, it is simply a reasonable inference the jury may draw in a given case: a primary intent to kill a specific target does not rule out a (bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 331, fn. 6; see also stone, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 137.) a passage in stone instructions discuss the kill zone theory . . . . the bench notes to calcrim no. 600 explain that bland stated that a special instruction on the point is not required, and that the kill zone (stone, supra, at pp. 137138.) he opposing party should not be required to defend for the first time on appeal against a new which are open to controversy and were not put in issue or 54 presented at the trial. [citation.] (ward v. taggart (1959) 51 cal.2d 736, 742.) the bland and stone opinions made it clear liability need not have been included in the jury instructions at all. it follows that the absence of kill zone instructions does not prejudice the appellants. capers argues that despite stone and bland zone theory because it was not instructed on that theory. capers relies on people v. falaniko (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 1234, 1244 (falaniko), in which kill zone theory requires evidence that the defendant created a kill zone; that is, while targeting a specific person he attempted to kill everyone in the victims vicinity, or he indiscriminately sought to kill everyone in a particular area without having any primary target. [citation.] in addition, before a defendant may be convicted of attempted murder under a kill zone theory, the evidence must establish that all the victims were actually in the capers argues that falaniko supports his position that the jury needed special instructions on the kill zone theory d the inference supplied by the kill zone theory, it would then have to find appellant specifically intended to kill each person individually in order to convict on all charges of attempted (id. at p. 1244.) in falaniko, the court of appeal fou (falaniko, supra, 1 cal.app.5th at p. 1244.) while 55 building, there was no evidence from which the jury could reasonably infer that appellant specifically intended to kill every single person in the area, or any evidence that [the victims] were both in the kill zone when they were shot. as to count 4, the charge of attempted murder of kese in the cherry park shooting, while there was evidence that appellant and his cohort created a kill zone in the park, the evidence also established that kesewho was sitting in her car some distance awaywas clearly not in it. a court errs when it instructs on a theory which has no (ibid.) falaniko did not hold that special jury instructions were required, it only held that the evidence did not support a kill zone theory. capers has cited no case rejecting the clear supreme court precedent that a kill zone theory need not be included in a special jury instruction in order for a jury to convict a person of attempted murder, so long as the evidence introduced at trial supports such a theory. the kill zone theory simply describes a certain facts. no special instruction is required for the jury to reasonably infer that under a given set of facts, a defendant has a example, firing a hail of bullets at an enclosed van full of people. c. substantial evidence supports the attempted murder convictions. appellants argue that no substantial evidence exists because there was no evidence that capers interacted with any of the five people in the car other than exley, nor any evidence that or that capers looked inside 56 the van before shooting, or if he did, that he could see all five passengers inside. this judgment overlooks credible, solid evidence to the contrary. exley saw capers pull out a gun in the motorcycle club, point it at exley, and say, after exley convinced capers that they both were connected to the crips, capers put the gun away. following this confrontation, exley left the club and got into a van with estvon johnson, deshawn needham, jerry sims, and jamil lyles. needham had been in a fight with someone outside the club as he waited for exley, who was driving, to pick him up. the jury could have concluded that capers saw all of this. moreover, the fight inside had not ended after exley left the club. exley testified that when he stopped the van at a stop sign at 131st street and broadway, moments later, shots were fired at the van. exley testified that he saw capers standing on the corner shooting at the van. exley also testified s hand as he ran towards the van. exley then testified that when the shooting started, he and the other passengers ducked. as respondent points out, that the in upright positions, which capers would have seen before he and his fellow gunman opened fire. capers thought exley belonged to the bloods along with, the jury could have inferred, the people around him who, the jury could have inferred, shared the same gang affiliation. capers wanted to kill exley along with, the jury could have inferred, his alleged fellow gang members, who were the other victims. capers had a concurrent intent to kill. this constituted sufficient evidence for a jury to have reasonably concluded that estvon johnson, deshawn needham, jerry sims, and exleythe survivors of the attack who were within the tight 57 confines of the vanfell s attack. these facts almost duplicate those in people v. bland, supra, and they . there was no error. viii the trial court was not obligated to sever these proceedings capers moved and bell now joins the motion to sever the trial between him and bell. capers argues that the trial court abused its discretion by denying the motion and that capers was prejudiced as a result. we review the courts denial of severance for abuse of discretion based on facts known to the court at the time of the ruling. (people v. thompson (2016) 1 cal.5th 1043, 1079 (thompson); people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 456.) (people v. cleveland (2004) 32 cal.4th 704, 726.) the law requires defendants to be tried together when they are jointly charged with crimes.15 15 penal code section 1098 authorizes joint trials. the jointly charged with any public offense, whether felony or misdemeanor, they must be tried jointly, unless the court order[s] separate trials. in ordering separate trials, the court in its discretion may order a separate trial as to one or more defendants, and a joint trial as to the others, or may order any number of the defendants to be tried at one trial, and any number of the others at different trials, or may order a separate 58 promote efficiency and help avoid inconsistent verdicts. [citations.] (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 464 (sanchez).) still, there are limits. in exercising its discretion to n, prejudicial association with codefendants, likely confusion resulting from evidence on multiple counts, conflicting defenses, or the possibility that at a separate trial a codefendant would (thompson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1079.) also, when crimes arising out of separate episodes are different. (calderon v. superior court (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 933, 938939 (calderon).) in these cases, the issues are closer to those encountered under penal code section 954 (joinder of counts). (ibid.) guide trial court discretion: (1) whether evidence of the crimes would be cross-admissible; (2) whether some charges are likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (3) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong one or with another weak case; and (id. at p. 939.) we turn to the factors that apply to this appeal. a. incriminating admission capers cannot base his severance motion on his incriminating admission (which was not a confession) to detective gersna, for the statement only incriminated himself. to the extent bell joins in the motion to sever, as we have discussed in the section of this opinion dealing with the alleged 59 aranda/bruton s statement was sufficiently redacted to avoid incriminating bell. capers never described bells role in the johnson/allen shooting. capers said nothing more than that either via a phone call or while mingling with others in the hood, someone passed him a set of car keys and told him to pick someone up. no incriminating confession supports a severance motion. b. prejudicial association with codefendant bell/charges likely to inflame the jury culpability of one or more defendants [is] such that the jury will find the remaining defendants guilty simply because of their association with a reprehensible person, rather than assessing each defendants individual guilt of the crimes at issue. (people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 464.) capers argues that his connection with bell prejudiced him, --year old boy, marvin nichelson, even though capers was not involved or charged with that murder. capers argues that the jury could not have viewed bell as there was evidence that capers and bell were friends and fellow towards bell for shooting a young boy nine times were imputed while the marvin nichelson murder potentially could prejudice capers, we do not agree that the nichelson murder differed so much in magnitude from the killings of lyles and 60 johnson as to warrant separate trials. the murders of lyles and johnson were no less cold- following a brief confrontation at a nightclub involving a misidentification of gang affiliation, capers followed a group out of the club and then indiscriminately fired a pistol into the side of a van, killing lyles. shorts of the wrong color. darlene allen, who was apparently uninvolved in any gang activity of any kind, was nearly killed by the same shooter. when faced with these facts, the potential for of nichelson becomes so diluted that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ordering a joint trial. while courts have recognized that there may be some which a court found that killing a minor had more potential for prejudice than killing an adult. (people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1202 (myles).) in myles, the court found that killing a retired police officer in an attempt to protect his wife -blooded as shot down in front of his (ibid.) we presume the jury s instructions. (see people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 444.) 61 c. likely confusion from evidence on multiple counts/ cross-admissibility while there was evidence that the same glock pistol was used in all three murders, that by itself does not justify severance. both appellants employed the same weapon, and the respondent had a right to bring that fact before the jury. we see no basis for jury confusion nor any prejudice or error. d. joining weak case with strong one capers argues that the case against bell was considerably stronger than the relatively weak cases against capers, and we are not persuaded. it is true that dna evidence linked bell to the johnson and nichelson murders, and that no such evidence linked capers. however, the evidence against capers was substantial. exley positively identified capers as the man who brandished a gun in the nightclub and then fired at the van, killing lyles. while capers argues including his earlier lies to the police and inconsistent descriptions, this does not change the ultimate strength of the case against capers. donald streeter implicated both capers and bell in the johnson murder, as arming themselves and later this is powerful evidence against both appellants equally. while bell was also tied to the johnson murder by the dna samples obtained from the cell phone parts found at the scene, this link was not as strong as the others. analyst kristen hammonds could not reach any conclusions. therefore, the relative strength 62 of the case against bell was not appreciably greater than the case against capers, certainly not sufficient to compel a court to sever the trials. e. resulting actual prejudice finally, capers argues that even if the decision to deny the severance motion was not an abuse of discretion at the time the ruling was made, the joint trial nevertheless actually resulted in a denial of due process and a fair trial. courts denial of severance was not an abuse of discretion at the time it was made, we must reverse the judgment on a showing (myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1202.) y introduced at (people v. bean (1988) 46 cal.3d 919, 940.) here, s due process argument matches his argument about abuse of discretion. he points to the evidence introduced at trial to support both contentions, but the evidence does not differ from what he relied on to make his motion. nothing else occurred to cause gross unfairness. accordingly, we find no due process concerns for the same reason that we find that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying the motion for separate trials. capers invokes people v. chambers (1964) 231 cal.app.2d 23 (chambers) as a case where the actual evidence introduced during a joint trial resulted in a denial of due process. in chambers, the owners of a rest home and thnurse were jointly indicted on assault charges and were jointly tried by stipulation of their shared defense attorney. (chambers, 63 at pp. 2425.) during the trial, a single witness described seeing the owner assault the patient, but this testimony was effectively impeached on cross-examination by the introduction of receipts showing that the owner was running errands at the time of the alleged assault. (id. at p. 26.) the remaining evidence involved ictim. the court held that of the rest home and otherwise, rather than by evidence of his personal guilt, that an unfairness so gross has occurred as to deprive him of due (id. at p. 28.) no such gross unfairness existed here. there was ample evidence to implicate both capers and bell, and while additional dna evidewas not enough to skew the evidence against bell so heavily that a due process violation occurred. we find no abuse of discretion in denying the motion to sever. ix the court properly exercised its discretion in excluding evidence of relocation funds which exley received in an earlier case capers argues that the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to admit evidence that in 2008 in a prior unrelated , exley had received relocation funds. during the trial, on august 21, 2015, the court noted that . s attorney wished to ask exley about his receipt of some relocation 64 funds in connection with giving testimony in that matter, reasoning that s attorney argued that such evidence case, exley had been the court nrelevant. getting relocation funds, et cetera. in this case certainly you can bring that in that other case, he was a person that came forward. he said he was a witness at the scene and he witnessed this mr. venable do something, shoot the victim. they were all part of the same gang, apparently, front hood. with friends, and the car in which he is in gets shot at and somebody dies. . . . olice by way of independent s . the trial counot going to allow you to ask that. you can certainly ask it in connection with this case, that it would go with motive with regard to this case. a. standard of review standard of review to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence, including one that turns on the relative 65 probativeness and prejudice of the evidence in question [citations]. evidence is substantially more prejudicial than (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 724.) b. the trial judge did not abuse her discretion in sustaining an objection to the 2008 relocation funds. from degenerating into nitpicking wars of attrition over collateral [citation.] s desired method of cross-examination is a constitutional violation. within the confines of the confrontation clause, the trial court retains wide latitude in restricting cross-examination that is repetitive, prejudicial, confusing of the issues, or of marginal (people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 10891090 (mendoza).) we deal here with a classic exercise of discretion pursuant to evidence code section 352.16 the sole purpose of the disputed and the trial court did not abuse its discretion in sustaining an objection to it. exley was a witness in 2008. in 2011 he was a victim. 16 probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing (evid. code,  352.) 66 falls within the categories evidence code section 352 mentions, especially the confusion of issues. while the court did not expressly articulate its weighing process, that is not what is required. a trial court is not required to prejudice against probative value or even expressly state that it has done so, if the record as a whole shows the court was aware of and performed its balancing function under evidence code section 352 [citation.] (people v. nunez & satele (2013) 57 cal.4th 1, 31.) the court did not abuse its discretion in excluding evidence of the 2008 relocation funds. violate his constitutional rights. however, as noted in mendoza, supra, 52 cal.4th at page 109-examination is a we find no constitutional violation. x assuming error, - was not harmful during a recorded interview with a detective on may 18, 2011, exley picked capers from a six-pack of photographs. capers argues that the trial court erred in admitting a recording a. appellants did not forfeit this argument as an initial matter, respondent argues that capers failed s crawford,17 17 crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. 36. 67 id a crawford objection implicates hearsay issues (see crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 60, fn 9; see also people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4 745, 775776), which appellant is raising now. we take this exchange as a proper objection to the introductio b. standard of review hearsay evidence for abuse of discretion and will uphold factual findings relating to that decision if they are supported by substantial evidence. (see people v. phillips (2000) 22 cal.4th 226, 236.) whether a trial court has correctly construed a we review (people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 712.) c. even if the court erred in admitting the recording, appellant was not prejudiced. hearsay exception set forth in evidence code section 1238. s argument focuses on subdivision (b) of the statute, to the effect that the may 18, 2011, recording should not have been since the interview occurred nearly two years after the july 19, 2009, shooting, capers argues that the prosecution failed to show capers fails to cite any cases in which a court found that too much time had passed between the event and the 68 identification for the evidence code section 1238 hearsay exception to apply, and respondent candidly admits that courts assessment of freshness under 18 nor has our research located a case setting forth the outer temporal limits of although the facts in this appeal present an interesting evidentiary question, we need not decide it, because even if the trial court erred in admitting the recording, the evidence did not prejudice capers. the test which is generally applicable may be stated as follows: when the court, probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) further guidance appears in people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1118. there, the testimony at the preliminary hearing under the section 1238 arsay exception. in rodrigues, our supreme court concluded that: vargass recognition and identifications of defendant were not, as defendant suggests, uncertain. at trial, vargas explained that although she recognized defendant as one of the fleeing men when initially shown his photo in 1987, she chose not to identify 18 one guidepost is people v. garceau (1993) 6 cal.4th 140, but that case involved a prior photo identification made one day after the alleged crime. 69 him at that time because she was afraid. however, vargas overcame her fear and stepped forward to identify defendant both at his preliminary hearing and at a subsequent photographic lineup. she also identified him at trial. since vargass testimony was both consistent and unwavering in this regard, it is not reasonably probable that the admission of vargass identification of garcia at his preliminary hearing affected the verdict. here, although exley initially lied about what happened, once he learned that lyles had died. exley identified capers as the shooter several times, including at the preliminary hearing and during his trial testimony. for example, the record reflects the following: , q: the person that approached you with the gun, do you see that person here today? a: yeah (exley then identified capers.) q: mr. exley, do you remember what gun he was holding, what hand he was holding the gun in? a i believe it was the right. q: okay. and, sir, were you able to see what kind of gun it was? a: q: a: no. 70 q: and when he approached you with the gun, did he actually point it at you? a: yeah. q: what part of your body was he pointing it at? a: probably the chest, the face. q: so you said chest, face? a: yeah. q: from your chest all the way up to your head? a: right. q: is thatthat area? a: yeah. later, outside the club, exley described his friends getting into the van. at the intersection of 131st and broadway, he heard somebody yell out, he remembered where the shooter on his side was standing. then he testified as follows: q: okay. and, sir, who was it that you saw standing at that corner, shooting at you? a: the man right here. q: uhm a: the same man i was speaking of before. the court: indicating mr. capers for the record. a: right. we find no indication in the record that as mr. exley testified, he hesitated or had trouble remembering the incident. the record suggests that his memory was, despite the passage of time, firm and fresh. it follows that after hearing these multiple identifications, the jury did not need to see the may 18, 2011 interview. had the recording not been admitted, there is scant if 71 any probability that the jury would have returned a result more favorable to capers. it follows that aadmittance of the recording did not prejudice capers. xi a habeas corpus petition is the appropriate procedure to determine in not moving phone searched its contents, and found incriminating material in his texts and in his contact list. defense counsel did not make a pretrial motion to suppress under penal code section 1538.5. appellant claims this search and seizure occurred without a warrant and that his counsel was incompetent for failing to raise the issue. , which the trial court denied. respondent does not quarrel with the argument that a search warrant was required. (riley v. california (2014) 134 s.ct. 2473, 2485.) testimony by detective thompson that detectives thompson and appellants claim that the order detective thompson testified about was in fact not a warrant, but a court order for phone records. unfortunately, the reference to the record leaves the matter unclear. we quote the relevant testimony of detective thompson: 72 partner, detective gersna, did you and your partner submit a court order connected to specific phone numbers in this case? a: yes q: and was one of those numbers from the phone that you obtained from mr. bell? a: yes. q: and was another phone number from mr. capers, or the contact from raggz that you found in the phone. a: yes. based on this passage, we do not know if there was or was not a search warrant. during the closing argument, the prosecution made use of der to establish a motive for the murders and shootings. we acknowledge that this might have been prejudicial, but to make that determination, we need more information than what we find in the record. in this respect, the instructive law appears in people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 426 (overruled on other grounds in people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048. in some cases, however, the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged. in such circumstances, unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation, these cases are affirmed on appeal. [citation.] otherwise, appellate courts would become ss of second- [citation.] reversals would be ordered unnecessarily in cases where there were, in fact, good reasons for the aspect of counsels 73 representation under attack. indeed, such reasons might lead a new defense counsel on retrial to do exactly what the original counsel did, making manifest the waste of judicial resources caused by reversal on an incomplete record. challenged acts or omissions, a claim of ineffective assistance is more appropriately made in a petition for habeas corpus. in habeas corpus proceedings, there is an opportunity in an evidentiary hearing to have trial counsel fully describe his or her reasons for acting or failing to act in the manner complained of. [citations.] for example, counsel may explain why certain defenses were or were not presented. having afforded the trial attorney an opportunity to explain, courts are in a position to intelligently evaluate whether counsels acts or omissions were within the range of reasonable competence. (people v. pope, supra, 23 cal.3d. at p. 426, fn. omitted.) based on this truncated record, we decline to rule with respect to incompetence of trial counsel. if bell elects to file a habeas corpus petition below, the trial court will have the opportunity to determine whether there was a search warrant and whether counsel acted incompetently or pursuant to a trial strategy. xii the parole revocation fine must be modified the trial court imposed parole revocation fines on each appellant in the amount of $10,000 per penal code section 1202.45 and ordered payment stayed unless either appellant violated parole. appellants correctly claim, and respondent concedes, that 74 these fines must be stricken. a parole revocation fine cannot be imposed for a sentence of life without parole. (people v. battle (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 50, 63; people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 380), although it may be imposed if a defendant also received a determinate sentence under penal code section 1170 which includes a period of parole. (people v. brasure (2008) 42 cal.4th 1037, 1075.) here the court sentenced both appellants to life without the possibility of parole, clearly not a determinate term under section 1170. the court modifies the judgment by striking the parole revocation fine. (people v. carr (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 475, 482, fn. 6.) xiii the victim restitution award must be recalculated before sentencing, the people asked the court to order the defendants to reimburse the state for money paid for funeral and burial expenses incurred by the families of jamil lyles, marvin nichelson, and diamond johnson. the court did so, ordering the appellants to pay jointly and severally to the victims restitution board the sum of $15,453.97. there were no objections at the time. it appears that the documents supporting the restitution figure were not included with the appellate record. however, the trial transcripts establish that the judge was in possession of the restitution documents. after the victim impact statements, the them? oh, here they are. okay. all the court went on to state 75 on appeal, capers contends that the trial court erred by ordering that he and co-defendant bell jointly and severally pay the restitution amount. he says that this amount was unsupported by the evidence and that the statute authorizing such an award does not impose liability against capers for restitution to a victim he did not harm. specifically, capers argues that because he was not found liable in the death of marvin nichelson, he cannot be held jointly and severally liable for restitution to nichelsons family. s discretion and will be disturbed on appeal only where an abuse of discretion [citation.] support the award, and assuming no other rational explanation, [citatio (in re anthony s. (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1352, 1356.) we need not discuss the question whether substantial evidence supports the restitution amount, because the court was not authorized to enter the joint and several payment order. capers and bell were not convicted of all the same crimes. they were jointly convicted of only one of the three murders, that of johnson. capers alone was convicted of killing lyles, and bell alone was convicted of killing nichelson. section 1202.4, subdivision (f) of the penal code19 19 penal code section 1202.4, subdivision (f) provides that result of the defendants conduct, the court shall require that the defendant make restitution to the victim or victims in an amount established by court order, based on the amount of loss claimed 76 economic loss as a result of the defendant this provision contains a causality requirement: a defendant sentenced to state prison may be obligated to pay restitution only for losses stemming from the criminal conduct of which he or she was convicted. [citation]. a defendant may be held jointly and severally liable for losses for which a codefendant bears more culpability [citation], but the criminal conduct of which the defendant was convicted must be at least a substantial factor in causing victims loss, [citation.] (people v. selivanov (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 726, 786.) capers to pay the expenses, and it improper to order bell to pay the expenses the lyles family incurred. the full were found guilty of committing separate murders. as emphasized in people v. leon (2004) 124 cal.app.4th 620, 622, penal code section 1202.4(f)(3) case in which a victim has suffered economic loss as a result of the defendants conduct. (italics added.) under this statutory language, the courts have found that if two defendants convicted of the same crime caused a victim to suffer economic loss, a court may impose liability on each defendant to pay the full amount of the economic loss, as long as the victim does not obtain a double recovery. [citation.] however, because $11,000 of farbers loss resulted from the crimes of garza, not leon, and nothing in the record suggests that leon aided and abetted commission of garzas crimes, the trial court was not authorized by section 1202.4 to order leon to pay restitution for a crime he did not respondent relies on people v. blackburn (1999) 72 77 cal.app.4th 1520 for the proposition that appellant forfeited this argument. the appellant did not do so. the court said, at pages 1534153 involving the trial courts failure to properly make or articulate [citation.] it does not apply to claims that the sentence was unauthorized. [citation.] sen [citation.] here, if defendants contentions are correct, the trial court did not merely abuse its discretion in setting the restitution amounts; it imposed restitution in amounts that could not lawfully be imposed in this case under any circumstances. such contentions are not waived by failure to object. [citations.] this rule constitutes fo (people v. smith (2001) 24 cal.4th 849, 852.) and it has been applied to arguments that a restitution award was unauthorized by statute. (id. at pp. 853854.) it follows that while a court has the power to order restitution jointly and severally, that power is limited to an appropriate case, which this was not, a fact respondent tacitly admits. respondent has not made any arguments as to how capers or bell, who joins in this argument, could be held responsible to compensate the family of a victim for whose death he was not held liable. the court reverses the joint and several restitution orders and remands to the trial court to recalculate the victim restitution awards and enter new payment orders consistent with this opinion. 78 xiv the cumulative error doctrine does not require reversal finally, appellants claim the cumulative effect of the identified errors at trial was to deprive them of their right to due process under the federal constitution. under the cumulative error doctrine, errors that are individually harmless may nevertheless have a cumulative effect that is prejudicial. (in re avena (1996) 12 cal.4th 694, 772, fn. 32.) under the cumulative error doctrine, we must review each allegation and assess the cumulative effect of any errors to see if it is reasonably probable the jury would have reached a result more favorable to defendant in their absence. [citation.] when the cumulative effect of errors deprives the defendant of a fair trial and due process, reversal is required. [citations (people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 646.) we conducted such a review and as we have discussed at length above, we have found no harmful error. we acknowledge that the trial was not perfect. lengthy criminal trials are rarely perfect, and this court will not reverse a judgment absent a clear showing of a miscarriage of justice. [citations.] (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 844.) nevertheless, the requisite showing of injustice was not made. (see people v. cuccia (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 785, 795. [the litmus test for cumulative error is whether defendant received due process and a fair trial].) accordingly, the cumulative error doctrine provides no basis for reversal. 79 disposition the court affirms the convictions of appellant michael capers and daynell bell. we modify the judgment by striking the parole revocation fine. we remand the matter to the trial court to (1) recalculate the restitution award and enter a new payment order consistent with this opinion, and (2) correct any ante. not to be published in the official reports mohr, j.* we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. *judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 