filed 1/19/17 p. v. johnson ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. terrell johnson, defendant and appellant. b268641 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba424514 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. julie schumer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant terrell johnson of two counts of second degree robbery, and it found true a firearm allegation as to each count. the trial court sentenced johnson to a total term of 35 years and four months in state prison. on appeal, johnson raises three contentions: (1) the court erred in refusing to grant him a continuance after granting his faretta1 request that was made after the jury was selected; (2) the prosecutor committed misconduct during her case-in-chief when she elicited testimony from a police officer that suggested johnson had a criminal recordfingerprint experts improperly shifted the burden of proof to johnson. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the robbery in january 2014, joana gutierrez and rafael rocha worked at healing haze, a medical marijuana dispensary in los angeles. gutierrez worked as a cashier and rocha worked as a security guard. around 7:30 p.m. on january 29, 2014, johnson entered the dispensary while gutierrez and rocha were on shift. he provided rocha with a fabricated identification card and . rocha gave johnson an application form to fill out for first-time customers. after rocha (erroneously) recommendation, he allowed johnson to enter the area of the 1 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 3 dispensary where the marijuana was stored. johnson then handed the application form back to rocha. johnson briefly looked around the dispensary, asking gutierrez questions about some of the marijuana. after johnson asked gutierrez to show him a particular strain of marijuana, johnson turned around and tackled rocha, knocking rocha to the ground and causing rocha to cut his left hand on a piece of glass. johnson then pulled out a loaded handgun and pointed it at gutierrez tried to run to in the back of the dispensary, but johnson ran after her and forced her to enter the safe room and lie face down on the ground. johnson also made rocha move to the safe room and lie face down on the ground. he asked gutierrez for the combination to the she told him that she did not know it. johnson then grabbed a plastic trash bag and started to fill it with jars of marijuana and cash f after johnson finished collecting marijuana and cash, he told rocha and gutierrez to count out loud to 10 while he left the dispensary. as johnson was walking away from the dispensary, did not realize that johnson had just robbed the dispensary, but he thought johnson looked suspicious because he was carrying a full plastic garbage bag. lindbergh waited until the day after the robbery to the call the police. 2. the investigation the police recovered the application form that johnson had handled while he was in the dispensary. the police obtained seven fingerprints from the form that matched johnson. the police also recovered video footage of the robbery from the dispensar 4 after the police identified johnson as a suspect in the robbery, they asked gutierrez to identify the person who robbed the dispensary from a six-pack photographic lineup. gutierrez picked two photographs from the lineup; the first photograph was of johnson, and the second photograph was of a person who was not a suspect in the robbery.2 3. the trial, verdict, and sentencing the people charged johnson with two counts of second degree robbery (pen.3 code,  211). as to each count, the people alleged johnson personally used a firearm during the commission of the robbery ( 12022.53, subd. (b)). the people further alleged that johnson had suffered six prior prison term convictions ( 667, subds. (a) & (b)) and one serious or violent felony conviction for purposes of the three-strikes law ( 667.5, subd. (d) & 1170.12, subd. (b)). on the first court day after the jury was selected, johnson moved to represent himself under faretta. the court granted faretta motion after explaining that the motion was untimely and that it would only grant the motion if johnson agreed to proceed immediately to trial, which johnson agreed to do.4 after the people called their first three witnesses, johnson requested a continuance, which the court denied. 2 gutierrez later identified johnson at trial as the person who robbed healing haze. rocha could not identify johnson at trial as the suspect in the robbery. 3 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4 faretta motion in greater detail below. 5 after both sides rested, johnson moved for a mistrial based fingerprint expert and the detective who assembled the six-pack photographic lineup. the court denied the motion. the next day, the jury convicted johnson of both robbery counts and found true both firearm allegations. in a bifurcated proceeding, johnson admitted his prior convictions. he then filed two motions: one for a new trial and one requesting the court to strike his prior serious felony conviction under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). the court denied both motions. the court then sentenced johnson to a total term of 35 years and 4 months in state prison. johnson filed a timely appeal. discussion 1. the court properly refused to grant request for a continuance after granting his faretta motion. johnson contends the trial court violated his due process rights when it refused to grant him a continuance after granting his request to represent himself. relying primarily on people v. maddox (1967) 67 cal.2d 647 (maddox), johnson argues that once the court granted his request to represent himself, the court was required to grant him a reasonable continuance to allow him to prepare for trial. johnson also contends the court violated his statutory right to a five-day continuance to prepare for trial under section 1049. as we will explain, the court did not err in refusing to grant johnson a continuance; the court properly untimely request to represent himself on his agreement to proceed immediately to trial. (see 6 people v. espinoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 61, 8082 (espinoza); people v. clark (1992) 3 cal.4th 41, 110-111 (clark), overruled on another ground in people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 462.) 1.1. relevant background on the first court day after the jury was selected, johnson moved to represent himself pursuant to faretta. johnson told with his trial counsel because she was not the same attorney who had represented him at the preliminary hearing and he only had a limited opportunity to see her perform before trial. the court and johnson then had the following conversation request: the court: well you have the right to represent yourself, but the question is are you ready to proceed with continuance. so you have to continue the trial is going to d the instructions. are you asking to start trial as soon as i go through your faretta representing yourself today? johnson: turn over everything to me. and as well, you know, go over the information for myself. but if the court wants that, then i guess i would have to. the court: cked a fill out the faretta waivers. if you qualify, which it sounds it would be your 7 right to represent yourself, but it would have to be with the understanding that as soon as you give the waivers and i the court then provided johnson a waiver form, which johnson signed and initialed. after the court explained form, but before the court granted faretta motion, johnson requested a continuance to allow him to to represent himself was untimely, and that it could deny the request on that ground. the court told johnson that the only way it would grant his faretta motion would be if johnson agreed to proceed immediately with the trial. the court explained that [d]warrant a continuance, the court was not willing to continue the case if it were to grant johnsonfaretta motion.5 the court explained that it believed trial counsel was competent and advised johnson that he should continue to not to represent himself. the court then reiterated that it would not grant johnson a continuance if he decided to represent himself. johnson confirmed that he still wanted to represent himself, and the court granted his faretta motion and appointed him standby counsel. 5 the written faretta waiver form admonished johnson of the many dangers and disadvantages of not having a professional attorney represent him during the trial. the waiver form also stated that johnson understood that no continuance of the trial would be allowed without a showing of good cause, and that such requests made just before trial would likely be denied. 8 the following day, after the people and johnson made their opening statements, and after the people called their first three witnesses, johnson requested a continuance. johnson did not explain for what purpose he wanted a continuance. the court denied the request, explaining that johnson had not shown any reason why a continuance at such a late stage in the trial was necessary. after the jury returned its verdict, johnson moved for a grant him a continuance after granting his faretta motion. the court denied 1.2. analysis generally, the decision whether to grant a continuance is appeal absent an abuse of discretion. (people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1037 (jenkins).) although a court may abuse that discretion by refusing to grant a continuance after granting a timely faretta motion, the same principles do not apply to an untimely faretta motion. (espinoza, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 80.) instead, a court may condition the grant of an untimely faretta (ibid; see id. at pp. 81-82; clark, supra, 3 cal.4th at pp. 110-111; people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 103 (valdez) [because the faretta request was untimely, its discretion in concluding that defendant could represent here, the trial court properly conditioned its grant of faretta immediately to trial. after johnson made his request to represent himself, the court stated untimely because it was made after the jury had been selected 9 and that the court could deny the request on that ground.6 however, the court repeatedly explained it would grant faretta motion if johnson agreed to proceed immediately to trial. the court stated it would only grant a continuance if johnson were able to demonstrate that it would be reasonable to continue the case mid-trial. before the court granted his faretta motion, johnson confirmed that he understood he would have to proceed immediately to trial if he were to represent himself. johnson argues that under maddox, the trial court was required to grant him a reasonable continuance once it granted his faretta motion. in maddox, a decision that predates faretta, the california supreme court reversed the defbecause the trial court refused to grant the defendant a continuance after it granted his request to represent himself. (maddox, supra, 67 cal.2d at pp. 652-655.) the court explained: it is true that [a defendant who represents himself] is not entitled either to privileges and indulgences not accorded attorneys or to privileges and indulgences not accorded defendants but neither is he entitled to less consideration than such persons. in particular he must be given, if he requires it, as much time to prepare for trial as an attorney; and if a reasonable continuance is necessary for this purpose, it must be granted upon timely request. to deny him that opportunity would be to render his right to appear in propria persona an empty formality, and in effect deny him the right to counsel.id. at p. 653.) 6 in his opening brief, johnson concedes that his faretta motion was untimely and that the court could have denied it on that ground. (see people v. hamilton (1988) 45 cal.3d 351, 369.) 10 since maddox was decided, however, the california supreme court has on several occasions expressly approved the practice of conditioning the grant of an untimely faretta motion espinoza, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 80; jenkins, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 1039; clark, supra, 3 cal.4th at pp. 110-111; valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 103.) that is exactly what the court did here. thus, the court was not required to grant johnson a continuance once it granted his faretta motion; rather, the court had the discretion to deny a request for a continuance once it granted (espinoza, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 80-82.) the court acted within that discretion when it denied granted his faretta motion. as discussed above, the court explained, and johnson confirmed that he understood, that johnson would have to proceed immediately to trial if the court were to grant his faretta faretta motion, the court also explained that it would only grant a continuance if johnson demonstrated a sufficient justification to continue the case mid-trial. when johnson requested a continuance the day after the court granted his faretta motion, he did not explain why he needed the continuance. because johnson failed to demonstrate why the case should be continued mid-trial, the court properly denied for a continuance. (see espinoza, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 81-82.) johnson also contends that under section 1049, the trial court was required to allow him five days to prepare a defense once it granted his faretta motion. his plea, the defendant is entitled to at least five days to prepare n (through his pre-trial attorneys) was allowed more than five days to prepare for trial 11 after he entered a plea of not guilty, at least two cases have held the statute applies in a context similar to the one presented herei.e., that a court must afford a defendant at least five days faretta motion. (see maddox, supra, 67 cal.2d at p. 653; people v. wilkins (1990) 225 cal.app.3d 299, 308-309 (wilkins).) to be sure, none of the california supreme court cases cited above that expressly approve the practice of a trial court conditioning a grant of a faretta agreement to proceed immediately to trial expressly overrule the portions of maddox and wilkins applying section 1049. (see espinoza, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 80-82; jenkins, supra, 22 cal.4th at pp. 1037-1040; clark, supra, 3 cal.4th at pp. 110-111; valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at pp. 101-103.) nevertheless, since espinoza, clark, jenkins, and valdez were decided after maddox and wilkins, we have some doubts about whether section 1049 would apply to an untimely faretta request. we do not need to decide that issue, however, because we conclude johnson waived his statutory right to a five-day continuance under section 1049. the right to at least five days to prepare for trial under section 1049 may be waived. (people v. severino (1953) 122 cal.app.2d 172, 181-182, overruled on another ground in people v. smith (1955) 44 cal.2d 77, 8081; cody v. justice court (1965) 238 cal.app.2d 275, 289.) a shorter than the five-day period afforded by section 1049 waives severino, supra, 122 cal.app.2d at pp. 181-182 [defendant and his counsel agreeing to proceed to trial in less than five days waived the johnson confirmed that his case would not be continued simply because he was granted pro per status, and he expressly agreed to proceed 12 immediately to trial before the court granted his faretta motion. by doing so, he waived his right to a five-day continuance under section 1049. 2. johnson forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct stemming from questioning of the investigating officer. johnson next contends the prosecutor committed misconduct during her case-in-chief when she elicited testimony from the investigating officer that suggested johnson had a criminal recordspecifically, photograph used in the six-pack photographic lineup shown to johnson argues it was improper for the prosecutor to ask the officer what type of information was contained in the database because the prosecutor knew the question would elicit inadmissible evidence. as we explain below, johnson forfeited this claim because he did not timely object to the prosecuto. 2.1. relevant background detective salvador loera of the los angeles police department (lapd) investigated the robbery. he testified about how he assembled the six-pack photographic lineup that was shown to gutierrez. after identifying johnson as a suspect in the robbery, detective loera the prosecutor then asked detective loeracontained in your lacris system, in addition detective loera photographs. it has fingerprints. and it has arrest records in 13 detective loera while detective loera was on the stand. after the evidence phase of trial was completed, johnson moved for a mistrial, objecting for the first time to detective loera about the type of information stored in the lacris system. johnson argued the testimony improperly attacked his character and constituted inadmissible evidence of his criminal background. , let me tell you, i was waiting for an objection, and i considered admonishing t that it would admonish the jury not to consider detective loeratestimony about the type of information stored in lacris as evidence of later, the court admonished the jury as followswant to advise you, you did hear some testimony about the six-pack photo show up, and how the detective put those photos just going to advise you, and how he might or might not have found those photos as proof of anything other than as it goes to the identification and whether the identification is trustworthy evidence of any kind that the defendant would be likely to purpose related to that. you can only consider it in terms of the weight and probative value of the identification made on the six- after the jury returned its verdict, johnson moved for a new trial, based in part on detective contents of the lacris system. the court denied motion. 14 2.2. analysis the people argue johnson forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct because johnson did not raise a timely objection to the question about the contents of the lacris system or response, and he did not make a timely request to admonish the jury not to consider detective loeraresponse. we agree. a defendant may not complain on appeal of prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashion-and on the same ground-the defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the people v. mcdermott (2002) 28 cal.4th 946, 1001 (mcdermott).) this rule does not apply, bjection or request for admonition would have been futile or would not have cured the harm caused by the misconduct. (ibid.) question about what type of information was stored in the lacris system. instead of objecting at the time the question was asked and the response was made, johnson waited until after detective loera finished testifying and both sides had rested to raise the issue for the first time in a motion for a mistrial. johnson therefore forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct. (see mcdermott, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 1001.) johnson contends the forfeiture rule should not apply in this case have been futile, and an admonition by the court immediately after detective loera would not have cured the harm caused by the response. we disagree. had johnson timely prevented detective loera from testifying about the contents of 15 the lacris system. the prosecutor asked detective loera kind of information would be contained in your lacris ?before the prosecutor had asked the question, detective loera had not testified about what type of information was stored in the lacris system or for what purpose the system had been designed. it was not until detective loera responded that the system contained booking photographs, fingerprints, and arrest recordsinformation that would indicate a person has a criminal background or a history of negative interactions with law enforcementthat the jury was exposed to information that improperly suggested johnson had a criminal record. thus, had johnson objected to the question, the court could have sustained the objection before any harm was caused. (see people v. boyette to remedy the indeed, the court later told johnson when he first raised the issue in his motion for a mistrial that it had been considered admonishing the jury sua sponte not to consider detective loera, further demonstrating that it would not have been futile for johnson question.7 7 we note that the faretta waiver form that johnson initialed expressly stated that a self-represented party would be responsible for 16 3. johnson suffered no harm from the rprint expert. finally, johnson contends the prosecutor also committed prejudicial misconduct during her questioning of one of the specifically, he contends the impermissibly shifted the burden of proof to him to prove his innocence by affirmatively attacking the results of the fingerprint analysis. we disagree. any misconduct stemming the court sstruck the testimony, and admonished the jury not to consider the testimony. 3.1. relevant background mynor acevedo was one of three lapd fingerprint testimony, the prosecutor asked questions concerning the handling of records that were used in a fingerprint analysis after the analysis is completed. the following exchange occurred during that line of questioning: the prosecutor: now, let me ask you, is it common in your line of work, after you have processed a fingerprint package, or after the forensic work has been done, for it to be all contained, all the evidence, all the photographs, contained within one envelope? acevedo: yes. the prosecutor: and is that envelope only for prosecution use? acevedo: no. the prosecutor: defendant had an expert that he wanted to appoint or 17 something of that nature, they would have access to that packet as well? acevedo: the prosecutor: would they be limited in any way in their inspection of the evidence, meaning would only the lafis-quality prints be given to them? acevedo: no, they have full access to the package. the prosecutor: so, they would have full access to, acevedo: the prosecutor: and they would have access to the ten-print cards that were contained in it? acevedo: yes. the prosecutor: and they would have access to the ten-print cards specifically belonging to terrell johnson? acevedo: yes. the prosecutor: now, do you keep records of whether or not such a packet is given to a defense expert or investigator? acevedo: yes. the prosecutor: are there any records, based on your observation of that file, as to whether or not that was done in this case? acevedo: yes. the courtthe jury is admonished to disregard. let outside the presence of the jury, the court then explained questioning was -examination. the court also stated that it sustained its own objection under evidence code section 352 18 because the potential prejudice from acevedo testifying about the packet could . . . what no one here to testify about. so, after both sides rested, johnson moved for a mistrial, whether the fingerprint records from the scene of the robbery were provided to a defense etrial made after the jury returned its verdict was also based in part on the same argument. the court denied both motions. 3.2. analysis johnson argues the prosecutor improperly elicited testimony about whether the lapd had provided a defense expert with the fingerprint packet used to identify johnson. according to johnson, that testimony suggested that a defense expert had reviewed the packet and reached a conclusion based on that review. johnson asserts the conclusion was not favorable to johnson, since he did not call a fingerprint expert to testify at trial. according to johnson, the testimony impermissibly shifted the burden of proof to him to prove his innocence by affirmatively attacking the results of the fingerprint analysis. we do not need to decide whether , however, because johnson suffered no prejudice as a result of that questioning. 19 as noted above, the trial court sustained its own objection any records of whether the fingerprint packet had been provided to a defense expert, and the court precluded the prosecutor from pursuing her line of questioning any further. the court also jury not to consider it. when a court admonishes a jury not to consider testimony or improper comments from the prosecutor, [w]e presume that the jury heeded the admonition and any error was cured.people v. wash (1993) 6 cal.4th 215, 263.) thus, the court on its own motion took appropriate curative action and, as a result, johnline of questio annot presume the while the court certainly acted reasonably to preclude the prosecutor from continuing her line of questioning, a defense expert had in fact been provided the fingerprint packet that led the lapd to identify johnson as a suspect in the robbery. specifically, the expert never testified that a defense expert received the packet used to conduct the fingerprint analysis. the expert only testified that it is the policy to allow a defense expert to independently review the fingerprint packet, and that there was a record in the case of that packet was provided to a defense expert. thus, the expert only stated that there was a record of what had been or had not been done with the fingerprint packet; he did not actually confirm that the packet was provided to a defense expert. this line of questioning and responses were sufficiently 20 ition prevented any prejudice to johnson. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. aldrich, j. 