1 filed 6/12/17 p. v. villaneda ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. luis villaneda, defendant and appellant. b268868 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka099258) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, douglas sortino, judge. affirmed. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, marc a. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction after a jury trial, defendant and appellant luis villaneda (defendant) was convicted of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)1) for the killing of victim gonzalo robles. on appeal, defendant makes the following claims of reversible error: (1) the prosecutor committed misconduct in three different respects at trial; (2) defendant was handcuffed during closing argument; and (3) the trial court denied petition for disclosure of juror information. we affirm the judgment. background i. factual background a. prosecution evidence robles, his girlfriend jennifer yepez, and monica dominguez lived in a house on a piece of property located in west covina. defendant and his girlfriend lived that property. son tran and his girlfriend, trinh nguyen, lived in a garage on the property. elizabeth laplant and geoffrey brooks were the owners of the property, and they also resided there. during the summer of 2012, people would come from the street in the middle of the night, jump the wall, and head to room on the property. the occupants of the front house were upset about this foot traffic. in the evening of august 29, 2012, robles, yepez, and dominguez approached defendant defendant he needed to pay rent owed to laplant. they also told 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 defendant that he needed to stop having so many people visit his home. defendant appeared angry and said they lacked the authority to confront him. yepez and defendant exchanged profanity. during the exchange, yepez knocked defendantphone out of his hand after defendant indicated he was on the phone with a gang member who would help defendant harm them. defendant and the residence on the property. after discussing the issues between laplant and defendant, they all shared methamphetamine provided by defendant, which apparently resolved the dispute. after leaving residence, defendant went to the room shared by tran and nguyen. he told tran and nguyen about his encounter with robles, yepez, and dominguez, and he said they had disrespected him. before leaving the room, defendant took a knife he had previously loaned tran and nguyen. in the morning of august 30, 2012, defendant called his friend ryan defendant was upset that the women had disrespected him. defendant then told munns before he did munns suggested they go to the gym and agreed to come by later that day. munns came to noon and went to defendant munns and defendant then walked to the main house on the property. defendant, who was extremely , intended to demand an apology from robles, yepez, and dominguez. either defendant or munns, or both, loudly knocked on the door, and then one of them struck the door so hard that it broke. 4 robles, yepez, and dominguez came outside and confronted defendant and munns. robles commented that defendant had defendant demanded an apology, but robles laughed at him. defendant then exchanged profanity and insults with dominguez and yepez. for his part, . in turn, yepez yelled at munns, and munns told her to in response, robles told munns, if . . . munns then dropped his keys and sunglasses and dared robles to hit him. the two men then engaged in a fistfight. robles knocked munns down, and then munns struck robles. meanwhile, defendant took a knife out of his pocket. while displaying the knife, defendant so hard according to yepez, defendant lunged at her with the knife, which grazed her right above the waist. during this exchange with defendant, yepez yelled out that defendant had a knife. by this point, robles stopped fighting with munns and turned his attention to defendant and yepez. yepez took out her phone and appearance, as if she was speaking to the police. upon hearing her, munns said he was leaving, suggested defendant leave as well, and fled. in the meantime, robles moved towards yepez and repeatedly told defendant to drop the knife. defendant refused dominguez tossed robles her knife. robles cut defendant in the shoulder. defendant then stabbed robles in the heart. robles fell to the ground and died moments later. after stabbing 5 defendant immediately fled the property, threw away the knife, and called munns to pick him up. munns picked up defendant and tried to convince defendant to go to the hospital because defendant was bleeding. defendant refused, saying the munns instead dropped defendant off with defendant father. defendant was located and arrested a few hours later. b. in the defense case, defendant presented the testimony of several witness (including defendant) in an attempt to establish that robles was the aggressor and that defendant acted in self defense. defendant testified that the day before the stabbing, robles called him and said laplant wanted defendant to vacate his room. later that day, when defendant returned home, robles, yepez, and dominguez were in the yard. yepez slapped , and yepez, robles, and dominguez laughed about it. robles also told defendant that laplant was evicting him. during the exchange, yepez and dominguez called defendant a bitch. the following day, defendant was still angry about the events of the day before. defendant admitted that he told munns he testified that it was just a stupid comment. ace, defendant and . defendant knocked on the door. dominguez opened and then immediately shut the door. munns kicked the door and called dominguez a bitch. 6 robles then came out and asked defendant why they banged on the door. munns and robles began to fight. robles fell to the ground, and defendant held his knife by his side. according to defendant, he did not lunge at anyone with it. . robles walked toward defendant, and dominguez gave robles a knife. robles attacked defendant, stabbing him in the left shoulder. defendant then stabbed robles. robles approached defendant with the knife again. afraid for his life, defendant again stabbed robles, who fell to the ground. defendant left. as part of the defense case, additional witnesses testified, each stating, inter alia, that defendant did not stab robles until after robles had possession of a knife during the altercation. ii. procedural background defendant was charged in a three-count information. count one charged defendant with the murder of robles in violation of section 187, subdivision (a). count two charged defendant with assault with a deadly weapon with respect to yepez, in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1). count three charged defendant with the attempted murder of yepez, in violation of sections 664 and 187. as to counts one and three, the information alleged that defendant personally used a deadly weapon in violation of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). the information also alleged that defendant had served a prior prison term as defined by section 667.5, subdivision (b). at trial, the jury found defendant not guilty of first degree murder, but guilty of second degree murder with respect to robles. the jury also found the deadly weapon allegation to be true. with respect to counts two and three, the jury found 7 defendant not guilty. the prosecutor dismissed the prior prison term allegation. ultimately, the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 16 years to life, consisting of a term of 15 to life on count 1, plus an additional year for the deadly weapon enhancement. defendant timely appealed. discussion i. prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct in three respects: (1) misrepresenting the burden of proof in her closing and rebuttal arguments; (2) stating in her closing argument, without any supporting evidence, that victim robles had saved the lives of yepez and dominguez from defendant; and (3) making an argumentative comment when cross-examining defendant. we reject such claims. a. applicable law he applicable federal and state standards regarding prosecutorial misconduct are well established. pro . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal constitution when it so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. [citations.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury.[cita(people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819.) 8 when the claim comments made during argumentshow that, [i]n the context of the whole argument and the instructions, there was a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. if the challenged would have been taken by a juror to state or imply nothing harmful, [then] they obviously cannot be deemed objectionable. [citation.] (people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 130 (cortez). to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, the defendant must object at the time the claimed misconduct occurs and request a curative admonition to the jury or instruction. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1010; people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 938-939.) an objection on a different ground may not be sufficient to preserve a claim of misconduct. (people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 766-767purpose of the requirement that a defendant object at trial to . . . prosecutorial misconduct is to give the trial court an opportunity, through admonition of the jury, to correct any error and mitigate any prejpeople v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th either a timely objection and/or a request for admonition if either people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) b. alleged misstatements of the burden of proof 1. background facts the prosecutor began her closing argument by asking the jury to facts of this case,and said 9 responsibility. onsibility. what i say. later, referring to a scenario she described during jury selection concerning a pink 2 the prosecutor said: logical, in your task in finding the truth because superman in a tutu logically does not exist. superman in a tutu has no place in this trial. superman in a tutu is not going to help you know the truth about how and why mr. robles was killed. use your common sense. use your reason and logic. the prosecutor continued: to make sure you get all the evidence you can; determine what you and, mistaken now or are they the prosecutor then said: your responsibility as jurors in finding the truth is to reject what is unreasonable. you have to reject superman in a tutu. you may want to accept it. you may want to believe it. you unreasonable. you must accept what is reasonable. you have to use your common sense and logic in finding the truth. the prosecutor proceeded to state that defendant,ed why self-defense did not apply in the case, and also said: 2 transcript for the proceedings involving jury selection when the prosecutor may have discussed pink glitter, superman, and a pink tutu. 10 decision in this case, has to be based on reason. the law is also the prosecutor continued: the truth is, this case is not about speculation. about the poor little defendant that felt bullied. this case is about justice and the truth and the law. and the truth in this case and the law in this case say that the defendant is guilty. in his closing argumentcounsel said: have to prove this case beyond a reasonable doubt and to an abiding conviction. standard. and it will be applied in this particular case. standard, and your jobyour purpose for being here is to make sure that that standard is applied to the facts in this particular case. if there is anything that needs to be done by you, you have to determine what the facts are and you have to determine [the] facts beyond a reasonable doubt. counsel then described the nd told the counsel told the jury he did not want them to reach a guilty verdict and then panic . . . upon realizing they had made the 11 wrong choice. he reminded the facts, counsel also repeatedly asked the jury to use its common sense in evaluating the evidence: have been asked to use your common sense. use it. leave your common sense. ,and, your common sense. counsel made numerous additional comments on the burden of proof, including: together. use your common sense, giving you all the truth, you have doubts and then it becomes reasonable doubt, similar situation with similar knowledge would have believed. at the commencement of the prosecutorrebuttal argument, she reminded the jury that the burden of proof was ,and said the interpretation of the evidence counsel . she continued: is there really a question in your mind after hearing all of these witnesses, their prior statements and their in-court testimony, is it really so hard to know what happened and why it happened? the law does not require that a play by play is known by you. that is not required by the law. you do not need to account for every second of action by the parties. the elements they need to be satisfied by the burden of proof and that is it. you have a video replay of the events for you to know what happened and for you to come to a determination of the truth. describe the law, again cited the burden of proof as beyond a reasonable doubt, and said that it 12 determine the facts based on evidence and to apply the facts to the law. the prosecutor then said: originally she was referred to as justitia, j-u-s-t-i-t-i-a. now, her name is lady justice. people . not what the blindfold means. the blindfold is to symbolize objective [sic] and impartiality. that is how you need to be in this case. the scales that she carried in her hand measure the strength of a case and its opposition. they weigh in the balance, one side or the other, because that is the system that we have. fluid balance because you determine beyond a reasonable doubt. you determine exactly what that balance is that convinces you beyond a reasonable doubt. it probably changes from jury to jury a little bit. decide. after describing the defense characterization of the evidence as unreasonable, the prosecutor said: lady justice tells you that even a defendant can lie, and you must reject what is unreasonable. you have to reject it. just because the defense just because just because the defendant. this is your responsibility, to use your reason and common sense. justice relies upon you. the prosecutor continued: reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction not certainty. like the defense said, abiding conviction, a belief that the charge is true. it need not eliminate 13 all possible doubt. everything is open to some doubt. . . . [] it is not about any imaginary doubt. after explaining why the defense version of events was not ence. about me. the prosecutor concluded her argument by repeatedly reminding the jury that it could find defendant guilty only if convinced beyond a reasonable doubt. 2. forfeiture throughout the entirety of the prosecutoargument and rebuttal, defense counsel never objected on any ground to any statement, illustration, or argument by the prosecutor concerning the burden of proof, let alone made even a suggestion or hint that the prosecutor had engaged in misconduct. defendant has therefore forfeited the claim he now makes on appeal concerning purported misconduct in connection with s concerning the burden of proof. (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1328; people v. tully, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1010; people v. thomas, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 938-939.) in holding that defendant has forfeited this claim of contention that his failure to object should be excused because an objection would have been futile. (see people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 367 misconduct claim on appeal unless an objection would have been ) in claiming futility, defendant merely states in a conclusory fashion that objections and requests for admonitions would have been because 14 statements on the standard of pr we are unpersuaded. the prosecutor continued to make the statements defendant now complains of because defendant never objected to any of them as they were made. assuming arguendo such statements were improper, nothing in the record suggests the prosecutor would have defied the trial court and continued to make them if the trial court had sustained an objection to them. moreover, there is nothing in the record to suggest the jury would not have followed an admonition by the trial court to follow its instructions of law concerning the burden of proof and disregard any argument by the prosecutor to the contrary. (people v. archer to consist of intelligent persons who are fully able to understand, correlate and ].) accordingly, we conclude defendant has forfeited his claim statements regarding the burden of proof. 3. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues in the alternative that, if we conclude defendant forfeited his misconduct claim by failing to object, we should nonetheless reverse because defense counsel was constitutionally ineffective by failing to object on this ground. (see people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674 (centeno) defendant whose counsel did not object at trial to alleged ) in order to establish a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defens performance 15 fell below an objective standard of reasonableness, and that, but for cs error, a different result would have been reasonably probable. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-688, 694; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 216-218 (ledesma)) the contrary, we range of ledesma, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 746.) when the record on appeal is silent as to why counsel did not act in the manner challenged, defendant bears the burden of demonstrating omission. (centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 675.) our supreme evidence or argpeople v. ghent (1987) 43 cal.3d 739, 772.) here, defendant fails to show that his counsel was constitutionally ineffective by failing to object. defendant merely surmises that the absence of an objection must have been error because his counsel [defendant] could be found guilty based on a lesser standard of while defendant undoubtedly supposes correctly his counsel did not want the jury to apply a lower burden of proof, that supposition does not address the pertinent question of whether the lack of an objection to the was for some tactical purpose. defendant actually answers that question himself when positing in his opening brief thcomments would have been harmful because it would have called (see 16 people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 565 [recognizing a reasonable trial strategy to refrain from objecting to s remarks in closing argument because counsel did want the remarks emphasized to the jury].) while we do not necessarily agree an objection and admonition would have made matters worse for defendant, we recognize a decision not to object for fear of that effect was a reasonable and purpose. we therefore conclude defendant has failed to meet his burden of establishing his counsel was ineffective. (centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 675.) we additionally note that defense counsel might also not statements regarding the burden of proof were not improper. unlike centeno, where our supreme court found defense counsel constitutionally ineffective for failing to object where (centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 675), the purported is not so clear in this case. defendant claims the burden of proof could find [defendant] guilty by rejecting what they found unreasonable, accepting what they decided was reasonable, and finding more specifically, defendant contends lesser standard of proof, e.g., preponderance of the evidence applied, and that it was enough to find [defendant] guilty if the scale tipped in favor of the prosecution, e.g., 51 percent or more of the evdefendant further contends the 17 by arguing thand acceptance of what it found reasonable sufficed for proof of [ as improper so readily discernible. in rthe scales that she carried in her hand measure the strength of a case and its opposition. they weigh in the balance, one side or the other, because that is the system that we there fluid balance because you determine beyond a reasonable doubt. you determine exactly what that balance is that convinces you beyond a reasonable doubt. contrary illustration merely informed the jury that, in weighing the at some point the scales may tip so far as to constitute proof beyond a reasonable doubt. thus, while inartful or even unwise (see people v. katzenbeger (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1260, 1269 (katzenberger) beyond a reasonable doubt to a mere line on a graph or chart . . . . it was not legally incorrect or clearly misleading. more to the point, the analogy as phrased by the prosecutor was not so easily discernible as improper such that defense counsel was constitutionally ineffective for failing to object to it. likewise, we do not find so easy to discern as improper the comments that the jury should reject what is unreasonable and accept what is reasonable. we recognize that 18 that so long as her interpretation of the evidence was reasonable, centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 672.) but our supreme court has held explicitly that a and reject the unreasonablimproperly lessen the people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 416.) that is all the prosecutor communicated here. argument as a whole could be construed as telling the jury it could convict merely by finding the throughout her closing argument and rebuttal, the prosecutor consistently reminded the jury that the burden of proof was beyond a reasonable doubt, and she correctly reiterated in her 3 glitter, and a pink tutu may have been a confusing and misguided attempt to illustrate the concept of what is unreasonable. (see katzenberger, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at p. closing argument with visual aids that using such aids to but we do not find that the superman illustration misled the jury as to id. at 3 the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to a modified beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an during his closing argument, defense counsel similarly stated that the prosecutor abiding conviction. 19 p.1267-1268 [eight-piece puzzle depicting the statue of liberty d] a specific quantitative measure of while showing six of the eight pieces assembled].) indeed, even a flawed example of what is unreasonable does not necessarily convey erroneously what constitutes proof beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. romero, supra, the case beyond a reasonable doubt, not beyond an unreasonable to any of the proof fell well within the wide range of professional competence that is deemed constitutionally effective. (ledesma, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 746.) c. alleged misrepresentation of the evidence defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct by arguing, without any evidentiary basis in the record, that robles saved the lives of yepez and dominguez. specifically, the prosecutor said during her closing argument: the truth is, gonzalo robles saved the lives of jennifer yepez and monica dominguez that day. in so doing, he lost his own life. defendant did not object to this statement as prosecutorial misconduct or request that the trial court admonish the jury to disregard it. defendant therefore forfeited the claim he now makes that this comment constituted misconduct. (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1328; people v. tully, supra, 54 20 cal.4th at p. 1010; people v. thomas, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 938-939failure to object should be excused. as noted above with respect oof, there is no indication in the record that it would have been futile to object to this comment either. if the trial court had found merit instructed the jury to disregard the comment, stricken the comment from the record, and/or reminded the jury that arguments of counsel are not evidenceall of which we presume the jury would have understood and followed. (see people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 764; people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 434-435.) we also counsel was constitutionally ineffective for not objecting to this comment. to support the view that robles may have saved the lives of yepez and dominguez, the record indicates otherwise. yepez testified at trial that, before fighting with robles, defendant tried to stab yepez and his knife actually grazed her body. yepez further testified that robles then told defendant to drop the knife. dominguez also testified that yepez yelled out that defendant had tried to stab her, which caused both yepez and dominguez to further engage defendant and cuss at him. defendant himself me with and that robles switched his attention to defendant upon hearing that. in addition, munns testified that defendant them on fire. munns also testified that he heard both dominguez and yepez dare defendant to stab them. 21 thus, while there may have been other conflicting or contradictory evidence adduced at trial, there was ample evidence that defendant stabbed yepez and that defendant continued to engage both yepez and dominguez in a hostile attention. from this, we find it was well within the realm of permissible argument for the prosecutor to state that robles lost his life by intervening to save yepez and dominguez. (people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 336-wide latitude during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefromit was therefore reasonable not to object to the constitutionally ineffective. d. alleged argumentative comment during questioning during cross-examination, the prosecutor asked defendant why he pulled out a knife instead of calling 911 when munns was fighting robles. defendant i was frozen. i nge then occurred: : so you t freeze until after you pull out your knife, is that what you are telling us? [defendant]: yes. : how lucky for you, [defendant] defense counsel objected on the ground that the . the trial court 22 sustained the objection, struck the comment, and instructed the jury to disregard the statement. defendant now contends on appeal argumentative comment about dereversible prosecutorial misconduct. even assuming arguendo prosecutorial misconduct (cf. people v. dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 766 [objection on different ground insufficient to preserve misconduct claim]), and that single comment could rise to the level of prosecutorial misconduct (cf. people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, constitute misconduct where they do not conduct so egregious, overruled on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22), defendant was not prejudiced by the comment such that reversal is warranted. (katzenberger, supra, 178 cal.app. as noted above, the trial court sustainobjection to the statement and immediately struck the statement from the record while instructing the jury to disregard it. moreover, when instructing the jury prior to deliberations, the trial court told the jury that they must disregard any testimony stricken from the record and may not consider it for any purpose. further, the trial court instruunderstood them. (people v. archer, supra, 215 cal.app.3d at p. 204.) we comment was brief and that it was 23 never repeated. we thus find that even if the single comment by the prosecutor were deemed misconduct, the defendant suffered no prejudice from it. ii. defendant being handcuffed during closing arguments defendant contends that the judgment should be reversed because he was handcuffed during closing argument. we conclude that defendant forfeited this claim and that the error was harmless in any event. a. background facts defendant was handcuffed to his chair. after the jury left the court that defendant had been handcuffed during the arguments. the trial court immediately began an inquiry into the circumstances. the bailiff explained that defendant was handcuffed during argument because the trial court had not instructed him to take the handcuff off defendant. the trial court told the bailiff that, although handcuffing defendant is normally the procedure when they do not have a jury, defendant should not be handcuffed in the presence of the jury. defense counsel contended, and the trial court agreed, that there was no reason defendant should have been handcuffed to the chair, as defendant had not been disruptive during trial. having been handcuffed, the trial court determined that only the hand furthest from the jury, was 24 handcuffed to the arm of the chair. defendant had been seated approximately 25-30 feet from the jury. the jury was to the t handcuffed. defense counsel stated he did not know if the jury observed the handcuff on defendant. defense counsel indicated he only noticed the handcuff about 30 minutes after he had sat down next to defendant upon finishing his closing argument. defense counsel also explained that, upon noticing the handcuff, he moved in closer to the defendant and closer to the table, what [he] believe[d] to be any potential view was any was below the table. the trial court hands were below the table throughout. the trial court stated it never saw the handcuff on defendant, even though the trial court looked around the entire courtroom periodically. the trial court explained that defendant was already seated in that position before both he and the jury entered the courtroom. the prosecutor stated that she never noticed the handcuff either. the prosecutor indicated that she was facing defendant throughout her presentation of argument and at one point directly referred to defendant and said to look at him. however, the prosecutor explained that she was the trial court concluded the inquiry by directly asking defense counsel and the prosecutor whether either had anything else to add. both responded that they did not. 25 b. analysis a defendant cannot be subjected to physical restraints of any kind in the courtroom while in the s presence, unless there is a showing of a manifest need for such restraints.constitution forbids the use of visible shackles . . . justified by an essential state interestsuch as the interest in courtroom securityspecific to the defendant on trial. (people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1270.) when a defendant fails to object to restraints, he forfeits his claim on appeal. (people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1259.) rebuttal closing argument, defense counsel noticed defendant was handcuffed to his chair, but he did not immediately alert the trial court. only after the jury retired to deliberate did defense counsel raise the fact that defendant had been handcuffed to his chair during closing argument. r defendant to have been handcuffed, defense counsel never asked for any sort of relief, such as an admonition to the jury or a mistrial. indeed, as the trial court conducted its immediate inquiry into what had occurred, defense counsel candidly admitted: (1) that he did not know whether the jury saw the handcuff; (2) very ; and (3) inquiry, the trial court specifically asked whether defense counsel wanted to add anything else to the discussion. defense counsel stated that he did not. defense counsel did not ask for the trial court to make any further inquiry and did not object to the trial 26 investigative or remedial action. we thus hold that the failure to object and request any relief from the trial court forfeited claim of error on appeal. even assuming the mere raising of the issue and calling sufficient to preserve his claim for appeal, we find that any error was harmless. there is no evidence the jury ever saw the handcuff on defendant, who was seated 25-30 feet away, with both hands under the table and his side with the handcuff facing away from the jury. when not obstructing the jury view of defendant with his own body, defense counsel believed any view of the her the trial court nor the prosecutor ever saw the handcuff, despite facing the defendant and having every opportunity to see the handcuff had it been in view. indeed, it took defense counsel nearly half an hour to notice the handcuff even while seated next to defendant. shackled during argument before jury was harmless. (people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 596 held that courtroom shackling, even if error, was harmless if there is no evidence that the jury saw the restraints, or that the ) iii. petition for disclosure of juror information after he was convicted and the jury was discharged, defendant filed a petition to unseal juror identifying information to investigate whether any juror had seen the handcuff on defendant during closing arguments. the trial court denied the 27 petition. we hold the trial court did not abuse its discretion in so doing. a. applicable law identifying information (names, addresses, and telephone numbers) is sealed. (code civ. proc.,  237, subds. (a)(2) & (3).) discovery of which involves (people v. rhodes (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 541, 548; people v. tuggles (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 339, 380.) to protect those interests, there are procedures in place by which a defendant petition the court for access to personal juror identifying s records necessary for the defendant to communicate with jurors for the purpose of developing a motion for new trial or any other lawful purpose.(code civ. proc.,  206, subd. (g); people v. mcnally (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1419, 1430.) shall be supported by a declaration that includes facts sufficient to establish good cause for the release of the s personal identifying information.absent a showing of good cause for the release of the information, the public interest in the integrity of the jury system and the (people v. mcnally, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 1430 [quoting code civ. proc.,  237, subd. (b)].) ood cause, in the context of a petition for disclosure to support a motion for a new trial based on juror misconduct, a sufficient showing to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred. . . [citations.](people v. johnson (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1155, 1162-1163.) good cause does not 28 exist where the allegations of jury misconduct are speculative, conclusory, vague, or unsupported. (people v. cook (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 341, 346 (cook).) we review the denial of a petition to disclose juror identification information under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (cook, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 346; people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 317.) b. analysis defendant filed a petition for disclosure of juror information to determine: (1) whether any of the jurors saw defendant handcuffed to his chair during counsels arguments; ints were observed, whether . at the hearing on petition, the trial court stated: the jury saw anything based on the positioning of [defendant], where [his] had was [located], [and] the distance from him to the jury box. and i think i made a fairly complete record. and i just rima fascia case made. [] and also, in any event, i think the defense waived it. since i offeredanything else you would like me to do or words to that effect. . . . and he indicated no, so there was never any affirmative request for either a mistrial or an admonition to the jury . . . after entertaining further argument, the trial court denied the petition. for the reasons stated by the trial court during the hearing we hold that the trial court acted well within its discretion to deny the request for disclosure of juror 29 information. defendant failed to meet his burden of providing sufficient evidence to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred. defendant made no showing that any juror observed the handcuff, and there is no reason to believe based on thorough inquiry that any juror would have seen it. accordingly, any belief that the jury saw the handcuff is unsupported by the record and speculative, which cannot constitute good cause to justify release of juror identifying information. (cook, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at pp. 345-346.) 30 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. kin, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 1 baker, j., concurring i concur in the result reached by the majority. i write separately to set forth my views concerning the misstatement of law claims defendant luis villaneda (defendant) raises in claims of error.) oraneous objection at trial forfeited his contention that the prosecution during closing argument misstated its burden of proof. failure to make such an objection constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel warranting reversal. the majority correctly states the standard of review for evaluating such a claim on direct appeala standard our supreme court has described as people v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1212.) in my judgment, a faithful application of that standard turns out to be critical to the proper resolution of the contention that the prosecution misstated the law. i will briefly explain why. as explained in people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114 and received constitutionally inadequate assistance of counsel. (id. at 2 t on direct appeal counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or ibid; see also people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) identifies two points made by the prosecution during closing argument that he believes misstated its burden of proving him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. the first was the prunreasonable. you must accept what is reasonable. that is your duty. you have to use your common sense and logic in finding cation of what the blindfold means. the blindfold is to symbolize objectiv[ity] and impartiality. that is how you need to be in this case. you are justice in this case. the scales that she carried in her hand measure the strength of a case and its opposition. they weigh in the balance, one side or the other, because that is the reasonable doubt. you determine exactly what that balance is t a set number. it probably changes from jury to jury a little bit. but when evaluating a claim that the prosecution has misstated the law in closing argument, we must decide how jurors likely understood the challenged remarks in the context in 3 which they were made. (people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 130-argument and the instructions, there was a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an the remarks he challenges would have been understood as i, however, see the issue somewhat differently. as to the first point made by the prosecution during closing argument (the statements about rejecting what is unreasonable and accepting what is reasonable), i do not believe jurors would have reasonably understood the point as a comment on the burden of proof at trial. rather, the remarks arose in context of evidence and the believability of witnesses. in that context, i believe the point was proper argument, and the ineffective assistance of counsel claim predicated on that aspect of the people v. centeno people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 915.) as to the second point, however, (the invocation of the image of provides far less assurance that the jury would not have understood the remarks as a troubling mischaracterization of the standard of proof that must be met to convict defendant. true, the excerpt of 4 they must be impartial in reaching a decisiona warning that both preceded and followed the comments concerning the scales of justice. but the prosecution does make a specific reference to the burden of proof while discussing lady justice and her scales. in my view, there are obviously grounds on which defense justice image to describe the beyond a reasonable doubt standard of proof. as commonly imagined and depicted (a google image search would tend to confirm this), the scales lady justice holds are often closely balanced, even if one is shown to outweigh the other. if imagery can ever be appropriate to describe the beyond a reasonable doubt standard (the majority rightly cautions against it), the image of closely balanced scales would nevertheless be an entirely inapposite representation of the beyond a reasonable doubt formulation that is the highest standard of proof known to california law. (see people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 669-670 [disapproving use of image in the shape of california]; people v. katzenberger (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1260, 1266-1267 [disapproving use of puzzle pieces forming the statute of liberty].) not only did the prosecution invoke this inapposite image, it exacerbated matters by simultaneously telling the jury that the beyond a reasonable was for the jury would have tended to (1) reinforce the idea that the beyond a reasonable doubt standard of proof for conviction could be tantamount to an imagined picture of closely balanced scales and define proof beyond a reasonable doubt as proof that would leave 5 the jury with an abiding conviction that the charges against defendant were true. although there was a clear basis to object, i agree it is choice to refrain from objecting. while the context of the challenged lady justice comments does not assuage my concern that the jurors may well have understood the remarks in an improper or erroneous manner, it is possible that counsel for defendant at trial could have decided that the brief reference to impartial (and in light of the overall content of the closing argument) was not likely to prompt the jurors to misapply the law. on direct appeal, however, we do not know what defense elieve it is possible (i reserve judgment on whether it is likely) that the absence of an objection could have been a reasonable tactical choice, i agree carry the day. precedent makes clear that such claims are better resolved on habeas review, where presumably there would be a (people v. mendoza tello, supraineffective assistance are often more appropriately litigated in a in a habeas proceeding with a more developed record, the 6 apply no longer. baker, j. 