filed 11/9/16 p. v. campbell ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. keith d. campbell, defendant and appellant. b268045 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137163) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john lonergan, judge. affirmed. heather e. shallenberger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, deputy attorney general, and david a. wildman, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * 2 defendant keith d. campbell was charged with making a criminal threat (pen. code,  422; count 1), attempted arson ( 455; count 2), being a felon in possession of a firearm ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 3), resisting, delaying or obstructing a peace officer ( 148, subd. (a)(1); count 4), and assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); count 5). it was also alleged that defendant personally used a firearm as to counts 1 and 5, and that he had suffered six prior prison terms ( 12022.5, subd. (a), 667.5, subd. (b)). the jury found defendant guilty as charged, and he admitted his prison priors. on appeal, defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence for his attempted arson conviction, reasoning preparatory to the act of arson, and was not a direct act in furtherance of arson, because he never attempted to light the vehicle on fire. we affirm the judgment. facts on april 18, 2015, defendant was at his mother sharon steward. department deputies responded to a call that gasoline had been spilled on the front lawn of the home. when deputies jason puga and javier hernandez arrived at ms. she and her daughter sonique steward were on the front lawn. she reported that she had gotten into an argument with defendant, and that defendant had retrieved a sawed-off shotgun from the rear of her home, pointed it at her, and told her he was going to kill her and burn the house down. fearing for her life, ms. steward called 911, but was disconnected. she then called her daughter. after sonique arrived, ms. steward watched from inside her house as defendant poured silver ford expedition. 3 ms. steward called 911 again. she soon heard sirens and saw defendant grab the shotgun and run to the rear of the house. sonique told police that she received a frantic call from her mother, reporting that defendant had pointed a gun at her. when sonique arrived she saw defendant burning something in the driveway. she confronted defendant about threatening their mother with a gun, and defendant became upset. defendant went to the porch and picked up a red gasoline container, and poured gasoline on car. there was a blowtorch nearby on the driveway. sonique and defendant continued to argue, and when police sirens could be heard approaching, defendant ran to the back of the residence, and ultimately fled the scene. sonique confirmed that defendant owned a sawed-off shotgun that he kept in a storage room at the rear of the home. sonique took deputy puga to the storage room where the gun was ordinarily kept, but it was not there. deputies recovered an empty red gasoline container from the driveway, and a blow torch which was 10 feet away from the gasoline container. they noticed the arson team sampled the fluids on the car and from the gasoline can. according to arson detective robert harris, when he arrived at the scene at 11:00 p.m., the detective harris testified that a fire could be started by introducing an open flame to gasoline vapors. the arson team confirmed that the contents of the can and the fluid on the car were gasoline. later that evening, deputies received a call that defendant had returned to the residence. when deputies arrived, they saw 4 defendant in a car with his grandfather. when defendant saw deputies, he instructed his grandfather defendant refused to comply with orders to exit the vehicle. he had to be removed forcefully. on may 12, 2015, deputies executed a search of ms. when deputies asked if defendant had returned the gun to the home, ms. asked where it was, ms. steward pointed toward a desk. deputies discovered a shotgun covered in a towel. ms. steward testified at trial that defendant had simply it. she denied that she told police that defendant threatened to kill her or pointed a gun at her. she denied even calling police. sonique also denied the statements attributed to her by police. , testified that he was at ms. on the evening of april 18, and that defendant and ms. steward argued, but defendant did not threaten her or pull a weapon on her. defendant also testified that he argued with his mother, and that [his] hand up causing her to drop her phone. he denied threatening her or retrieving a discussion ,the question favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable .] . . . trier of fact could have found defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, the appellate court 5 support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could standard also applies in cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence. people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1175.) the reviewing court does not reweigh the evidence, evaluate the credibility of witnesses, or decide factual conflicts. (people v. culver (1973) 10 cal.3d 542, 548.) any person who willfully and maliciously attempts to set fire to or attempts to burn . . . any structure . . . or property, or who commits any act preliminary thereto, or in furtherance thereof, is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison. . . . [] the placing or distributing of any flammable, explosive or combustible material or substance . . . in or about any structure . . . or property in an arrangement or preparation with intent to eventually willfully and maliciously set fire to or burn same . . . constitute an attempt to burn such structure . . . (pen. code,  455.) appear that the defendant had a specific intent to commit a crime and did a direct, unequivocal act toward that end; preparation alone is not enough, and some appreciable fragment of the crime people v. archibald (1958) 164 cal.app.2d 629, 633.) defendant contends that there was insufficient evidence to support a conviction for attempted arson because there was no cites a number of cases examining the sufficiency of the evidence for an attempted arson conviction, and notes that in each case the defendant had actually attempted to light fire to the structure or property. (see people v. beagle (1972) 6 cal.3d 441, 448; people v. 6 mentzer (1985) 163 cal.app.3d 482, 483; people v. cecil (1982) 127 cal.app.3d 769, 772-774.) however, none of cited cases stand for the proposition that a defendant is required to set fire, or to have tried to set fire, to the property or structure to be guilty of an attempted arson. this division previously affirmed an attempted arson conviction where the defendant entered a station, reached inside a bag containing two wet strips of cloth smelling of gasoline and a gasoline container, and had a lighter in his other hand. he was arrested before he attempted to ignite the cloth. (people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 983-984 (carrasco).) here, like in carrasco, defendant had all the easily infer that the only thing that stopped defendant from was that police vehicles were fast approaching. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 