filed 1/9/17 p. v. gereau ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hanif gereau, defendant and appellant. b268563 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na100658) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, halim dhanidina, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm and steven e. mercer, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant hanif gereau was convicted of three counts of committing a forcible lewd act on a child under fourteen years old (pen. code,  288, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 30 years, consisting of consecutive 10-year upper terms on all three counts. defendant contends the trial court violated his constitutional rights to due process and a fair trial by removing him from the courtroom during trial. we affirm the judgment. discussion1 a. standard of review an appellate court applies the independent or de novo stans exclusion of a criminal defendant from trial, either in whole or in part, insofar as the s decision entails a measurement of the facts against the law. [citation.] (people v. mayham (2013) 212 cal.app.4th 847, 850.) in give considerable deference to the trial courts judgment as to when a disruption has occurred or may reasonably be anticipated. (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 773 (welch); see also illinois v. allen trial judges confronted with disruptive, contumacious, stubbornly defiant defendants must be given sufficient discretion to meet the circumstances of each case].) b. applicable law a criminal defendant, broadly stated, has a right to be personally present at trial under various provisions of law, 1 a factual summary of the crimes is excluded as it is not necessary to resolution of the issue on appeal. 3 including the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment to the united states constitution, as applied to the states through the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment; the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment itself; section 15 of article i of the california constitution; and sections 977 and 1043 of the penal code. [citation.] but a defendant may be removed from [a]ny case in which the defendant, after he has been warned by the judge that he will be removed if he continues his disruptive behavior, nevertheless insists on conducting himself in a manner so disorderly, disruptive, and disrespectful of the court that the trial cannot be carried on with him in the courtroom. (people v. mayham, supra, 212 cal.app.4th at p. 850.) c. relevant proceedings 1. duct at the preliminary hearing during the preliminary hearing, defendant spoke in arabic to a witness, the language used, when translated into english wasmagistrate dishonor you. (phonetically:) magistrate ordered the bailiff to remove defendant, but he continued to speak in ara your honor, brother. (phonetically:) wallah[i] adeem. wallah[i] adeem. cut lies on me and you do not follow what mohamed said 4 control you. wallah[i] adeem. wallah[i] adeem. wallah[i] adeem.magistrate after defendant was removed from the courtroom, the witness testified. the witness translated remarks made to him as asking [the witness] to fear god and to not let ] daughter . . . the people ultimately rested, and the magistrate requested defendant be returned to the courtroom. defendant, however, refused to leave his cell. the magistrate expressed concern about threatening which, of course, was the reason why [the magistrate] defen counsel later was threatening, magistrate disagreed, stating, look in his eye, the repetitious aspect of it. it sounds threatening 2. pretrial/trial a. pretrial several pretrial appearances, defendant did not do so. the trial court therefore ultimately issued an order to have defendant extracted from his jail cell. b. april 1, 2015 the case was called for trial, but defendant again refused to appear in court (he was not extracted pursuant to the prior 5 order). the trial court issued another extraction order, and the matter was continued to the following day. c. april 2, 2015 defendant appeared in court constrained to a chair used to transport him safely from his cell to the courtroom. he instructed, to me before allah punishes you because you are doing injustice defendant demanded his restraints be removed,2 and commented, you need to take these off of me. in the name of allah, the most gracious, the most merciful. you need to fear allah. you have no the trial court told defendant he has a right to be present at the proceedings, but before the trial court had completed its thought, defendant interruptthe trial court replied, [?] defendant however continued to speak and argue with the trial court. when the trial court adefendant again interrupted. tmenevertheless interjected, and did so repeatedly. the trial court was eventually able to explain to disruptive in the trial courthouse, courtroom, or holding cell, you will be deemed to have waived those rights. the trial will proceed in your the trial court acknowledged the record from the preliminary hearing showed defendant had been removed for 2 defendant does not contend he was improperly restrained. 6 being disruptive and cautioned as follows: [defendant] is refusing to allow [the] g things without allowing . . . the trial court to [defendant] . . . to miss outs. d. april 28, 2015 defendant refused to leave his cell and the trial court enforced the standing extraction order. once defendant was brought to the courtroom, the trial court reminded him that he would be removed if he was disruptive, and he would not be allowed to delay the proceedings by refusing to leave his holding cell. defense counsel asked whether defendant could listen remotely (presumably from his holding cell) if he became uncooperative or disruptive. the trial court was not aware of any such technology in the courthouse, and indicated mechanism by which he can be made aware of the proceedings [is] to continue to be silent so that he can the trial court advised defendant he could discuss his case with his counsel during breaks and in the attorney conference room. e. april 29, 2015 during jury selection, but out of the presence of the panel, defense counsel requested a continuance to obtain a medical expert to show defendant was incapable of having an erection. defendant interrupted with, 7 hard the trial court replied defendant then stated, t would not be hard for a doctor to. the trial court interrupted defendant, told him that he was being disruptive, and stated you will be excluded from your trial if you continue to defendant shortly thereafter, defendant asked to represent himself. the trial coucourt finds your request to be gamesmanship[]invitedwhereupon the trial when the jury comes in you will be excluded defendant interrupted yet again, causing the trial court to respond, as the prospective jurors were entering the courtroom, the trial court directed defendant not to speak. dwould like to have a marsden motion[3] please. the trial court ordered the bailiff to remove defendant from the courtroom. defendant said, 3 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). a motion for the substitution of new counsel in place of existing appointed counsel on the ground existing counsel is providing inadequate marsden people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 604.) 8 file a motion for a new attorney, and stated he had a due process right and a right to self-representation. defendant continuedi would not like to do 70 years in prison without at least having a marsden motion, please. it is very important to this matter. i have a wife and important part of this case, in all due respect. i would like to have that motion heard before this court so that these ladies and gentlemen could hear frothe trial court again admonished the prospective jurors to ignore the comments, and to base their verdicts only on the evidence presented. defendant was removed from the courtroom and jury selection resumed in def f. april 30, 2015 jury selection was scheduled to resume but defendant was . the trial court opted to proceed with jury selection . defense counsel arguimproper for several reasons: defendant had not used profanity nor was he physically disruptive; his removal from the courtroom ; and it was obvious to the prospective jurors that defendant was in custody. the trial court replied to counsel (1) it had excluded defendant under section 10434; (2) defendant had been 4 section 1043 provides in relevant part: (a) except as otherwise provided in this section, the defendant in a felony case shall be personally present at the trial. [] (b) the absence of the defendant in a felony case after the trial has commenced in his presence shall not prevent continuing the trial to, and including, the return of the verdict in any of the following cases: (1) any case in which the defendant, after he has been warned by 9 warnings throughout his monologue yesterday(3) despite the warnings, defendant continued to speak when the jurors entered talking quite loudly in an proceed with a defendant trying to communicate with jurors. the trial court indicated no listening device was available in the lockup area, however regular breaks would be taken to allow defense counsel an opportunity to speak with defendant. been his tactic thuleft the door open for defendant regain access to the court if he could emonstrate or explain to the court that he is willing to conduct himself appropriately,the court offered to defense counsel later made a continuing objection to all proceedings . after the jury was sworn, but before opening statements, a sergeant stated defendant refusing to the judge that he will be removed if he continues his disruptive behavior, nevertheless insists on conducting himself in a manner so disorderly, disruptive, and disrespectful of the court that the trial cannot be carried on with him in the courtroom. [] . . . [] (c) any defendant who is absent from a trial pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) may reclaim his right to be present at the trial as soon as he is willing to conduct himself consistently with the decorum and respect inherent in the concept of trial courts and judicial proceedings. 10 change out of his county blue uniform and refusing to come out to defense counsel indicated defendant was frustrated the trial had continued without him, and objected to removal as a violation of his constitutional rights. the trial court solution is to have him come . . . to ut to do that. following opening statements, defense counsel asked for a brief recess. after an unreported bench conference, the trial court directed the jury to wait in the jury deliberation room, and defendant appeared in court. when the jury returned to the courtroom, defendant began processquested the jury to return to the jury deliberation room, and apologized for the delay. defendant present? i was not presentedthe trial court instructed the jurors them as evidence in the case. defendant again questioned his absence from jury selection, said he was being denied his constitutional due process rights, and said he wanted to represent himself. tcontinuing to be disruptive and continuing to waive his right to be presehe bailiff to after defendant was removed, defense counsel argued discourteous to the [trial] court [such] that he prevented [the] [trial] court could 11 certainly admonish the jury with regard to what he the trial court disagreed because [t]he defendant was speaking without permission and was attempting to communicate with the g. may 4, 2015 when the morning session commenced defendant was not present and his attorney stated it was her understanding that he was counsel reiterated her previous objections to admonishment to the jury, arguing that, because defendant was speaking to the trial court (as opposed to the jury), the trial court improperly and prejudicially told the jury to disregard what defendant was saying. counsel moved for a mistrial. the trial court denied the motion, for the following reasons: attempt to cure any prejudice the defendant was creating [by] his own conduct. . . as the defendant was making his outbursts he was looking directly at the jury which is why the court made the instruction that the court did so that the jury would know instantaneously not to consider those attempts to communicate with them for any purpose. . . . [] [t]he defendant has repeatedly throughout this trial from the very beginning, despite ample warnings from the trial court, attempted to speak at times when he was not permitted to speak while the jury was present, including attempts to communicate 12 with the jury. so the trial court feels that the defendant has been properly excluded up to this point under 1043. but i will give the defendant an opportunity as the court has every day to come to court willfully and to in defendant was present in court at the commencement of the afternoon session. the trial court addressed and denied rights were being violated, and said he wanted to make a motion for mistrial. the trial court explained to defendant that his attorney, not he, may make such motions, and his mistrial motion had already been denied. the defendant replied, judge], fair and law. fair and law. be just. the trial but defendant persisted: court told def defendant did not let the issue go: the trial court responded, defendant remained present during the testimony of the next prosecution witness, and the direct examination of the victim. at a subsequent sidebar discussion, defense counsel indicated defendant wanted to represent himself, which request the trial court denied. presence and before defense counsel could begin cross-examination of the victim, defendant insisted on renewing his motion to represent himself, despite the trial court having advised defendant he was and instructing him defendant questioned 13 the court about his right to represent himself. the trial court excused the jury and the victim from the courtroom, and then when the jurors returned, the trial court again directed them to disregard defense counsel cross-examined the victim in defendant absence. after the victim was excused, defense counsel objected to defendatrial court responded, in part: court finds the following: the defendant has engaged in repeated misconduct since the beginning of this trial. the trial court has warned the defendant the trial court further said it had issued a separate warning defendant to be present in trial court every day even though that is not required in an attempt to determine whether the defendant has changed his mind about being a serious obstructionist during the trial court also noted it had warned defendant three times earlier that day, yet defendant continued to speak while the witness was on the stand and the jurors were present. the trial obstruct this trial, to manipulate the proceedings, to control the proceedings to his advantage and to cause delay and disruptions throughout. he has been repeatedly warned and advised both by the trial court and by his attorney that that behavior would get the trial court found it had no recourse other than to remove defendant from the courtroom, 14 was appropriate under the circumstances to satisfy the trial decorum and the efficient operation of the proceedings. the trial court explained that every day it ordered defendant to appear at court, despite d trial court could again ask defendant whether he would be willing to comply with court orders. h. may 5, 2015 when the case was called, defense counsel indicated the trial court relayed a message from a sergeant that defendant courtroom.5 the trial court accommodated defendant and waited for him to arrive. defense counsel repeated her prior arguments and courtroom, and moved for a mistrial. the trial court denied the motion and repeated its prior explanations, stating in part that the get go, both in this court and every other [,] according to the of the minutes from other court appearan invited to comment, was ,and had been delaying arrival to trial court on almost every singlcourt pointed out every single day the court has been in session the defendant has had to be warned 5 the trial court was later advised defendant had refused to come out of his cell for at least 30 minutes. 15 repeatedly before being remove the the trial court found defendant was intentionally delaying and disrupting the proceedings, and said it counsel table while the jury is present and the witness is defendant stated his complaints concerning the proceedings and defense counsel. the trial court then engaged in an exchange with defendant in which it ultimately interpreted the trial court denied the request in requesting defendant also made another marsden request, which the trial court denied because it was untimely and defendant had not claimed the performance of his appointed counsel was deficient. defendant remained present in the courtroom for additional testimony. after the trial court excused the jury for lunch, defendant repeated his faretta6 and marsden requests. following a hearing, the trial court denied the marsden motion. however, after securing a promise from defendant that he would not be disruptive, the trial court granted his request to proceed in pro per. i. the final days of trial defendant represented himself until the jury returned its verdicts and was excused, at which point he chose to be represented by retained counsel. the trial court denied defense 6 -representation has its genesis in faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 16 in part on d. analysis the trial court did not err in removing defendant from the courtroom. this is not a close case. despite being warned on numerous occasions that he would be excluded from the proceedings if he persisted with his disruptive behavior, defendant regularly failed to accede to the trial court's admonitions. on multiple occasions, he made comments to witnesses, interrupted counsel and the trial court, spoke in the presence of the jury, and attempted to communicate with the jury. the record reflects the trial court exercised remarkable patience and poise with defendant and, in fact, seemed to go out of its way to provide defendant with a daily opportunity to exercise his right to personally appear. although the trial court made reference to defendant intensity of his demeanor. the trial court witnessed that. but baadmonitions and warnings, it is difficult to believe defendant was respectful and well-mannered. indeed, the record reflects that, at tone of voice, the look in his eye, the repetitious aspect of [his comment7 as noted, we are required to give considerabs judgment as to when a disruption has occurred or may reasonably be 7 the trial court reviewed the record of the preliminary hearing and recognized defendant had been removed from that proceeding for being disruptive. 17 anticipated. (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 773; accord, illinois v. allen, supra, 397 u.s. at p. 343.) the record undoubtedly demonstrates defendant engaged in persistent disruptive and defiant behavior which justified his removal from the courtroom. but, even if the trial court somehow erred in so doing, defendant fails to demonstrate he was structural error that is reversible per se, but trial error that is he right to personal presence at trial bears the burden of demonstrating that s] personal presence could have substantially (people v. johnson (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 943, 949.) perhaps this would be an issue for habeas corpus (assuming defendant was improperly excluded from trial proceedings). nonetheless, defendant has not explained how his defense would have benefited from his presence. 18 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. baker, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 