filed 11/22/16 p. v. torres ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. angel torres, defendant and appellant. b268032 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba427227) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed. john f. schuck, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction pursuant to a plea agreement, defendant angel torres pleaded no contest to penal code1 section 273.5, subdivision (a), and was sentenced to a term of four years. we have conducted an independent examination of the entire record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), and conclude that no arguable issues exist. we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background at a preliminary hearing on may 6, 2016, defendant-in girlfriend testified that in the midst of an argument, defendant physically assaulted her, broke her nose, choked her, interfered with attempts to call 911, and trapped her in a bathroom, blocking her path when she tried to escape. the los angeles district attorney (the people) filed an information alleging that defendant violated section 273.5, subdivision (a), willful infliction of corporal injury on a cohabitant (count 1, a felony), and section 236, false imprisonment by violence (count 2, a felony). count one included an enhancement for great bodily injury in circumstances involving domestic violence pursuant to section 12022.7, subdivision (e). urrent pre-preliminary hearing offer is four years, a plea to count 1, admit the allegation for high term on count 1 of four years and then stay a sentence believe this case is very underfiled. . . . least a false imprisonment charge, possibly others as we see how the facts develop. and i calculate the maximum on the complaint 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 as charged at 9 years. i believe we get to 12 to 13 or 14 depending on addit defendant initially pleaded not guilty. at the case setting hearing on august 10, 2015that defendant wanted a new attorney. the court held a marsden2 hearing, in which defendant statedattorney because thi defendant prosecution has given me since the very defense counsel told the court that he spoke with the prosecution in an attempt to lower the sentence, but the prosecutor rejected the offer and reiterated that the four year offer was still available. occasions it is either the trial or the peopl the court denied attorney as the case was about to proceed to trial a week later, deagain that defendant may not be satisfied with his attorney. the court held another marsden hearing, and dbeen trying to help me get a better offer. i have been asking for a long time. wanted attorney makes the offer. defendant said, the coeight months if you go to trial. might want to take the four. i 2 pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 4 the court also noted that the prosecution might be reluctant to reduce the sentence further because when police arrived to investigate following the incident, they found that defendant had firearms in the house that, as a felon, he was not allowed to have. the court asked defense counsecounsel explained that he attempted to reduce the sentence but counsel alrly strong case for the an offer i would suggest is spectacular, but n is this: if you want four years, the district attorney is willing to offer four years. you can go to trial, if you want to go to trial. the court said the minimum sentence after trial probably would be five years, ure that i other hand, you think that you will win after trial, should you go i can just tell you what the reality of the situation defendant said, change the offer a little at least. the gbi [great bodily injury enhancement] carries only three years. why are they carrying four? fering not to sentence you on the gbi. defendant said, i have never wanted to go to trial. not getting less than four years. it 5 defendant asked his attorney how long he would serve minus credit for time served, and they conferred off the record. the court denied marsden motionam denying [the] request. see any basis of finding that [your attorney] is not providing com the marsden hearing ended, and in open court defendant knowingly waived his rights and pleaded no contest to count 1 and admitted the great bodily injury enhancement. count 2 was dismissed. when asked if he was pleading freely and voluntarily, when asked if anyone had threatened him to induce him to plead, defendant answered, the court sentenced defendant to the upper term of four years on count one pursuant to section 1170, subdivision (h)(3). the court sentenced defendant to three years on the great bodily injury enhancement, and the sentence was stayed. the court imposed various fines, fees, and requirements, and prohibited contact with the victim. defendant filed a notice of appeal. on the form defendant checked the box stating that he was challenging the validity of defendant requested a certificate of failure to meet with defendant to discuss the case, the elements, defendant also stated that his are untrue through his direct use of threats, because the she will impose a defendant said that at his marsden 6 egal training and will sentence the record does not reflect that the judge made this statement, although she did tell defendant that he was the judge also stated that the minimum sentence would be five years. judge lench stated, the extra year is because of the guns that were found in the record also does not show that the judge made such a statement. rather, the record shows that the four-year and related to count 1 only. t certificate of probable cause. on appeal, dounsel filed a brief requesting that we independently review the record for error. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) we directed counsel to send the record and a copy of the brief to appellant, and notified him of his right to respond within 30 days. appellant did not respond. discussion a criminal defendant who appeals following a plea of no contest without obtaining a certificate of probable cause may only challenge the denial of a motion to suppress evidence or raise grounds arising after the entry of the plea that do not affect the (cal. rules of court, rule 8.304(b)(1).) defendant did not file a motion to suppress evidence. defendants argument that his plea was coerced is not appealable without a certificate of probable cause. even if the argument were appealable, the 7 record does not support the arguments he made in his request for a certificate of probable cause, as noted above. to his sentence for uncharged weapons violations arose after the entry of the plea and does , and is therefore appealable without a certificate of probable cause. (people v. panizzon proceedings held subsequent to the plea for the purpose of determining the degree of the crime and the penalty to be cause].) there is no arguable appellate issue with respect to sentencing, however. the record makes clear that defendant was sentenced to four years on count 1 alone, with no other enhancements or punishments. section 273.5, subdivision (a), states that the upper term for a violation is for four years, imprisonment, and the court made clear in the record that it imposed the upper term of four years on count 1. there is no indication in the record that or any other uncharged crimes when sentencing defendant on count 1. d therefore does not provide a basis for reversing the judgment on appeal. with respect to other potential sentencing or post plea issues for which a certificate of probable cause is not required because they do not in substance challenge the validity of the plea (cal. rules of court, rule 8.304(b)(4)(b)), we have examined complied with the responsibilities of counsel and no arguable issues exist. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 277284; 8 people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 118-119; people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 