filed 9/18/17 p.v. rodriguez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. antonio r. rodriguez, defendant and appellant. b268696 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba094493) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, william c. ryan, judge. affirmed. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, mary sanchez, andrew s. pruitt and paul s. thies, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 appellant antonio rodriguez appeals the denial of his petition for resentencing under penal code section 1170.26. rodriguez challenges both the test applied by the trial court, and its exercise of discretion. we affirm. factual and procedural history rodriguez was sentenced in 1994 to 25 years to life on a conviction for violation of health and safety code section 11351.5. in november 2012, proposition 36, the three strikes as relevant to rodriguez, the act created a procedure for persons sentenced under the three strikes law, as was rodriguez, to petition for resentencing when their third felony conviction was not serious or violent. (pen. code,  1170.126, subd. (e).)1 for those sentenced under the scheme previously in force, the act establishes procedures for convicted individuals to seek resentencing in accordance with the new sentencing rules. ( 1170.126.) the procedures call for two determinations. first, an inmate must be eligible for resentencing. ( 1170.126, subd. (e)(2).) an inmate is eligible for resentencing if his or her current sentence was not imposed for a violent or serious felony and was not imposed for any of the offenses described in clauses (i) to (iv) of section 1170.12, subdivision (c)(2)(c). ( 1170.126, subd. (e)(2).) those clauses describe certain kinds of criminal conduct, including the use of a firearm during the commission of the offense. second, an inmate must be suitable for resentencing. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 court, in its discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public ( 1170.126, subd. (f).) if an inmate is found both eligible and suitable, the inmate's third strike sentence is recalled, and the inmate is resentenced to a second strike sentence. (ibid.;  (people v. estrada, (2017) 3 cal.5th 661, 667.) in 2013, rodriguez filed a petition for resentencing under the act. the trial court issued an order to show cause and appointed counsel. the people filed opposition to the petition in december 2013 conceding that rodriguez was eligible for resentencing, but asserting that he was unsuitable because he posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. rodriguez replied in september 2014, disputing the facts of some of his underlying convictions, denying any gang affiliation, and arguing that none of his prior convictions demonstrated a risk of current danger. rodriguez disputed the argument that his immigration status and alcohol issues indicated a current risk. with respect to his record of violations in prison, he provided background details and explanations for his actions. rodriguez finally provided information concerning his rehabilitation activities, and his physical and learning limitations.2 the people filed 44 exhibits for the hearing pertaining to iminal history and incarceration. rodriguez filed an additional 17 exhibits. the court received all of the exhibits 2 rodriguez, acting independently from his appointed counsel, filed further documents with the court, concerning his health and post-release plans. 4 into evidence and heard argument by the parties on july 28, 2015; neither party presented live testimony.3 on october 22, 2015, the court issued its written ruling, finding rodriguez unsuitable for resentencing. rodriguez appealed, asserting that the trial court had applied an improper standard to its determination of unreasonable risk, and that, even under the standard it had applied, finding that he posed an unreasonable risk was an abuse of discretion.4 3 rodriguez objected to only one court overruled the objection. rodriguez does not challenge that ruling on appeal. 4 dangerousness found in proposition 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act of 2014 ( 1170.18, subd. (c)), was the proper standard to be applied, was rejected by the california supreme court in people v. valencia (2017) 3 cal.5th 347 (valencia). because that decision was filed after briefing was completed in this court, we asked the parties to file supplemental briefs. both parties conceded that, so long as valencia remains binding authority, the trial court had applied the proper test to determine unreasonable risk. 5 discussion a. the issue before the court required the exercise of discretion ntencing provisions, which rodriguez inmate who is serving a third strike sentence that would have yielded a second strike sentence under a determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an 1170.126, subd. (f).) in exercising its discretion to deny resentencing, the court has broad discretion to consider: (1) criminal conviction history, including the type of crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the remotenesdisciplinary record and record of rehabilitation while [a]ny other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an unreasonable risk of danger to public ( 1170.126, subd. (g)(1)-(3).) thus, as the legislative analyst explained i[i]n determining whether an offender poses [an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety], the court could consider any evidence it behavior in prison, and participation in rehabilitation progra (voter information guide, gen. elec. (nov. 6, 2012) analysis of prop. 36, by legis. analyst, (valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th 354.) 6 rodriguez asserted at the trial court, the trial court found, and respondent concedes, that he established eligibility for resentencing, leaving only the question of whether he is properly considered an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. we review that determination for abuse of discretion. section 1170.126, subdivision (f), by its terms, confers discretion on trial courts to make the required determination. (see people v. superior court (kaulick) (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 1279, 1303.) trial court, its exercise of that discretion must not be disturbed on appeal except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a ma(people v. hall (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1255, 1264; see also people v. gibson (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 315, 325.)5 5 rodriguez argues that the prosecution is required to prove dangerousness beyond a reasonable doubt, although he acknowledges kaulick, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at p. 1305 holds that the burden of proof is preponderance of the evidence. we -reasoned analysis in kaulick, and see no reason to depart from that conclusion. rodriguez also urges this court to apply the analysis in in re lawrence (2008) 44 cal.4th 1181, that the evaluation of unreasonable dangerousness required a showing of facts beyond record. we need not reach his argument that lawrence, which to support the decision, is binding here because, as discussed below, the record contains a significant amount of evidence, to which rodriguez did not object, relating to matters other than his commitment offense and prior criminal record. the reasoned written analysis prepared by the trial court amply demonstrates 7 b. the trial court based its determination on an extensive record the trial court conducted a hearing on the issue of dangerousness, and received all evidence submitted concerning rodriguez during incarceration. neither party sought to call any witnesses. the court, in analyzing the facts placed before it, focused its attention on whether rodriguez posed a current risk to public safety, acknowledging that his criminal history was an immutable factor whose relevance was related to its impact on the determination of current risk of dangerousness. rodriguez argues that the court abused its discretion in making that determination, by relying too heavily on past events, and by not adequately considering the showing he had made relating to his current status. the trial court reviewed rodriguezincluding juvenile offenses as early as 1976, and his adult criminal history beginning in 1979; his record of convictions continued until he was discharged from prison on parole in august 1993. the events leading to the commitment offense occurred shortly thereafter, in april 1994. the court also noted that rodriguez had been deported, and then returned to the united states, at least four times. disciplinary history, and his rehabilitative efforts during his current period of incarceration. the court noted 28 rules nce, along with its dangerousness. 8 violations reports, 26 of which were classified as serious misconduct; eight were alcohol-related, and two were for mutual misconduct, the last of which took place in 2008. the most recent report of misconduct occurred in 2014, while this petition was pending. programming and work assignments. the court was aware that rodriguez was removed from educational opportunities in 2009 going participation in narcotics anonymous, and his participation in soccer and a recent fundraising event at the prison. acknowledged that it was currently 147, having risen from a score of 57 at the beginning of tassessment score, at the time of the hearing, was moderate, and the related potential that criminality was likely to decline, the fact that rodriguez had several physical limitations, and his intent to return to mexico if released. the court concluded that rodriguez had a lengthy history of multiple crimes, multiple deportations, and multiple parole violations; he had not been free from custody or supervision since 1979; and deportation had not prevented him from returning to the united states. acknowledging that this history, to be relevant required a nexus to current dangerousness, the court found classification scores, level of programming, and lack of a viable post-release plan, provided that nexus. the court added: 9 inability to refrain from misconduct even after filing his petition from further misconduct once he is beyond the watchful eye of the c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion the facts before the court supported its conclusion. rodriguez argues that the trial court did not properly determine a nexus between the events in the record and his current circumstances. what rodriguez does not do, however, is dispute is criminal record. similarly, with respect to his prison misconduct, rodriguez argued that the court should have viewed those circumstances more favorably than the record demonstrated the prison authorities had and should have judged the weight to be given to credibility of the reports differently. in essence, rodriguez does not argue that the factual record does not support the matters relied on by the court, but rather that the court should have balanced those facts differently, and placed more weight on rodriguezand other actions while incarcerated, than on the record of his offenses and incarceration on which the court did rely. that the facts could be viewed through a different prism does not establish an abuse of discretion. the court was clear that it was not relying solely on the immutable facts of prior criminal convictions, but as well on behavior. the court also considered the positive factors relating to age, physical condition, rehabilitative efforts and release plans, but on balance found them outweighed by the other facts in the record. 10 this record does not demonstrate any abuse of discretion. (people v. myers record demonstrates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the law, we shall affirm the trial court's ruling, even if disposition the order is affirmed. zelon, acting p. j. we concur: segal, j. menetrez, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 