filed 5/9/17 p. v. alexander ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. phillip alexander, defendant and appellant. b268634 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba431065) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. curtis b. rappe, judge. affirmed as modified. daniel g. koryn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury found appellant phillip alexander guilty of forcible rape (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2)).1 in a bifurcated proceeding, the jury found true the allegations that appellant had two prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), namely, two counts of robbery, and that these two counts involved two separate victims. the jury also found true the allegation that appellant had one prior serious felony conviction for robbery within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court sentenced appellant to state prison for a total term of 30 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). appellant contends the trial court erred in admitting certain evidence and sentencing him pursuant to the three strikes law, and that the abstract of judgment should be corrected to reflect a three strikes sentence. we agree with this last contention and otherwise affirm the judgment. facts prosecution case a. background in march 2014, c.b. was 14 years old. she lived part-time with her father, f.b., and her older brother at their apartment in los angeles. the rest of the time she lived with her paternal grandmother. f.b.ground floor of the apartment building. in an upstairs apartment, and appellant visited her often. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 sometimes appellant would go over to f.b.ment. c.b. and appellant had greeted each other in the past. b. the rape on march 11, 2014, around 9:00 p.m., appellant, f.b., and about five other men were at f.b.song. c.b. the back of the apartment building. she was crying and thinking about her aunt, who was in jail. appellant walked past c.b. and threw out some trash. he asked her what was wrong, and she said she did not want to talk about it. appellant asked her again what was wrong and c.b. started to walk away. appellant then grabbed her arm and pulled her toward him. c.b. was wearing a shirt, tights and underwear. appellant was standing behind her and pulled down her tights and underwear. she tried to pull her tights back up, but could not because appellant had his hand on her shoulder on her waist. c.b. was crying and told appellant to stop. he did not respond. appellant bent c.b. forward, then inserted his penis into c.b. tried to stand up, but appellant was too strong. appellant asked her if it hurt appellant did not stop or otherwise respond. she smelled alcohol. she could not yell because she was sick and her throat was using her foot, c.b. broke away from appellant. she pulled up her tights as she ran. she heard her father calling her name. she ran past her father into their apartment. 4 f.b. apartment building. it looked like appellant had come from the same general area as c.b. apartment and returned to f.b. or 10 minutes later. once inside the apartment, c.b. she saw blood in her urine, and felt pain in her vagina. and cried. when she came out of the bathroom, she saw scared, she went into room to the bathroom, closed the door, and turned off the lights. she threw . c.b. shared this hamper with her father and her brother. c.b. was crying and her father went into the bedroom and asked her what was wrong. she was too afraid to tell her father what had happened because appellant was in the apartment. appellant and the others left the apartment around 3:00 a.m. after they left, c.b. went into her own bedroom and went to sleep. c. the next day on the following morning, c.b. was crying and her brother asked her what was wrong. she told him that someone had her brother woke up their father and told him what c.b. had said. f.b. called 911. a recording of the call was played for the jury. c.b. can be heard in the background saying, c.b.apartment. after the grandmother drove c.b. to the 5 c.b. to write down what had happened to her. when the police arrived, c.b. gave them what she had written, which the prosecutor read to the jury. one of the responding officers, los angeles police department (lapd) officer elva coates, testified that c.b. officer coates interviewed c.b. in the presence of her mother, who had since arrived. after the interview, officer coates drove c.b. and her mother to f.b. other officers brought appellant outside, and c.b. identified him from the police car. [appellant] out . . . [c.b., my . . . behind our partition in the vehicle and . . . [] . . . [] she was definitely shaken up. after appellant was arrested, c.b. apartment and retrieved her underwear from the hamper. she gave the underwear to her mother, and her mother put the underwear in a bag and handed the bag to a police officer. the police took c.b. to a hospital, where she underwent a sexual assault response team (sart) examination. the sart nurse did not observe any physical injuries, but testified that this finding did not negate sexual assault. the nurse collected swabs from c.b. and did a vaginal lavage, -tips inside the vagina and it has a saline inside and you squirt it inside and you collect 6 the same day, a nurse practitioner conducted a sart examination on appellant. d. forensic evidence a dna analyst with the lapd crime lab analyzed the swabs from c.b.. no sperm was found. male dna was detected on the cervix swab and in the vaginal lavage. a dna analyst at bode technology in virginia performed -.b.swab and vaginal lavage, and concluded that appellant could not based on a statistical -str profile in approximately 0.155 percent of u.s. african-or, put another way, 99.845 percent of u.s. african-american - the same y-str profiles are shared by paternal relatives. a criminalist in the serology dna unit of the lapd crime lab found a mixture of a dna profile on the swabs that had been collected fr. both c.b.dna profiles were included in the mixture. based on a statistical file from [appellant] and [c.b.] . . . is seven quintillion times more probable than a mixture containing [appellant] and some a screener for biological fluids with the serology dna unit of the lapd crime lab analyzed the underwear that c.b. had worn. the presence of the enzymes acid phosphatase and p-30 underwear. acid phosphatase and p-concentrations in semen [as] compared to other [bodily on cross- 7 to tie defense case appellant and his girlfriend spent the night at her apartment, which was located across a common area and upstairs from f.b.apartment. she saw appellant leave her apartment to take out the trash. [of] seconds later, she saw him at f.b.apartment. appellant returned to her apartment at about 10:30 p.m. lfriend gave similar testimony. wayne givehand (givehand) had lived at the apartment building since 2011. he had a prior conviction for armed robbery. on the night of the assault, givehand, appellant, and three other men were at f.b.rap video. at some point, givehand saw c.b. sitting at the back of the apartment building. she was with a jamaican boy who was standing between her legs. according to givehand, c.b. had a reputation at the apartment building for being dishonest. suzanna ryan, a forensic dna consultant, opined that it is fingernails with regard to the y-str testing, defense counsel asked her whether the 0.155 percent figure . . . like one in so many african-american males are expected to have that the affirmative, testifying that the probabilit discussion i. admission of underwear evidence appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in allowing evidence of the acid phosphatase and p-30 enzymes 8 found in the crotch area of c.b.evidence). he argues the underwear evidence was inadmissible for two reasons: (1) there was a gap in the chain of custody and therefore the evidence lacked a proper foundation, and (2) the probative value of the evidence was substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect under evidence code section 352. we disagree. a. relevant proceedings during her initial cross-examination, c.b. testified that she did not see her mother or grandmother hand to the police a bag containing her underwear. lapd officer stephen buehler, who responded to the house of c.b.he was waiting outside the house during c.b. with officer coates, c.b.she said contained the underwear c.b. had worn during the attack. officer buehler testified that the bag was secured in a police vehicle, and over to the nurse who conducted the rape kit and then she . . . package[d] it and underwear was booked into evidence. prior to the prosecutor calling to the stand albert mendoza (mendoza), the screener with the serology dna unit of the lapd crime lab who analyzed c.b. underwear was at issue before the police got it and those were handed to them in a bag by [c.b.underwear b the prosecutor recalled c.b. to the stand. she testified that after she took her shower, she threw her underwear in the dirty clothes hamper in the next morning, 9 underwear from the clothes hamper. she gave the underwear to her mother. she could not recall whether the underwear was put in a bag at the apartme she saw her mother hand the bag to the police. on cross-examination, c.b. testified that since her prior with her underwear and how she and her mother got it. after hearing argument from counsel, the trial court ruled that the underwear evidence was admissible, finding that the evidence of possible contamination went to the weight of the evidence and not its admission. on cross-examination, mendoza was asked whether the underwear being left overnight in a hamper with other clothing laund on redirect, mendoza was asked how much contact he would expect the of clothing in order to make that transference. to transfer it we wet a piece of paper and press it flat with heavy weights on top for about twenty minutes, fifteen[] minutes, thirty [] if it was dry it would be very lit on recross-exammoist . . . the weight is not necessary for the transfer[.] [] it just b. applicable law with regard to chain of custody claims, our supreme court has explained: [t]he burden on the 10 party offering the evidence is to show to the satisfaction of the trial court that, taking all the circumstances into account including the ease or difficulty with which the particular evidence could have been altered, it is reasonably certain that there was no alteration. [] the requirement of reasonable certainty is not met when some vital link in the chain of possession is not accounted for, because then it is as likely as not that the evidence analyzed was not the evidence originally received. left to such speculation the court must exclude the evidence. [citations.] conversely, when it is the barest speculation that there was tampering, it is proper to admit the evidence and let what doubt remains go to its weight. [citations.] the trial courts exercise of discretion in admitting the evidence is reviewed on appeal for abuse of discretion.(people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 134 (catlin); see also people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 285 broad discretion in assessing whether the probative value of particular evidence is outweighed by concerns of undue prejudice, . . . discretionary ruling under evidence code section 352 will not be (people v. clark er the abuse of and reversal of the judgment is not required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1004.) 11 c. analysis 1. chain of custody appellant argues that while the prosecutor attempted to establish a chain of custody by recalling c.b. to testify about what she did with her underwear, her testimony did not explain what happened to the underwear from the time she left [it] in the hamper at approximately 9:30 p.m. until it was handed over to an officer at some conflicting time the next day. this left a fatal gap in the evidence showed that the clothes hamper in which c.b. put her she shared this hamper with only her father and her brother. when c.b. retrieved her underwear the next morning, it was still in the hamper where she had left it. we agree with the people that this clothes hamper was not the type of space where third parties would be expected to go. moreover, the acid phosphatase and p-30 enzymes were found on the inside crotch area of c.b.[i]f the rape occurred[, c.b.] would be likely to have th[ese] substance[s] in the area in whic .b.] shared testimony that the enzyme was from . . . an unidentified male, onable caitlin, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 134), not absolute certainty. where, as here, there is no more than of contamination, the trial court properly admitted ts (ibid.) 12 2. probative value appellant argues that the probative value of the evidence -existent, again, we disagree. the underwear evidence had probative value. as the trial court found, if ththe waistband or something like that that might be less probative expect it to be if [c.b.] was, in fact, raped does have some signi while appellant characterizes this -str profile on c.b.vix swabs and vaginal lavage, or the finding of c.b. we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the underwear evidence. ii. third strike sentence appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in imposing a third-strike sentence because he suffered his two prior strikes in the same case based on the same incident. the record shows that appellant was convicted by plea in 2005 of two counts of robbery in los angeles superior court case number ba271286, with an enhancement for personal use of a deadly weapon. he was sentenced consecutively on both counts. in the instant case, the jury found true the allegations that appellant had two prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law and that the two robbery counts involved separate victims. at motion to dismiss one of his prior strikes, defense counsel stated store when he was twenty years old with a false gun, which is not the issue, but he had one 13 individual who walked into the back of the store. there was a second defendant who took another individual and walked him back to the store. motion and imposed a third strike sentence. appellant argues that his sentence conflicts with the rationale of people v. vargas (2014) 59 cal.4th 635 (vargas). in vargas, convictions arising out of a single act against a single victim can vargas, supra, at p. 637.) the vargas court sstrike situation . . . involves a criminal offender who commits a qualifying felony after having been afforded two previous chances to reform his or her antisocial behavior, hence th-related phrase, (id. at p. 638.) the court noted, howeveprevious qualifying felony convictions were for crimes so closely connected in their commission that they were tried in the same proceeding, we held that such convictions can nevertheless constitute two separate strikes because the three strikes law does not require that prior convictions, to qualify as strikes, be brought and tried separately. [citation.] similarly, in a case in punished at the time they were adjudicated because they were committed during the same course of conduct ( 654), we held such close factual and temporal connection did not prevent the trial court from later treating the two convictions as separate strikes when the accusevargas, at p. 638.) 14 the vargas court found that the case before it convictionsone for robbery and one for carjackingwere not only tried in the same proceeding and committed during the same course of criminal conduct, they were based on the same act, vargas, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. 638.) the vargas court concluded this is one of the extraordinary cases . . . in which the demonstrate the trial court was required to dismiss one of them because failure to do so would be inconsistent with the spirit of id. at p. 649.) subsequently, in people v. rusconi (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 273 (rusconi), review denied, the court noted that vargas applied unusual single act committed against a single victim gives rise to multiple felony rusconi, supra, at pp. 277278.) accordingly, the rusconi vargas does not extend to offenders . . . who have suffered multiple convictions growing out of a single act but who violently injure more than id. at p. 281.) rusconi reasoned: he distinction between the culpability of criminals who injure one victim and the far greater culpability of criminals who injure more than one victim, and the latters subjection to multiple punishments, was well settled long before adoption of the three strikes law in 1994. [citation.] it is not reasonable to believe the authors of the three strikes law nonetheless intended that, under the new law, violent offenders who injure multiple victims should be treated like offenders who only injure one individual. such a dramatic and lenient departure from the severe punishment the 15 law had already recognized the perpetrators of multivictim violence deserve would be at direct odds with the overall purpose of the three strikes law.id. at pp. 280281.) we likewise conclude that vargas is inapplicable here, one victim. was the direct perpetrator as to one of the robbery victims, and aided and abetted his codefendant as to the other victim. thus, rusconi is flawed because it focused on the number of victims rather than the number of acts is unavailing. iii. correction of abstract of judgment appellant contends, and the people agree, that the abstract of judgment should be corrected to reflect that appellant was sentenced under the three strikes lawby checking box 8 on the abstractaabstract of judgment does not reflect the actual sentence imposed inherent power to correct such clerical error on people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 89.) 16 disposition the abstract of judgment is modified to reflect that appellant was sentenced pursuant to the three strikes law. the clerk of the superior court is directed to forward a certified copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst we concur: _______________________, j. chavez _______________________, j.* goodman * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 