filed 2/14/17 p. v. lemus ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. william flores lemus, defendant and appellant. b268980 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na099103) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jesse rodriguez, judge. affirmed. rachel varnell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in the underlying action, appellant william flores lemus was convicted of two counts of making criminal threats (pen. code,  422).1 he challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support one of his convictions and the trial on the other conviction. we reject his contentions and affirm. relevant procedural history in october 2015, a two-count third amended information was filed, charging appellant in counts 1 and 3 with making criminal threats to timothy white and debbi rivera-diaz ( 422). a jury found appellant guilty as charged. the trial court imposed a sentence totaling three years and eight months in prison, composed of the upper term of three years on count 1 and a consecutive term of eight months (one-third of the two-year middle term) on count 3. this appeal followed. facts a. prosecution evidence 1. events preceding charged offenses from 2009 to 2011, appellant was a graduate student in the department of counseling and rehabilitation at california state university, fresno (fresno state), and interacted with albert valencia, a professor in that 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 department. when appethe minimum necessary for graduation, his academic standing in january 2012, appellant told valencia that he intended to do whatever was necessary in order to be reinstated into the program. shortly afterward, in an e-mail letter is to inform you that i believe that it was a truly troubled by the e-mail, valencia contacted the fresno state administration. despite the e-mail, valencia continued to try to help appellant. according to valencia, he learned that appellant was communicating with many faculty members and administrators. administrators within the california state university (csu) system made inquiries to valencia regarding appellant, including the csu office. valencia asked appellant to agree to make to do so. throughout 2012, appellant repeatedly contacted leticia hernandez, who worked in the csu office as trustee secretary. on approximately ten occasions, appellant asked to address the csu board of trustees or contact its members. hernandez explained how appellant could arrange to speak at a board meeting and 4 correspond with the trustees, but declined to provide private contact information for individual trustees. relationship deteriorated. appellant filed administrative complaints for discrimination and retaliation against valencia and the department of counseling and rehabilitation, which were assigned to brittany grice, then an employee at fresno state. she testified that she was responsible for campus compliance with equal opportunity in january 2013, grice commenced her investigation, which involved interviews with appellant and numerous other individuals. during investigation, flyers appeared on at the bottom of the flyers was a photo of burning oil fields. grice believed appellant had created the flyers, as they referred to her and displayed phrases he often used, including the . of discrimination and retaliation, grice concluded that none was substantiated by a preponderance of the evidence. angrily asserted that she had state his concerns 5 grice referred appellant to the appeal process after appellant filed an appeal from determinations, thired mark siegle, a human resources consultant and former csu administrator, to investigate allegations. siegle found no evidence of discrimination or retaliation against appellant, and submitted a report containing his findings. by phone and e-mail, appellant told siegle that his findings were inaccurate and that he had not treated appellant fairly. in an e-mail dated december 13, 2013, appellant stated to siegle felt threatened by the e-mail, which he forwarded to the general office. in or about 2014, dr. joseph castro was appointed president of fresno state. chancellor timothy white was to perform official duties at set for may 10, 2014. several thousand people were expected to be present at the event. on april 10, 2014, stating that he would attend it, even though no rsvp was required. on april 14, 2014, ruben madrigal, then a fresno state police sergeantto determine his intent in sending the december 13, 2013 to seigle. madrigal saw appellant outside his apartment, showed his identification as a sergeant, and asked for clarification regarding the e-mail. appellant became 6 agitated, walked into his apartment and slammed the door. through the door, madrigal inquired whether appellant sent the e-mail. appellant replied and said he intended to call the police. when madrigal answered that he was a police officer, appellant stated he would not talk to him. madrigal then left. on may 6, 2014, appellant left a phone message for trustee secretary and that action would be determined by you. i just want to on this issue, leticia.hernandez as he had repeatedly contacted employees in the because message made counsel. 2 criminal threats against debbi rivera-diaz (count 3) in may 2014, debbi rivera-diaz was a newly hired administrative assistant and legal secretary in the general ice, which is contained within, or closely prior to may 7, 2014, she had not interacted with appellant, but was aware of him, as other secretaries in the office had answered calls from him. during those calls, he asked to talk to daniel often sounded upset or angry, 7 an answer, and usually demanded to talk to someone else if ojeda was not available. rivera-diaz had been instructed to take messages from appellant in lieu of transferring his calls to ojeda. rivera-diaz testified that on may 7, 2014, at approximately 8:30 a.m., she answered a call from appellant, who asked to speak to ojeda. according to rivera-diaz, appellant sounded upset and angry. when she asked whether appellant wished to leave a message, he answered, -shooting, but was initially after a few seconds, she recalled a school shooting in said, . . . . . . where he was located. . . . e when ojeda arrived at the office, rivera-diaz described to him. ojeda provided rivera-diaz with , which intensified her feelings of fear. ojeda also contacted the police regarding the call. because rivera-diaz wanted to be able to recognize appellant, ojeda showed her a photograph of appellant available on the internet. for one or two weeks, rivera-diaz was afraid that appellant might ojeda testified that rivera-diaz appeared to be 8 message. after contacting the police regarding the message, d a photograph of appellant in military garb holding a knife, and photographs of weapons, including a grenade.2 3. criminal threats against chancellor timothy white (count 1) on may 9, 2014, ojeda answered a call from appellant. ojeda testified that appellant was angry because he believed that chancellor white had his residence carrying something that could have been a gun. after stating ,appellant asserted that a right to protect himselfa concealed weapon permit. appellant also said that him warped sense of perspective. according to ojeda, appellant then stated that he , and that he wanted white to experience the fear he had felt when ruben visited his residence. appellant further said that he knew the that fear to his advantage. appellant claimed 2 andrew jones, an associate vice-chancellor and deputy general counsel for csu, testified that he retrieved the phone number relating to a-diaz from her phone system. 9 the chancellor lives. it is a public address. . . . i can go visit i am, or maybe he would, but i know where he lives. and i can visit him in long beach and take care of this my own way white testified that he became chancellor in early 2013, and that his responsibilities required him to attend many public events. he first became aware of appellant in early 2013, when an executive assistant informed him of a letter from appellant regarding his academic disqualifi- cation. . . . known to everybody . . . shortly before investiture as president of fresno state, white learned that appellant had made threatening calls in which he asserted take things into his own hand and refervirginia tech and colorado, word[s]well-known mass shootings. white further and that he planned to attend white became fearful for himself, his family, and csu employees at fresno state and according to significant to him. . . [are] going to solve it by the use of weapons. and our public universities are wide 10 d white considered cancelling his appearancinvestiture on his part, but found it unnecessary to do so because appellant was arrested before that event. later, in mid-2014, white arranged for a security system to be installed in his home, and developed a home security plan. 4. arrest and investigation on may 9, 2014, appellant was arrested the following residence. there they found a semi-automatic -rifle, a 12-gauge shotgun, magazines for guns, and ammunition. in addition, they discovered bayonets, a machete and a kevlar helmet. b. defense evidence appellant testified that after serving in the united states army and the national guard, he became a student at fresno state. although he was a good student, other students in his program received preferential treatment. instructors. he believed that grice and siegle failed to investigate his allegations adequately. in pursuing his complaints and appeals, he contacted many people and was sometimes directed not to call certain people. he acknowledged that in some instances, he could have used 11 appellant denied posting the flyers depicting burning oil fields. appellant further testified that at some point, a person d been became scared, entered his apartment, and contacted the fresno police department. after appellant told ruben that he was calling the police, ruben drove away. when police officers arrived incident. appellant denied that he threatened rivera-diaz or white. he could not recall a phone conversation with rivera-diaz on may 7, 2014, and stated that he did not leave he acknowledged that he spoke to ojeda on may 9, 2014, but maintained that he did not intend to threaten harm to white. he described the equipment and guns found in his residence . discussion appellant contends (1) that there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction for making a criminal threat against rivera-diaz (count 3), and (2) that the trial court erred in imposing the upper term on his conviction for making a criminal threat against white (count 1). for the reasons explained below, we reject his contentions. 12 a. criminal threat against rivera-diaz (count 3) appellant contends his conviction for making a criminal threat against rivera-diaz fails for want of substantial evidence. he argues there is insufficient evidence that the message he left with her on may 7, 2014, constituted a threat directed at her, for purposes of section 422. we disagree.3 to prove the offense of making a criminal threat, as defined in section 422, the prosecution is obliged to establish to commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily 3 insufficiency of evidence in a criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] although we must ensure the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) 13 . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually . . under the circumstances in which it [was] made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or her the threatened 4 (people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227-228.) here, appellant contends there is insufficient evidence to establish elements (2) and (3). t]he determination whether a defendant intended his words to be 4 section 422 provides in pertinent part that a criminal commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement, made verbally, . . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, [and] which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or her immediate fami 14 taken as a threat, and whether the words were sufficiently unequivocal, unconditional, immediate and specific they conveyed to the victim an immediacy of purpose and immediate prospect of execution of the threat can be based on all the surrounding circumstances and not just on the words alone. (people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 754.) can probably consider a later action taken by a defendant in evaluating whether the crime of making a [criminal] threat has been committed (people v. solis (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1002, 1014.) 1. specific intent that the message be taken as a threat appellant maintains that he lacked the specific intent that rivera-diaz take t, noting that he left the message after informing rivera-diaz that he wished to speak to ojeda. he argues that he intended ojeda to receive this message, not rivera-diaz, who cating the from people v. lipsett (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 1060, 1062 (lipsett), in which the defendant was charged with making criminal threats and other offenses. at trial, the evidence motorcycle. (id. at p. 1062.) the victim confronted the defendant, resulting in a tug of war between them over the motorcycle. (ibid 15 appeared, the defendant called out several times to an shoot him,shoot the dog.id. at pp. 1062-1063.) the victim saw the accomplice appear to point a gun in his direction and fled. (id. at p. 1063.) on appeal, the defendant challenged his conviction for making criminal threats, arguing that his threat was directed toward the dog, not the victim. (lipsett, supra, 223 cal.app.4th at pp. 1064-1065.) rejecting that contention, the appellate court stated: by its plain language, section 422 contains no exception for threats that are technically addressed to third parties. instead, it requires that a defendant intend the statement . . . to be taken as a threat by the victim. ( 422, subd. (a).) a defendant may harbor such intent even while grammatically addressing the threat to someone other than the victim. [] . . . [] thus, the true question presented is whether defendant intended his statement . . . to be taken as a threat by [the victim] ( 422, subd. (a)), not whether the threat was syntactically addressed to him.id. at p. 1065.) the appellate court further concluded there was sufficient evidence that the defendant made his threats with the intention of scaring the victim into retreating with his dog. (ibid.) in view of lipsett, the key issue is whether appellant intended his message as be taken as a threat by rivera-diaz, not whether he framed it as a message for ojeda. we conclude there is sufficient evidence that he made the threat intending -- at least in part -- to make rivera-diaz personally fearful of injury and death. viewed in context, 16 pending mass shooting affecting rivera-most reasonable joint reference to virginia tech and colorado, his desire to talk to ojeda, and his angry tone. that appellant intended to scare rivera-diaz is shown by the design of his message, which conveyed a mass shooting likely to include her, as well as his threat relating to white the following day, when he told ojeda that he knew that the cof him, and that he could use that fear to his advantage. people v. felix (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 905 (felix), upon which appellant relies, is distinguishable. there, the defendant made threatening remarks relating to his ex-girlfriend to his psychologist during a therapy session. (id. at pp. 908-909.) in an effort to comply with the duty to warn imposed on psychologists under tarasoff v. university of california (1976) 17 cal.3d 425, the psychologist conveyed the gist of the remarks to the ex-girlfriend, who became fearful for her life. (felix, supra, at pp. 911-913.) the criminal threats based on the remarks, concluding there was insufficient evidence that the defendant intended them to be conveyed to his ex-girlfriend. (id. at pp. 913-915.) here, in contrast, appellant made the pertinent threatening remarks directly to rivera-diaz. in sum, there is sufficient evidence colorado,-diaz. 17 2. gravity and immediacy of the threat appellant also contends his message unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey . . . a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution ( 422, subd. (a)). he argues that the message was merely an angry utterance stemming from his longstanding dispute with csu and inability to contact ojeda. for purposes of section 422, unequivocal,unconditional,immediate,specificunqualified requirements on actionable threats. (people v. bolin (1989) 18 cal.4th 297, 339-340.) as our supreme ity, unconditionality, immediacy and specificity are not absolutely mandated, but must be sufficiently present in the threat and surrounding circumstances to convey gravity of purpose and immediate ibid., quoting people v. stanfield (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1152, 1157.) a threat may satisfy that requirement even though it does not specify the details of its implementation. in in re david l. (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1655, 1658, a student fell into a dispute with a classmate. the student then phoned made a metallic clicking noise he attributed to a gun, and said that he was going to shoot the classmate. the appellate court concluded that the threat gravity of purpose and . . . immediate prospect of execution,communicate when the shooting was to occur. (id. at 18 p. 1658; see also people v. gaut (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1425, gravity and immediacy requirement, even though he made threat while in jail, in view of his history of abusive conduct toward the woman]; people v. mosley (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 313, 316-gang members to follow jail guards home and kill them satisfied gravity and immediacy requirement, in view of his violent conduct in jail].) we reach the same conclusion here. as discussed above (see pt. a.1. of the discussion, ante), rivera-diaz message, to threaten an impending mass shooting likely to encompass her. as the message was crafted so as to require a modest amount of decoding, it also reflected calculation by appellant, rather than a spontaneous outburst. in our view, the jury reasonably concluded that it demonstrated the requisite section 422. ain re ricky t. (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1132 (ricky t.), in re george t. (2004) 33 cal.4th 620 (george t.), and in re ryan d. (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 854 (ryan d.) is misplaced. in ricky t. a after the teacher accidently hit him with a door while opening it. (ricky t., supra, at p. 1135.) the appellate court concluded there was insufficient evidence that the , as the juvenile 19 apologized for the remarks and had no history of misconduct toward the teacher. (id. at pp. 1137-1138.) in contrast, appellant offered no apology to rivera-diaz, and did not try to retract the message; instead, he hung up. in george t., a high school student was charged with making a criminal threat after writing a poem a fellow student perceived as containing threats to her. (george t., supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 624-625.) when the juvenile court found the criminal threat allegation to be true, the high school student contended on appeal that his poem was subject to first amendment protection. (id. at p. 630.) in concluding that the poem was protected speech, the supreme court determined that it did not constitute an there was otherwise no history of animosity between the students. (id. at pp. 630-message did not purport to be a poem, and its language established that it was a true threat. in ryan d., a police officer arrested a juvenile for possession of marijuana. (ryan d., supra, 100 cal.app.4th at pp. 857-858.) the juvenile painted a picture of himself shooting the officer and submitted it as an art project in his high school painting class. (ibidconviction for making a criminal threat, the appellate court concluded that the painting did not constitute an threat to the officer, as there was no evidence the juvenile intended the officer to see or learn of it. (id. at pp. 860-862.) here, appellant spoke directly to rivera-diaz. 20 in sum, the record establishes that appellantmessage was sufficiently specific422. b. imposition of upper term on count 1 appellant contends the trial court erred in imposing the upper term on his conviction for making a criminal threat against chancellor white (count 1). as explained below, we disagree. when a sentence of imprisonment is imposed, the trial court is required to select the lower, middle, or upper term. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.420(a).) factor in aggravation will support imposition of an upper (people v. cruz (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 427, 433.) the trial court, in determining the term appropriate not state reasons for minimizing or disregarding circumstances in mitigation . . . .people v. lamb (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 397, 401.) we mitigating factors for the presence of substantial evidence (people v. gragg (1989) 216 cal.app.3d 32, 46), and the trial abuse of discretion (people v. hetherington (1984) 154 cal.app.3d 1132, 1140-1141). in imposing the three-year upper term on count 1, the trial court identified three aggravating factors and one mitigating factor. the court found that the crime displayed 21 callousness and viciousness (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(1)), noting that appellant carried his dispute with csu directly to chancellor white in an abusive manner that not just one person, but impact[ed] the entire the court further found that the threat involving planning and sophistication (cal. rules of court, rule 4.21(a)(8)) because it reflected a additionally, the court found that the was particularly vulnerable (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(3)). the court found that a mitigating factor (cal. rules of court, rule 4.423(b)(1)). we see no reversible - nations. t9, 2014 threat relating to white was the culmination of a plan to create fear in him, as the record shows that prior to that threat, appellant repeatedly made menacing remarks to csu employees and individuals attached to the office, including siegle and hernandez. indeed, in delivering the may 9, 2014 threat, appellant told ojeda that the record also establishes that chancellor white was a victim. (cal. rules of court, special or unusual degree, to an extent greater than in other 22 cases. vulnerability means defenseless, unguarded, unprotected, accessible, assailable, one who is susceptible to victim takes something less than intestinal fortitude. in the people v. smith (1979) 94 cal.app.3d 433, 436.) here, the offense of making criminal threats, as established in section 422, felix, supra, 92 cal.app.4th at p. 913.) the record shows that chancellor white was especially open to fear due to the types of violence signified by may 9, 2014 threat. in addition to mentioning a referred to white thus reasonably understood the threat to encompass a potential mass shooting, in view of -diaz. as chancellor, white was acutely aware of the difficulties of preventing a mass shooting at csu campuses, which -- as he testified -- police forces; moreover, white personally was exceptionally exposed to the risk of a shooting because his duties required him to appear at many public csu events, such as castroinvestiture. the record thus supports the determination particularly vulnerable as a victim. we further conclude there is sufficient evidence to support the finding of callousness and viciousness. regarding that factor, he court has an obligation to 23 convince itself that, when compared to other ways in which such a crime could be committed, the manner of the instant crimes commission indicated viciousness and callousness. [citation.] the essence of aggravation relates to the effect of a particular fact in making the offense distinctively worse than the ordinary. (people v. webber (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 1146, 1169, quoting people v. harvey (1984) 163 cal.app.3d 90, 117.) thus, callousness and viciousness exist when the crime was accomplished in an especially egregious manner. (people v. collins (1981) 123 cal.app.3d 535, 539 [trial court properly found callousness and viciousness in connection with offense of kidnapping with use of a firearm because defendant held a cocked gun to ]; people v. karsai (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 224, 239, disapproved on another ground in people v. jones (1988) 46 cal.3d 585, 600, fn. 8 [trial court properly found callousness and viciousness in connection with offense of rape by force because defendant acted in manner tailored to degrade and terrorize the victim].) chancellor white was callous and vicious because it the record supports that determination, as it shows that in addition to threatening harm to white and his family, appellant mounted a campaign to make white fearful for the safety of everyone within the csu system, for which white was responsible. in sum, the trial court did not erred in imposing the upper 24 term on against white (count 1). disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. collins, j. 