filed 11/30/16 p. v. martinez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mario martinez, defendant and appellant. b268636 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la075140) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. martin larry hersocvitz, judge. affirmed. joshua l. siegel, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 a jury found mario martinez guilty of murdering his sister, raquel, with findings that the murder was premeditated, and that martinez personally used a deadly weapon during its commission. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); 12022, subd. (b)(1).)1 on a post-conviction to second degree murder pursuant to people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441. the court sentenced martinez to an aggregate term of 16 years to life. martinez contends the prosecutor committed various acts of prejudicial misconduct. we disagree and affirm. factual and procedural background martinez lived at home with his father, mother, sister martinez and his other sister, raquel, had a contentious history. in february 2013, raquel cut martinez with a knife, slicing his hand. martinez went to jail as a result of the incident, and raquel secured a restraining order against martinez. after she filed the restraining order, raquel began staying overnight at other houses but also still slept at the family home on occasion. on september 2, 2013, raquel came to the family home around lunchtime to see her mother. raquel grabbed a plate of food, ate it, and then left. as she was leaving, raquel asked her mother if she needed anything, and her mother said she wanted to pick up some milk when she went to the store in the afternoon. raquel told her mother that she would bring her the milk and returned to the house later in the afternoon to deliver it. when raquel arrived, she stayed by the door and handed her mother the milk through the door. her mother invited her inside, but 1 all further undesignated section references are to the penal code. 3 door frame with her arms. throughout the entire interaction, raquel never entered the house. martinez had been playing a video game in his room when he heard raquel arrive the first time. he door. he opened the door, caught a glimpse of raquel, and then closed the door. martinez began to reach for a knife and began thinking to himself, and saying, i shouldit. . . . he evoff, however, he opened the door and upon seeing raquel martinez stated that he was considering running after raquel after she walked out the front door, but put the knife on top of the television and broke the bathroom door instead. when raquel returned to deliver the milk to her mother, martinez began washing a bigger knife in the kitchen. he martinez just including the earlier assault, and that as a result he began martinez could have really just let it go, but after martinez want to do it in front of [hi martinez came out of the kitchen area and stood in the middle of the living room. his mother noticed that martinez was what it was initially. however, as she got closer to martinez, she 4 saw that he was holding a knife. martinez did not say anything to raquel, and she did not say anything back to him. martinez then ran towards raquel, and their mother told raquel to run. martinez caught up to raquel outside of the house, grabbed her by the hair to pull her back, and then stabbed her in the neck with the knife. their mother ran toward martinez and grabbed mother positioned herself between raquel and martinez, but martinez reached around his mother and continued stabbing raquel. she eventually ripped his shirt off of him and grabbed his arm, but martinez switched the knife to his other hand and continued stabbing raquel. screaming and came running outside. he pushed martinez off r and raquel when he saw that martinez had a knife in his hand. he asked martinez for the knife, and martinez from the scene. a neighbor father used towels to clean up the blood from raquel and stop the bleeding until an ambulance arrived. los angeles police department detectives townsend and castro interviewed martinez at the police station. when detective townsend asked martinez whether the incident bothered him, t when detective townsend asked if martinez cared, he replied in further, martinez stated: tried, you know, so i could at least get death r just better off if she died, if when the detectives told martinez that his sister died from her 5 injuries, he dismissed the statement nd said that she died. the people filed an information charging martinez with murder ( 187) with an allegation that he committed the offense using a deadly weapon ( 12022). before trial, defense counsel raised the s competency to stand trial. after a hearing, the court ruled that martinez was competent to understand the nature of his charges and assist in the preparation of his defense. the jury found martinez guilty of first degree murder and found true the deadly weapon enhancement. martinez moved to have his conviction reduced to voluntary manslaughter; the court reduced the conviction to second degree murder. the court sentenced martinez to an aggregate term of 16 years to life and ordered him to pay a variety of fines and fees. martinez timely appealed. discussion i. no prosecutorial misconduct or ineffective assistance of counsel martinez argues his murder conviction must be reversed based on two instances of prosecutorial misconduct. we disagree. a. forfeiture preliminarily, we find that martinez has forfeited his claims of prosecutorial misconduct. as a general rule, a cannot complain on appeal of misconduct by a prosecutor at trial unless in a timely fashion he made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be people v. benson (1990) 52 cal.3d 754, 794 (benson), italics added.) for example, in people v. nguyen (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 28 (nguyen), the court 6 of appeal, despite the potentially prejudicial nature of the found that forfeiture principles applied where the record showed id. at p. 37.) here, defense counsel did not object to either instance of misconduct with which he now takes issue. as a result, the claims are forfeited. even assuming the issues were not forfeited, we nonetheless find the allegations of prosecutorial misconduct baseless when examined on the merits. b. general principles of prosecutorial misconduct reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or (people v. strickland (1974) 11 cal.3d 946, 955.) when presented with a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, a reviewing court examines the allegedly prejudicial statements by a [i]n the context of the whole argument and the [jury] instructions a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner.(people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 667 (centeno).) prosecutor is nd have people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 221 (williams); see also benson, supra, 52 cal.3d at p. 794 [rejecting prejudice contention when prosecutor stated ]; williams, at pp. 220-222 [permitting 7 pack of laughing hyenas however, courts have admonished prosecutors for improper explanations of the reasonable doubt standard. (see, e.g., centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 665-666, 669-670 [holding that a prosecutor trivialized the reasonable doubt standard by asking even though inaccurate and incomplete statements were given about its location]; people v. otero (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 865, 872-873; people v. katzenberger (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1260, 1266-1267 (katzenberger) [finding that using a diagram with pieces missing from a picture of the statue of liberty to illustrate the reasonable the reasonable doubt standard may be met by a few pieces of ii. prosecutor did not make improper comments about the standard of proof martinez first takes issue with statements made by the prosecutor during closing argument. here is the factual framework. in opening argument, the prosecutor acknowledged to the jury that, -percent my burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a crime was committed and in response, defense counsel told the jury defense counsel then expounded on the reasonable doubt standard as follows: school. we hear it in t.v. shows . . . essentially, what it says is before you can find [martinez] guilty 8 of anything, you have to be able to say you have an abi and look at reasonable doubt is standard we have in the law. that is reasonable defense counsel then explained the difference between the argument, defense counsel told the jurors that they should deliver a n their decision. on rebuttal, the prosecutor offered these closing statements to the jury: verdict. it happens every day. fraid of reasonable doubt. please do not be afraid of reasonable doubt. people are convicted every day in this country. . . . as a society that if you have a mental illness and ever that that mental illness affected you when you committed your crime, raquel? is that how we, as a society, are going to operate? . . . defendant was found anything other than guilty of first degree murder. (italics added.) 9 martinez relies on nguyen to assert falls into the impermissible standard, and that this misstatement infected the entire trial w we disagree. in nguyen, the prosecutor instructed the jury about the reasonable doubt standard with these statements: he standard is reasonable doubt. that is the standard in every single criminal case. and the jails and prisons are full, ladies and gentlemen. [] every day in your lives when you make important decisions, decisions about whether you want to get married, decisions that take your life at stake wh nguyen, supra, 40 cal.app.4th at p. 35.) tstatements, arguing that his allusions to changing lanes and (id. at p. 36.) the court found that even though the prosecutor acknowledged that structions, these (ibid.) we reject martineznguyen court necessarily le doubt standard. the nguyen court did not refer to this statement anywhere in its holding on (nguyen, supra, 40 cal.app.4th at pp. 35-37.) instead, the nguyen court only focused on son of the reasonable 10 getting married. (id. at p. 36.) in this case, we find the regarding reasonable doubt does not rise to (ibid.) we do not find statement d attempt to absolve the prosecution from its . . . obligation to overcome reasonable doubt on all elements (centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 666), nor did it amount to a deceptive or reprehensible method[] to persuade the jury. (people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, 359.) indeed, the prosecutor explicitly acknowledged that proving the charged -percent my burden to prove beyond a reasonable nguyenexplanation of the reasonable doubt standard incorrectly informed the jurors that they make decisions using this standard instructed the jury on its relation to criminal cases. assuming the comments were inappropriate, we find they were not prejudicial. in this case, the court instructed the jury that the defendant is presumed innocent and that the prosecutor must prove mar(calcrim no. 220.) beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an admonished the jury that if ancomments on the law conflict with [the] instructions, [he or she] must follow [the co we presume that the jury (katzenberger, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at p. 1269; nguyen, supra, 40 cal.app.4th at pp. 36-37.) when, as here, a trial court correctly instructed on the law, 11 (people v. hughey (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 1383, 1396, fn. 8; people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1197.) for these reasons, 2 iii. prosecutor did not make comments which inflamed the martinez also contends there was prosecutorial misconduct e jury during rebuttal. martinez takes exception to the following comments the prosecutor made while concluding his remarks to the jury: what happened here is . . . terrible. [] would it be justice for raquel if we were to say as a society evidence whatsoever that that mental illness affected to be guilty? . . . is that how we, as a society, are going to operate? if raquel brought milk over to her mother every single day in this exact same scenario . . . would that in some way be provocation for murder? 2 for the same reasons, we find no claim for ineffective assistance of counsel. a partys claim for relief based on ineffective assistance of counsel has two components. first, the party must show that counsels performance was deficient. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687; people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 423-425.) second, the party must also establish prejudice before he can obtain relief on an ineffective assistance claim. (people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217.) as we find there was no prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct, counsel was not at fault for failing to object to the statements. 12 of course not. . . . justice demands that the defendant be responsible; not excuses, excuses. he should not get a pass. he murdered his sister with the intent to kill her. . . . it would not be justice for raquel if the defendant was found anything other than guilty of first degree murder. martinez contends to the passions and sympathy of he argues the evidence of his mental illness. martinez claims the ps were in line with an overall theme defendant be [held] and that this improperly encouraged the individual jurors ing an objective, unbiased verdict based on the evidence presented and the law stated in the jury inst we are not persuaded. as stated abovepresenting arguments to a jury. (williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 221.) the published cases teach that a prosecutor is allowed to appeal to a communit (people v. ghent (1987) 43 cal.3d 739, 771; see also benson, supra, 52 cal.3d at p. 794 [rejecting a claim of nalty, we ].) 13 in people v. wash (1993) 6 cal.4th 215, 261-262, the court examined whetmments that implored the do criminal justice system by returning a verdict the court found (id. at p. 262.) the court also reasoned that the (ibid.) therefore, the court found these comments were not prejudicial to the defendant. (ibid.; see also people v. adanandus (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 496, 511-513 [pleas in murder case did not constitute prejudicial misconduct]; people v. lang (1989) 49 cal.3d 991, 1041 [prosecutor did not commit misconduct by stating, if you want to have a voice in your community and an effect upon the law in the community, this is your opportunitywe find the same can be said of the ments in this case; they were not inflammatory martinez relies on people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, to support his contention. in that case, the prosecutor implored o the right thing, to do justice, not for our society, necessarily or exclusively, but for [the victim], an 18 year-old boy id. at pp. 759-760.) martinez argues the medina court that this argument was an improper appeal to martinez is incorrect. the medina court made no finding the statements were inappropriate. instead, it found only that they were not prejudicial. (ibid.) 14 s martinez contends, improperly tell the jury to disregard his mental health issues as they related to the issue of his mental state. the prosecutor did nature of the charge. instead, she argued that, evidence whatsoever that that mental illness affected you when you committed your crimeerson should not be acquitted. nor can martinez demonstrate prejudice based on this he argument was arguments. given the appropriate instructions on reasonable doubt and the admonition to the jury that any statements made by the prosecutor that conflict with the law should be disregarded, we f comment, made to rebut his arguments, likely caused the jury to convict him of murder rather than some form of manslaughter are specious. disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 