filed 6/19/17 p. v. winston ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. damen d. winston, defendant and appellant. b268926 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma061845) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles chung, judge. affirmed as modified. david w. scopp, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant damen winston was convicted of transporting marijuana and possessing it for sale. he contends the possession for sale conviction must be reversed because, in instructing the jury on this charge, the court did not instruct on his affirmative defense that he possessed the marijuana legally under the compassionate use act of 1996 (cua) and medical marijuana program act (mmpa). he argues that the transportation conviction also must be reversed, because the jury instructions omitted element retroactively added to the crime subsequent to his trial. defendant further contends that the trial court improperly denied portions of his pitchess1 motion, and withheld discoverable materials from him. he requests that we ruling on his pitchess motion and correct a clerical error in the minute order documenting his sentence. the attorney general does not oppose these requests, which we grant. we agree with defendant that the court erred in instructing the jury on the possession for sale and transportation counts. however, we conclude that the errors were harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. we further conclude, after our in-camera review, that the trial pitchess motion. we agree with defendant and the attorney general, however, that the sentencing minute order must be corrected, and we direct the clerk of the superior court to prepare a corrected minute order. we otherwise affirm. procedural history an amended information charged defendant with two marijuana-related felonies: (1) possession for sale (health & saf. 1 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 3 code,  113592) and (2) transportation (former  11360, subd. (a)).3 a jury convicted defendant of both crimes and found true an allegation that the transportation involved more than 28.5 grams of marijuana. the trial court suspended imposition of sentence on the transportation count and ordered three years of formal probation. the court imposed and suspended an identical sentence on the possession for sale count, which it stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. defendant timely appealed.4 2 all further statutory references are to the health and safety code unless otherwise indicated. 3 as we discuss more fully below, section 11360 was to transport fo this amendment is that transportation of [marijuana] for sale as opposed to personal use is now an element of the offense that (people v. ramos (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 99, 102-103.) the attorney general agrees that this amendment applies retroactively to defendant. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 744, 748.) the offense was merely transportation of marijuana, not transportation of marijuana for sale. 4 we stayed the proceedings to enable the trial court to convictions to misdemeanors pursuant to section 11361.8, which was added to the health and safety code with the passage of -related offenses to petition for recall and resentencing. we lifted the stay when county jail (time served), and placed him on summary probation. 4 factual background i. prosecution evidence and larry pico were patrolling lancaster in a marked vehicle on january 14, 2014. warren was driving and pico was seated in the front passenger seat. they were driving south on kingtree avenue around 1:40 p.m. when they saw defendant driving northbound in a black nissan. both deputies observed that defendant was not wearing a seat belt. warren and pico both looked at defendant, and warren testified that he and defendant made eye contact. both deputies testified that defendant slowed and pulled over. after the patrol warren then made a u-turn and warren and pico exited their patrol car and approached . side and asked defendant if there was marijuana in the car. warren testified that defendant said there was. warren searched defendant and recovered an orange vial containing a plastic baggie from his jacket pocket. the vial contained approximately three grams of marijuana; additionally, the baggie contained approximately six grams of marijuana. in the trunk of the car, warren found two glass jars. one contained approximately 26 grams of marijuana, and the other contained pico searched the interior of the car and found a plastic baggie containing approximately 0.75 grams of marijuana in the center console and three empty plastic 5 baggies in the back seat. despite recovering a total of approximately 36 grams, or 1.25 ounces, of marijuana,5 warren and pico did not find any drug paraphernalia or items used to ingest marijuana, such as a bong, rolling papers, or blunt wrappers. person. warren testified that he asked defendant if he could look warren found text messages from .based on their content, warren opined the messages defendant. warren testhe case after being read his miranda6 rights. defendant told smoke some of his marijuana just because they are his friends. and, additionally, he said all the marijuana in the vehicle pico, who was present during the conversation, marijuana and he smokes out his friends sometimes. and in return, they give him gas money. drug dealer . . . . he also indicated that all the marijuana we based on his training and experience in the area of narcotic sales 5 one ounce equals approximately 28.5 grams. (people v. trippet (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 1532, 1547 & fn. 10.) 6 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 6 warren testified that several circumstances led him to that conclusion: the quantity of marijuana, from which he opined over 100 typical marijuana cigarettes could be made; the way the marijuana was $20-$30, and $40-$50; the additional plastic baggies in the street-friends in exchange for money; and the lack of drug paraphernalia or inebriation indicating personal use. warren conceded on cross-examination that defendant did not have pay-owe sheets or anything to weigh the marijuana with in the car, but testified that his opinion remained the same even without those indicia of sales. warren also testified that his opinion would remain the same if drug paraphernalia or less money were present. uld consume about two to three grams of marijuana per day, and a six grams or up to r day. he further testified that medical of marijuana.7 warren said that defendant did not proffer a 7 as defendant points out in his opening brief, does not specify an amount of marijuana that a patient may possess or cultivate, but simply imposes the requirement that the [citations.] this medical purposes requirement has been patient . . ., and the form and manner in which it is possessed, shou7 medical marijuana card, and he did not ask defendant if he had one. ii. defense evidence defendant testified that, on january 14, 2014, he was cash to repay a debt and purchase some items for the barbecue, and defendant had been at the grocery store picking up green onions and barbecue sauce. he also had stopped at the liquor car. defendant sof the liquor store parking lot. he was wearing a seat belt at the time. defendant pulled his car to the side of the road when he saw police lights. he looked into the rearview mirror and saw two deputies the deputies aimed the guns into the car and ordered defendant out of the vehicle. defendant told warren he had one type of marijuana in his jacket pocket and another type in the trunk of the car. warren put defendant against the car and patted him down. warren also placed his hands inside genitals. at some point during the encounter, warren searched e, which was not password protected. people v. orlosky (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 257, 267 (italics omitted).) any error on this issue was immaterial to this case, however, as the amount of marijuana recovered during the traffic stop was well below eight ounces. 8 defendant did not give him permission to do so. defendant likewise did not make any statements to warren about trading marijuana for gas money or smoking with his friends. he ge marijuana for gas money, and further testified that marijuana was too expensive to share with his friends or smoke for recreational purposes. defendant testified that the only statement he made to warren after receiving his miranda warnings was to inquire about a defendant did not know any cocaine dealers. defendant testified that he possessed the marijuana on his person and in his vehicle for his personal use; he used it to treat back pain from a work injury that did not respond to conventional treatment. defendant did not weigh his doses of defendant testified that he had a medical marijuana card, and told the deputies that it was in the glove compartment of his car. according to back and say defendant explained that his doctor recommended two different strains of marijuana, sativa to deal with pain during the day and indica to help him sleep at night. defendant typically purchased both varieties from a dispensary in north hollywood, and bought in bulk quantities of one or two ounces at a time to save money. defendant kept the different strains in different containers. he carried small quantities on his person and stored larger quantities in jars he kept in the trunk of his car. the 9 varieties of marijuana they contained, but sometimes the defendant carpooled to the dispensary with an acquaintance, deray. defendant to sell it to him; he was indicating that he wanted a ride to the dispensary. defendant did not know the sender of the other marijuana-sometime during the three-to-four month period in which he johnny returned the phone to d defendant was a heavy user of marijuana in january 2014. on the day defendant was arrested, there was a barbecue at her store to buy supplies. phone. the phone to harris. the officer told harris that defendant was in the back of a patrol vehicle and might be taken into custody. shortly thereafter, harris went to the location of the traffic harris harris testified there wegroceries in the back seat that were no longer in the bag that had been thrown in the back seat, green onions, two alcohol beverages, a pack of potato 10 harris testified that she talked to defendant every day on his cell phone. defendant let a man named johnny use his cell phone for a period of about four months. sent defendant to the store on january 14, 2014. he was supposed to buy green onions for the barbecue, and she had given she also had given him $170 to repay a debt she owed him. iii. rebuttal evidence on rebuttal, warren testified that he did not order defendant out of his car at gunpoint. he searched defendant in broad daylight on a tuesday afternoon and did not stick his warren was not wearing gloves when he searched defendant and would not have conducted a strip or cavity search without them. warren did not make or receive any calls cell phone after he recovered it. he did not see pico use the phone either. defendant never told warren that he loaned his phone to another person or that he had a medical marijuana card. there were no medical marijuana labels on the packaging of the marijuana recovered during the stop. warren did not see he did not ask defendant about discussion i. jury instructions defendant argues that both of his convictions must be reversed due to improper jury instructions. as to the possession for sale count, he contends that the trial court committed per se reversible error by failing to sua sponte instruct on his cua defense. as to the transportation count, he contends that the 11 retrosubsequent to his conviction means the jury instructions on that count omitted an element of the offense and thereby deprived him of his right to a jury trial. although we agree with defendant that the court erred, we conclude that both errors are subject to harmless error review, and that any instructional error in this case was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. a. possession for sale sell the marijuana he possessed; he claimed it was for his this theory has its basis in the cua and mmpa. the cua, enacted by voters in 1996, provides that sections 11357 and 11358, which respectively prohibit the possession and patients primary caregiver, who possesses or cultivates ( 11362.5, subds. (b)(1)(a) & (d); people v. mower (2002) 28 cal.4th 457, 463; people v. colvin (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 1029, 1035.) the cua on a wholesale basis nor eviscerate this state(people v. mitchell (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 1189, 1204; see also people v. mentch (2008) 45 cal.4th 274, 286, fn. 7.) indeed, section 11362.5, subdivision (b)(2) provides that nothing in the persons from engaging in conduct that endangers others, nor to (people v. rigo (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 409, 415.) 12 the mmpa was enacted by the legislature in 2003 to s not included in the [cua], so as to promote the scope of the application of the [cua]. (people v. mentch, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 290. as is pertinent here, section 11362.765, added to the health and safety code by the mmpa, provides that an identification card who transports or possesses marijuana for his or her own that sole basis, to criminal liability under section . . . 11359 [or] 11360 . . . , the statutes under which defendant was convicted. ( 11362.765, subds.(a) & (b)(1).) extends a cua defense to the marijuana crimes of transportation, and possession for sale, insofar as the marijuana was possessed and/or transported by an eligible patient for his or her personal medical purposes. (people v. wright (2006) 40 cal.4th 81, 101 (wright) (conc. & dis. opn. of baxter, j.) (italics in original)). authorize the individual to smoke or otherwise consume marijuana unless otherwise authorized by [the mmpa], nor shall anything in [section 11362.765] authorize any individual or group ( 11362.765, subd. (a).) the trial court advised the parties prior to trial that not a true defense to t8 the court further noted that a medical 8 to prove the crime of possession of marijuana for sale, the 13 uld be a defense to the simple of possession for sale. defense counsel did not challenge these statements, and defendant subsequently testified at trial about his medical marijuana recommendation and personal cannabis use. defense counsel did not ask the trial court to instruct the jury regarding the cua defense on any charge or lesser included offense thereof. the court did not instruct the jury regarding the cua defense on the possession for sale count. however, the court instructed the jury with variations of calcrim no. 3412, the pattern cua defense instruction, four times during the course of the instructionsin connection with the transportation count as well as in connection with the lesser included offenses of both the transportation and possession for sale counts. the jury was thus repeatedly advised that marijuana is lawful if it is authorized by the compassionate use act. the compassionate use act allows a person to possess or transport marijuana for personal medical purposes when a physician has recommended or approved such use. the amount of marijuana possessed or transported must be reasonably in deciding if marijuana was transported for medical purposes, also consider whether the method, timing, and distance of the transportation the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knowingly possessed a usable amount of marijuana with the intent to sell it. (people v. montero (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1170, 1175-1176; see also calcrim no. 2352.) 14 that the defendant was not authorized to possess or transport marijuana for medical purposes. if the people have not met this 9 defense counsel argued that defendant possessed the marijuana for his own personal medical use and did not intend to sell it. she also explicitly told the jury, in conformance with the defense to transportation and simple possession if mr. winston is defendant now contends the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give the cua defense instruction in connection with the possession for sale charge as well. we consider this argument the instruction below, because a trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on an affirmative defenses when it appears the defendant is relying on such a defense or there is substantial evidence supportive of such a defense, and it is not inconsistent the case. (people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 469; see also people v. london (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 544, 565.) an such that his or her failure to object does not bar the appeal. (people v. ramirez (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 940, 949; see also pen. code,  1259.) we review the claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218.) 9 the court gave this version of the instruction on the charged transportation offense and its lesser included offense of transporting not more than 28.5 grams of marijuana. the court gave a slightly different version that omitted the language regarding transportation in connection with the lesser included offenses of simple possession of more than 28.5 grams and simple possession of not more than 28.5 grams. 15 defendant and the attorney general disagree as to which the trial court has a duty to instruct. defendant relies heavily on people v. windus (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 634 (windus) for the proposition that such a duty exists. in windus, the defendant was charged with possession of marijuana for sale ( 11359) after law enforcement found approximately 1.6 pounds (735.2 grams) of marijuana in his motel room. (windus, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 637.) the defendant told detectives he used approximately one ounce of (ibid.) prior to trial, the defendant claimed he was entitled to present a meaning of the cua and mmpa. (id. at p. 638.) the prosecution moved to exclude evidence supportive of this defense. (windus, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 638.) at the physician testified that he had recommended medical marijuana to defendant on two occasions but had not specified a dosage. (ibid.) both of these recommendations were made more than the physician had not examined defendant in several years and did not see him again until nearly a year after his arrest. (ibid.) the physician testified that the his severe chronic pain by ingesting rather than smoking marijuana. the doctor opined that eating marijuana requires four to eight times the amount that is normally smoked, and that it would be appropriate for the defendant to possess three to six 16 pounds of marijuana. (ibid.) the trial court ruled that the defendant could not present his cua defense to the jury. (windus, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 639.) although the court found that the defendant was a qualified patient whose physician recommended marijuana to treat a severe medical condition, it concluded that the defense make a recommendation, nor did any other physician make a recommendation that [the defendant] possess more than eight ounces of marijua (ibid.) deprived of his defense, the defendant entered a plea of no contest. (ibid.) on appeal, the defendant argued that he presented sufficient evidence that the amount of marijuana he possessed was consistent with his medical needs for the purpose of presenting his cua defense to the jury. we agreed. (windus, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 640.) we concluded that the defendant presented sufficient evidence to permit the jury to decide if the marijuana he possessed was for his personal medical needs. (ibid.) drug to treat an ailment set forth in the cua, he is entitled to (id. at p. 641.) we further recommendation approve a specific dosage of marijuana, and that it is up to the trier of fact to decide whether the quantity a defendant possesses is reasonably related to his or her medical needs. (id. at p. 643.) the attorney general responds ton windus 17 not prevent appellant from presenting evidence that he lawfully possessed the marijuana for personal [use] under the cua. appellant testified at trial that he possessed the marijuana for personal use and that he had a medical marijuana card that authorized his possession of the marijuana to treat a back injury. defense counsel subsequently argued the import of the cua on the charges. because appellant was not precluded from presenting cua evidence or arguing its application to the charged crimes, windus we disagree. although defendant testified about the reason for his marijuana possession generally, his counsel was unable to argueand the jury was not informedthat medical possession could serve as a defense to the possession for sale charge. the jury instructions precluded defense counsel from arguing that the cua defense applied to all charged crimes, rather than a subset of them. the attorney general further contends that defendant was not entitled to the instruction in any event because not provide a defense to the charge that he possessed the possession for sale requires the prosecution to prove intent to sell, met its burden of proof. therefore, the argument continues, defendant exonerate defendant even if the prosecution met its burden. (see people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 996- rather, he was presenting evidence to refute one element of the intent to selland accordingly the court did 18 not have a sua sponte duty to instruct on the cua defense. instead, defendant needed to request an instruction if he desired it. (people v. anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 996-997.) we are not persuaded that the cua, as supplemented by defendant possessed section 11359 is expressly listed among the sections under which a of his or her medically motivated actions. ( 11362.765, subds. (a) & (b)(1).) of course, as justice baxter recognized in wright, the mmpa only applies to the crimes of the marijuana was possessed and/or transported by an eligible (wright, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 101 (conc. & dis. opn. of baxter, j.) (italics omitted).) defense only attacks one element of the crime; it means that where recommendation that he use the drug to treat an ailment set forth in the cua, he is entitled to present a cua defense to the (windus, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 641.) entitlement to an instruction on a defense goes hand in hand with entitlement to present the defense; a defense unsupported by an appropriate instruction is of little practical value. indeed, the use notes for calcrim no. 2352 (sion for sale of raise a reasonable doubt that the conduct may have use for medical purposes. just like the defendant in windus, 19 defendant met that burden and accordingly should have received the instruction. (see people v. mower, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 476-482; people v. jackson (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 525, 533.) defendant contends that failure to instruct on the cua defense is reversible per se, but our supreme court has concluded it is subject to harmless error review. (see wright, supra, 40 cal.4th at pp. 98-99.) the supreme court has not probablepeople v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, or standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. (wright, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 98.) we need not resolve the issue here, as any instructional error on the cua defense in this case was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. a trial court failure to instruct the jury sua sponte on the harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under question posed by the omitted instruction was necessarily resolved adversely to the defendant under other, properly given instructions. in such cases the issue should not consideration since it has been resolved in another context, and there can be no prejudice to the defendant . . . . (wright, supra, 40 cal.4th at pp. 98, 99.) here, the jury necessarily rejected the factual predicate of the omitted cua defensethat defendant possessed the marijuana solely for his personal medical use. under the instructions it was given, the jury had the option of acquitting defendant of possession for sale if it believed he lacked the intent to sell the marijuana. it also had the option of convicting him of simple possession if it was convinced by his claim that the 20 marijuana was solely for his personal, non-medical use. indeed, defense counsel urged the jury to avail itself of these options, of marijuan instead, the jury found beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant possessed marijuana with the specific intent to sell it. e jury necessarily resolved, although in a different setting, the same factual question that would have been presented by the missing instruction [citation], in a manner adverse to defendant. we conclude, therefore, that the [alleged] instructional error [would be] harmless u (wright, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 99.) b. transportation defendant also contends that his conviction for transporting marijuana must be reversed due to instructional error. was pending, the legislature amended section 11360 to require the prosecution to prove that a defendant transported marijuana for the purpose of sale. (see  11360, subd. (c).) thus, a new element has been added to the crime. the attorney general agrees with defendant that the amendment applies retroactively (people v. ramos, supra, 244 cal.app.4th at p. 103.) should be reversed because the jury was not instructed on the new element of the offense, that the marijuana be transported for sale. defendant argues that the omission of an element of the offense from the jury instruction is reversible per se, or at the very least was prejudicial error. the attorney general argues that we should conclude th element was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, because the jury found 21 that defendant possessed the marijuana for sale. we agree with the attorney general that the omission of an element of the crime from a jury instruction is subject to harmless error review under chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. 18. the supreme court recently clarified in people v. merritt (2017) 2 cal.5th 819, 821 that the failure to instruct on harmless error rather than reversible per se all here, the omission of an instruction regarding the 10 did not vitiate any of the jurtransported more than 28.5 grams of marijuana. it is accordingly (people v. merritt, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 822.) defendant urges us to follow people v. ramos, supra, 244 cal.app.4th at pp. 103-104, which held that failure to transporting heroin was reversible per se and was not harmless. we decline to do so under the facts of this case and in light of people v. merritt, which post-dates ramos and is binding on this court under auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455. the jury was instructed that it had to find the following five elements true beyond a reasonable doubt to convict 10 we note that the trial court, perhaps aware of the bill amending section 11360, effective january 1, 2016, which was stated for purposes of 22 defendant of the charged offense of transporting more than 28.5 grams of marijuana: (1) defendant unlawfully transported a controlled substance; (2) knew of its presence; (3) knew the substance was a controlled substance; (4) knew that the substance was marijuana; and (5) the marijuana weighed more than 28.5 grams. the jury was further instructed that transportation of marijuana was lawful under the cua if defendant transported an amount reasonably related to his own medical needs for his own personal medical purposes, and that the prosecution had the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant was not authorized to possess or transport marijuana for medical purposes. the jury rejected the cua defense and convicted defendant of the charged transportation crime. the jury also found defendant guilty of possessing the very same marijuana for sale. it therefore found that the prosecution had proved, beyond a reasonable doubt, that since the same marijuana was at issue in both chargescar being transported, it necessarily follows that the jury concluded it was being transported for sale. defendant asserts while this may be true in the abstract sense, on the record here the evidence regarding possession and transportationand was identical. this distinguishes the case from ramos, in which the court stated in dicta that the as to transportation of heroin could not be deemed harmless in light of ssed methamphetamine for 23 sale. (ramos, supra, 244 cal.app.4th at p. 104.) methamphetamine and heroin are different drugs, and a finding that the defendant intended to sell one does not necessarily mean he or she intended to sell the other. here, there was a single drug at issue, no dispute as to its amount or location, and the jury found that defendant possessed it with the intention to sell it despite the availability of lesser included offenses lacking that element. defense on the transportation charge. this record does not contain evidence (see merritt, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 832.) we accordingly conclude the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. ii. pitchess motion a. applicable legal principles a criminal defendant seeking discovery of law enforcement personnel records that may be relevant to his or her defense must pitchess (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1225 (mooc).) appropriate proceeding, the party seeking disclosure, the peace officer, the governmental agency having custody of the records, and the time and place where the motion for disclosure will be heard (id., subd. (b)(1)). in addition, the pitchess motion must describe the type of records or information sought (evid. code,  1043, subd. (b)(2)) disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating 24 upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified id., subd. (id. at p. 1226.) the affidavits need not be based on personal knowledge, but must request information with sufficient (ibid.) supreme court has described as a requirement defense proposed and the pending charge, but also . . . articulate how the discovery being sought would support such a defense or how it would im (warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1021.) the affidavit or describe a factual scenario supporting the claimed officer plausible when read in light of the pertinent (id. at pp. 1024, 1025.) that is, it must describe a id. at p. 1026.) the affidavit need not provide corroboration or provide a motive for the alleged officer misconduct. (id. at p. 1025.) in some cases, (id. at p. 1024.) sought may lead to relevant evidence or may itself be admissible defense(s). (id. at p. 1024.) if the trial court concludes the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all documents potentially relevant to the defendants motion. (mooc, supra, 26 25 cal.4th at p. 1226.) shall examine the (evid. code,  1045, subd. (b)), out of the presence and hearing of all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records] and such other persons [the custodian of reco (id.,  915, subd. (b); see id.,  1045, subd. (b) [incorporating id.,  915]). subject to statutory exceptions and limitations, . . . the trial court should then disclose to such information [that] is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation. (id.,  1045, subd. (a).) (ibid.) the disclosed information typically is subject to a protective order to maintain its confidentiality. b. prior to trial, defendant filed a pitchess motion for discovery of the names and addresses of all persons who filed complaints or witnessed incidents prompting complaints against of charges, fabrication of evidence, fabrication of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause, perjury, dishonesty, writing of false police reports to cover up the use of excessive force, planting of evidence, false or misleading internal reports including but not limited to false overtime or medical reports, and any other evidence of misconduct amounting to moral turpitude within the meaning of people v. wheeler incident was the true one. according to his report, warren stopped defendant for a seat belt violation. when he approached the car, he smelled marijuana. defendant told warren there was marijuana in the car and on his person. warren searched 26 defendant and found marijuana, a cell phone, and $158 in currency. meanwhile, pico detained the front passenger and searched the vehicle, recovering more marijuana and three empty plastic bags. warren searched the trunk and found a jar containing marijuana. searched debelieved to be consistent with marijuana sales. warren read defendant his miranda rights, after which defendant stated that all the marijuana in the vehicle was his. he further claimed that he sometimes gave with them in exchange for gas money. according to violation. when the deputies approach, they order him out of the vehicle at gun point. once he is out, deputy warren inquires as on his shorts is broken and why his without consent or notice, deputy warren conducts a search wreaches under his testicles as well as sliding his hand up and the deputies inquire as to whether he has any marijuana and mr. winston tells them that he has two different grades in his pockets, and additional marijuana in the car. he also presents to the deputies a medical marijuana card. he is then placed in the patrol vehicle while both deputies search the vehicle. the deputies had also tinitial search. at no point did either deputy ask for permission to search, nor did they inform him that they intended to search, 27 once the search of the vehicle was over, both deputies approached to ask about the text messages. mr. winston tells both deputies he is not selling marijuana to his friends, and mr. winston denies the statements attributed to him in the arrest report by deputy warren. he told them that he was on his way based on this submission, and over objections by the - it denied the motion in all other respects. after its in-camera review, the trial court determined that certain complaints against warren were -week the prosecution later requested and received access to the same discoverable materials, subject to the same protective order. c. analysis 1. partial denial of motion defendant contends that the trial court erred in two ways: (1) by completely denying his pitchess ince he allegedly obtaining a confession from defendant; and (2) by abuse of discretion. (pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 535; alford v. superior court (2003) 29 cal.4th 1033, 1039.) motion as to pico. both the incident report, which warren prepared, and defenssearched the car and found marijuana and baggies, but 28 either item, or otherwise claim that the evidence against him was fabricated. defendant did not allege that pico participated in the alleged invasive search of his person, or the search of his cell the arrest report by deputy warrenunlike the defendant in brant v. superior court (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 100, on which he relies, in his narrative defendant did not dispute that he committed the minor traffic offense for which he was stopped. even if he had, the report does not indicate that pico, the passenger in the cruiser, had any marijuana card; it is silent on that topic. as noted above, defendantdid not contest the presence of any evidence retrieved from his car or person. he did not dispute the presence of the text messages, or claim they were fabricated. defendant challenged exchange for gas money. encompass many of the other, overlapping categories requested in the pitchess motion, such as allegations of perjury, writing false reports, or fabricating charges or evidence. defendant argues that warren used excessive force by pointing a gun at him and conducting an invasive search. but the affidavit in support of 29 s motion did not allege that the search was excessively forceful so much as improperly invasive, and his claim that a gun was pointed at him version was not credited. 2. independent review of in camera proceedings defendant also requests that we independently examine the materials the custodian of records produced during the in camera hearing on his motion to determine whether it abused its discretion in excluding discoverable materials. the attorney general agrees that we may do so. indeed, as mooc recognizes, a trial court must make an appropriate record of the personnel file documents it reviews to ensure that meaningful appellate review those documents . . . and determine[] whether the trial court records. (mooc, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 1228.) we requested the have examined them to determine whether the trial court abused its discretion in deciding which were discoverable. (see ibid.; people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, 1220-1221.) our review revealed no abuse of discretion by the trial court. iii. sentencing minute order defendant and the attorney general agree that the minute specifically, the minute order does not indicate that the sentence on count 1, the possession for sale count, was stayed pursuant to penal code section 654, as the trial court orally ruled. just as an abstract of judgment is not the judgment of convictionit 30 merely digests or summarizes the judgment, and may not add to or modify itthe minute order in this case is not the judgment of conviction. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185; people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 89.) verbal pronouncement, this court has the inherent power to correct such clerical error on appeal, whether on our own motion (people v. jones, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 89.) we therefore order the minute order to be corrected to conform to the actual sentence originally stated by the trial court, namely that the imposition and suspension of sentence on count 1 was stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. we note that this correction serves merely to ensure that the record is accurate, as defendant has since been resentenced to one day of county jail (time served), and placed on summary probation. iv. cumulative error finally, defendant contends there was cumulative error. we have found error or assumed its existence, no prejudice resulted. the same conclusion is appropriate after considering their cumulative (people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 181.) similarly, the cumulative effect of any errors in this case was not prejudicial. disposition the judgment is modified to reflect that the sentence on count 1 is stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation a certified copy of an amended minute order that 31 reflects the modification. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 