filed 5/24/18 p. v. mcmiller ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. desmond mcmiller et al., defendant and appellant. b268622 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137063) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed and remanded for resentencing. sara h. ruddy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant desmond mcmiller. david y. stanley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant patrick pearson. chris r. redburn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant deshonda young. 2 xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and theresa a. patterson deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ around 10:30 a.m. on march 6, 2014, douglas wooley walked across 97th street on the west side of main street in los angeles. as he crossed, a gold mercury grand marquis crossed main on 97th and stopped where wooley had crossed. two men each fired several shots at wooley, killing him. desmond mcmiller, patrick pearson, and deshonda young were arrested various other crimes11 counts in allassociated with the murder and the ensuing investigation. after a joint trial, the jury found the three defendants guilty on all counts. the trial court sentenced young to 65 years to life, pearson to 72 years to life, and mcmiller to 161 years and four months to life in prison. each defendant appeals, and each defendant joins in arguments made by each of the other defendants. finding no error, we affirm. we remand, however, to allow the trial court to determine in the first instance whether to strike or dismiss firearm enhancements imposed pursuant to penal code section 12022.53. background a. the murder on march 5, 2014, mcmiller put his belongings into makeia gold mercury grand marquis and drove the car away from her home in las vegas, and traveled to los angeles. about 10:30 a.m. the next morning, wooley was gunned down at the 3 intersection of 97th street and main street by two men who marquis. among other injuries, wooley suffered two gunshot wounds to the head, two to the torso, sever shooting. across the street, mirna martinez stood at her front door and called her dog inside. martinez screamed when she heard the shots. the shorter of the two gunmen turned his gun toward her home and fired, hitting the residence. maurice pikes was standing outside in a yard on the same block as when the shooting began. pikes watched the shooting unfold from the time the two men emerged from the car until they got back in the car and it sped away on 97th street. at trial, pikes identified mcmiller as one of the shooters, and martinez identified both mcmiller and pearson as the shooters. b. the investigation at the crime scene, investigators recovered 15 spent casings fired from two different guns. four of the casings were fired from a gun that used .40 caliber ammunition; the remaining 11 were consistent with ammunition fired from an ak-47 assault rifle. , detective manuel castaneda and detective nathan kouri stopped young at 97th and hoover street in ba young was detained, questioned, and released; car was impounded. mcmiller was the first person young called after her release. 4 on the morning of march 7, 2014, mcmiller spoke to erick washington about the murder. and two of her friends were also present. mcmiller told washington that he, young, and pearsonall members of the hoover criminals street gang (as was washington)went into main street crips street gang territory in baimarquis. mcmiller told washington the shooting was retaliation for the shooting of another hoover criminals street gang member that happened on march 6. mcmiller identified young as the driver. with a .40 glock, shot the dude, knocked him down. and he said he [mcmiller] jumped out with the chopper and chopped him up. 1 mcmiller was concerned scared that she was . . . 2 kouri interviewed bailey on march 7, 2014, and bailey identified clothing and other items recovered from the trunk of during the interview, kouri asked bailey to call mcmiller, and she did. among other 1 ak-47 or a mac-11. 2 washington was arrested on march 9, 2014 on an unrelated matter. while in custody, he reached out to detectives to share what he had learned from mcmiller. washington testified he reached out to detectives because on march 8 he learned wooley was mentally disabled and was not a gang member. 5 as part of its investigation, the los angeles police department lifted fingerprints from the impounded grand marquis. . dafter the murder also featured prominently at trial. mcmiller p.m. and 7:37 p.m. on march 5. the next activity on each of los angeles on march 6 accessed a tower about a mile north of the intersection where wooley was murdered. multiple telephone calls that accessed towers ranging from less than one mile to just over two miles away from 97th and main street. made or received a call or sent a text message. between 10:51 a.m. and 11:52 a.m., however, pearson received three calls and sent two text messages from a cell tower antenna about a mile away from the crime scene, but facing it directly, which the mcmiller and young were separately arrested on april 8, 2014. during mcmiller officers discovered a mac-11 assault weapon in a bag on the rear passenger seat of the vehicle in which he was riding.3 3 one officer described the mac- the mac-11 recovered 6 washington was arrested again on the same unrelated charges on april 9, 2014. while he was in custody, washington was attacked by other hoover criminals street gang members who accused him of cooperating with law enforcement and told him mcmiller had ordered the attack. pearson was arrested on june 3. the trial court conducted a preliminary hearing on august 14 and 15, 2014.4 betwhearing, social media posts on accounts belonging to various hoover criminals street gang members identified washington, washington and his family. mcmiller also spoke to other hoover criminals street gang members from jail about preventing washington from testifying. as washington approached the witness stand at the preliminary hearing, mcmiller mouthed the although he had no contact with her after their t fucking say questioned lived in las vegas. after kouri testified at the preliminary same friendin a recorded jail calland gave him directions to the casino food court where bailey worked. mcmiller also dispatched other hoover criminals 4 although it is not clear from the record why and it affects no issues presented for review in this appeal, the original case (ta132616) was dismissed at some point. the case was re-filed and ultimately tried under a different case number (ta137063). 7 members eventually, bailey received a call from someone whose voice she did not recognize calling from a private number; the caller said she was calling on mcmiller and asked if mcmiller could call bailey. the california witness relocation and assistance program assisted both washington and bailey with relocations. c. the charges the people charged the defendants in 11 counts. mcmiller, young, and pearson were jointly charged in count 1 with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),5 in count 2 with assault with a machine gun or assault weapon on witness mirna martinez ( 245, subd. (a)(3)), in count 5 with shooting at an inhabited dwelling ( 246), and in count 6 with dissuading a witness (martinez) by force or threat ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)). mcmiller was separately charged in counts 3 and 8 with two separate counts of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)), in count 7 with possession of an assault weapon ( 30605, subd. (a)), in count 9 with dissuading a witness (washington) from testifying ( 136.1, subd. (a)(1)), and in counts 10 and 11 with conspiracy to commit witness intimidation (against washington and bailey) ( 182, subd. (a)(1), & 136.1, subd. (a)). pearson was separately charged in count 4 with possession of a firearm by a felon. ( 29800, subd. (a)(1).) the people also alleged as to count 1 that mcmiller and pearson personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, 5 unless otherwise noted, statutory references are to the penal code. 8 causing great bodily injury and death. ( 12022.53, subd. (d).) as to all three defendants, the people alleged that a principal personally used a firearm, which caused great bodily injury and death. ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1).) the people alleged gang enhancements as to all counts. ( 186.22, subd. (b).) finally, the people alleged that mcmiller had a prior serious or violent felony conviction ( 667.5, subd. (c), 1192.7) and two prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). d. the trial mcmiller, pearson, and young were tried jointly before a jury in september 2015. stipulated at trial that each had a prior felony conviction for purposes of possession of a firearm by a felon. on september 29, 2015, the jury returned guilty verdicts on all counts against all defendants. the jury determined that the murder was first degree, and found true all of the firearm allegations and gang enhancement allegations associated with each count. the jury found true on counts 10 and 11 that force or threats were used against bailey and washington between august 14, 2014 and august 17, 2014. on count 6, the jury found true that force or threats were used against mirna martinez on march 6, 2014. on december 2, 2015, the trial court conducted a bench allegation, and the trial court found that allegation to be true. the trial court sentenced pearson to a total of 72 years to life. young was sentenced to a total of 65 years to life. and mcmiller was sentenced to a total of 161 years and four months count 1included an additional 25 years to life imposed based on the ancement finding. 9 each defendant timely appealed. discussion mcmiller challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support his convictions for dissuading washington and bailey from testifying. he also argues ineffective assistance of trial counsel because his attorney failed to either introduce testimony or request a continuance to obtain testimony from an eyewitness identification expert. pearson challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the gang enhancements. young contends the trial court committed instructional error by failing to instruct the jury to determine whether washington was an accomplice and how to treat accomplice testimony. young also argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct in closing argument based on the absence of a witness the prosecutor promised but failed to washington were inadmissible as to her and should have been excluded or limited. in a supplemental opening brief, young also urges us to remand the case to the trial court for resentencing pursuant to senate bill no. 620, signed into law on october 11, 2017, which allows a trial court to strike or dismiss a firearm enhancement allegation or finding. hallenges that may apply. i. to washington mcmiller detailed the murder to washington the morning of march 7, 2014. young and pearson both sought to have only mcmiller. young and pearson contend the statement is inadmissible hearsay not subject to the hearsay exception for statements against penal interest in evidence code section 1230. 10 (people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 153 (lawley); people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 534.) people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 610 (duartehaving sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made, . . . so far subjected him to the risk of civil or criminal liability . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unless he the proponent of the evidence must show: (1) the declarant is unavailable; (2) the n made; and (3) the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission despite being hearsay. (duarte, supra, at pp. 610-611.) of any statement or portion of a statement not itself specifically people v. leach (1975) 15 cal.3d 419, 441.) young two separate bases. first, young contends washington was not credible and that the trial court should therefore have excluded statement. young testimony, including monetary rewards in the mid five figures and failure to prosecute a three strikes charge. thus, his second, young contends that 11 and were, therefore, inadmissible. a. reliability of the declaration young cites no authority for her proposition that credibility has any bearing on the admissibility of 6 the focus of inquiry into trustworthiness of statement, and credibility. (cudjo, supra, 6 cal.4th at pp. 607-608.) a question for the juryabout which washington testifieda question for the trial court. (see ibid.) and aas an issue, she fails to cite any authority about the issue; the argument is forfeited. (people v. king (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 288, 297, fn. 12.) even if we were to examine the trustworthiness of credibility is unavailing. the jury having heard all the evidence which supported determined to believe him. young has not given us any reason to second guess the jury. the monetary reward young refers to is the relocation expense paid to move washington and his family 6 required threshold of trustworthiness, a trial caccount not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of the declarant, and people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 607 (cudjo).) 12 from the reach of threatened gang retaliation. thus, his willingness to testify despite the danger and inconvenience to him and his family has a tendency in reason to support his credibility, not to question it. regarding the dismissal of his third strike charges, that might be a reason the jury could have discredited his testimony, but it is not discrediting as a matter of law. b. declaration against penal interest the others made mcmiller any more culpable, since he had blame by naming others he said were also involvedmake the statements inculpating young and pearson inadmissible. (see lawley, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 154.) always whether the statement was sufficiently against the dpeople v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 127 (cortez), quoting williamson v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 594, 603-604.) the facts our supreme court considered in cortez are strikingly similar to the facts here. cortez in a car driven by defendant norma lilian cortez, rodrigo bernal fired five or six shots at 19-year-old emanuel z. and 16-year-cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 105.) cortez involved a taped interview in which . . . 13 towe went shooting some (id. at pp. 107-108.) he also confirmed that bernal had identified the defendant by name as the driver. (id. at p. 108.) according to cortez, by the time bernal identified the defendant to his custody. he thus also knew that, by identifying her, he was increasing the likelihood that evidence connecting him to the shooting would be found. indeed . . . police found on the floor of caliber and brand of several found at the scene of the shooting. drive-by shooting for which defendant had id. at p. 127, fn. omitted.) penal interest in several ways. the facts show that the crime was committed with other gang members and for the benefit of the gang, which supported the gang enhancement. the facts also supported a finding that the murder was premeditated. as in cortez, by the time mcmiller told his story to washington, he knew the grand marquis had been impounded and that the police would likely find physical evidence linking him and the others to the car. we agree and find that the trial court did not abuse its washington. ii. accomplice instruction no party requested or objected to the omission of a jury instruction regarding accomplice testimony. nevertheless, young 14 the jury on the principles not be had upon the testimony of an accomplice unless it be corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense; and the corroboration is not sufficient if it merely shows the commission of the offense or the circumstances thereof. [] an accomplice is hereby defined as one who is liable to prosecution for the identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the cause in which the testimony of the ( 1111.) witness is an accomplice to the crime charged, the court must instruct the jury on accomplice testimony. [citation.] but if the evidence is insufficient as a matter of law to support a finding that a witness is an accomplice, the trial court may make that determination and, in that situation, need not instruct the jury people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, 1114.) we review the record for substantial evidence to (people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 369 (lewis)any evidence is ibid., original italics.) vidence upon which a jury could conclude that washington was a washington and mcmiller were close friends, young argues. they were both intimate with bailey at 15 different times. they were members of the same gang. washington htwo contacted each other both before and after the murder. and the police. instructions lewis, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 369.) we find no error where the trial court did not sua sponte give an unrequested jury instruction for which there was no evidentiary basis. on this record, we find no reason for the trial judge to have even considered whether washingtonwas also an accomplice to another one . iii. prosecutorial misconduct 7 to tell washington abfriends were also present. during rebuttal argument, the people argued that if the defense wanted to argue mcmiller did not admit his crimes to washington, the defense could have called one of the other people present when the conversation took place knew sanders was unavailable to testify.7 alleging prosecutorial misconduct based on that argument, the defendants moved for a mistrial, which the trial court denied. 7 sanders and washington married on august 1, 2015. for girlfriend. 16 a prosecutor to argue to the jury that the absence of [a] witness is the people point out, however, that the prosecutor did not refer to sanders by name, and that there were other logical witnesses present when mcmiller told washington about the murder. the record contains no discussion of the identity of those other witnesse (only that they were friends of -girlfriend), of efforts to locate them, or of their availability to testify. comments on the state of the evidence, or on the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call logical people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 755, accord, people v. denard (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1012, 1020; see people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 945.) it was not misconduct to invite the jury to question why the defense failed to call witnesses other than sanders. (see also people v. ford (1988) 45 cal.3d 431, 445-446.) the trial court did not err by denying the argument. iv. sufficiency of the evidence when an appellant challenges the sufficiency of the record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 792.) 17 and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination people v. jones proper appellate function to reassess the credibility of the id. at pp. 314-315.) a. gang enhancements pearson contends the evidence is insufficient as a matter of law to support the gang enhancement allegations the jury found to be true. to sustain gang enhancement allegations under section 186.22, subdivision (b), the people must prove that a felony was with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduca association, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal . . . whose members individually or collectively engage in, or have engaged in, a pattern of crimicommission of, conspiracy to commit, or solicitation of, . . . or conviction of two or more [offenses from a list included in the statute], provided at least one of these offenses occurred after the effective date of this chapter and the last of those offenses occurred within three years after a prior offense, and the offenses were committed on separate occasions, or by two or more persons citing people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59 (prunty), pearson specifically contends that the prosecution was required 18 to show a connection between the specific subsets of the hoover criminals street gang involved in the predicate offenses and those gang members who committed the crimes at issue here. the people introduced predicate crimes committed by andrew vincent jackson and david jackson cash, two hoover criminals street gang members. jackson and cash were convicted of their crimes in 2014. pearson accurately reports, however, that the record contains no evidence about the subset of hoover criminals with which jackson and cash were associated. the record could not, therefore, contain evidence connecting subset. the hoover criminals street gang is divided into nine subsets, identified by various numbered streets that intersect hoover: four-trey (43), five-deuce (52), five-nine (59), seven-four (74), eight-trey (83), nine-deuce (92), nine-four (94), 107, and eleven-deuce (112). added together, the numbers equal 716, which is a number used to represent the entire hoover criminals -a member of the 107 subset. the core conclusion of prunty the existence and conduct of one or more gang subsets, then the prosecution must show some associational or organizational prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at prunty of evidence of collaboration or organization, or the sharing of material information among the subsets of a larger group. alternatively, it may be shown that the subsets are part of the 19 same loosely hierarchical organization, even if the subsets themselves do not communicate or work together. and in other cases, the prosecution may show that various subset members exhibit behavior showing their self-identification with a larger group, thereby allowing those subsets to be treated as a single (ibid.) prunty spelled out examples of the types of evidence prosecutors might introduce to make the necessary organizational showing, specifically noting that situations may but the facts may suggest the existence of behavior reflecting such a degree of collaboration, unity of purpose, and shared prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th associations, such as proof that members of two gang subsets information or otherwise taken part in the kinds of common activities that imply the existence of a genuinely shared venture. [citations.] this type of evidence routinely appears in gang enhancement cases. [citation.] in general, evidence that shows subset members have communicated, worked together, or share a relationship (however formal or informal) will permit the jury to infer that the subsets should be treated as a single street gang(id. at pp. 78-79, not be direct, and it need not show frequent communication or a (id. at p. 78.) 20 prunty of different neighborhood subsets have engaged in activities suggesting that they identify one another as belonging to the same criminal street gang could be relevant to showing that the subsets form a single group. such evidence, coupled together with appropriate evidence that a gang exists, that it operates within a particular geographic area, and that it conducts its activities through subsets or in another decentralized fashion, could permit the inference that the different subsets are prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 79.) the type of evidence prunty laid out in great detail is the same evidence the people introduced here. stretching from imperial highway to vernon avenue and from broadway to vermont. while subsets existed, the hoover criminals have been engaged in a gang war with the main street cripsa common activitysince 2009 or 2010. the evidence here was compelling, however. washington, himself an eight-trey hoover criminal, testified that the subsets did not matter when retaliation for a hoover criminals shooting and the evidence in the record is more than circumstantial; mcmiller declared his allegiance to 716all nine hoover criminals subsetsin a recorded jail call. the evidence here is sufficient to distinguish this case from prunty b. dissuading washington from testifying mcmiller contends the record contains insufficient evidence to sustain his conviction for dissuading washington by force or 21 threat. mcmiller argues that section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1), under which he was convicted in count 9, requires that the prosecution prove the defendant specifically intended to dissuade a witness from testifying. (see people v. lyons (1991) 235 cal.app.3d 1456, 1460-1461.) according to mcmiller, merely stand and shaking his head at washington while washington testified was not evidence from which the jury could infer that intent. instance. we also note that mcmiller omits key evidence from which the jury could have gleaned mcmill as an initial matter, the judge presiding over the on the record in fact, at the very moment mcmiller attempted to intimidate washingtoare mouthing off something to the witness right now. you are the preliminary hearing judge and otherother words, and the . . . shaking of the head as mr. courtroom video from the preliminary hearing was introduced as evidence at trial, and corroborates the testimony of the various witnesses who testified about what happened in the courtroom that day. while the transcript from the preliminary hearing was not introduced at trial, it is instructive that a reasonable person viewing the incident could have inferred that mcmiller intended to dissuade washington from testifying. 22 moare not the only evidence the jury could have considered. the jury heard multiple jail calls between mcmiller and othersalbeit in coded languagefrom which a reasonable juror could have inferred mcmiller was inciting others to act to prevent washington from testifying. on count 9. c. conspiracy to dissuade bailey from testifying conspiracy to dissuade bailey from testifyingis largely the same as his contention on count 9. mcmiller argues that there is no evidence he intended to enter into an unlawful bailey to prevent or dissuade her from testifying. mcmiller insists he was attempting to find out if bailey was still pregnant with his child when he repeatedly attempted to locate herafter she changed her telephone number and began studiously avoiding any contact with him. when bailey telephoned mcmiller at kouand that evidence alone is sufficient for the jury to conclude again, there is more. in addition to the attempts he set in motion to locate bailey after he learned she had been cooperating with the police, mcmiller wrote bailey a letter in july 2014. in that letter, he 23 as concern for bailey or the child she was carrying. and the jury could have reasonably interpreted concern about and intent to dissuade bailey from testifying. v. ineffective assistance of counsel two eyewitnessespikes and martinezidentified came at trial. the people produced discovery in april before the september 2015 trial that pikes would identify mcmiller. though acknowledged receivingthat piece of discovery. nevertheless, urprise at the idea of eyewitness identifications, and neither called an eyewitness expert to rebut continuance to obtain that testimony. mcmiller claims those actions constituted ineffective assistance. a claim that counsel was ineffective requires a showing by a preponderance of the evidence of objectively unreasonable performance by counsel and a reasonable probability that but for favorable result. (in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561.) the defendant must overcome presumptions that counsel was effective and that the challenged action might be considered sound trial strategy. (ibid.) to prevail on an ineffective assistance claim on appeal, the record must affirmatively disclose the lack of a rational tactical purpose for the challenged act or omission. (people v. majors before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant . . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that 24 strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697; accord, in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1079.) deficient because defendants here suffered no prejudice. with or without an eyewitness identification, mcmiller identified himself, pearson, and young to washington, and identified the roles each the car that surveillance cameras captured both at and fleeing -girlfriend identifierecords corroborated the prosecution theories about their highly unlikely that an eyewitness expert would have changed the outcome. mcmiller has therefore failed to show prejudice caused by the alleged deficient performance of trial counsel. vi. resentencing under senate bill no. 620 at the sentencing hearing on december 2, 2015, the trial court imposed a 25 years to life enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d) for mcmiller and pearson and section egations. on october 11, 2017, the governor signed senate bill no. 620 into law. senate bill no. 620 amended section 12022.53 to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an ( 12022.53, subd. (h); stats. 2017, ch. 632,  2.)8 8 under section 1385, the court may, in furtherance of 25 on november 16, 2017, young filed a request for leave to file a supplemental opening brief contending we must remand the case to the trial court for resentencing under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). filed. the people did not respond. an amendment to the penal code will not generally apply retroactively. (see  3.) however, an exception applies when the amendment reduces punishment for a specific crime. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 745 (estrada); accord, people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323-324.) reduction of a determined that its former penalty was too severe and that a lighter punishment is proper as punishment for the commission of the estrada, supra, at p. 745.) that includes all cases in which the judgment is not yet final as of the effective date of the reduction. (id. at p. 744.) the exception to nonretroactivity extends to amendments but give the trial court discretion to impose a lesser sentence. (people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-76; see also people v. superior court (lara) (2018) 4 cal.5th 299, 308.) in december 2015, the law did not allow the trial court to strike firearreason to argue at the sentencing hearing that the court should strike that enhancement in this case. we therefore remand the case to the trial court for resentencing to allow defendants and additional pu& (c); see people v. meloney (2003) 30 cal.4th 1145, 1155.) 26 ull and fair opportunity to marshal and present (see people v. rodriguez (1998) 17 cal.4th 253, 258.) disposition we remand the case for the trial court to hold a new sentencing hearing to consider whether to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), to strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required by section 12022.53. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 