filed 8/31/16 p. v. palma ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ralph anthony palma, defendant and appellant. b268956 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga094339) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jared d. moses, judge. affirmed. joseph r. escobosa, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 ralph palma appeals a final judgment of conviction and sentence after the trial court found that he violated his probation. appointed counsel on appeal filed an opening brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). we affirm the judgment. statement of the case background in october 2014, l.a. super. ct., case no. ga094339), the people filed an information jointly charging palma and another defendant with attempted second degree robbery (count 1; pen. code,  664/ 211)1 and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (count 2;  245, subd. (a)(4)). as to both counts, the information alleged that palma personally inflicted great bodily injury. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) further, it was alleged that palma had five prior felony convictions with a prison term. ( 667, subd. (b).)2 on december 3, 2014, palma waived his constitutional trial rights and pled no contest to aggravated assault as charged in count 2, and admitted the great bodily injury allegation. the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed palma on three years of probation with its ordinary terms, including that he not use or threaten to use any force or violence on any person. the attempted robbery alleged in count 1 was dismissed. 1 all further references are to the penal code. 2 the evidence presented at the preliminary hearing showed that palma and his cohort approached the victim shortly after he purchased a six-pack of beer at a gas station store, and asked him if he would give them a beer. when the victim did not agree, they surrounded him and told him that they would hurt him if he did not hand over the beer. as the victim was complying, he accidently dropped the six-pack on the ground, and one of the bottles broke. palma and the other man got angry and beat up the victim. he was transported from the scene in an ambulance. 3 in may 2015, probation, apparently after he was arrested for new offenses. a probation violation hearing was set and trailed the outcome of the case on the new charges. (l.a. super. ct., case no. ga096247.) in the new case, palma was facing two counts of making criminal threats. in june 2015, defense counsel declared a doubt as to competency in the new case. the court suspended the proceedings in both cases. in august 2015, after palma had been found competent to stand trial in the new case, the trial court set palmaprobation violation hearing to be heard simultaneously with the preliminary hearing in the new case. on october 8, 2015, at probation violation hearing counsel moved to bifurcate the two matters. counsel argued: and part of the reason is [that] mr. palma has a right to testify. . . . and if he were to testify at the probation violation hearing, then that would jeopardize his right against self-incrimination at this point on the pending . . . charges [in case no. ga096247]. . . . so, if the court conducts the probation violation hearing now and mr. palma feels the need to testify on his behalf, then the court is, in essence, making him waive his right against self-incrimination for the trial matter . . . a series of short exchanges with addressed by the court at the time of trial in the new probation violation hearing concurrently with the trial when mr. palma then has a right to get up and testify and defend himself, not only on the probation violation hearing, but also on the pending case. . . . right against self-incrimination [in the new case] while balancing his right to testify on his behalf [in the probation matter]. it makes more sense to have him testify and to 4 he trial court denied motion to bifurcate, ruling it was appropriate to proceed with both hearings at the same time. the testimony at the joint probation violation hearing and preliminary hearing jennifer aery testified that she worked as a bartender at the crest lounge in temple city. on the evening of august 29, 2015, aery and an off-duty los angeles county sheriffdeputy, james johnson, were outside of the bar having a cigarette when palma approached the area. aery recognized palma; she had seen him in the bar a few days earlier. as palma neared the back door of the bar, he mumbled something to the effect that he hated temple city sheriffs because they are constantly harassing him. aery told johnson that she did not want palma inside of the bar. when johnson told palma that aery did not want him inside of the bar, palma told johnson that he was a stupid fucking white boy and began digging into his pockets. palma pulled a cell phone from his pocket and told johnsony brother is a truck driver. . . . ill call him and hell kill you. johnson remained at the back door and told palma that he was not allowed into the bar. palma told johnson that he (palma) was from tres lomas gang. palma told aery that he knew who she was and then pointed at her and saidi will come back here and shoot the place up after the confrontation with aery and aery to fear for her safety. johnson testified that he had prior contacts with palma during the course of his on the night of august 29, 2015, johnson smelled a strong odor of alcohol on palma. palma kept pulling his phone out of his pocket . . . a gun. palma threatened to have his brother, who was a truck come down . . . take everybody out and take [johnson] out.statements caused johnson to fear for his safety and the safety of the people inside the bar. at the conclusion of the joint probation violation hearing and the preliminary hearing, the trial court found palma in violation of probation, and found the evidence sufficient to believe that he had committed the crime of making criminal threats. as to the probation case, t. the court 5 awarded palma a total of 596 days of presentence custody credits. the court ordered usual fines and fees. palma filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion we appointed counsel to represent palma on appeal. appointed counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, requesting independent review of the record on appeal for arguable issues. we then notified palma by letter that he could submit any claim, argument or issues that he wished our court to review. palma has not filed any claims or arguments. disposition we have independently reviewed the record on appeal, and find that appointed counsel has fulfilled his duty, and that no arguable issues exist. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106.) bigelow, p.j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 