filed 4/6/17 p. v. mojica ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vincent a. mojica, defendant and appellant. b268057 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba421008) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury found defendant and appellant vincent mojica guilty of possessing child or youth pornography, which was discovered on his cell phone. on appeal, mojica contends that the evidence should have been suppressed under the fourth amendment. he also contends that the erroneous admission of evidence he was on probation requires reversal. we reject these contentions and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. factual background on january 30, 2014, at 7:00 p.m., deputy sheriff david silverio searched mojica and found a cell phone in mojicapocket. the home screen was of a nude young girl. the deputy saw 10 or 12 additional pictures either of or of girls wearing underwear. after being given his miranda1 rights, mojica told the deputy the phone was his and he had downloaded pictures of nude little girls from the internet. mojica thought the girls were about 10 years old. sixty-two photographs downloaded from mojicall phone were shown to the jury. the defense stipulated that the cell phone belonged to mojica. ii. procedural background on october 27, 2015, a jury found mojica guilty of possession of or control of matter depicting a minor engaging in or simulating sexual conduct (pen. code,  311.11, subd. (a).)2 he was sentenced that day to the midterm of two years, doubled due 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 2 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 to a prior strike which mojica admitted, plus one year for a prison prior ( 667.5, subd. (b)). contentions mojica raises two contentions on appeal: i. the search of his cell phone violated the fourth amendment, and ii. his motion for a mistrial should have been granted when his probationary status was disclosed to the jury. discussion i. motion to suppress a. additional facts mojica moved to suppress the cell phone and its contents. his written motion moved to suppress all evidence seized and use in this case (harvey/madden3 at the suppression hearing, deputy silverio testified that its his practice to approach people walking [c]ourteous the discussion leads to whether the person has been arrested. the suspicion about the person he is engaging. 3 people v. harvey (1958) 156 cal.app.2d 516 and people v. madden (1970) 2 cal.3d 1017. the harvey-madden people v. romeo (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 931, 944 (romeo).) the cases establish the evidentiary rules the prosecution must satisfy to authority to arrest [or detain] has been transmitted to the (people v. collins (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 988, 993.) 4 on january 30, 2014, at 7:03 p.m., deputy silverio was with his partner in their police car. upon seeing mojica walking on the sidewalk, they drove alongside him and asked where he was going. mojica said he was getting a beer. deputy silverio asked if mojica lived in the neighborhood, and mojica replied he mojica said yes. the deputy then asked if mojica was on probation or parole, and mojica said he was, for robbery. [d]etained him, pending probation they told mojica to stop and asked if he had search conditions, and mojica said he did. at some point, using hat mojica was on probation with search conditions. after mojica said he had search conditions the deputy put the cell phone, a metro p.c.s. alcatel, on the hood. the deputy could not remember if, when he placed the phone on the hood, he hit any buttons or anything on the phone.4 when asked background on the phone, or whether it was just pictures that 4 at the subsequent trial, deputy silverio testified that when he removed the cell phone from mojicasic] a button and a picture, uhm, was , young girl. defense counsel did not then renew the motion to suppress. we the facts known to the court at the time of the suppression hearing. (in re arturo d. (2002) 27 cal.4th 60, 77-78, fn. 18.) 5 had been up and were being scrolled through, the deputy said after the first image appeared, the deputy searched the phone, which required no passcode or going into folders. rather, he was able to continue scrolling based on the photo on the initial screen. he saw 10 to 12 more photographs. mojica was arrested. after being given his miranda rights, mojica said he downloaded the photographs from a website. based on this evidence, the defense argued that the encounter was not consensual and that it was improper for police ther or not they have a criminal record, to start to inquire whether they themselves, do have a criminal record, for the purposes of what i would consider the trial court found that the initial encounter was consensual, and [w]hen the conversation comes around to probation or parole, that gives the officer justification to conduct a pat-down or search. and when the officer retrieves the phone, according to his testimony, the picture is already up, so cell phone. [] now, the sliding of the phone today may require a - the prosecutor agreed, and added that the probationary search and seizure conditions justified the search. defense mojica had search conditions. b. the search did not violate the fourth amendment. the fourth amendment to the united states constitution guarantees the right to be free of unreasonable searches and seizures. (u.s. const., 4th amend.) warrantless searches are presumed to be unreasonable, subject only to a few specifically 6 established and well-delineated exceptions. (people v. macabeo (2016) 1 cal.5th 1206, 1213 (macabeo).) accordingly, when a seizure, the people are obligated to produce proof sufficient to show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the search fell within one of the recognized exceptions to the warrant requirement (romeo, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at p. 939.) we evaluate challenges to the admissibility of a search or seizure solely under federal constitutional standards. (macabeo, at p. 1212.) we defer to the trial courts express or implied factual findings if supported by substantial evidence, but exercise our independent judgment to determine whether, on the facts found, the search or seizure was reasonable under the fourth amendment. (ibid.) mojica first challenges the search on the ground he was illegally was his custom and practice to approach individuals and engage them in conversation. officers, however, may approach a person in a public place and ask if the person is willing to answer questions. (people v. brown (2015) 61 cal.4th consensual encounters present no constitutional concerns and do ibid.; see also people v. bailey (1985) 176 cal.app.3d 402, 405.) in contrast, a detention occurs when an officer, by means of force or show of authority, restrains a s liberty. (people v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 56; see also terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1, 19.) here, there was no force or show of authority; the deputies merely drove alongside mojica and asked him questions. until mojica said he was on probation and the deputies told him to stop, mojica was 7 (see, e.g., zaragoza, at pp. 56-57; people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 344-345 [record showed no threat, application of force, intimidating movement, brandishing of weapons, blocking of exits].) until that point, the encounter was consensual and no illegal detention occurred. next, we cell phone from his pocket implicated the fourth amendment. first, although mojica argues on appeal there is no evidence the terms of his probation permitted a search of his cell phone, he does not address whether removing the cell phone from his pocket was a permissible probation search. the issue is therefore forfeited. (see, e.g., people v. camel (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 989 [failure to renew argument in opening brief on appeal or cite relevant authority constitutes forfeiture of appellate review].) second, and notwithstanding any forfeiture, the deputy after mojica admitted he was on probation or parole and subject to search conditions, which the deputy, at some point, verified using the . deputy silverio therefore had advance knowledge that mojica was generally subject to search conditions. (see generally romeo, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at pp. 939-940 [terms of probation define allowable scope of a search, and searching officer must therefore [citations]. without such advance knowledge, the search cannot be justified as a proper probation search, for the officer does not act pursuant to the search condition]; see also people v. sanders (2003) 31 cal.4th 318, 333.) however, tcircumscribed by the terms of the search clause, and the scope 8 romeo, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at p. 951; see also people v. woods (1999) 21 cal.4th 668, 674 [probationers may validly consent in advance to warrantless searches in exchange for opportunity to avoid service of a state prison term].) thus, ect to search, without more, may be insufficient where there is a challenge to the searchromeo, at pp. 951-952.) in romeo, for example, the appellant lived in a garage attached to the home of two probationers. (id. at p. 935.) a searching officer testified he personally knew that the probationers were on probation with a search clause and he confirmed their status using a countywide computer system. (id. at p. 936.) because there was no other evidence of the precise search condition, the court could not determine whether the authorized scope of the search extended control, including their residence. (id. at pp. 950-951.) the trial court thus erred in denying the suppression motion. we decline to extend romeo to the situation before us. true, the record does not contain the probation order itself, but even romeo, although it acknowledged that presenting the order might be the better practice, did not view such presentation as mandatory. (romeo, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at p. 952.) romeo also involved an expansive search of a residence, including the garage where the nonprobationer-appellant lived. in contrast, this case involves the limited person. being on probation and having search conditions means, at a minimum, that one has given advance consent to a search of . thus, once mojica said he was on probation or parole and subject to search conditions (which was possibly verified at that point), the deputy could remove items from 9 mojicas pocket, including the cell phone, without running afoul of the fourth amendment.5 the next step in our fourth amendment analysis thus concerns what happened when the deputy put mojicaon the car: although stimony was ambiguousi.e., he said the image ,but he buttonthe trial court concluded, and substantial evidence supports that conclusion, that this initial image was in plain view.6 the police may seize evidence in plain view without a warrant. (horton v. california (1990) 496 u.s. 128, 134.) has been applied where a police officer is not searching for evidence against the accused, but nonetheless (id. at p. 135.) the incriminating character of the item must be immediately apparentd, not only must the officer be lawfully located in a place from which the object can be plainly seen, but he or she must also have a lawful right of access to the (id. at pp. 136-137.) here, the only description of the initial image on mojicais it was of 5 the precise parameters of the search conditions may bear on whether the people sustained any burden of proving that mojica was subject to an electronics search condition. as we explain later, we need not reach that issue. 6 the plain view doctrine does not create an independent whatever may be the prior (texas v. brown (1983) 460 u.s. 730, 738-739.) 10 the criminal nature of such an image is immediately apparent. at that point, the deputy had probable cause to arrest mojica. because the deputy had probable cause to arrest mojica when the first image appeared, the people argue that the continued search of mojicato arrest. had the continued search occurred after june 25, 2014 we would reject this argument. on that day, the united states supreme court decided riley v. california (2014) 573 u.s. ___ [189 l.ed.2d 430], which held that officers must generally obtain even when the phone is seized incident to arrest. (see also macabeo, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 1214-1215 justifications for searches incident to arrest are to secure weapons, prevent escape, and preserve evidence of crime. these therefore, had the search of mojica phone occurred after june not have been permissible as a search incident to arrest. but occurred on january 30, 2014, before riley was decided. at that time, people v. diaz (2011) 51 cal.4th 84 (diaz), which held that cell phones could be searched incident to arrest, was binding appellate precedent, and, the people argue, deputy silverio in good faith relied on it.7 the good faith exception to the 7 in diaz, the defendant was arrested after an officer saw him selling ecstasy. the defendant had a cell phone, which was incriminating the defendant in the sale of ecstasy was found. (diaz, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 89.) diaz found that the phone was 11 exclusionary rule applies when a search was conducted in objectively reasonable reliance on binding appellate precedent. (davis v. united states (2011) 564 u.s. 229.) police conduct and thereby effectuate the guarantee of the fourth rule properly has been restricted to those situations in which its (illinois v. krull (1987) 480 u.s. 340, 347; see also davis, at pp. 236-237.) thus, when the police act in an objectively reasonable manner muc (davis, at p. 238.) stated otherwise, a law enforcement officer may not be penalized for an appellate judges error. (people v. youn (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 571, 579.) our california supreme court recently considered the applicability of the good faith exception in this specific context in macabeo. in macabeo, the defendant was riding his bike. (macabeo, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1210.) after he rolled through a stop sign (an infraction for which macabeo could not be arrested), officers stopped him. the officer removed a cell phone from and searched it, finding images of underage girls. (id. at p. 1212.) macabeo was arrested. macabeo cell phone could not be justified as incident to arrest under riley. precedent, the warrantless search of the phone was valid as incident to arrest. (id. at p. 93.) 12 (macabeo, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1216.)8 nor, however, could it be justified under diaz. diaz upheld the search of a cell phone as incident to an actual custodial arrest; i.e., diaz was arrested and taken to jail, where his phone was searched 90 minutes after the arrest. in contrast, macabeo was not under arrest when officers searched his phone. nor could he have been under legal arrest, because a reasonably well-trained officer would know that state merely rolling through the stop sign. (macabeo, at pp. 1223-1224.) therefore, the good faith exception to the exclusionary rule did not apply in macabeo. macabeo is distinguishable.9 unlike the defendant in diaz who was not subject to arrest, mojica was subject to arrest. specifically, on mojicagave rise to probable cause to arrest him. deputy silverio, in good faith, thus could rely on then binding appellate precedent (diazphone. authorizes a particular police practice, well-trained officers will 8 macabeo also found that the search was not a valid answers to an inquiry whether he was on probation and he, in fact, was not on probation. (macabeo, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1211.) 9 u.s. v. lara (9th cir. 2016) 815 f.3d 605 is also distinguishable. lara was searched during a probationary search. the searching officers could not have relied in good faith on diaz, because diaz involved a search a search incident to arrest is not the same thing as a warrantless, lara, at p. 614.) 13 and should use that tool to fulfill their crime-detection and public-davis v. united states, supra, 564 u.s. at p. 241.) excluding evidence in this case thus would have no deterrent effect on illegal searches by police officers, and is conscientious police work. (ibid.) we make one final point about the discovery of 10 to 12 additional photographs of young girls. search of the phone technically occurred before the arrest. a question therefore could arise whether the search was truly incident to arrest. however, when the formal arrest follows person, it particularly important that the search preceded rawlings v. kentucky (1980) 448 u.s. 98, 111.) notwithstanding this statement, our california supreme court has much into the rawlings comment about the order in which discovery of probable cause is made and the effectuation of a fmacabeo, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. rawlings merely established that when an arrest is supported by probable cause, after-acquired evidence need not be suppressed because an otherwise properly supported arrest was subsequeibid.) macabeo declined to read rawlings (macabeo, at p. 1218.) thus, rawlings did not apply in macabeo because the defendant was detained for ignoring a stop sign, which was an infraction for which he could have been cited but not arrested. there is, however, no exception for a search incident to citation, as opposed to arrest. (macabeo, at p. 1218.) 14 unlike in macabeo, mojica here was subject to arrest for rawlings arrest is supported by independent probable cause, a search incident to that custodial arrest may be permitted, even though macabeo, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1218.) mojicaindependent probable causethe initial image. that he was not formally arrested until perhaps mere minutes after deputy silverio saw that initial image giving rise to probable cause does not invalidate the search as one incident to arrest.10 ii. mistrial based on the mention of mojicaprobationary status although deputy silverio was told not to mention mojicaprobationary status, the deputy, when asked to describe the search, answered that it was during a probation compliance defense counsel immediately objected and, at sidebar, d [the deputy] just as we nonetheless, thal because s. you stipulated to that. trial is going to be over whether or not the images depict people under the age of 18 engaged in or simulating sexual conduct as defined by statute and case law. s 10 because we decide the continued search was valid as one incident to arrest, we need not decide whether it was valid as a probation search. 15 mention of a probationary search will have any impact or consequence given the nature of the way this case is going to be answer regarding a probation search. [] instruct you . . . to disregard that. whether or not the defendant was or was not on probation for something else has absolutely no bearing whatsoever on whether or not he possessed photos that depicted people under the age of 18 engaged in or simulating charactero completely disregard it. this limiting instruction, which we presume the jury followed, cured the error. (see, e.g., people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 637 [instruction limited any prejudicial impact of uncharged crimes evidence].) in any event, as the trial court explained, the error was harmless, because it is not reasonably probable a result more favorable to mojica would have resulted in the absence of the error. (people v. mullens (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 648, 652, 656, 659 [admission of evidence prohibited by evid. code,  352 & 1101 is reviewed under the harmless error standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 835].) there was no dispute that the cell phone belonged to mojica and that the images were on his phone. the only question therefore was whether any of the 62 images depicted girls under 18 engaged in or simulating sexual conduct. those images included ones of young girls with their genitals exposed. 16 nor do we agree that the case was close. the jury asked for clarification of caljic no. 10.83, which provided that, to prove mojica committed the charged crime, he had to know that the matter depicted a person under 18 engaging in or simulating sexual conduct. in making this determination, the jury should conduct is intended or designed to elicit a sexual response in the duct, the subject matter? the question concerned who intended the conduct to elicit a sexual response, the answer to which is the photographer. thus, in no way did the question indicate that the question was close on whether mojica knowingly possessed images depicting underage girls engaging in or simulating sexual conduct. for the same reasons, admission of the evidence did not (see generally estelle v. mcguire (1991) 502 u.s. 62, 70; people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439 [evidentiary rulingwhether or not correct under state lawdenies a defendant due process of law only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair].) 17 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 