filed 3/14/18 p. v. mancilla ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph mancilla, et al., defendants and appellants. b268375 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba417858) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, michael d. carter, judge. judgments of conviction affirmed; sentences vacated and remanded for resentencing. edward j. haggerty, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant joseph mancilla. charlotte e. costan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant carlos rojas. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 on december 25, 2010, police received multiple reports of gunfire in the echo park neighborhood of los angeles. witnesses saw two men shooting toward an apartment building, and then one of the men fall to the ground. a white sedan approached the gunmen, who entered the vehicle and fled the scene. several people at the apartment building suffered gunshot wounds, including two members of a criminal street gang known as los crazy mexicans (lcm). a responding officer discovered a white sedan near the scene of the shooting with a deceased man lying in the backseat. the victim, cesar guerrero, was a known member of the echo park gang. after a multi-year investigation, law enforcement concluded that guerrero and two other echo park gang members, carlos rojas and joseph mancilla, had attacked lcm members who resided at the apartment building in retaliation for a series of recent gang shootings. investigators believed rojas had driven mancilla and guerrero to the apartment building, and that guerrero was killed in the ensuing shootout. mancilla and rojas were charged with one count of murder in connection with the death of guerrero, four counts of attempted premeditated murder, conspiracy to commit murder and conspiracy to commit a felony for the benefit of a criminal street gang. the jury found mancilla guilty of first degree murder, rojas guilty of second degree murder, and both defendants guilty of all remaining counts. on appeal, mancilla argues the trial court committed instructional error with respect to provocative act murder and the natural and probable consequences doctrine. rojas argues there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction. both defendants also challenge numerous evidentiary rulings, and 3 raise several sentencing errors. we affirm the judgments of conviction, vacate the sentences and remand for resentencing. factual background a. summary of the crime 1. the echo park and lcm gangs park area of los angeles. as of 2010, echo park was estimated to have 280 to 300 total members, and 40 to 75 active members. used its designation the mexican mafia bestowed upon certain hispanic street gangs. echo park had a rivalry with a smaller hispanic criminal street gwhich was comprised of ten to fifteen members. hat he directed the gang and decided which members would participate in gang missions. local law and his step-son, rubin valenzuela, as echo park gang members. gang officers had also identified carlos rojas, joseph mancilla and carlos guerrero as echo park gang members. rojas and mancilla both had several tattoos of echo park gang symbols, and had identified themselves as gang members to multiple officers. mancilla also had a three-dot tattoo on his face, a symbol referencing gang life. 4 2. precursor events to the christmas shooting on august 14, 2010, los angeles police officer robert calzadillas responded to a report of a shooting in the echo park neighborhood. the victim of the shooting, charles arellano, had been shot in the foot. a witness directed calzadillas to graffiti located near the scene of the shooting that showed the letters -ooked like it had just been -son, ramon valenzuela, was shot in the head while walking with another echo park member near one week later, on december 23, 2010, susana l. and her daughter aimee l. were walking back to their house in echo park when they noticed a car parked in front of a pink apartment building located at 1240 innes avenue. susana and aimee saw two hispanic men, one positioned near the car and the other by the front of the building, communicating by whistling and giving each other hand signals. one of the men had a three-dot tattoo on his face, and appeared to be covering something in his hand. based on the conduct of the men, and her knowledge of the people who resided at 1240 innes avenue, aimee believed there -thought the men were acting suspiciously, and told her daughter to run. aimee and susana fled into a nearby building and immediately heard guns shots. that same day, phil nguyen, who also lived on innes avenue, observed a white honda accord parked near his residence. he saw two male hispanics exit the vehicle, and walk toward the apartment building at 1240 innes avenue. the men 5 hit a car parked in front of the building, triggering a car alarm. when the residents of the apartment came outside, the two male back another gang name, and the two groups then began shooting at each other. 3. the christmas shooting sara phillips lived at 1240 innes avenue, which was located behind the pink apartment building at 1240 innes avenue. phillfrom innes avenue that ran along the right side of the building at 1240 innes. on december 25, 2010, phillips was at home with her brother, jose guerra, and several other family members. three of guerracastanon and carlos montalvan. castanon and maltovan were both members of lcm. at approximately 11:40 a.m., wolf, castanon and montalvan were standing in front of phillpathway that led to innes avenue. castanon suddenly heard gunshots, and was struck by a bullet in his leg. montalvan suffered a gunshot wound to his stomach, and wolf suffered multiple gunshot wounds to his back and stomach. after hearing the gunshots, guerra ran outside phillhimself over wolf. guerra then called 9-1-1 and reported that multiple assailants had approached philpathway leading to innes avenue, and began shooting. guerra further reported that he had seen a white car driving in reverse up innes avenue, with the driver continuing to shoot toward the pink apartment building. several residents of innes avenue witnessed the shooting. after hearing gunshots, susana l. looked out her window and 6 saw three men exiting 1240 innes avenue. one of the men looked like the man with the three-dot tattoo she had seen in front of the building two days earlier. shortly before the shooting started, phil nguyen saw two male hispanics standing outside a white honda that appeared to be the same vehicle he had seen two days earlier. the men walked toward 1240 innes avenue, while the driver of the vehicle remained inside the car with the engine running. nguyen heard several gunshots, and then saw the three men leaving in the honda. two of the men were in the backseat, one lying over the other. janet ruiz went to her window after hearing gunshots, and saw two hispanic males shooting toward the apartment building behind 1240 innes. one of the men fell to the ground, appearing to have been shot. ruiz then saw a white car come down innes; the driver and the non-injured gunman helped the injured assailant into the car. while they were assisting the injured assailant, ruiz saw a black item fall to the ground, which she later yusseff evereteze was driving on innes avenue when he heard gunshots, and saw two men running toward the street along the pathway beside 1240 innes. the men stopped in the street, and began shooting at the apartment building. one of the men fell to the ground, and the other man started yelling for assistance. a car that had been parked on innes avenue drove toward them, and the driver then helped the injured assailant into the car. kelly martin was awoken by gunshots and looked out his window. he saw three male hispanics near a white honda firing weapons toward the apartment at 1240 innes avenue. martin 7 went to retrieve his phone, and when he returned to the window, one of the men was lying on the ground. kelly informed the 911 operator that two men had helped the man lying on the ground into the car, and that the driver of the car was firing a weapon while driving in reverse. 4. leticia ayon lived on baxter avenue in the echo park neighborhood of los angeles. ayon was a childhood friend of veronica arellano. her deceased husband had been a member of the echo park gang, and had been killed by another member of echo park. she called emergency personnel. veronica arellano was notified that cesar guerrero, her former co-tenant, had been shot, and immediately began driving 1 los angeles police officer douglas bowler was on patrol near echo park when he heard dispatchers describing the shooting that had occurred at 1240 innes. bowler saw an ambulance with its emergency lights on that appeared to be heading toward the scene of the shooting. a green honda was flowing closely behind the ambulance traveling at a high rate of speed. bowler attempted to pull the honda over, but the vehicle did not stop. the ambulance and the green honda stopped near 1 at trial, an officer testified that veronica arellano told him ayon was the person who informed her that guerrero had been shot. during her trial testimony, arellano acknowledged she had received a call notifying her that after guerrero had been shot, but claimed she could not remember who called her. ayon testified that she could not recall whether she called arellano. 8 veronica arellano, and her passenger, richard mancilla, the brother of defendant joseph mancilla. 5. santos on the day of the shooting, veronica arellano contacted and saw police tape around a white vehicle. de los santos asked arellano what had happened. according to de los santos, arellano stated that carlos rojas had said he was driving the car, and that joseph mancilla was with him. arellano also stated that mancilla had said he was involved in the shooting, and had caused guerrero to be shot. arellano told de los santo the ramon valenzuela, that had occurred nine days earlier. b. police investigation 1. witness statements and identifications los angeles police detective sergio ortiz was assigned to serve as the lead detective in the matter. on january 11, 2017, ortiz interviewed leticia ayon. ayon told ortiz that on the day of the shooting, she had heard someone outside her house calling her name. she then saw from the echo park gang, at her front gate. ayon stated that mancilla told her guerrero had been shot, and was lying in a white car in an alley next to her house. ayon told ortiz she would not sign a statement regarding the information she had provided, and would deny having told him about mancilla because she was worried she would be killed by the echo park gang. 9 los santos. she told ortiz that sonia rojas, the mother of carlos rojas, had told her carlos rojas admitted he was in the car with mancilla and guerrero on the day of the shooting. according to de los santos, sonia rojas also said carlos had told her veronica d the shooting at 1240 innes. sonia explained that carlos had said mancilla and guerrero were supposed to conduct the shooting, and that rojas was responsible for driving the getaway vehicle. ortiz conducted six-pack photographic lineups with several of the witnesses who had seen the shooting. in march of 2011, janet ruiz reviewed a six-pack of photographs and was initially unable to make an identification. after further inspection, she selected mancilla as the person who most closely resembled one of the shooters she had seen in the street, but was only 40 to 50 percent certain of her identification. ruiz reviewed a second six-pack of photographs, and selected rojas as a person who looked in july of 2011, yusseff evereteze reviewed a six-pack of photographs and selected mancilla as the shooter, stating that he was 80 percent certain of his identification. over two years later, in september of 2013, evereteze reviewed a live lineup that included mancilla, and identified a different person as the shooter. in march of 2011, ortiz showed kelly martin a six-pack of photographs and asked whether he saw the driver. martin selected two people, neither of whom was rojas, and signed a statement saying they most closely resembled the driver. later that day, ortiz showed martin a second six-pack of photographs, and asked whether he saw the shooter. martin selected mancilla 10 as the person who most closely resembled the shooter, and stated that he was 50 percent certain it was the person he had seen on the day of the shooting. in september of 2011, ortiz showed martin another six-pack, and he selected rojas as the person who most closely resembled the driver. in september of 2013, martin reviewed a live lineup that included mancilla, and selected him and two others as persons who resembled the shooter. at trial, martin clarified he was never able to positively identify any of the suspects, and that his 2. statements between mancilla and rojas after identifying mancilla and rojas as potential suspects, ortiz requested that the two men participate in a live lineup. ortiz placed a hidden camera in the area where mancilla and rojas were held prior to the lineup, and videotaped their conversation. in the surreptitiously-recorded video, mancilla told rojas t . . . vanessa[2] mancilla murder . . . 2 11 after the lineup had been conducted, an officer came back into the room and informed the suspects that the witnesses were unable to identify rojas, but did identify mancilla. when the up. because you rojas and mancilla then both repeatedly stated they would be fine because they had not done anything wrong. 3. forensic evidence forensic investigators recovered 37 cartridges from the scene of the shooting. ballistics experts concluded the shots had been fired from at least four different weapons. investigators also recovered several pieces of physical evidence from the crime scenes, which included a hat and a black glove that were found in the street outside 1240 innes avenue, and a shirt found in the white honda where guerrerodiscovered. laboratory analysis revealed that the glove and the shirt contained additional dna from multiple secondary contributors. mancilla was excluded as a possible contributor to the glove, but rojas was found to be a possible contributor. the forensic analysis showed that the probability of a random person in the population matching the dna characteristics in the glove that 12 549.3 mancilla was found to be a possible contributor to dna characteristics found on the shirt at a random probability rate of 1 in 310. c. the information the district attorney for the county of los angeles filed an information charging mancilla and ramos with one count of murder in connection with the death of cesar guerrero. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).4) the information also alleged four counts of attempted murder (one for each person who was fired upon at phillconspiracy to commit murder ( 182, 187, subd. (a)); and one count of conspiracy to commit a felony for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 182.5.) the information included special allegations on all seven counts asserting that each defendant had personally used and intentionally discharged a handgun causing great bodily injury or death, and that a principal in the offenses had personally used and intentionally discharged a handgun causing great bodily injury. (see  12022.53, subds. (b)-(e)(1).) the information also alleged each offense had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 186.22.) 3 hereafter, when discussing the dna evidence, we refer to 4 unless otherwise noted, all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 13 d. trial 1. idence at trial, several of the innes avenue residents who had witnessed the shootings testified as to what they had seen that day. each of the witnesses also testified about the subsequent identifications they had made to detective ortiz. yusseff evereteze was the only witness who was able to positively identify either suspect, testifying that mancilla was the man he had seen shooting toward the apartment building on innes avenue. the prosecution also called veronica arellano to testify. arellano admitted she knew rojas and mancilla, but denied any knowledge whether they were echo park gang members. she admitted her husband, michael contreras, was an echo park gang member, but claimed he was no longer active. she testified that she did not belong to the gang, but admitted that she was the person shown in a photograph of a woman making an echo park gang hand sign, wearing marc ecko clothing and holding a marc ecko rhinoceros. the prosecution questioned arellano at length about the gang status of several of her friends and family members, including her brother charles arellano. with respect to the shooting, arellano testified that on learning guerrero had been shot. although arellano admitted she owned a green honda, she claimed that she had driven to driving alone that day, and had not followed an ambulance. arellano further testified that on the day of the shooting, she called de la rosa and informed her that she needed to come speak with the police. arellano admitted de la rosa had asked 14 her what happened, but claimed that she told de la rosa she needed to ask the police that question. arellano denied telling de la rosa that rojas had said he was driving the car, or that mancilla had said he was in the car. arellano acknowledged guerrero had been living with her in december of 2010, and that she had seen him on the day of the shooting. she claimed that she worked in gang intervention, and had been trying to lead guerrero out of gang life. the prosecution called sergeant bowler and de la rosa to the day of the shooting, he had seen arellano and richard mancilla driving together in a green honda, following closely behind an ambulance. he further testified that he detained arellano and richard mancilla after arellano had stopped her de la rosa testified that arellano had told her rojas and mancilla had both admitted they were in the car with guerrero on the day of the shooting. de la rosa also testified that she had to funeral because she believed rojas had let her grandson die. ortiz and numerous other officers testified about their ortiz was permitted to testify that ayon told him mancilla had come to her house on the day of the shooting, and directed her to ththat de la rosa had told him sonia rojas said carlos rojas had admitted his role in the offense, and identified mancilla as the shooter. the prosecution called officer felipe neris as a gang expert. 15 gang symbols and primary activities. he also testified about predicate offenses that had been committed by other echo park gang members. neris stated that rojas had identified himself to neris and other officers as a member of echo park, and that rojas had several tattoos of echo park gang symbols. neris also testified that mancilla had several tattoos of echo park gang symbols, and had identified himself to other officers as an echo park gang member. a second officer, frank zuniga, testified that he had heard rojas identify himself as an echo park gang member. a third officer, arnel asuncion, testified that mancilla had identified himself as an echo park member on multiple occasions. 2. defense evidence rojas provided alibi testimony from his girlfriend, amanda arellano, who stated that rojas had spent christmas day with her at the home of her aunt, veronica arellano. mancilla called mitchell eisen, a forensic psychologist, to testify as an expert about various factors affecting the accuracy and reliability of eyewitness identifications, including identifications made through six-pack photographic lineups. 3. closing argument at closing argument, the district attorney argued that the provocative act theory. according to the district attorney, the evidence showed mancilla and guerrero had attacked several lcm members, and that guerrero had been shot in the ensuing shootout. the district attorney further asserted that rojas had criminal acts as an aider and abettor. 16 e. jury verdict the jury found mancilla guilty of first degree murder, and found rojas guilty of second degree murder. the jury found both defendants guilty of all remaining counts, and found the attempted murders had been premeditated. the jury also found all of the special allegations against mancilla to be true, including allegations that he had personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death with respect to each crime. the jury found true all of the special allegations against rojas to be true, except those alleging he had personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death. the court sentenced mancilla to an aggregate term of 90 years to life in prison, and rojas to an aggregate term of 80 years to life in prison. discussion a. provocative act murder was harmless act murder erroneously permitted the jury to convict him of first degree murder based on a finding that rojas had acted with premeditation in committing the underlying attempted murders. he also contends the instructions permitted the jury to convict him of first degree murder without any finding of premeditation. 1. prior to deliberations, the trial court instructed the jury on provocative act murder under calcrim no. 560. the instruction set forth the elements necessary to convict the defendants of murder under the provocative act theory: (1) in 17 committing the attempted murder, the defendant intentionally did a provocative act; (2) the defendant knew that the natural and probable consequences of the provocative act were dangerous to human life and then acted with conscious disregard for life; (3) igang members killed cesar guerrero; provocative act. the instruction included the following language regarding the degree of the offense: if you decide that the defendant is guilty of murder, you must decide whether the murder is first or second degree. [] . . . [] the defendant is guilty of first degree murder if the people have proved that his provocative act was an attempted murder committed willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. . . . [] . . . [] for a defendant to be found guilty of first degree murder, he personally must have acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation when the murder was committed. to prove that the defendant is guilty of first degree murder, the people must prove that: cesar guerrero was killed during the commission of attempted murder; and 2. defendant intended to commit attempted murder when he did the provocative act. in deciding whether the defendant intended to commit attempted murder and whether the death occurred during the commission of attempted murder, you should refer to the instruction i have given you on attempted murder. [] . . . [] 18 any murder that does not meet these requirements for first degree murder is second degree murder. in addition to the instruction above, the court provided the following instruction on attempted premeditated murder under calcrim no. 601: if you find the defendant guilty of attempted murder under counts two, three, four or five, you must then decide whether the people have proved the additional allegation that the attempted murder was done willfully, and with deliberation and premeditation. the defendants acted willfully if they intended to kill when they acted. the defendants deliberated if they carefully weighed the considerations for and against their choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. the defendants acted with premeditation if they decided to kill before completing the act[s] of attempted murder. during deliberations, the jury informed the court it was having difficulty deciphering the provocative act murder instruction. the court allowed the parties to present further argument to the jury, and then supplemented its prior instructions with instruction provided: if you decide that the defendant is guilty of murder, you must decide whether the murder is first or second degree murder. to prove that the defendant is guilty of first degree murder, the people must prove that: provocative act, cesar guerrero was killed during the commission of attempted murder; and 19 (2) joseph mancilla or carlos rojas intended to commit attempted murder when he did the provocative act. in deciding whether joseph mancilla or carlos rojas intended to commit attempted murder and whether the death occurred during the commission of attempted murder, you should refer to the instruction i have given you on attempted murder. any murder that does not meet these requirements for first degree murder is second degree murder. 2. any error regarding -reference to the attempted premeditated murder instruction was harmless mancilla argues that, considered in their entirety, the misstated the mens rea requirement by directing the jury that it could convict him of first degree murder based on a finding that rojas had acted with premeditation in the commission of the attempted murders that provoked a lethal response. calcrim no. 560 correctly informed the jury that to convict either defendant of first degree murder under the provocative act theoryprovocative act was an attempted murder committed willfully, deliberately, and with premeditationpersonally . . . acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation when the attempted murder was committed. mancilla argues, however, that subsequent language in the instructions on attempted murder: in deciding whether the defendant intended to commit attempted murder. . ., you should refer to the instruction i have given you on attempted murder.20 turn, informed the jury that the attempted murders were he defendantswillfully, and with premeditation and deliberation. mancilla contends that by referring to the defendants collectively, rather than individually, the attempted premeditated murder instruction created the impression that find[] premeditation or and deliberation but on that of his co- in people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643 (gonzalez), the supreme court found an analogous set of instructions regarding provocative act murder to be erroneous. as in this case, the trial roperly inform[ing] the jury that . . . a first degree murder conviction required a finding that [the defendant] herself acted with an intent to kill formed after deliberation, and with premeditation, when she committed the id. at p. 661 [emphasis in original].) the instruction, however, included additional language that cross-referenced calcrim no. 601s instruction on attempted murder,he attempted murder was done willfully and with deliberation and premeditation if either the defendant or [his co-participant], or both of them acted with that (id. at pp. 661, 662.) provocative act theory is relied on, the jury should be instructed that first degree murder requires proof that the defendant personally premeditated and deliberated the attempted murder that provoked a lethal response. [] here, the jury was properly instructed in detail about the mental state [the defendant] was required to have in order to be convicted of the first degree 21 murder. . . . however, because the court cross-referenced also told that the mens rea requirement for this conviction could be satisfied if [a co-participant] acted with premeditation and deliberation in attempting to kill. . . . [this language was] an incorrect statement of the mens rea required for first degree gonzalez, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 662.) the attorney general concedes the trial court committed a similar error here by cross-referencing an instruction on attempted premeditated murder that suggested the jury could convict mancilla of first degree under the provocative act theory based on the mens rea of either himself or his co-defendant. the attorney general argues, however, that the error was harmless. we agree. harmless error analysis under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. [citations.] in general, the chapman test probes beyond a reasonable doubt that the error complained of did not contgonzalez, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 662 [applying chapman incorrect statement of the mens rea required for first degree murder under the provocative act doctrine.) although mancilla contends the instructions allowed the jury to convict him of first degree murder based on mens rea, he was the only defendant the jury found guilty of first degree murder; rojas was found guilty of second degree murder. which we must presume the jury followed (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 746 22 if the jury had found mancilla guilty of of the attempted murders, it would have also been required to find rojas guilty of first degree murder. the fact that only mancilla was convicted of first degree murder shows beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury based its finding of premeditation on his . (cf. people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1130 (guiton) [instructional error harmless where the verdict [shows] that the jury necessarily found the defendant guilty on a proper theorypeople v. driscoll (1942) 53 cal.app.2d 590, 595 [a defendant may not complain of erroneous instructions . . . where the verdict clearly shows that he was not prejudiced t].) 3. any error in including language implying that first degree murder did not require a finding of premeditation was harmless the provocative act theory of murder included language that ally advised the jurors that they could convict [him] of first degree murder without any finding of premeditation or a portion of instruction under calcrim no. 560: to prove that the defendant is guilty of first degree murder, the people must prove that: cesar guerrero was killed during the commission of attempted murder; and (2) defendant intended to commit attempted murder when he did the provocative act. 23 mancilla also cites similar language appearing in the instruction under calcrim no. 561, which the court provided during deliberations: to prove that the defendant is guilty of first degree murder, the people must prove that: provocative act, cesar guerrero was killed during the commission of attempted murder; and (2) joseph mancilla or carlos rojas intended to commit attempted murder when he did the provocative act. mancielements of proof of first degree provocative act murder . . . [told the] jury that first degree murder liability could be reached considered in isolation, the cited portions of the calcrim nos. 560 and 561 instructions do appear to have invited the jury to make a finding of first degree murder without finding the underlying attempted murders were premeditated. however, other language in the calcrim no. 560 instruction, as well as no. 521), specifically directed the jury that it could only convict a defendant of first degree murder if it found the defendant acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. even if we assume the portion of the instructions mancilla cites demonstrates the error was harmless. as summarized above, the attempted premeditated murder instruction under calcrim no. 601 directed the jury that if it found the defendants guilty of attempted murder, it then had to decide whether the prosecution had proved the additional allegation that the attempted murder was done willfully, and with deliberation and premeditation. the 24 jury found all of the attempted murders were premeditated. as a result, it necessarily found premeditation with respect to the attempted murders that served as the basis for the provocative act murder charge. moreover, as explained above, the fact that the jury found mancilla guilty of first degree murder, and rojas guilty of second b. any error in the natural and probable consequences doctrine was harmless mancilla also argues the trial court erred in instructing the jury on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. larify that a defendant cannot be convicted of first degree murder under the doctrine, thus inviting the jury to find him liable of the nontarget offense of crime. 1. summary of the instructions on the natural and probable consequences doctrine the court provided the following instruction on the natural and probable consequences doctrine: the defendants are charged in counts two, three, four and five with attempted murder and in count one with murder. you must first decide whether a defendant is guilty of attempted murder. if you find the defendant is guilty of this crime, you must then decide whether he is guilty of murder. 25 under certain circumstances, a person who is guilty of one crime may also be guilty of other crimes that were committed at the same time. to prove that the defendant is guilty of murder, the people must prove that: 1. the defendant is guilty of attempted murder; 2. during the commission of attempted murder a co-participant in that attempted murder committed the crime of murder; and 3. under all of the circumstances, a reasonable the commission of murder was a natural and probable consequence of the attempted murder. a co-participant in a crime is the perpetrator or anyone who aided and abetted the perpetrator. it does not include a victim or innocent bystander. [] . . . [] to decide whether the crime of murder was committed, please refer to the separate instructions that i gave you on that crime. the court provided a separate instruction on first degree murder under calcrim no. 521, directing the jury that it could if the people have proved that he acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation 2. the verdict demonstrates any error was harmless in people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, the california a defendant cannot be convicted of first degree premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine26 for aiding and abetting a target crime that would naturally, id. at p. 167.) instruction violated chiu because it did not include language clarifying that a defendant cannot be convicted of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. mancilla further contends the a review of the record fails to disclose whether the jury convicted him of first degree murder under the provocative act doctrine (a permissible theory of liability), or the natural and probable consequences doctrine (an impermissible theory). (see generally people v. green (1980) 27 on alternate theories, some of which are legally correct and others legally incorrect, and the reviewing court cannot determine from the record on which theory the ensuing general another ground by people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225].) prosecution . . . emphasized provocative act murder as its primary theory of culpability,on the present record, this court consequences theory. language clarifying that a defendant cannot be convicted of first degree murder based on the natural and probable consequences assertion that the record provides no basis to determine whether or not his first-degree murder conviction was predicated on an 27 erroneous employment of the natural and probable consequences doctrine. y way the jury could have found mancilla guilty of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine is if it found that, during commission of the target crime of attempted murder, his co-participant, carlos rojas, committed the nontarget offense of first degree murder.5 as explained above, the jury found rojas guilty of second degree murder, not first degree murder. accordingly, there is no reasonable possibility it convicted mancilla of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. (see guiton, supra, 4 cal.4th at pp. 1130-1131 [error stemming from instruction on two theories of an offense, one correct and the other legally incorrect, is harmless where verdict necessarily shows jury found guilt on the proper theory].) 5 rojas was the only possible - of mancilla who could have committed the nontarget offense of murder. rojas and mancilla were each charged with the murder of guerrero, who was allegedly killed during the shootout with lcm members. the court instructed the jury that to convict the the natural and probable consequences doctrine, it had to find (among other things) that, [d]uring the commission of attempted murder a co-participant in that attempted murder -participant in a crime is the perpetrator or anyone who aided and abetted the perpetrator. it does not include a -committed the crime of murder. 28 c. the trial court had authority to admit evidence trial the defendants argue the trial court erred in overruling a decision made in their prior trial that excluded an incriminating surreptitiously-recorded conversation between mancilla and rojas at the live lineup. 1. factual background a. exclusion of the statement at the first trial perry, the prosecution called detective ortiz to testify about what he heard on the videotape of the conversation that occurred between mancilla and rojas during the live lineup. ortiz informed the jury that because mancilla and rojas had been communicating in a low, secretive tone, he had been required to o try to get the transcript setting forth the language of the statements ortiz had purportedly heard on the video. the transcript included the following statement by are they going to try and charge us of murder dog, if these fools fucken blasted us during a recess, defense counsel objected to the inclusion of the statement in the transcript, and moved for a mistrial. counsel argued that he had never heard that statement on the video, and that the prosecution failed to provide any notice it intended to include the statement in the transcript it gave to the jury. in response, the prosecution argued that detective ortiz had testified he could hear the statement when he listened to the 29 videotape with headphones. the prosecution acknowledged it did not inform the defense of the statement, but argued that it had provided a copy of the video (which was over two hours long), and that the defense therefore had reason to know of the statement. judge perry directed the prosecution to play the segment of the video where mancilla was alleged to have made the statement. after listening to the segment, judge perry indicated he could not make out the words that had been included in the transcript. the prosecution maintained, however, that the statement could be heard with headphones. in response, judge perry explained that he believed the prosecution had acted inappropriately by presenting a statement in the transcript that could only be heard with headphones, and providing the defense no notice of its intent to do so. after listening to the video three more times, judge perry confirmed he still could not hear the statement, and found that a statement when played in the manner the prosecution had presented it to the court. based on the content of the statement, which judge perry found highly prejudicial, and the manner in which the prosecution had elected to present the transcript to the jury, the court declared a mistrial. b. inclusion of the statement in the current trial michael carter, the parties raised the issue of the disputed statement at a pretrial hearing. the prosecution provided judge carter the language of its proposed transcript, and a copy of the segment of the video where mancilla had allegedly made the statement. judge carter informed the parties he would review 30 the video and make a determination as to whether it could decipher what was said. following a recess, judge carter stated that he had listened to the statement 10 to 15 times, using both speakers and a headset, and was able to hear a substantial portion of the words . . . . be up for the jury to decide. so my ruling is that, people, you ne. . . must be ] the fuck are they going to try to charge us with murder, [inaudible] at trial, judge carter admonished the jury that, with ee and what you hear is the evidence in this case. . . ., and the transcripts are simply there to help you follow along. what is written on those transcripts is not evidence in the case. so if you are listening to something on one of the audiotapes or viewing something on the videotape and it contradicts with what you are [that] is the evidence. . . . i just want to make it clear to everyone that you have to listen to the evidence as its presented, and you 31 2. ruling the transcript. according to defendants, judge carter was bound electing not to follow it. people v. riva (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 981, 991 (riva).) in riva, however, this court recognized an exception to that general rule admissibility of evidence . . . [are] reviewable by another judge following a mistrial because they are intermediate, interlocutory rulings subject to revision even after the commence(id. at p. 992.) [t]his authority . . . is not unlimited. it must be exercised in conformity with the . ., which means the defendant must be given notice and an opportunity to be heard, and the revised ruling cannot be arbitrary or made without reason. . . . [] furthermore, for reasons of comity and public policy . . ., trial judges should decline to reverse or modify other is a highly persuasive reason for doing somere disagreement with the result of the order is not a persuasive reason for reversing it. factors to consider include whether the first judge specifically agreed to reconsider her ruling at a later date, whether the party seeking reconsideration of the order has sought relief by way of appeal or writ petition, whether there has been a change in circumstances since the previous order was made and whether the previous order is 32 reasonably supportable under applicable statutory or case law regardless of whether the second judge agrees with the first riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at pp. 992-993.) applying the test set forth in riva, we find no error in ord makes clear that judge (riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 991.) prior to trial, the defendants received notice that the prosecution intended to include the statement in the transcript, and were provided an shows he spent a considerable amount of time and effort listening to the video to determine whether the transcript accurately reflected what mancilla had said. the statement. in the first trial, the prosecution presented the statement to the jury without any prior notice to the defense or to the court. judge perry emphasized this lack of notice in his ruling, explaining that he believed the defense had been unfairly transcribed statement to the jury without prior warning. in the second trial, however, the defendants suffered no such surprise, as the issue was presented to the court and decided prior to trial. moreover, unlike judge perry, judge carter had the opportunity to carefully review the video using both speakers and headphones. after listening to the statement 10 to 15 times, judge carter made a determination as to what portion of the 33 statement was decipherable, and what portion was not. this is not a case where a trial judge overruled a prior order simply because he disagreed with the ruling. indeed, judge carter made no findings with respect to whether judge perry was incorrect in concluding he could not decipher the statement. instead, judge carter concluded only that after personally listening to the recording with both speakers and headphones, he was able to make out a portion of what was said on the video. judge carter also admonished the jury that it had to make its own determination whether the transcript accurately reflected what was said during the conversation. based on the record before us, we find no basis to conclude judge carter exceeded his authority in admitting the transcript of the alleged statement.6 6 defendant mancilla also argues that even if judge carter that we listen to the disputed portion of the video, and make an independent determination whether we can hear the language that judge carter heard. mancilla, however, has cited no what he personally heard on the video. (see generally people v. culver (1973) 10 cal.3d 542, 548 although defendants have provided a dvd of the surreptitiously-recorded conversation, we have no way of knowing whether, and differed from our own. to the extent the defendants believed the transcript misrepresented what was said on the video, they were permitted to make that argument to the jury, which was specifically instructed that the transcript was not evidence. 34 d. was admissible defendants argue the trial court erred in allowing arellano had told her rojas admitted he was driving the car in which guerrero died, and that mancilla had also been in the car. defendants contend these statements amounted to hearsay, and should have been excluded on that basis. ach hearsay layer separately meets the requirements of a hearsay (people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 149.) the meet the requirements of the hearsay exceptions for party admissions (evid. code,  1220) and statements against penal interest (evid. code,  1230). the only question, therefore, is whether the second layer of hearsaythose statements to de las santosalso meets the requirements of a hearsay exception. witness is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the in this case, arellano testified at trial that she did not tell de los santos that rojas had admitted he was the driver, and that mancilla was with him. thus, under section 1235, de los santos was permitted to present testimony that arellano had in fact previously made such statements. (see people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 953 (zapienhearsay consisting of a prior inconsistent statement and an 35 in their appellate briefing, defendants argue that de los ess been excluded because it defendants contend was unreliable because her trial testimony showed any gang members for [the] loss [of] they cite testimony in which de los santos stated that she had funeral because de los santos felt rojas had left guerrero to die in the car. this argument fails for multiple reasons. first, defendants did not testimony at trial on the basis that it lacked sufficient indicia of reliability. (see people v. demetrulias (2006) 39 cal.4th 1, 20-make a timely and sphearsay evidence [generally] has the burden of establishing that requirement applies only if the prosecution is unable to produce zapien, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 957.) in this case de los santos testified at trial, and thus the defendants had an opportunity to cross-examine her with respect to her testimony that arellano had made the disputed statements. third, defendants have presented no legal authority in support of their assertion that the court was required to exclude de los saased on testimony showing she was resentful of rojas. their conclusory assertion to that effect is insufficient to show the trial court abused its discretion. (see benach v. county of los angeles (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 836, 36 usory presentation, without pertinent argument or an attempt to apply the law to the circumstances of this case, is ; people v. greenberger (1997) .) e. the court did not abuse its discretion in allowing the prosecution to cross-examine veronica arellano regarding her gang affiliations defendant rojas argues the trial court erred in allowing the prosec[his innocence or guilt] was identity: was he . . . [the] gang memembership, plus that of her extended family and friends was . . . in rejecting this argument at trial, the court explained that mancilla [had] admit[tkey is the believability of [arellano] . . . . and if she is believable [to de los santos], then the jury may take that as . . . her previous statement not being true. if they believe that her statements in court were not believable then they may believe that she really did make the statement. . . . everyone agrees the statement [to de los santos] is very important in this case. so the real issue is whether she is believable in her testimony. i think what the prosecution is doing at this point is going into 37 [her] background to really question the things that she said on ultimate scope of [examination] designed to test the credibility . . . of a witness [citation], [and] wherever possible that jennings v. superior court of contra costa county (1967) 66 cal.2d 867, 877 (jennings).) as the trial court recognized, veronica arellano was an important witness in this case because she allegedly told another witness (de los santos) that the defendants had admitted to participating in the offenses. at trial, however, arellano denied making those statements. her credibility was therefore a key issue. given that the defendants were allegedly echo park gang members who had committed the crimes for the benefit of the member and her affiliations with other gang members were relevant to assessing her credibility. that arellano had coordinated the christmas day shooting in retaliation for acts that lcm had perpetrated against other echo park gang members. thus, evidence regarding her gang affiliations was also relevanarrative of how and why the crimes had occurred. (see people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 320 (bolin) [affirming admission of allowing the prosecution to examine arellano with respect permitted in determining the appropriate scope of examination. (jennings, supra, 66 cal.2d at p. 877.) 38 f. the court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the dna evidence defendants argue the trial court erred in admitting dna evidence extracted from a black glove found at the scene of the shooting,7 was discovered. forensic analysis revealed that both items contained the dna of guerrero and multiple secondary contributors. rojas was found to be a possible contributor of the dna on the glove at a random probability rate of 1 in 549. mancilla was found to be a possible contributor of the dna on the shirt at a random probability rate of 1 in 310. at trial, defense counsel argued the dna evidence pertaining to mancilla and rojas should be excluded under evidence code section 352 because the statistical value was nature of the objection, defense counsel asserted that because the the jury might convict [the defendants] simply because there is scientific statistical value of the dna evidence was an issue the defense could argue to the jury through cross-examination of the [is] a matter of weight, not admissibility. i think both sides will argue the weight and [the] jury will make the deter 7 janet ruiz informed sergeant ortiz that when the driver of the getaway vehicle was helping the injured assailant into the car, she saw a black item fall into the street, which she described 39 broad discretion in assessing whether the probative value of particular evidence is outweighed by concerns of undue prejudice, people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124-1125 (rodriguespeople v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 282; see also rodrigues, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 1125.) defendants raise several arguments in support of their contention that the trial court should have excluded the dna evidence. first, they assert that the statistical probabilities 1 in 310 with respect to mancilla, and 1 in 549 with respect to rojas people v. poggi (1988) 45 cal.3d 306 (poggi), the a blood test analysis that showed the da blood sample found at the crime scene. (id. at p. 317.) in rejecting the tical . . . evidence [showing] generally probative and admissible. (id. at p. 324.) the statistical significance of the dna evidence in this case is far greater than the blood analysis found admissible in poggi. as the attorney general notes, less than one fifth of one percent of the population shared the dna that was found on the glove, and less than one third of one percent of the population shared the dna that was found on the shirt. thus, under poggi, the evidence was clearly probative. 40 defendants also contend that any probative value the dna evidence might have had was outweighed by the potential risk of jury confusion. defendants identify two avenues of potential juror confusion. first, they argue that because jurors frequently associate dna evidence with random probability rates in the millions and trillions, the jury in this case may have been lead to believe the dna evidence against mancilla and rojas was more significant than it actually was. as the trial court noted, however, the defense had an opportunity to clarify the statistical significance of the dna evidence through the cross-examination of authority suggesting that dna evidence is admissible only if the random probability rates are in the millions or trillions.8 defendant mancilla also argues the dna evidence tying him to the shirt was potentially confusing to the jury because shirt at a random probability rate of one in 400 quintillion. mancilla contends the district attorney increased the likelihood of juror confusion at dna were both found on the shirt. accordin 8 defendants have cited no case from any jurisdiction that has excluded dna evidence involving random probability rates in the range of those at issue here. indeed, the only case defendants cite in which dna was excluded for lack of statistical value involved a random probability rate of one of every two persons in the african-american population. (see united states v. graves (e.d. pa. 2006) 465 f.supp.2d 450.) moreover, the issue in that case was whether the district court abused its discretion in excluding the evidence; there was no finding that the court would have abused its discretion had it allowed the evidence. 41 attorney[] . . . [attempted to] confuse the jury into according the evidence of [his] potential dna contribution with the almost the record shows, however, that the district attorneyclosing argument explained that the dna evidence related to mancilla resulted in random probability rate of only 1 in 310. moreover, if mancilla believed there was a risk the jury might conflate the dna evidence in the manner he asserts, his attorney had an opportunity to clarify that issue during cross-examination and at closing argument. g. hearsay evidence was not prejudicial mancilla argues we must strike his gang enhancements, and reverse his gang-related conspiracy conviction, because the confrontation by relying on testimonial hearsay evidence in formulatdecision in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez).9 1. the sanchez decision authority conferred broad latitude on gang experts to rely upon statements by fellow officers and gang members in opining on the gang membership status of the accused, and on whether the committed crime involved gang-related activity. (see people v. 9 roin this argument. his brief, however, does not contain any independent analysis of the issue. 42 gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 611-613, 619; people v. stamps (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 988, 993 (stamps).) trial courts, in turn, s to which an expert was prepared to testify were sufficiently id. at p. 994.) in sanchez, the california supreme court considered the extent to which crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawford) and its progeny10 preclude an expert witness from relating case-specific hearsay in explaining the basis for an opinion, and the proper application of california hearsay law to the scope of expert testimony. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 670.) the court expert relates to the jury case-specific out-of-court statements, and treats the content of those statements as true and accurate cannot logically be maintained that the statements are not being admitted for their truth. if the case is one in which a prosecution expert seeks to relate testimonial hearsay, there is a confrontation clause violation unless (1) there is a showing of unavailability and (2) the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-id. at p. 686.) the court identified testimonial hearsay statements to criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. 10 in crawford, the united states supreme court held that the sixth amendment right of confrontation baof testimonial statements of a witness who did not appear at trial unless he was unavailable to testify, and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at pp. 53-54.) 43 nontestimonial statements are those whose primary purpose is to deal with an ongoing emergency or some other purpose unrelated id. at p. 689.) the court, however, carefully limited the reach of its holding. first, it explained, background information regarding his knowledge and expertise and premises generally accepted in this field. . . . thus, our decision does not affect the traditional latitude granted to experts to describe background information and knowledge in the area of (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 685.) ny expert may still rely on hearsay in forming an opinion and may tell the jury in general terms that he did so. because the jury must independently evaluate the probative value of an experts testimony, evidence code section 802 properly allows an expert his opinion rests. . . . there is a distinction to be made between allowing an expert to describe the type or source of the matter relied upon as opposed to presenting, as fact, case-specific hearsay that does not otherwise fall under a statutory exception. [] what an expert cannot do is relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by competent evidence or are covered by a hearsay sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685-686.) the gang expert in sanchez testified that he had never met the defendant. the expert relayed information regarding the reports regardindefendant that law enforcement believed he faced criminal 44 exposure for participating in gang crimes (see generally people v. sifuentes notice informs suspected individuals that law enforcement identification card (fi card) reflecting a prior police contact with defendant. the court concluded the information in the police reports and the step notice were testimonial in nature, and that the documents therefore violated the confrontation clause. the court concluded there was insufficient information in the record to determine whether the statements in the fi card were testimonial in nature, and therefore made no finding whether the statements were admissible. 2. he had served as a gang investigator between 2011 and 2013, and that his assignment included the echo park gang. neris provided extensive background testimony about general gang behavior. he also provided background information about the echo park gang, including its size, territory, symbols, primary activities and rival gangs. with respect to the defendants, neris testified that mancilla and rojas both had several tattoos of echo park gang symbols. neris further testified that the number, size and placement of the tattoos demonstrated both defendants were active members of the echo park gang. neris also testified he had reviewed fi cards prepared by other officers that reported mancilla had identified himself as a member of echo park. in addition, neris had seen a video in 45 which mancilla admitted his membership in the gang. neris acknowledged he had not met mancilla, but asserted that he had seen him 10 to 15 times during his assignment as a gang officer. with respect to rojas, neris testified that he had 11 to 20 admitted his gang membership to him on multiple occasions. neris also relayed the contents of an fi card he had prepared that stated rojas had identified himself to neris as an echo park member during a contact on march 9, 2012. the fi card also stated that at the time of the contact, rojas had been with two individuals, anthony brito and justin montelongo, who had also identified themselves as echo park gang members. neris additionally testified that brito and montelongo had identified themselves to him as echo park members on other occasions. neris also identified records showing that andre upshaw and juan gutierrez had previously been convicted of murder. he believed both men were echo park gang members. examination, the prosecution asked him a hypothetical question summarizing the evidence that had been presented in the case. neris concluded the crimes described in the hypothetical were committed for the benefit of a street gang. on cross-examination, neris was asked to identify what sources he had relied on in forming his opinions. in response, he explained that he had reviewed police reports, fi cards, prior minute orders, and also obtained 46 3. prejudicial mancilla argues that neris violated sanchez by relying on and relaying testimonial hearsay evidence in support of his instead, his brief sets forth generalized arguments regarding the categories of materials neris relied on in forming his opinions, asserting, for example: in forming his opinions in this case, officer neris relied on his contacts with gang members in the community, police investigations, information provided by other law enforcement officers recorded on field identification cards . . ., mancilla further asserts gang membership of the defendants, as well as the primary activities of the echo park gang, came from field identification cards and similar reports prepared by law enforcement during contacts with gang members. . . . since neris was not a percipient witness to many of these events he recounted to the jury, much of his testimony based on field identification cards, investigative reports and other department resources involved out-of-court these broad-based chmisperceive the scope of sanchez-specific out-of-court statements to explain the bases for his opinion, those statements are necessarily considered by the jury for their truth, thus rendering sanchez, supra, 47 63 cal.4th at p. 684.) in contrast, expert testimony that merely relies on testimonial hearsay is still admissible provided the expert only tells the jury in general terms the bases for his or her opinion, and does not relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685-686.) sources of hearsay in forming his opinions, including statements in police reports and information provided from other officers, does not violate sanchez. --of-court statements that, if testimonial in nature, would violate sanchez. first, neris testified that he had reviewed an fi card prepared by another officer that stated mancilla had admitted his membership in the gang. second, he testified that rojas, anthony brito and justin montelongo, had all identified themselves to him or other officers as echo park gang members. --of-court statements showing that the declarants had identified themselves as echo park gang members, and treated the content of those statements to be true. given the lack of information in the record regarding the circumstances under which the above admissions of gang membership were made, it is difficult to assess whether the statements were testimonial in nature, and therefore subject to exclusion under the confrontation clause. (see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 697 [electing not to decide whether statements in an fi however, even if we assume the statements were testimonial 48 (and therefore inadmissible), we conclude their admission did not amount to prejudicial error. -gang members.11 -primary activities, the predicate offenses underlying the gang allegations or in rendering his conclusion that the crimes at issue were committed for the benefit of the gang. (see sanchez, supra, information accepted in their field of expertise. . . . they can rely on information within their personal knowledge, and they can give an opinion based on a hypothetical including case-specific a review of the record shows the prosecution provided a substantial amount of evidence establishing mancilla and rojas-testimonial hearsay statements. (see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685-686 [expert cannot . . . relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by ; relates as true, a testimonial statement . . . the fact asserted as 11 the primary purpose obrito and montelongo had identified themselves as echo park gang members during a contact with rojas appears to have been to show rojas affiliated with echo park gang members, and was therefore more likely to be a member himself. brito and montelongo were not alleged to have been involved in the christmas shooting, or any of the predicate offenses underlying the gang charge. 49 true ha[s] to be independently proven to satisfy the sixth with respect to mancilla, neris testified that the defendant had numerous tattoos of echo park gang symbols on his body and face. he explained that, standing alone, these tattoos demonstrated mancilla was an active member of echo park. neris also testified he had seen a video in which mancilla self-admitted himself as a member of echo park. a second officer, arnel asuncion, also testified at trial that he had heard mancilla identify himself as an echo park gang member on multiple occasions. these statements did not implicate the confrontation admissions. (see u.s. v. brown (11th cir. 2006) 441 f.3d 1330, 1358-violate the confrontation clause]; u.s. v. romo-chavez (9th cir. 2012) 681 f.3d 955, 961; u.s. v. nazemian (9th cir. 1991) 948 f.2d 522, 525--of-court statements do . . . since [defendant] cannot claim that she was denied the opportunity to u.s. v. moran (9th cir. court statements introduced through these documents were made by [defendant] himself, he can claim no confrontation clause the prosecution also provided competent, nonhearsay evidence that rojas was an echo park gang member. neris testified that, like mancilla, rojas had numerous tattoos depicting echo park gang signs, and that these tattoos showed he was an active member of the gang. in addition, the prosecution provided photographs of rojas making echo park hand signs. veronica arellano confirmed that the signs rojas was making in 50 one photograph were echo park gang signs, and also confirmed that he associated with echo park gang members.12 in sum, because the prosecution provided competent evidence apart from any testimonial hearsay that independently proved under sanchez. h. rojas argues we must reverse his conviction on all counts entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact (bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. every fact that the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the people v. medina (2009) 46 must clearly appear that upon no hypothesis whatever is there 12 neris also testified that he had heard rojas admit his membership in the echo park gang on numerous occasions. although the admission of these out-of-court statements would statements against mancilla would (if testimonial) presumably violate his confrontation rights because rojas could not be compelled to testify at their trial. (see people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 609 not to incriminate himself, [the co-defendant] was . . . not 51 people v. redmond (1969) 71 cal.2d 745, 755.) rojas argues there was insufficient evidence to find he was the getaway driver because: (1) law enforcement did not recover any physical evidence connecting him to the getaway vehicle; (2) none of the witnesses were able to positively identify him as the driver, and (3) his physical characteristics varied from some of rojas overlooks, however, several categories of evidence that did implicate him in the crimes. first, maria de los santos testified that veronica arellano told her rojas had identified himself as the driver of the vehicle. in addition, detective ortiz testified had admitted he was in the car with mancilla.13 second, during the surreptitiously-recorded conversation at the live lineup, mancilla made a series of incriminating statements to rojas. specifically, mancilla told rojas they should fucken that mancilla stated he did not believe they could be charged with murder mancilla directed him not to because there was still a chance 13 neither defendant has challenged the admissibility of 52 third, the prosecution presented evidence that janet ruiz had seen a black item resembling a glove fall to the street when the driver of the white sedan was helping the assailants into the vehicle. investigators recovered a black glove from the area ruiz had described. forensic evidence showed rojas was a possible contributor to dna evidence found on the glove at a random probability rate of approximately 1 in 549. moreover, there was extensive evidence that rojas and mancilla were both active members of the echo park gang, and that the shooting had been perpetrated by echo park gang members against rival members of lcm. based on all of that evidence, a rational jury could conclude rojas was the driver of the getaway vehicle, and guilty of the charged crimes. i. the trial court did not err in sustaining objections to hypothetical questions posed to the defendants eyewitness identification expert at trial, the prosecution introduced evidence that several witnesses who had reviewed six-pack photographic lineups selected rojas and mancilla as persons who resembled the driver and the shooter. however, only one witness, yusseff evereteze, was able to positively identify either defendant, testifying that mancilla was the person he had seen shooting toward the apartment building. defendant mancilla called mitchell eisen to testify as an eyewitness identification expert. although the trial court permitted eisen to testify about a wide range of factors affecting the accuracy and reliability of eyewitness testimony, it sustained objections to several hypothetical questions that the defense 53 eisen to answer these hypothetical questions constituted an abuse of discretion. 1. ny a. after learning that the defense intended to call an expert on eyewitness identification, the prosecution filed a motion in discussion of [psychological] factors that may affect visual undermined the reliability of the witnesses identifications, or preparation of photo lineups, interview procedures, 14 the record does not indicate whether the defendants whether) the court actually ruled on the motion. however, there were certain topics he should avoid. specifically, the court told eisen he should not testify about things that had occurred not the identification witnesses [made] in this particular case hat i expect, as far as the testimony is concerned, is [the] scientific information. . . . i understand that there are studies that have been done and you can address the studies and explain to the jury how they 14 the prosecution raised additional limitations that are not relevant here. 54 en confirmed that the only questions he intended to ask were b. eisen testified that people frequently memories based on new information that is presented to them regarding an incident. according to eisen, if a witness accepts the new information as true, the information becomes a part of his or her memory regardless of whether it is correct or not. eisen further testified that trauma and stress diminish the reliability of memories. as stated by eisen, trauma acts as an instinctively and keeps us from forming detailed memories . . . as when a weapon is brandished during an event, witnesses often eisen also testified that witnesses who are interviewed multiple times about regarding what they saw. eisen explained that although additions and omissions are not indicative of unreliabilitypotentially indicative of weak or inaccurate memory. in response to this statement, defense counsel began to ask reen . . ., and that they were huddled behind hypothetical, and the court called the parties to a sidebar 55 hypothetical was going into the specific facts of the case. defense counsel, however, asserted that he was merely attempting to use over several interviews. the court concluded that unless the expert had conducted after resuming his testimony, eisen described how collect and preserve the eyewitness evidence, can affect the reliability of an identification. according to eisen, the use of substandard systems plausible reasons why the evidence came out the way it did. . . . king them because of something suggestive in the task and the way it was conducted led me to that an to people prior to a task, any behaviors or interaction with the witness during the identification task, . . . the selection of the [lineup] photos . . ., any information people are given before or after the identification task . . . and . . . leading [a witness] to believe the police likely have the right guy or . . . confirming [the administering a six-pack can influence the witness inadvertently or eisen further testified that research showed that when the administrator 56 eisen explained that as a result of these findings, scientists in -packs be administered in a double blind manner [so] the person who is defense counsel then attempted to ask a hypothetical involving a witness who signals to the administrator that several the suspect is. the court sustained an objection, explaining that the expert had already testified about this area in enough detail, and had offered examples of how an administrator could affect an identification. -pack photographic lineups. defense counsel asked eisen whether there are any overriding principles that should be used in selecting fillers. explained that each filler should share any specific characteristic that the witness had previously provided regarding the suspect. as an example, eisen stated that if the witness had said the suspect was bald, all of the fillers should also be bald. eisen -suspect is the only one who truly matches the characteristics that the witness previously identified. defense counsel attempted to ask a hypothetical question about selecting fillers for a lineup involving a suspect with a specific characteristic. the court sustained an objection, had provided an example. over the permitted the defense 57 eisen exmake sure everybody else is round. you can make sure that the person administering is not blind so they might guide to the right picture. there is a number of ways that you can create a selection can be impacted by the . according to eisen, when a witness receives feedback suggesting his or her person receives information suggesting he or she picked the wrong person, thcounsel then attempted to ask a hypothetical involving a person who selects one or two fillers, and is then shown a second six-pack of photographs after being told he had failed to make an identification. the trial court sustained an objection, explaining 2. the trial court did not commit prejudicial error in sustaining objections to the hypothetical questions in people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351 (mcdonald), the california supreme court held that expert testimony defendant is a (id. at p. 377 [overruled on another ground by people v. mendoza 58 (2000) 23 cal.4th 896]; see also people v. jones (2003) 30 cal.4th identification] is justified only if other evidence is presented corroborating the eyewitness identification and giving it the court cautioned, however, against the use of expert or is not truthful or accurate in his identification of the mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d at p. 370.) the court decision to admit or exclude expert testimony on psychological factors affecting eyewitness continue to defer to the tria(id. at p. 377.) as our factual summary above demonstrates, the trial court permitted eisen to testify on a wide array of factors that may affect the accuracy of eyewitness identification, including identifications made during a six-pack photographic lineup. defendants nonetheless assert the trial court abused its - any form of hypothetical questions. the trial court permitted eisen to testify at length about how an court also allowed substantial testimony about the proper 59 selection of fillers, and how an examiner might manipulate fillers to cause a false identification. precluded defense counsel from asking any form of hypothetical question is likewise predicated on an inaccurate representation of the record. the court never imposed any such blanket prohibition. although the court did sustain objections to four separate hypothetical questions, in each instance it provided an explanation for that decision. in two instances, the court concluded the hypothetical questions were unnecessary because the expert had already provided extensive testimony on the subject matter of the hypothetical. this occurred in response to a hypothetical question involving an examiner who knew the identity of the suspect, and a hypothetical involving ny shows he was permitted to testify at length about the importance of - and selecting non-suggestive fillers. accordingly, we find no questions regarding those subjects was unnecessary. in the other two instances, the court concluded that the hypothetical questions were not helpful to the jury, or otherwise hypothetical, defense counsel attempted to ask eisen about a witness of a shooting who had reported seeing two different car colors. this question was asked after eisen had testified about weakness in the memory. in the second question, defense counsel to a witness 60 that he had failed to make an identification in an initial subsequent lineup. the question was asked after eisen had testified negative feedback can substantially decrease a in his or her identification. in both instances, the trial court reasonably concluded that given the information eisen had provided regarding contradictory witness statements and the effects of negative feedback, the jury was capable of drawing its own conclusions about the type of facts presented in the hypothetical questions. (people v. chapple (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 540, 546-admissible if it consists of inferences and conclusions which can be drawn as easily and intelligently by the trier of fact as by the moreover, even if the court should have allowed eisen to answer each of the hypothetical questions that were posed to result more favorable to defendant[s] would have been reached in the absence of the erpeople v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 510 [applying harmless error to exclusion of expert testimony on eyewitness identification ].) eisen was permitted to testify at length about each of the factors affecting the accuracy of eyewitness identification at issue in defense the opportunity to cross-examine each witness about the accuracy and reliability of their individual identifications, and to cross-examine ortiz about the methods he had used in administering the lineups. moreover, the court instructed the jury under calcrim no. 315, which directed the jurors to consider various factors in evaluating identification testimony, including many of 61 the same factors eisen had described in his testimony. in light of the foregoing factors, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a different result had eisen been permitted to answer each of the hypothetical questions posed to him.15 j. the court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the defendpolice identification procedures defendants also argue the trial court abused its discretion when it exclude an expert who intended to testify that the procedures detective ortiz used to administer the six-pack photographic lineups violated the los angeles police at trial, defense counsel explained to the court that the expert did not intend to testify about his own opinions regarding how photographic lineups should be conducted, but rather whether ortiz had followed the more specifically, the expert intended to testify that ortiz had violated the lapdpolicies and procedures by (among other things): writing out statements for witnesses to sign; using suggestive photographs in six-pack lineups; and steering witnesses toward a particular photo. in response, defense counsel confirmed it only intended to use the expert to show ortiz 15 allowed the expert to expound on the fairness of the six-pack [allow eisen to] express his opinion as to the fairness of the procedures the detectives used to procure what the prosecutor portion of the record indicating he ever made such a request in the trial court. 62 had violated the lapacknowledged that it had received a copy of the those policies. the trial court informed the parties it would allow the defense to recall detective ortiz, and cross-examine him about policies and procedures. the court was disinclined, however, to permit the expert to testify: there is a policy and procedure, if there is a book that said this is the policy and procedure, then that is what the evidence is, not after hearing further argument, the court sustained the policies and procedures . . . are wmade the argument, whether detective ortiz followed the policies [ortiz] followed the procedures under 352 would be time consuming and confusing to the jury because the focus needs to be the policies and procedures. and the detective has presented the policies and procedures to the defense, and i am allowing the defense to cross- constituted an reasonableness of the tactics [ortiz] used to steer witnesses to 63 these arguments fail to acknowledge the limited scope of ruling. as summarized above, defense counsel specifically asserted that the expert would not be offering any of his own opinions as to proper identification procedures or the general defense counsel argued the expert would testify only that ortiz had committed various act defendants have provided no argument addressing why the trial court abused its discretion in concluding that the actual written policies, rather than expert testimony regarding the nature of those policies, was necessary to show what the policies were, or which policies ortiz violated. as the trial court noted, if defendants believed ortiz had committed any act that to cross-examine ortiz with the written policy. we find no abuse proposed expert was unnecessary given the availability of the policies themselves. k. issues regarding sentencing 1. the defendants are entitled to a hearing regarding their firearm enhancements defendants argue they are entitled to a hearing under recently-interest of justice and at the time of sentencing, to strike a (sen. com. on public safety on sen. bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) apr. 25, 2017.) the new law, which went into effect on january 1, 2018, deleted language in former section 12022.53, subdivision (h) that prohibited a trial court from striking a firearm allegation or finding. as amended, 64 in the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) defendants contend, and the attorney general concedes, that because the statute mitigates punishment for criminal conduct, it applies retroactively to all cases not yet final on the . (see generally in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740; people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323 [estrada presumption that statutes operate prospectively: when the legislature has amended a statute to reduce the punishment for a particular criminal offense, we will assume, absent evidence to the contrary, that the legislature intended the amended statute to apply to all defendants whose judgments are not yet final on appropriate in this case . . . [because] no reasonable court would support, the attorney general cites the violent nature of the our supreme court has explained, however, that [citation.] a court which is unaware of the scope of its discretionary powers can no more 65 people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1391 [remand appropriate where the record did not clearly indicate the trial court would have imposed the same sentence had it been aware of the full scope of its discretion after a change in the law].) when the trial court sentenced defendants, section 12022.53, subdivision (h) prohibited it from striking the firearm enhancements at issue. the new law gives the trial court because the trial court sentenced defendants without the benefit of this discretion, remand for resentencing is appropriate.16 16 the sole decision the attorney general cites in support of its argument that we need not remand this issue to the trial court is people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894. in that case, the defendant received a sentence enhancement for a prior serious or violent felony conviction. while his appeal was pending, the supreme court held that trial courts have discretion to strike a serious or violent felony conviction. gutierrez rsentencing court clearly indicated that it would not, in any event, (id. at p. 1896.) the court further concluded that the record showed remand would not serve any purpose because the trial court had what it believed was required by the three strikes law, by imposing the high term . . . and by imposing two additional discretionary one- (ibid.) here, in contrast, the trial court did not express an intention to impose the maximum possible sentence, nor did it provide any indication that it would not exercise discretion to strike the enhancement even if it had discretion to do so. (cf. people v. belmontes (1983) 66 2. defendants are entitled to a franklin hearing decision in people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261, they are entitled to a hearing to make a record of information relevant to their eventual youth offender parole hearing. (see  3051.) a. summary of the youth offender parole hearing provisions in 2013, the legislature established mechanism that provides a person serving a sentence for crimes that he or she committed as a juvenile the opportunity to obtain release when he or she has shown that he or she has been franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 277.) at the time of enactment, section 3051 provided: convicted of a controlling offense that was committed before the person had attained 18 years of age and for which the sentence is a life term of 25 years to life shall be eligible for release on parole by the board during his or her 25th year of incarceration at a youth offender parole hearing, unless previously released or entitled to an earlier parole (former  3051, subd. (b)(3), stats. 2013, ch. 312,  4.) in 2015, however, the legislature amended the provisions to make them may . . . be summarily denied if the record reflects that the sentencing court clearly indicated that it would not have exercised discretion to sentence under [the more lenient statute] 67 applicable to persons who were under 23 years of age at the time of their offense. (franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 277.)17 section 3051, subdivision (f) describes various types of evidence the board may consider at a youth offender parole hearingamily members, friends, school personnel, faith leaders, and representatives from community-based organizations with knowledge about the individual before the crime or his or her growth and maturity since the time of the crime. ( 3051, subd. (f)(2).) section 4081 directs that, when reviewing the parole suitability of a youth offender, the board must to the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent growth and increased maturity of the prisoner in accordance with relevant b. people v. franklin in franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 26, a juvenile offender argued that his sentence of 50 years to life in prison qualified as a de facto life sentence in violation of the eighth amendment. the youth offender parole provisions. (id. at p. 277.) the court further held, however, that although the [he] had sufficient opportunity to put on the record the kinds of 17 the legislature recently amended the provisions again, making them applicable to persons who were under 25 years of age at the time of the offense. (see stats. 2017, c. 675 (a.b.1308),  1, eff. jan. 1, 2018.) 68 information that sections 3051 and 4801 deem relevant at a franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284.) the court explained that because the defendant had been sentenced before the legislature enacted the youth offender ably saw no relevance to . . . evidence [of youth-(id. at court may determine whether [the defendant] was afforded (ibid.) that [the defendant] did not have sufficient opportunity, then the court may receive submissions and, if appropriate, testimony. . . . [the defendant] may place on the record any documents, evaluations, or testimony (subject to cross-examination) that may be relevant at his eventual youth offender parole hearing, and the prosecution likewise may put on the record anculpability or cognitive maturity, or otherwise bears on the influence of youth-related factors. (franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284.) c. defendants are entitled to a franklin hearing at the time they committed their offenses, mancilla was 18 years old, and mancilla was 19 years old. thus, under current law, they are eligible for a youth offender parole hearing. at the time of their sentencing, however, both defendants were ineligible for such a hearing because the provisions then in effect only applied to persons who were under the age of 18 when they committed the offense. moreover, the supreme court had not yet 69 decided franklin. (see people v. jones (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 787, 819. franklin, . . . there was no clear indication that a juveniles sentencing hearing would be the primary mechanism for creating the record of information required for a youth the attorney general concedes that as a result of these two factors, the defendants did not have a sufficient opportunity to place on the record the kinds of information that are relevant at a youth offender parole hearing. thus, in accordance with franklin, we remand the matter to the lower court for the purpose of providing the defendants an opportunity to create a record of information pertinent to their eventual youthful offender parole hearings.18 18 in franklin(franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284) whether a defendant had a sufficient opportunity to put on the record the kinds of information contemplated under sections 3501 and 4806, the proper remedy is to remand to the trial court with directions to: (1) make a determination whether the petitioner had such an opportunity, and (2) if the trial court determines the petitioner had no such opportunity, it shall then hold an evidentiary hearing. in this case, however, it is undisputed the defendants trial court to make the determination whether [the defendant] had sufficient opportunity at sentencing to make a record of [citation], we will direct the trial court to conduct a hearing at which petitioner will have the opportunity to make such a in re cook (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 393, review granted april 12, 2017, no. s240153.) 70 3. the abstracts of judgment shall be modified with respect to the issue of restitution and fines defendants argue that their abstracts of judgment should be modified to reflect the joint and several nature of their restitution liability to the victim compensation and government claims board, which totaled $14,563.20. the attorney general concedes the issue, and we agree. the record shows the trial court ordered joint and several liability on the part of mancilla and rojas, but the abstracts of judgment fail to reflect the joint and several nature of their liability. the judgments should therefore be modified to expressly state that the restitution order is joint and several as to the defendants. (see people v. neely (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 787, 800 [ordering modification of judgment to reflect joint and several nature of the restitution order].) defendants also argue their abstracts of judgment misstate the amounts of the restitution and parole revocation fines the trial court ordered them to pay. again, the attorney general concedes error, and we agree. the record shows the court ordered each of those fines in the amount of $200, but the abstracts of judgment show the fines were set at $300. the judgments shall be modified accordingly. disposition the judgments of conviction of joseph mancilla and carlos rojas are affirmed. the sentences are vacated. the matter is remanded for the limited purposes of allowing the trial court to conduct a resentencing hearing under senate bill no. 620, to conduct a hearing at which defendants will be given the opportunity to make a record of mitigating evidence tied to their youth at the time the offenses were committed and to correct the 71 errors in the abstracts fines and restitution. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. 