filed 11/29/16 p. v. green ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. toyrion green, defendant and appellant. b268500 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta131223) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, allen j. webster, jr., judge. affirmed as modified. john f. schuck, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, john yang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant toyrion green (defendant) for the crimes of attempted murder, shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, and making a criminal threat. the prosecuta vehicle occupied by victim jonisha baker (baker) and three others. the parties agree the personal use of a firearm sentencing enhancement defendant received in connection with his shooting at an occupied motor vehicle conviction must be stricken. thus, we are called to decide only two contested issues. first, we consider whether there is sufficient evidence to support criminal threat conviction, specifically as to the element that requires proof that his threat caused baker to be in sustained fear for her own safety. second, we consider whether trial, which argued his trial attorney was constitutionally ineffective. i. background los angeles county sheriff gang investigator julius testified defendant identified himself as a member of the carver prior contact with gomez. during her testimony, baker also described defendant, who she knew as a person who affiliates with the carver park crips gang. on the evening of august 28, 2013, a group including baker and jasmine ellis (ellis) plus three others (the ellis group) laurel street in compton. baker and ellis overheard an argument , who was not a member of 3 the ellis group, said ,referring to the carver park crips gang. defendant, who was on the street at the time, heard these comments. he moved to cross the street came from until stopped him by grabbing his arm. defendant then walked away from the scene of the argument toward a house. shortly thereafter, a car pulled up beside baker and the ellis group, and defendant was in the passenger seat. defendant jumped out of the car a in response, baker and those in the ellis group denied making any disrespectful comments. defendant then said, yeah. all right. i am going to shoot this mother fucker up. defendant then got back in the car, and it drove away. baker drove away very soon after defendant said he would shoot the area up. she returned to the area 10-20 minutes later, only once back in the area of laurel street, baker resumed socializing with the ellis group then pulled up near the group, and defendant was in the passenger seat. defendant got out of the car with a gun and fired approximately six shots later at trial, when asked on direct examination if i am going to shoot this mother fucker upstatement made her afraid, baker said it didthe street. response to the next question asked on direct examination, baker explained 4 on cross-examination, baker was again asked if she felt threatened when defendant jumped out of the car. she cause, i ii. discussion ode section 4221 criminal threat conviction because substant finding that baker was in sustained fear for her safety after defendant said he would shoot up the area where she and the ellis group were standing. baker testified to being afraid, and she also left the location where defendant threatened her and did not return until getting all clear some 10-20 minutes later. baker also knew defendant was a gang member, and a jury could properly infer this gave her further reason to fear defendant under the circumstances. the trial court properly denied new trial motion arguing the failure to call two alibi witnesses constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. the record reveals defense counsel made a quite reasonable tactical decision not to call the witnesses after investigating what they would say on the witness stand and determining their testimony may well have hurt, rather than helped. finally, the attorney general concedes, and we hold, the section 12022.5 firearm enhancement imposed in connection with must be stricken because use of a firearm is an element of the underlying offense of shooting at an occupied vehicle. 1 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 5 a. sufficiency of the evidence to support the criminal threat conviction 1. standard of review to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1281.) under the prevailing standard of review for a sufficiency claim, people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1030.) 2. there is substantial evidence baker was in sustained fear as a result of to convict a defendant for making a criminal threat in violation of section 422, the prosecution must establish: (1) that willfully threaten[ed] to commit a crime which will result in death or great b (2) that with the specific intent that the statement . . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent (3) that the threatwhich may be made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic on its face and under the 6 circumstances in which it [was] made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of (4) that the threat actually caused the to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or and (5) that the threatened person (people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227-228 (toledo).) defendant contests only the fourth of these elements, namely, whether sustained fear for . . . he( 422, subd. (a).) roof of a mental element in the victim is required to sustain a conviction under section 422. (people v. allen (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 1149, 1156 (allen).) the individual threatened sustained fear (in re ricky t. (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1132, 1140.) while statutorily undefined, courts have interpreted sustathat extends beyond what is momentary, fleeting, (id. at p. 1140; see also people v. wilson (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 193, 201.) relevant to establish the threat caused the victim to be in (allen, supra, at p. 1156.) baker trial testimony chronicling her mental state and her actions subsequent to s substantial evidence on which the jury could rely to find she was in sustained fear for her personal safety. initially, baker witnessed defendant react to what he perceived as comments disrespecting his gang. shortly thereafter, defendant jumped out of a car and confronted baker and the others with her, believing 7 someone in her group to be the woman who made the remarks seen as disrespectful. defendant said he would mother fucker up,and baker testified her actions thereafter corroborated her asserted mental state: she almost immediately drove away from the area, only returning 10-20 minutes later after calling ellis to confirm nothing w (cf. people v. iniquez circumstances despite even superficially contrary testimony of defendant argues the evidence was nevertheless insufficient by contrasting the facts here with those in people v. fierro (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1342. in that case, the victim in fear for his life[,]as a result of a minute-long incident in which the defendant confronted the victim and his son at a gas station and repeatedly threatened to kill them while displaying what the victim believed to be a gun in his waistband. (id. at pp. 1345-1346.) the fierro victim testified to he called the police 15 minutes after the incident when he thought (ibid.) the fierro court held the victim was in sustained fear because either the 15 minute period between the victim911 call or which [the victim] heard the threat and saw appellants weapon qualifies as (id. at p. 1349.) fierro does not establish an evidentiary floor that facts in all other cases must meet to demonstrate a victim was in sustained fear for purposes of section 422. rather, the question of sustained fear is one for a factfinder to assess in each individual case, and here defendant issued a threat to shoot 8 baker and her group and then drove away. baker knew defendant was a gang member who believed her group had disrespected his gang, and she testified she was afraid.2 her decision to vacate the areafor approximately the same interval of time found sufficient in the fierro case defendant citesillustrates her fear was not fleeting or transitory. under the applicable standard of review, there was sufficient section 422 conviction. (people v. williams, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1281.) b. motion for new trial alleging ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues the trial court wrongly denied his motion for a new trial, which argued his trial attorney was constitutionally ineffective in declining to call two alibi witnesses to testify. we reject the argument because defendant has not shown deficient. 1. when filing his new trial motion, defendant submitted the declarations of antoinette walker (walker) and myeshiea wright (wright), a family friend. 2 that baker arguably testified inconsistently on cross-examination (i.e., she did not feel threatened because she did not resolve such potential conflicts in the testimony (calcrim no. ury necessarily reached. (people v. richardson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1030.) 9 walker declared defendant had spent the entire evening of august 29, 2013, at her house on west 97th street in compton, because he was ill.3 she conceded she left her home at 8:00 p.m. on the evening in question and did not return until 1:00 a.m. the next morning. but walker maintained that myeshiea wright was at her house with defendant the entire time she was away, and she communicated this alibi information to attorney and investigator during trial. wright declared p.m. on the (ostensible) evening in question and that defendant was present. she stated or the remainder of the evening and defendant did not leave the residence during that period. during defendanlawyer and a defense investigator and indicated her willingness to testify that defendant was with her on the evening in question. wright was never called to testify. the trial court held a hearing new trial attorney testified. she explained she before trial regarding she attempted to corroboents, but had been 3 both declarations refer to the events in question as having occurred on august 29, 2013. however, the charged criminal threat offense occurred on august 28, 2013. this discrepancy after all, an alibi witness who provides an alibi for the wrong day cannot have helped the defense. nevertheless, the parties litigated the matter in the trial court as if the declarations referenced the correct date, and we analyze the issue on that basis as well for the sake of completeness. 10 unable to do so. in particul statements regarding who was with defendant at the time of the incident . based on her decided not to call walker as a witness. met wright, the other potential alibi witness, for the first time at the courthouse cafeteria close to the end of trial. following a very brief conversation, and because she was , referred wright to her defense investigator for further follow up. the defense investigator interviewed wright in the courthouse cafeteria and communicated statements, and his own impressions of wright, to ney. lawyer decided wright was not credible based on the content of what she told the investigator, which was apparently contradicted by other evidence uncovered during the defense investigation. ved wright on cross-examination. the trial court denied defthe court found the alibi evidence unsubstantiated, noting the ellis group knew defendant prior to the shooting and identified him at the scene, the court also noted wright only came forward with her potential alibi evidence the day before closing argument. attorney defendant had not demonstrated he received ineffective assistance of counsel. 11 2. standard of review we evaluate the new trial motion alleging ineffective assistance of counsel using a mixed standard of review. (people v. taylor (1984) 162 cal.app.3d 720, 724-findings if they are supported by substantial evidence. (id. at p. power to judge the credibility of witnesses, resolve any conflicts (ibid.) we exercise our independent judgment to determine whether, on the facts so found, defendant was deprived of his constitutional right to effective assistance of counsel. (id. at p. 725.) 3. defendant trial attorney was not constitutionally ineffective in assessing claims of ineffective assistance of trial an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217.)people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189.) we wide range of can be explained as a matter of sound trial strategy. defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate ibid.) 12 when we consider the first prong of an ineffective assistance of counsel claim, i.e., performance fell below prevailing professional norms, we great deference at trial. (people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 979.) decisions about what witnesses to call (people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1059; accord, people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 334 [deciding whether to call certain witnesses is a matter of trial tactics, unless that decision results from an unreasonable failure to investigate].) ibi evibecause the defense theory of the case was that defendant was not present at the crime scene. however, the record indicates attorney made her decision not to call either witness due to her doubts about their credibility and a fear that wright cross-examined. we see no basis to conclude the trial court erred in denying defendant. the value of walkeris negligible because she was not at home at the time the incident occurred; instead, her proposed testimony depends entirely on wright. as to wright, she did not come forward as a potential alibi witness until late in the trial, and her assertion that she was with the defendant on the evening in question was contradicted by the statements of another potential witness who claimed to have been with defendant that same evening. reasonably investigated the claims made by both potential alibi witnesses and made a tactical decision that we will not second guess. 13 c. the section 12022.5 firearm enhancement must be stricken section 12022.5 provides, in pertinent part, who personally uses a firearm in the commission of a felony . . . shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment . . . unless use of a firearm is an element of that offense, italics added.) the jury found this enhancement true as alleged in connection with section 246 conviction for discharge of firearm at an occupied vehicle. in sentencing defendant, the trial court imposed a four year prison term for the section 12022.5 enhancement in addition to the 10-year sentence for the underlying offense. the attorney general concedes imposition of the enhancement was erroneous and we accept the concession. section 246 offense, section 12022.5 forbids imposition of the enhancement in this case. (people v. kramer (2002) 29 cal.4th 720, 723, fn. 2.) we order the enhancement stricken. (people v. dejourney (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1091, 1094, fn. 3.) 14 disposition the four-year sentence enhancement imposed pursuant to section 12022.5 is stricken. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment to reflect this modification and to forward the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: turner, p.j. kriegler, j. 