filed 10/24/16 p. v. granados ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. aran granados, defendant and appellant. b268917 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga096325) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. jared d. moses, judge. modified and affirmed with directions. michele a. douglass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and eric j. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 aran granados appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of one count of criminal threats (pen. code,1  422, subd. (a)), one count of attempting to dissuade a witness ( 136.1, subd. (a)(2)), and one count of misdemeanor assault ( 240). the court sentenced appellant to two years in state prison.2 appellant contends his conviction for attempting to dissuade a witness under section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) lacks substantial evidentiary support. we agree and subdivision (a)(2). in all other respects, we affirm. factual background juana loya campos (loya) shared an apartment with her 18-year-old son christian and her daughter m.g., age 16. appellant lived next door with his mother, brother, and two sisters. the two families did not get along. the april 27 incident on april 27, 2015, about 5:00 in the afternoon, loya found appellant arguing with m.g. outside their apartment. appellant was shouting obscenities at m.g., who was crying. loya sent her daughter inside, while she remained outside with appellant. appellant appeared to be drunk and proceeded to call loya names and make obscene gestures and movements toward her. appellant then picked up an unopened 16-ounce can of beer and threw it at loya. loya ducked, and the beer can narrowly missed her head. loya picked up the can and tossed it into some bushes. she then made a move to go inside her apartment, but appellant blocked her way. 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the sentence consisted of the mid-term of two years as the base term for count 4, criminal threats, and 30 days in county jail with 30 days credit for time served on count 6, misdemeanor assault. the court also imposed and stayed a two-year sentence on count 5 for attempting to dissuade a witness. 3 loya called the police on her cell phone; officers arrived shortly thereafter. as loya reported the incident, she was laughing and making jokes with a friend. one officer found a 16-ounce beer can in the bushes nearby. the top of the can had lifted slightly, allowing beer to foam out of the small opening, but the can was still nearly full. police arrested appellant. the may 5 incident on may 5, 2015, christian called loya to pick him up immediately from work at party city because appellant was in the store. christian he thought appellant had come to the store looking for him, and he did not feel safe. when . loya drove christian home. as she parked her truck on the street, she saw a red suv approaching from the opposite direction, driving very slowly. loya exited her vehicle, and christian reclined the passenger seat back to avoid being seen. the vehicle stopped s truck, and appellant got out. appellant maintained continuous eye contact with loya as he passed by her going toward his apartment, and his left hand was under his shirt. suddenly appellant turned around and walked back toward loya. from his reclined position in the front passenger seat, christian could see the handle of a gun tucked into waistband when he adjusted his shirt. stopping in front of vehicle3 as he said this, appellant made a gesture with his finger as if to shoot through the window of vehicle three times. appellant returned to his vehicle and drove away. afterward, loya and christian went to the police station to report the incident. appellant was arrested that evening. for his part, appellant testified that he noticed loya staring at him with her phone in her hand as he was walking to his apartment. he thought she might be taking pictures 3 4 or recording him, and at first took it as a joke, smiling for the camera and flexing. then he started to feel har are you always messing with me . . . . instead of paying attention to all the neighbors, you should pay more attention to your appellant denied threatening to she also denied owning a gun or ever touching one. discussion on the basis of his threat that he would shoot christian if loya called the police again, appellant was charged and convicted under section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) of attempting to prevent or dissuade a witness or a victim from attending [or] giving testimony at [any] trial, proceeding, [or] appellant asserts his threat constituted an unambiguous attempt to prevent loya from reporting a crime to authorities, not to prevent her from testifying. he contends his conduct should have been charged as a violation of section 136.1, subdivision (b) rather than subdivision (a)(2). he concludes that, because the evidence is insufficient to support a conviction under section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) insofar as his conduct plainly falls outside of the prohibition of that section, his conviction on the charge of dissuading a witness must be reversed. we agree. the offenses under section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) and subdivision (b) are distinct crimes. subdivision (a)(2) prohibits a person nowingly and maliciously attempt[ing] to prevent or dissuade any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any trial, proceeding, or inquiry authorized by law.on the other hand, ubdivision (b) target[s] pre-arrest efforts to prevent a crime from being reported to the authorities, rather than courtroom testimony.people v. fernandez (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 943, 950 (fernandez); people v. hallock (1989) 208 cal.app.3d 595, 606607 (hallock).) the crime of intimidating a witness, as proscribed by section 136.1, subdivision (a), witnes (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1210; people v. 5 lyons (1991) 235 cal.app.3d 1456, 1461.) lyons, at p. 1458.) thus, people v. ford (1983) 145 cal.app.3d 985, 989; people v. mcdaniel (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 278, 284 [s acts or statements are intended to affect or influence a potential witnesss testimony or acts, no crime has been committed under this ].) as when a defendant challenges a conviction for criminal threats, we consider the totality of the circumstances under which a threat was made in determining whether the statement constituted an attempt to prevent a witness from testifying. (people v. mendoza (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 1333, 13401341, 1343; see also people v. smith (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 475, 480.) in hallock, the defendant tried to rape a 77-year-old woman. as she ran away, the hat happened tonight here . . (hallock, supra, 208 cal.app.3d at p. 598.) the information charged defendant under section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1),4 based on a violation of subdivision (b) (preventing a witness or victim from reporting a crime), but the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to subdivision (a) (preventing a witness or victim from testifying at an authorized proceeding). (hallock, supra, at pp. 605607.) the appellate court reversed the resulting conviction for intimidating a witness, concluding the threat could only reasonably have been believed to have been directed at reporting the crime to s mother or others in authority that might lead to defendant (id. at p. 607.) the court addedit is also unreasonable to conclude that defendant was concerned with testimony at a future trial for a crime for which he had not yet been arrested. (ibid.) 4 section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1) makes witness intimidation under either subdivision (a) or (b) of that section a felony where, among other things 6 observations in hallock suggest that had there been evidence showing that at the time the defendant made the threat he was concerned the victim might testify at a future trial, such evidence would have been sufficient to support the conviction under subdivision (a) of section 136.1. the absence of any such evidence required reversal. so it is in the present case. although the threat to shoot christian was made after appellant had been arrested, there is no evidence that any proceedings were pending at that time, much less that appellant had the specific intent to dissuade loya from testifying at any future trial. given the plain tementif you call the police again, i will shoot your sonit is simply not reasonable to construe the threat as anything other than an attempt to prevent loya from doing what she had done beforecall the police and get appellant arrested. respondent asserts , and urges us to do so here. respondent thus argues that because appellant had been arrested when loya called the police the week before, threats were intended to dissuade [loya] from providing further testimony in the pending 5 but the strained interpretation to which respondent subjects section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) renders subdivision (b) redundant and ignores the fact that the legislature has carefully delineated the various offenses that constitute interference with the administration of justice by bribing, influencing, intimidating, or threatening witnesses. (pen. code, pt. 1, tit. 7, ch. 6,  136140.) the interpretation of 5 in this regard, respondent cites people v. thomas (1978) 83 cal.app.3d 511, eatening the witness not to testify in the future even though the witness had already testified one day prior to the threat; the temporal nature of the threat does not compel the conclusion that the witness would not be called as a witness or that she had thomas did not involve a jury calling police or seeking the arrest of a person. 7 section 136.1 urged by respondent effectively merges the separate prohibitions under subdivisions (a)(2) and (b), making mere surplusage, a construction that (people v. womack (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 926, 930, 931 (womack).) tfernandez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th 943, also compels us to reject respondfernandez, a jury convicted the defendant of attempting to prevent a victim from reporting a crime to the authorities under section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1), based on his efforts to convince the victim to testify untruthfully at the preliminary hearing. the court of appeal reversed the conviction, holding that the conduct would have been punishable under a different statute had it been so charged. (fernandez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at p. 950.) the court subdivision of section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1), a reportan account (american heritage dict. (3d college ed.) p. 1158.) in the context of reporting a crime, it generally means notifying the authorities that the crime has occurred and providing on the other hand, is more specifically declaration by a witness under oathid., at p. fernandez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at p. 948.) report . . . to any judge to encompass preliminary hearing testimony would be contrary to legislative intent in light of the statutory scheme of which section 136.1 is a part. (fernandez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at p. 948.) in this regard, the court cited with approval the womack to stretch the language of the statute at issue to cover the s conduct when another statute within the same chapter of the penal code clearly applied.fernandez, at p. 949; womack, supra, 40 cal.app.4th at p. 931.) a review of the entire statutory scheme convinces us that when the legislature intends to 8 penalize an effort to influence or prevent testimony, or an effort to prevent the defendant from appearing in court, it does so explicitly. section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1) makes no reference to testimony or courtroom appearances.fernandez, at p. 949.) in accordance with fernandez, we conclude that jection 136.1, subdivision (b)(1) is not a catchall provision designed to punish efforts to is it interchangeable with other provisions aimed at penalizing conduct ranging from the falsification of evidence [to] efforts to bribe, influence, intimidate or threaten witnesses, including a violation of subdivision (a)(2). (id. at p. 948.) respondent seeks to distinguish fernandez by characterizing as falling within both subdivisions (a)(2) and (b)(1). but as discussed above, there was no contacting the authorities to report appellant and have him arrested. in the absence of any evidence of a pending proceeding or any reference to testimony, the threat fell squarely under the prohibition of section 136.1, subdivision (b) only, not subdivision (a)(2).6 although not addressed by the parties, we note that the trial instruction on the charge of dissuading a witness erroneously allowed the jury to convict appellant of a subdivision (a)(2) offense even though his conduct violated only subdivision (b). the court instructed the jury with caljic no. 7.14, including most of the bracketed language from the pattern instruction: ount 2 of having violated section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) . . . . [] every person who knowingly and maliciously attempts to prevent or dissuade any witness or victim from: [] a. attending or giving testimony at any trial, proceeding, or inquiry authorized by law, or [] b. making any report of such victimization to any peace officer, state or local law enforcement officer, or any prosecution agency, or [] c. arresting or causing or seeking the arrest of any 6 he intended to prevent her from calling the police with the serious threat of threatening (italics added.) 9 person in connection with such victimization, is guilty of a violation of penal code tthus drew no distinction between a threat to dissuade a witness from testifying and a threat to prevent a witness from making a report to authorities. the bench notes to calcrim no. 2622 (the primary authority for caljic no. 7.14) refer to the bracketed material as alternatives to be given, depending on whether the crime is charged under subdivision (a) or subdivision (b); paragraph a applies to charges under subdivision (a), while paragraphs b and c apply to charges under subdivision (b). because we have concluded the evidence does not support a conviction under subdivision (a)(2) in this case, the court disposition the judgment is modified to strike the conviction for violation of penal code section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2), and the trial court is directed to forward an amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 