filed 5/5/17 p. v. tiwana ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. paul s. tiwana, defendant and appellant. b268493 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma065932) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. eric harmon, judge. affirmed. janet j. gray, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and david d. williams, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 paul s. tiwana (defendant) appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of one count of domestic violence. (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a).)1 the jury also found true the allegation that defendant inflicted great bodily injury. ( 12022.7, subd. (e).) the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 15 years in state prison. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred when it instructed the jury on mutual combat with calcrim no. 3471, and in failing to provide the jurys request. defendant also contends there was insufficient evidence to support the finding he inflicted great bodily injury. we affirm the judgment of conviction. background in april 2015, defendant and his girlfriend, karron smith, drove to a friends house. while at the house, smith learned that defendant was sleeping with another woman and became upset, took the car keys, left defendant, and drove to the home of deliashawn haley. according to haley, about 10 minutes after smith arrived, defendant banged on her door. when haley opened the door, defendant barged through and pushed smith onto the couch and started hitting her. smith swung back floor unconscious, defendant kicked her with enough force to wake her up. haley saw that smith 1 unless otherwise stated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 s house. she testified she may have hit defendant first. she remembers swinging but does not know if she injured defendant. at some point, she got out; and, after she regained consciousness, she continued fighting with defshe suffered a fractured nose. at the time of the trial, smith claimed her nose had healed and that she did not suffer any residual effects from her broken nose. a los angeles county sheriffs department deputy responded to the 911 call and was able to speak with smith for approximately five to seven minutes before she was taken by ambulance to the hospital. smith told the deputy she had been punched several times by defendant, but could not remember the number of times because she had blacked out. the deputy observed that smiths face was swollen, her nose was injured, and her speech argue over the car, over [smith] wanting to break up with him, and then [defendant] attacked [smith]red smith lost consciousness during the fight. that same night, the deputy was able to locate defendant, at which time he was taken into custody. the deputy read defendant his miranda rights.2 in the questioning which followed, defendant initially did not 2 we note that defendant challenged the miranda waiver at trial and, after an evidentiary hearing was conducted outside the presence of the jury, the trial court ruled that defendant had understood and voluntarily waived his miranda rights. because this issue was not raised on appeal, we do not 4 acknowledge knowing who smith was. then defendant stated nothing had happened. the deputy also asked defendant whether he had seen smith that night. defendant responded that smith had been at his residence, then left, and returned with a bandage on her face. smith would not tell defendant what happened. while in custody, defendant called his mother and when she asked what had [smith] started getting violent with me like she always does tries to push me and i hit, sma . . . kinda hit, kinda put my hand up to stop her from coming forward and my finger went to the corner of her at trial, defendant called an expert witness, dr. ryan oconnor, an emergency medical physician who had reviewed smiths medical records (and who had not treated smith). based on the hospital medical records, dr. oconnor testified that smith was evaluated at the emergency room and had bruises on her nose and left cheek area. smith also complained of pain and swelling in those areas. the emergency room doctor described smithof pain as moderate and her degree of bleeding as minor. she received two pills of norco, an oral pain medication. dr. oconnor further testified that a cat scan of smiths nose was crooked from the fracture, the emergency room doctor h also suffered a cut in the corner of her eye. based on his experience, dr. oconnor testified that a hairline fracture heals address see long v. cal.-western states life ins. co. (1955) 43 cal.2d 871, 883 [grounds for appeal not mentioned in brief deemed abandoned].) 5 within four weeks, while a nasal fracture heals within six weeks. given that smith did not suffer any cosmetic or functional impairment, dr. oconnor opined that medically smith the jury convicted defendant of one count of domestic violence. ( 273.5, subd. (a).) the jury also found true the allegation that defendant inflicted great bodily injury. ( 12022.7, subd. (e).) outside the presence of the jury, defendant admitted he had suffered a prior conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 15 years in state prison, comprised of the midterm of three years for the domestic violence conviction, which was doubled as a result of defendants prior strike, plus four years for the great bodily injury enhancement, and an additional five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a) for the prior serious felony conviction. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. the trial court did not err in instructing the jury on mutual combat under calcrim no. 3471 defendant argues it was error to instruct the jury on mutual combat threw the first punch, which was corroborated by his jail phone call to his mother. defendant further argues the instructional error was prejudicial s] claim of 6 self-defense unless he communicated an intent and desire to break off the 3 court must instruct the jury, even without a request, on all general principles of law that are and that are necessary for the jurys understanding of the case. [citation.] (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.it is error to give an instruction which, while correctly stating a principle of law, has no (people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1129.) an instructional error that is a correct statement of law is reviewed under the watson test.4 (guiton, at p. 1130.) under watson, an error after an examination of the entire cause, including the evidenceably probable that a result more favorable to (watsoneffect other than to add to the bulk of the charge. [citation.] there is ground for concern only when an abstract or irrelevant instruction creates a substantial risk of misleading the jury to the defendantpeople v. rollo (1977) 20 cal.3d 109, 123, disapproved on another ground by people v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d 301, 308.) we agree with defendant that the evidence here is insufficient to establish mutual combat.5 mutual 3 there is no dispute the jury was properly instructed on self-defense under calcrim no. 3470. 4 people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson). 5 the trial court read calcrim no. 3471 to the jury, despite objections in mutual combat or who starts to fight has a right to self defense only if: [] one, he actually 7 combat means not merely a reciprocal exchange of blows but one pursuant to mutual intention, consent, or agreement preceding the initiation of hostilities(people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1045, original emphasis.) there evidence from which the jury could reasonably find that both combatants actually consented or intended to fight before the claimed occasion for self-defense arose. (id. at p. 1047, original emphasis.) here, there is no evidence that smith and defendant prearranged or mutually agreed to fight before arriving at haleys house. instead, smith recaldefendant over car keys inside haleys house. at most, smithimplies want[ing] to fight does not make it a case id. at p. 1045, fn. 14.) notwithstanding the inapplicability of the portion of calcrim no. 3471 which concerns mutual combat, it was not error for the trial court to instruct the jury using this instruction. the challenged instruction is written in the disjunctive and is appropriately given either when a person is engaged in mutual combat or is the initial aggressor. here, haley testified that defendant barged through the door and pushed smith on the couch and and in good faith tried to stop fighting; [] two, he indicated by word or by conduct to his opponent in a way that a reasonable person would understand that he wanted to stop fighting and that he had stopped fighting; and [] three, he gave his opponent a chance to stop fighting. [] if the defendant he then had a right to self defense if the opponent continued to fight. however, if the defendant used only non-deadly force and the opponent responded with such sudden and deadly force that the defendant could not withdraw from the fight, then the defendant had a right to defend himself with deadly force and was not required to try to stop fighting or communicate that desire to stop to the opponent. [] fighting is mutual combat when it began or continued by mutual consent or agreement. that agreement may be expressly stated or implied and must occur before the claim to self defense 8 started hitting her. thus, because a jury could reasonably conclude defendant was the initial aggressor in the fight based on there was sufficient evidence to support giving the instruction.6 we also find any error in the trial court harmless. the trial court read of these instructions may not apply, depending on your findings about the facts of the case. after youve decided what the facts are, [follow] all of the although there was insufficient evidence of mutual combat, we presume the jury, following the directive of calcrim no. 200, disregarded the inapplicable portions of calcrim no. 3471. (see people v. chavez (1958) 50 cal.2d 778 [jury presumed to follow instructions]; people v. guiton, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 1131 own intelligence and expertise will save them from the error of giving them the option of relying upon a factually inadequate theory. the jury was also properly instructed with calcrim no. 3474, which e right to use force in self defense continues only as long as the danger exists . . . believed smith started the fight, as haley testified, because defendant continued to hit smith after she blacked out, the jury could have rejected defendant-defense, notwithstanding the calcrim no. 3471 instruction.7 6 combat requires reversal based the holdings of people v. ross, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 1052, and people v. rogers (1958) 164 cal.app.2d 555, 558, is unavailing. these cases addressed the prior version of the instruction, 7 smith also testified she remembered fighting with defendant after she recovered from being blacked out. 9 accordingly, it was not reasonably probable that a different outcome would have resulted in the absence of any instructional error. b. defense counsels failure to object to the trial courts response to the jurys request waived the issue on appeal defendant argues it was prejudicial error for the trial court to fail to response to the jurys request. where the original instructions are themselves full and complete, the court has discretion under section 1138 to determine what additional explanations are sufficient to satisfy the jurys request for information. (people v. beardslee (1991) 53 cal.3d 68, 97.)8 when a trial court decides to respond to a jurys note, counsels silence waives any objection under section 1138. people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 729, disapproved on other grounds by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th [t]he failure of defendants counsel to object or move for a mistrial upon the court frankly informing him of the courts action might also be construed to be a tacit approval. approval of the courts action, even though it might have been a technical violation of section 1138 of the penal code, cures any possible error.roldan, at p. 729.) here, after the jury commenced deliberations, they sent a note asking: we have dictionary definitions of great and moderate, as we, the jury, 8 after the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be any disagreement between them as to the testimony, or if they desire to be informed on any point of law arising in the case, they must require the officer to conduct them into court. upon being brought into court, the information required must be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the prosecuting attorney, and the defendant or his counsel, or after they have 10 the jury, the trial court read the note to counsel for both parties and proposed the following response: he jurors are not allowed to use a dictionary in any way, either on their own or as a group. words and phrases not specifically defined in these instructions are to be applied using their ordinary, everyday the prosecution requested the trial court provide further guidance, to which the court responded, silent. ight of the fact that [the] prosecutor unsuccessfully requested that the court provide further however, the extract of the record quoted above reveals that the trial court did not categorically deny the prosecutors request, but was open to an alternative response at the appropriate time. it was incumbent on ecause defense counsel failed to make a timely objection to the trial courts proposed response to the jurys request, this issue has been waived on appeal. c. substantial evidence supports the jurys finding that defendant inflicted great bodily injury defendant argues the juryenhanand ca s injuries did not we disagree. 11 in assessing the sufficiency of evidence supporting a sentence enhancement, we must review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.determine that a rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime proven beyond a reasonable doubt, the due process clause of the united states constitution is satisfied [citation], as is the due process clause of article i, section 15, of the califoibid.) section 12022. contains no specific requirement that the victim suffer permanent, prolonged or protracted (people v. escobar (1992) 3 cal.s bodily injury is greatthat is, significant or substantial within the meaning of section 12022.7is commonly established by evidence of the severity of the victims physical injury, the resulting pain, or the medical care required to treat or people v. cross (2008) 45 cal.4th 58, 66.) pain or disfigurement or suturing or organ or bone impairment can be great bodily people v. nava (1989) 207 cal.app.3d 1490, 1497.) defendant relies on people v. nava bone does not necessarily amount to grnava, the defendant struck the victim in the face, fracturing her nose. (207 cal.app.3d at p. 1493.) the doctor determined the victims nose needed to be reset, but that surgery was unnecessary. (ibid.) the jury convicted defendant of 12 assault and found true the allegation that he inflicted great bodily injury. (ibid.) the court of appeal reversed the great bodily injury enhancement, finding it was error for the trial court to instruct the jury that a bone fracture was a substantial and significant injury within the meaning of section 12022.7. (nava, at p. 1498.) in so ruling, the court of appeal concluded, while a jury could very easily find the harm here to be great bodily injury, a reasonable jury could also find to the coid. at p. 1499.) thus, while nava holds that it is error as a matter of law to instruct that a bone fracture constitutes great bodily injury, it also makes clear that a bone fracture, even a facial fracture where no surgery is required, can constitute great bodily injury. here, smith was repeatedly hit by defendant, and with enough force to cause her to black out. haley, a witness to the fight, testified that defendant then s medical records revealed she suffered a nasal econnor, defendants expert witness, testified that based on his expsmiths fractures to heal. given the nature and extent of smiths injuries, we find there was sufficient evidence to support the jurys determination that the infliction of great bodily injury allegation was true. (people v. escobar, supra, if there is sufficient evidence to sustain the jurys finding of great bodily injury, we are bound to accept it, even though the circumstances might reasonably be reconciled with a co 13 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. goodman, j.* we concur: ashmann-gerst, acting p.j. chavez, j. * retired judge of the los angeles superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 