filed 5/15/17 p. v. fernando ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lloyd ramos fernando, defendant and appellant. b268243 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga086543) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jessica perrin silvers, judge. reversed and remanded with directions. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra and kamala d. harris, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and andrew s. pruitt, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 two prior felony convictions for theft of an access card were categorically ineligible for reclassification as misdemeanors and resentencing under proposition 47. while appeal from that order was pending, the supreme court decided people v. romanowski (2017) 2 cal.5th 903 (romanowski), holding the offense of theft of access card account information is eligible for proposition 47 relief if the petitioner can establish the value of the access card information did not exceed $950. the court also held value for this purpose is determined by the reasonable and fair market value of the information when sold in an illicit market. after the supreme court issued its opinion in romanowski, we invited, and received, further briefing from the parties. both parties agree romanowski governs this case. we now reverse the to the trial court with directions to grant fernando leave to amend to give him the opportunity to allege the facts identified in romanowski as necessary to obtain relief and, if warranted, to hold an evidentiary hearing on the reasonable and fair market value of the stolen access cards to determine whether fernando can establish his eligibility for proposition 47 resentencing. 3 factual and procedural background on june 19, 2012 fernando pleaded no contest to two counts of grand theft of an access card under penal code section 484e, subdivision (d),1 a felony, and was sentenced to an aggregate state prison term of one year four months. in november 2014 the voters passed proposition 47, part of the safe neighborhoods and schools act (voter information guide, gen. elec. (nov. 4, 2014) text of prop. 47,  14, p. 73) designed to reduce the punishment for certain drug and theft offenses by reclassifying them from felonies to misdemeanors. (see  1170.18; harris v. superior court (2016) 1 cal.5th 984, 992.) among other things, proposition 47 reclassified a variety of grand theft crimes to petty theft offenses when the value of the money, labor, real or personal property taken did not exceed $950. (see  490.2any other provision of law defining grand theft, obtaining any property by theft where the value of the money, labor, real or personal property taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950) shall be considered petty theft and shall be ) it also authorized those convicted and serving sentences for since-reclassified felony offenses to petition for recall of sentence and resentencing under certain circumstances. ( 1170.18.) 1 statutory references are to this code. acquires or retains possession of access card account information with respect to an access card validly issued to another person, 4 on february 20, 2015 fernando petitioned for recall of his sentence. the court denied his petition without a hearing, concluding the crime of theft of an access card under section 484e was not a proposition 47-eligible offense. fernando appealed. discussion on march 27, 2017 the supreme court in romanowski decided the issue presented in this appeal: the section 484e offense of theft of an access cardwhich includes theft of credit and debit card informationis eligible for proposition 47 relief if the petitioner can demonstrate the reasonable and fair market value of the card does not exceed $950. (romanowski, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. mar 484];  . . the the court made clear (1) the petitioner bears the burden of demonstrating the reasonable and fair market value of the stolen access card, and (2) that valuation may include evidence relating to the value of the access card information in the illicit market. (see romanowski, at p. 915 hen a defendant steals property that is not sold legally, evidence related to the possibility of illegal the court recognized information in the petition and the record of conviction may be enoof sentence. (romanowski, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 916other cases, eligibility for resentencing may turn on facts that are not established by either the uncontested petition or the record of conviction. in these cases, an evidentiary hearing may be 5 any denial, any affidavits or declarations under penalty of perjury, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken, the court finds there is a reasonable likelihood that the petitioner ibid., quoting cal. rules of court, rule 4.551(f).) both parties agree fernando should be given a new opportunity to allege the facts necessary for relief as identified in romanowski. however, they disagree on the proper disposition of this case. the attorney general urges us to affirm the trial permit fernando to file a new petition. fernando requests that and direct the trial court to allow him to amend his petition to allege facts entitling him to relief and, if necessary, to hold an evidentiary hearing on the reasonable and fair market value of the stolen access cards. approach. disposition reversed. on remand the trial court is directed to grant fernando leave to amend his petition to allege the fair market value of the stolen access cards did not exceed $950 and to conduct further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j. 