filed 1/31/17 p. v. hampton ca not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. maurice glynn hampton, defendant and appellant. b268412 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066528) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles chung, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded with directions. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and nathan guttman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 unable to re-start the car he was trying to carjack after its occupants fled, defendant maurice hampton stole wallet and keys from the interior door pocket of the car and left on foot. defendant then burglarized a nearby home before he was apprehended. burgled home. a jury found defendant guilty of attempted carjacking (pen. code,  664, 215, subd. (a)),1 second degree robbery ( 212.5, subd. (c)), and first degree burglary ( 459). the court sentenced defendant to a total prison term of eight years, four months. defendant now contends that his robbery conviction should be reversed because there was insufficient evidence that he intended to take the wallet and keys when he applied the force or fear necessary to accomplish the attempted carjacking. in the alternative, defendant argues that his sentence for the attempted carjacking of the driver should be stayed pursuant to section 654. we agree with the latter contention and remand for resentencing. we affirm the remainder of the judgment. procedural history an information charged defendant with two counts of attempted carjacking, one count each for the driver and passenger of the car ( 664, 215, subd. (a), counts 1 & 2); one count of second degree robbery for theft of personal property ( 212.5, subd. (c), count 3); and one count of first degree burglary ( 459, count 4) for his subsequent entry into an occupied home. the information further alleged that defendant suffered two prison priors ( 667.5, subd. (b)). counsel stipulated to 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 bifurcating trial of the priors, which defendant ultimately admitted. a jury convicted defendant of all four charged crimes. the court sentenced defendant to the high term of 5 years for the robbery (count 3), one-half the high term of 9 years on each of the attempted carjacking counts (counts 1 & 2), and one-third the midterm of 4 years on the burglary count (count 4). the court ordered the carjacking sentences to run concurrently to one another and to the robbery sentence, and ordered the 16-month sentence for the burglary count to run consecutively to the others.2 the court also imposed a consecutive one-year term for each of eight years, four months. the court imposed various fines and fees and awarded defendant 148 days of custody credit. defendant timely appealed. relevant facts3 victims jose l. and karla b. testified to the following. at around 9:00 or 9:30 p.m. on july 15, 2015, they were seated in apartment in lancaster. was in the front passenger seat. the manual transmission car had a push-button ignition that could be started only by pressing the ignition button and clutch simultaneously in the presence of the key fob. 2 although the court stated that the two attempted explicitly imposed concurrent sentences for those counts and did not stay either sentence pursuant to section 654. 3 because defendant does not challenge his burglary conviction, we do not relate the facts pertinent to that offense. 4 defendant, whom both victims identified in court, walked cked on it. when jose rolled down the window, defendant reached inside and attempted to unlock the door. two men struggled as defendant attempted to enter the car. while they were struggling, karla reached over and pushed the ignition button, turning off the car. jose asked defendant what he was doing, and defendant defendant then reached his other hand toward his waistband and threatened to stab jose. jose released his surrendering posture, and told defendant he could have the car. of the car, and defendant got in and shut the door. jose testified that he left his wallet and keys inside the interior pocket of the he also left his cell phone in the car, and asked defendant to return it. defendant complied. jose did not ask defendant for the wallet or keys vehicle. jose testified that although one would not have been able to see the wallet and keys from outside the car, the items however, there was no testimony at trial about the location of the cell phone. at the preliminary hearing, jose testified that it had that defendant was sitting on the phone when he asked for it back. when defendant returned his cell phone, jose immediately with karla. 5 because defendant was inside the car, had ceased making overt threats, and did not display a weapon. nevertheless, jose walked away without looking back; that was the last time he saw defendant. defendant remained in the car, pushing buttons and attempt to get it to start. jose believed defendant was unable to start the car because he did not press the clutch. jose did not see defendant start or get out of the car. karla testified that she saw defendant get out of the car when she and jose were about halfway across the 15-20 feet distance she testified that defendant making any gestures. apartment, and karla locked the apartment door once they were inside. she looked outside and saw defendant walking toward the building. after stopping briefly and making eye contact with karla, defendant continued walking and jumped over a nearby brick wall. karla testified that, on a scale of one to 10, her fear jose testified that when he went back to the car later that night, he noticed that the center console was open and papers were strewn about. the only items missing from the car were the wallet and keys. defendant left those items in a home he burglarized during his escape, and they eventually were returned to jose. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends his robbery conviction must be reversed because there was insufficient evidence that he intended 6 to take the wallet and keys at the time he used force and fear to attempt to carjack the car. defendant argues that he did not know the wallet and keys were in the door pocket when he used force and fear to effectuanot have formed the specific intent to keys until he got into the car and saw them, by which point he we disagree. to determine the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, an appellate court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1077.) [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] a reversal for insufficient evidence is unwarranted unless it appears that upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial ev (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) that is, reversal is not warranted if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier with a contrary finding. (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 253.) robbery is defined as the felonious taking of personal property of some value, however slight, from a person or the 7 with the intent to permanently deprive the person of the property. ( 211; people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994; people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 34.) it for (people v. gomez (2008) 43 cal.4th 249, 254, fn. 2 [citation (people v. anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 994.) when either or both of those aggravating circumstances are not present, the taking at most constitutes a theft. defendant contends that he committed theft rather than robbery because he did not intend to take the wallet and keys until after he finished using force or fear against jose. he points to cases holding that the intent to steal musor during the (people v. marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 34; see also people v. burney, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 253; people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 562.) we are not persuaded characterization of his intent. intent and act of theft may be proven by inference (see people v. marshall, supramay logically and reasonably be drawn from another fact or (evid. code,  600, subd. (b).) the jury could infer from the evidence that defendant intended to divest jose of his car and the property in it 8 to stab him. the time he initiated the force and fear does not prevent this eminently logical inference. single application of force caused jose to relinquish control over both his car and personal property. courts have long recognized that a defendant conceives the intent to steal a different item after he has finished applying the force to his victim, . . . is guilty of robbery not grand theft of that item. (people v. brito (1991) 232 cal.app.3d 316, 326, fn. 8.) moreover, jose testified he remained fearful the entire time he wsuccessful entry into the car. even if the jury accepted developed the intent to steal the wallet and keys only after he ceased applying force, it could reasonably infer that the intent arose while defendant was still applying fear. use of fear to obtain or retain the o artificial parsing is required as to the precise moment or order in which the elements (people v. gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 254.) ii. sentencing defendant argues in the alternative that his sentence for attempted carjacking of jose must be stayed pursuant to section 654. and all its contents at the same time in conjunction with his use of force and fear, and if such intent is sufficient to establish a separate robbery, then he committed an indivisible transaction involving a single victim, and the sentence for attempted carjacking in regard to [jose] violated both sections 654 and 215, 9 4 attempting to carjack jose must be stayed. section 654, subdivision (a) provides: that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omis whether a defendant is subject to multiple punishment under this -step inquiry, because the statutory physical act but also a course of conduct encompassing several acts pursued with a single objective. [citations.] we first consider [citation.] if so, the defendant may not be punished more than once for that act. only if we conclude that the case involves more than a single act i.e., a course of conduct do we then consider whether that course of conduct reflects a intents and objectives. [citations.] at step one, courts examine the facts of the case to determine whether multiple convictions are based upon a single physical act. [citation.] when those facts are undisputed as 4 ivision (c), makes clear that a person may be charged and convicted under both the robbery and carjacking statutes. (ibid.) in this way, the legislature removed any doubt that section 654 applies to these two crimes when they arise from a single physical act. we therefore analyze the multiple punishment issue in this case relying on the well-settled principles governing sectio (people v. corpening (2016) ___cal.5th___, ___, fn. 2 [2016 wl 7473803] (corpening).) 10 they are here the application of section 654 raises a question of law we review de novo. (corpening, supra, ___cal.5th at p.___.)5 a defendant commits a single physical act for purposes of taken separately completes the actus reus for each of the relevant (corpening, supra, ___cal.5th at p.__.) thus, in corpening, a defendant who was convicted for carjacking a van and robbing the driver of the rare coins it contained could not be king of [the] van, and the rare coins contained therein, completed the actus (ibid.) the supreme court also committed at the same time, by the same personthat yielded for corpening and his coconspirators the rare coins contained within the carjacked ibid.) here, too, defendant used a single show of force and application of fear to accomplish both offenses against victim jose.6 single criminal act, even if committed incident to 5 defendant and the attorney general both contend that the substantial evidence standard of review applies. the substantial evidence standard applies to the second stage of the section 654 inquiry, whether a defendant harbored a single intent or objective. (e.g., people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 730-731.) however, as the supreme court reiterated in corpening, inal conduct reflects a single intent or objective . . . is relevant only after it has been (people v. corpening, supra, ___cal.5th at p. ___ (citing people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 350, 359-360).) 6 defendant initiated a second application of fear by walking 11 (people v. louie (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 388, 397.) constitutes a single offense. (people v. dominguez (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 410, 420.) show of force and incitement of fear against jose netted him both the car (had he been able to start it) and items of value contained therein. he may not be punished separately for those offenses under section 654. disposition the judgment is reversed as to sentencing, and the case is remanded to the trial court for resentencing. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. behind and staring at karla. as defendant points out, karla was not the victim of the robbery. named victim jose testified that he s apartment, and therefore could not have been placed in (see people v. mungia (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1703, 1709, fn. 2.) 