filed 5/4/17 p. v. tatum ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tyrell tatum, defendant and appellant. b268692 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la081378) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael v. jesic, judge. judgment affirmed. randall conner, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and tita nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 in this appeal, wof conviction. on alleged prosecutorial misconduct and alleged ineffective assistance of counsel. background on july 13, 2015, defendant was involved in a motor vehicle collision on ventura boulevard. defendant was charged with driving under the influence of alcohol with three prior similar offenses, refusal to take a chemical test, and misdemeanor vandalism of a jail door. a prior serious and/or violent felony and two prior prison terms also were alleged. the hotly contested issue during the jury trial was whether defendant was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the collision. during trial, dice officer who administered field sobriety tests was inexperienced, and theshould not be credited. on appeal, defendant argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct and that his counsel was ineffective for failing to object to the misconduct or request an admonition. 1. opening statements in her opening statement, the prosecutor stated that it was a motor vehicle collision caused by defendant. tragedy turned out to be a miracle. and that miracle meaning that nobody was killed which was hit, crashed into a store that was closed rather than [a]that no person involved in the collision was hurt. the prosecutor 3 stated: acle that the defendant is alive and that all of the people on ventura boulevard is [sic] alive statement s. the court overruled defense the display of a photograph of the coffee shop near the collision. the photograph showed people sitting outside the coffee shop, located on ventura boulevard. however, the court later sustained an objection and excluded the photograph from evidence. in her opening statement, defense counsel countered the , statingcase about a drama. this case is about whether or not someone was under the influence defense counsel told jurors: every part of the evidence to remind yourunder the influence and to decide if the people in this case . . . have given you enough evidence to determine beyond a reasonable doubt that that is true defense ccalled the field sobriety tests. those are subjective. those are 1 person, in this case an officer, giving tests and determining what that officer thinks about a level of impairment to the evidence put forth by the people, ask yourselves if these are objective factors to determine if someone is under the influence. you will find that they are not 2. prosecution evidence it was undisputed that defendant caused a motor vehicle accident on july 13, 2015. christine naegle, a passenger in a 4 vehicle struck by defendant, noticed that defendant smelled of alcohol. she observed defendant try to leave the scene, but he was unable to flee because his car was inoperable. naegle concluded that defendant was trying to flee because he pressed on the gas and turned the steering wheel. when naegle started to call 911, defendant asked her to stop. naegle described defendant as towards the police officers who arrived at the scene. specifically, defendant told an officer, that badge vincent dipersio also was involved in the collision. after being hit by defendant, dip car ended up inside a store, next to a populated coffee shop (the one in the picture shown to jurors). dipersio testified that patrons of the coffee shop came to [his] rescue the court sustained an objection when the prosecutor asked dipersio if he was lucky to be alive. as noted, at the request of defense counsel, the court also excluded the picture of the coffee shop. alonzo campos was riding his motorcycle when he saw defendant, who was speeding, pass him. campos estimated that defendant was driving about 75 miles per hour just before the collision. scott eyer, a firefighter paramedic who responded to the scene after the collision, testified that defendant appeared to be under the influence of alcohol. defendan, and he was acting irrationally. defendant completed field sobriety tests administered by officer trevor sankey. sankey had not previously administered such tests but had been trained to administer them. based on ormance on these tests, sankey opined that defendant was under the influence of alcohol. 5 on the following. on the horizontal gaze nystagmus test, which requires the subject observe a pen and tests involuntary eye jerking, sankey observed defendant twitching his eyes.1 the eye twitching was a sign of impairment resulting from alcohol. when he administered the rhomberg balance test, sankey observed defendant sway. nevertheless, sankey concluded he performed . defendant fell off a line when he was asked to take nine steps on a line. defendant was not able to stand on one foot, but started to sway and hop. when asked to touch his nose with his finger, defendant was able to do so three out of six times. watery. defendant refused to submit to a blood or breath test. he said: defendant was read an admonition that his refusal could be used against him.2 1 is an involuntary rapid movement of the eyeball, which may be horizontal, vertical, or rotatory. [citation.] an inability of the eyes to maintain visual fixation as they are turned from side to side (in other words jerking or bouncing) is known as horizontal gaze [citation.] the theory supporting hgn testing is that intoxicated persons exhibit hgn and that a field test conducted by a police officer can identify the condition. (people v. joehnk (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 1488, 1493.) 2 the admonition provided: are required by state law to submit to a chemical test to determine the alcohol content of your blood. number 2, you have the choice of taking a blood or breath test when applicable. since you need medical treatment your choice is limited to the test, which is a breath test or blood test. these tests are available at van nuys station. if you take a breath test a 6 during cross-examination, officer sankey acknowledged that the result of field sobriety tests was subjective. he testified that . he also acknowledged that he did not recall the specific parameters for the distance of the pen and may not have correctly positioned the pen when administering the horizontal gaze nystagmus test. sankey did not recall reviewing standards issued by the national highway traffic safety administration for all of the tests, but did for at least one of them. sankey did not recall if there was a baseline for the rhomberg balance test. sankey was not aware of a standard of deviation for the test that required defendant to walk in a line. 3. defense evidence e arrived at the scene shortly after the collision, . the on defendant. neither saw defendant stumble or slur his speech. defendant did not testify. he did not claim that he was unconscious at the time of the accident (as he states on appeal). sample will not be saved and you . . . or your attorney will not have a breath sample to test for blood alcohol content. if you want any remaining sample saved for your use you must choose to take a blood test, which will be saved at no cost to you and may be tested by any party in any criminal prosecution. if you refuse to submit to or fail to complete a test your driving privilege will be suspended for 1 year or revoked for 2 or 3 years. . . . refusal or failure to complete a test may be used against you in court. in addition, if you refuse to submit to a test or fail to complete a test and you are convicted of driving under the influence of any alcoholic beverage or drugs or any combination of these your refusal will result in a fine and mandat 7 4. vandalism defendant damaged the door of the jail where he was held after having been arrested. he damaged it by kicking it multiple times. 5. instructions jury instructions included the following: the influence if as a result of drinking or consuming an alcoholic beverage his or her mental or physical abilities are so impaired that he or she is no longer able to drive a vehicle with the caution of a sober person using ordinary care under similar circumstances. the manner in which the person drives is not enough by itself to establish whether the person is or is not under the influence of an alcoholic beverage. however, it is a factor to be considered in light of all the surrounding circumstances in deciding whether the person was under the influence test after a aware of his guilt. . . . however, evidence that the defendant refused to submit to such a test cannot prove guilt by itself admitted into evidence, and anything else i told you to consider as evidence. nothing that the attorneys say is evidence. in their opening statements and closing arguments the attorneys discussed the case, but their remarks are not evidence. their questions are o not let bias, sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion influence your decision the court further instructed: immediately after the crime was committed, that conduct may show 8 that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant fled or tried to flee it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that conduct 6. closing argument prior to closing argument, the court warned counsel that neither was permitted to appeal to the passions of jurors. the court [appealing] to the passions of the jury that all these people could have been killed that daythe prosecutor did not mention her . she emphasized the field sobriety tests, the smell of alcohol, his attempt to escape, and his refusal to submit to a chemical test. experience in administering field sobriety tests. defense counsel also argued that both defense witnesses testified that defendant was upset but was not drunk. 7. verdict and sentence defendant was convicted as charged. the priors were found true following a court trial. the trial court denied motion for a new trial based on prosecutorial misconduct relating to . during the trial, not during opening statements, but when the evidence portion came on. the defense did make objections and i ruled on the objections. and i did find it to be irrelevant. and i admonished the jury to disregard. and they are presumed to follow my instructions. and i believe they did follow my instructions in this case. and so the motion for new trial is denied based on that defendant was sentenced to five years for driving under the influence and a concurrent one-year sentence for the vandalism. 9 discussion defendant argues that the trial court erred in denying his motion for a new trial based on prosecutorial misconduct. he also argues that he received the ineffective assistance of counsel. as we shall explain, defendant fails to show that reversal of his conviction is warranted. 1. defendant forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct by not objecting or requesting an admonition un the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th s federal due process rights are violated when a prosecutors improper remarks so infect[] the trial with unfairness as to make the resulting conviction a denial of due process. (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 206.) an appeal to the passions of the jurors or for sympathy of the victim is improper. (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1342, 1344.) misconduct, the defense must make a timely objection at trial and request an admonition . . . . (people v. earp, supra, at p. 858.) only, if an objection would have been futile, defendant is excused from objecting. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820.) here claim of prosecutorial misconduct was forfeited. the record demonstrates that an objection to the would not have been futile. the court sustained proposed evidence that people seated at the nearby coffee shop were not injured was irrelevant, and instructed the prosecutor to refrain from 10 have been killed during closing argument. moreover, in rejecting misconduct, the [t]he objections were made during the trial, not during the opening statements . . . . the defense did make objections and i ruled on the objections. and i did find it to be irrelevant there is no merit to defent an objection would have been futile. purported analogy to people v. bandhauer (1967) 66 cal.2d 524, 530, is inapt. . . . s rationale is that, due to the incremental nature of the improper argument, by the time the basis of an objection was apparent it would have been ineffective to counteract the prejudice flowing from the misconduct. in other words, an objection would have been futile . . . people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th 1293, 1341.) here, the prosecutor started her opening statcould have been a tragedy turned out to be a miracle. and that miracle meaning that nobody was killed her argument was not incremental in nature; the basis for an objection was clear from the outset. finally, raising a claim of prosecutorial misconduct in a motion for new trial is insufficient to preserve the issue because it does not afford the trial court the opportunity to admonish the jury and mitigate any prejudice. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 191.) in short, defendant fails to show he preserved his claim of prosecutorial misconduct. 2. lacks merit alleged prosecutorial misconduct, defendant argues that he received the ineffective assistance of counsel. as defendant recognizes, he bears 11 because it fell below an objective standard of reasonableness and that ncies resulted in prejudice. (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674.) the object of an ineffectiveness claim is not to grade counsels performance. if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, . . . that course should be followed. (in re cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 974, 1019-1020.) proseopening statement, jurors were instructed that the opening statement was not evidence. they were instructed that [u]nless the evidence proves the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt . . . he is entitled to an acquittal and you must find him not guilty thus jurors were instructed that they could not rely on the opening statement to convict defendant. defendant therefore cannot show a reasonable probability that absent the claimed prosecutorial misconduct during opening statement he would have received a more favorable verdict. the only challenged evidence was dipersitimony that his car ended up next to a coffee shop with a bunch of people sitting outside. a picture was shown to jurors but not admitted into evidence. dipersio testified that persons at the coffee shop came to his rescue. evidence of a crowded coffee shop next to the collision is not inflammatory and is not probative of whether defendant was intoxicated at the time of the collision. even if the evidence was irrelevant, it was not prejudicial to defendant. although defendant emphasizes the weaknesses in officer the field sobriety testsintoxication was supported by other evidence. there was evidence defendant had bloodshot eyes and acted belligerently. he tried to 12 flee the scene and refused to submit to a breath or blood test. not only did the victim naegle smell alcohol but the trained firefighter concluded that defendant was under the influence of alcohol. in light of this evidence, there was no reasonable probability that the brief introduction of evidence that a nearby coffee shop was populated and that other bystanders could have been injured affected the verdict. although defendant argues that none of this evidence conclusively shows that his blood alcohol was 0.08 percent or higher, the evidence includtest to measure his blood alcohol supported that inference. defendant also emphasizes that the court sustained an s to dipersio regarding whether he was lucky to be alive and to campos regarding why he held on to the handlebars on his motorcycle. no evidence was elicited in response to these questions and defendant was not prejudiced by them. moreover, to the extent that the prosecutor was attempting to imply that dipersio and campos could have been injured, that inference is not prejudicial. almost any motor vehicle collision can result in injury regardless of whether a driver is intoxicated at the time of the collision.3 the challenged evidence 3 people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th 659 is misplaced. in centeno, the court held that a diagram showing the boundaries of california to explain reasonable doubt was prejudicial. the court further found tid. at p. 673.) here, in contrast, the challenged opening argument and contrast to centeno, here no claim could be made that the id. at p. 674.) 13 did not bear on the credibility of any key witness or undermine that sankey was inexperienced. statement and the evidence of persons at the coffee shop, during their closing arguments, the parties focused on the key issuewhether defendant was under the influence at the time of the collision. jurors were instructed to rely only on the evidence in reaching the verdict, and nothing in the record suggests that they failed to follow this instruction. defendant has not met his burden of demonstrating that absent the alleged ineffective assistance, a reasonable probability of a more favorable outcome. therefore, he cannot show he received the ineffective assistance of counsel. (people v. mesa (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 100sufficient to show the alleged errors may have had some conceivable would have disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. sortino, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 