filed 1/4/17 p. v. lin ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. xia lin, defendant and appellant. b268602 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga091066) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jared d. moses, judge. affirmed. ______ robert franklin howell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant xia lin of murder (pen. code,  187)1 and found that he committed the murder for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members. ( 186.22, subd. (b).) the jury also found true certain gun use allegations. ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d) & (e).) the court sentenced him to 50 years to life in prison. defendant contends that the evidence is insufficient to support the gang enhancement findings. we disagree and affirm the judgment. factual summary a. the murder of qui jin fang on the night of september 22, 2013, defendant arranged to have his friend, beier kuang, drive him to a residential area in alhambra. defendant told kuang he was going to have a who gets off work at 10:00 p.m. kuang parked his car near the apartment building where qui jin fang lived. the two waited in the car for at least 30 minutes. at around 10:00 p.m., defendant told kuang to wait for him, then walked away from the car. about 15 minutes later, kuang tried and failed to reach defendant on his cell phone. (defendant had left his cell phone kuang then drove away to meet his girlfriend. fang was a chinese immigrant and part-owner of a chinese restaurant in long beach, where he worked in the evenings. on september 22, 2013, he returned home from the restaurant at around 10:30 p.m. and parked in the garage beneath his apartment. before fang got out of his car, defendant killed him by shooting him with a semi-automatic .22 caliber handgun twice in the chest, three times in the head, and once in a forearm.2 a bullet also hit the garage ceiling above his car. 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the evidence that defendant shot fang is circumstantial; no one saw the murder. defendant does not, however, challenge the murder conviction on appeal and, in accordance with our standard of review, our factual summary includes reasonable inferences drawn from the evidence viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment. 3 two neighbors heard the gunshots and saw a man wearing a dark hooded sweatshirt with his hands in the sweater pockets leaving the area on foot the hooded man initially walked quickly had been parked, then turned and ran in the opposite direction. one of these neighbors heard someone say, a third neighbor testified that at around 10:30 p.m. he had heard someone yelling or talking loudly in an asian language for about 30 seconds. he turned up the volume on his television to drown out the yelling, and did not hear any gunshots. police arrived about 20 minutes later and found fang of his car. the driver-side door was open about four to six inches. garage door opener, and a bagwhich contained $7,742 in cash and restaurant receiptswas on his left knee near the open car door. an additional $2,000 in cash was protruding from his shirt pocket. at 10:45 p.m., a video surveillance camera recorded defendant walking near a movie theater located about one-half mile away apartment. fifteen minutes later defendant arrived at a convenience store 0.7 miles away from the theater. there, defendant bought food, loitered outside the store, and used a payphone to call the cell phone he had left in kuang. kuang answered the call and drove with his girlfriend to the convenience store to pick up defendant. while defendant at the convenience store, three persons leaving the movie theater found in the parking lot a fanny pack containing a .22 caliber handgun, a silencer, one ammunition magazine full of bullets, and a nearly empty ammunition magazine. they gave the fanny pack and its contents to theater employees, who turned it over to the police. after kuang picked up defendant from the convenience store, defendant directed kuang to drive to the movie theater. there, defendant began searching the parking lot where the fanny pack had been found. he picked up a dark hooded sweater and handed it to kuang, who put it in the car, then continued to search the lot. defendant and kuang eventually returned to the car. 4 soon after kuang left the parking lot, police officers pulled him over and arrested the three occupants. a black ski mask and a dark hooded sweater were in the backseat area of the car, where defendant had been sitting. gunshot residue was found matched dna on the trigger of the gun found in the theater parking lot. a firearms expert determined that that gun fired the bullets that killed fang. found a gun cleaning kit, numerous .22 caliber bullets of the same brand that killed fang, firearms parts, a shooting target with holes the size a .22 caliber bullet would make, a firearm threading tool (which could modify a gun barrel to allow it to connect to a silencer), and $2,000 cash. revealed internet searches for firearms, firearm parts, firearm shows, and silencer for 22. police did not find a firearm. aside from the weapons, there was nothing in the home indicating gang activity. b. gang evidence yu testified as the according to him, united bamboo is a taiwan-based gang with approximately 50 members in the los angeles area. defendant does not dispute that he was a member of united bamboo when he killed fang. detective yu has investigated united bamboo since 2008. its members . regarding extortion, detective yu explained that united bamboo members commit the crime primarily against members of the asian community, and target chinese business owners and chinese immigrants in particular. if an extortion victim refuses to pay the extortion demand, the gareputation and its extortion schemes against others are jeopardized. when that happens, detective yu explained, the money is no longer an issue, and a post-refusal offers to pay will be too late. stated, if a person by killing the victim, the gang produces a chilling [e]ffect on other victims and sends a message of intimidation. 5 the prosecutor posed the following hypothetical to detective yu. assume a chinese business owner, he arrives home from work per his by [a] member of united bamboo or a similar asian gang using a handgun equipped with a silencer; a large sum of money is found in plain view next to this chinese business owner undisturbed. . . . do you have an opinion as to whether or not this crime was committed for the benefit of or at the direction of . . . united bamboo? detective yu responded: my opinion is that the hypothetical that you just gave me benefits the united bamboo criminal street gang. he explained that the killing intimidates and puts out a message, a chilling you. in addition, the fact that the killing took sends a message that the gang can come in to your castle where you live, where you raise your family, where you have the sanctuary of safety, that the gang can intrude upon that and come in and take that away from you on a detective yu further stated that the fact that the killer did not take money from the victim was significant: [w] care about the money anymore. about the reputation and the respect that the gang must earn back. neither kuang nor his girlfriend are members of, or associated with, united bamboo. searches of their homes did not reveal any firearms or evidence of gang membership or criminal activity. 6 discussion defendant contends that the evidence was insufficient to support the for two reasons: (1) the evidence was insufficient to establish that he committed murder for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang; and (2) the evidence was insufficient to establish that united bamboo we reject each contention. i. sufficiency of the evidence that the murder was gang related when a gang enhancement finding is challenged for insufficient evidence we examine the record in the light most favorable to the finding to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could make that finding beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149, 156-157, 161.) in order to prove the gang enhancement, the prosecution was required to establish ( 186.22, subd. (b).) subject to increased punishment under [section 186.22] only (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60; accord people v. weddington (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 468, 484.) to establish this element, the prosecution may, as it did here, introduce testimony regarding background information regarding the pertinent gang and an opinion from the expert based on a hypothetical question that tracks the evidence in the case. (see people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 684-685; people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1046; people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th 47 at p. 63.) 7 here, detective yu opined, in essence, that if a chinese business owner bamboo member with a handgun equipped with a silencer, and the killer leaves behind a large sum of money, the murder was committed for the benefit of the united bamboo gang. the murder benefits united bamboo, detective yu explained, because united bamboo engages in extortion against chinese business owners and the killing its extortion victims that they too will be killed if they fail to . an extortion demand from united bamboo. there is no direct evidence of this fact. it can, however, be reasonably inferred from other evidence. defendant was a united bamboo gang member; united bamboo engages in extortion against chinese immigrant business owners, and fang fit that description; defendant killed fabuildinga tactic united defendant left behind nearly $10,000 found body, which had been in plain view and accessible to the shooter. the failure to take such a large amount of money is a fact to consider in determining gang involvement. although the failure to take the money may lead to different conclusions about extortion, one reasonable conclusion was explained by detective yu. once united bamboo makes a decision to kill a recalcitrant extortion subject, the gang is no longer interested in the money; the purpose of the killing is to send a message to others in the chinese immigrant community that a refusal to comply with its extortion demands will result in death. the jury could reasonably accept this explanation and conclude that fang was killed because he did not submit to united bamboo extortion demands, and that the killing benefitted the gang by intimidating other extortion victims. defendant argues that resulted from [his] fear of discovery or apprehension after [fang] refused to a defendant also points to evidence that one neighbor heard a man yelling in an asian language around the time of the killing, a bullet had been fired into the roof of the garage, and that he fired six shots to kill fang. these facts, he argues, 8 are more consistent with a personal altercation or failed robbery than a explanation, they do not negate the reasonable inferences supporting susceptible of two [reasonable] interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court er of facopinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also be reasonably reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 668.) here, because that the crime benefitted the united bamboo gang for the reasons explained above, we affirm the finding. ii. evidence of primary activities defendant contends that the evidence is insufficient to prove that enhancement. to establish this fact, the prosecution had to prove, among other elements, that united bamboo had commission of  186.22, subd. (f); people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 323.) as relevant here, the enumerated acts include assault with a deadly weapon, murder, attempted murder, burglary, and felony extortion. (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (e)(1), (3), (11) & (19).) primary activities can be established through expert testimony. (people v. sengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 324; people v. miranda (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 829, 840.) here, the prosecutor and detective yu engaged in the following colloquy on this point: in your opinion, ha[ve] the members of [united bamboo] engaged in criminal activity that includes extortion, murder, fraud? among other crimes, yes. 9 what would you say is the primary activity of this particular gang? give me the highlights. if i were to go by the seriousness of offense, i would put murder up front, attempted murder, assault with deadly weapons, and then extortions and then the paper crimes like fraud, theft, you know, defentestimony is insufficient we reject this argument. people v. margarejo (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 102 is instructive. in that primary activities of the highla] activities range from simple vandalism and battery, and can extend all the way to murder. they also include consolidated weapons, id. at p. 107.) ibid.) the court of appeal question is not evidence, to a reasonable interpretation of the anything ibid.) the jury, the margarejo ordinary human communication often is flowing and contextual. jurors know this. repetitive and stilted responses make up one kind of direct examination, but not the only kan ibid.) 10 restrictive interpretation of the colloquy between the prosecutor and detective yu. defendant asserts that detective yu did not testify that f the gangonly that it was a when are read however, the jury likely understood that detective yu was identifying the primary activities of united bamboo, which included several crimes enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e). although detective yu arguably qualified the list of primary activities by introducing it by the this appears to be merely his way of ranking the question calling was apparently understood by detective yu as a request to identify the most serious activities. it does not, however, affect his opinion that the crimes he identified are primary activities of united bamboo. we therefore rthat was insufficient to establish that united include crimes enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e). 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: johnson, j. lui, j. 