filed 4/30/18 p. v. luna ca2/1 received for posting 5/1/18 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gustavo armando luna, jr. defendant and appellant. b269629 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba427561) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, edmund willcox clarke, jr., judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. laura s. kelly, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 on appeal, it is undisputed that defendant gustavo armando luna, jr. shot and killed a rival gang member, christopher hernandez. family saw the shooting, which occurred just after hernandezgraduation. defendant was convicted of first degree murder. defendant argues that the following error requires automatic reversal of his conviction: (1) the trial comments on reasonable doubt during jury selection, which defendant contends lowered the burden of proof; and (2) the trial peremptory challenge when the trial batson/wheeler motion.1 we conclude there was no structural error. under the totality of the circumstances, the trial have been second, although the trial court failed to set forth explicitly his reasoning for denying the peremptory challenge, as a matter governed by state law, any such error does not result in structural error and was not prejudicial here. (people v. singh (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 1319, 1330-1332 (singh.) warrants reversal of his conviction. we remand the matter only for resentencing because of changes in the law postdating the trial in this matter. the parties agree that defendant was not afforded an opportunity to present mitigating evidence under people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261 (franklin). additionally, the law governing the firearm enhancement now affords a trial court discretion 1 this motion asserts discrimination in exercising a peremptory challenge prohibited by batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258. 3 whether to impose or strike that enhancement in a case that is not yet final, such as here. factual and procedural background we separate our factual presentation: first we discuss background facts regarding the charge, and second, we set forth in separate sections of our discussion, the facts relevant to each of of error. nineteen-year-old christopher hernandez was shot multiple times and died of his gunshot wounds. several eyewitnesses identified defendant as the shooter. defendant shot hernandez from a black car, and defendant owned the black car involved in the shooting. an expended casing was found in the rear of car, and his fingerprint was found on a can in the center console. hernandez was a member of the rebels 13 gang. although the issue was contested, there was evidence that defendant was a member of the rival la mirada locos gang. a prosecution gang expert opined that the murder was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with, the la mirada locos gang. jurors asked no questions. defendant was convicted of first degree murder. a gang enhancement and firearm enhancement were found true. defendant was sentenced to prison for 50 years to life, consisting of a mandatory 25 years-to-life sentence for the murder (pen. code,2  190, subd. (a)) and a then-mandatory 25 years-to-life sentence for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). 2 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code. 4 discussion defendant claims numerous errors occurred during jury selection and that they individually and cumulatively warrant reversal of his conviction. he also argues the trial court improperly rebuked defense counsel in front of jurors during the cross-examination of a prosecution expert witness. finally, he argues that the matter must be remanded for resentencing in light of franklin and recent legislation regarding the firearm enhancement. a. the texplanation of reasonable doubt during jury selection did not alter the argument is that the trial definition of reasonable doubt during jury selection impermissibly lowered the prosresulted in structural error. we conclude that 1. factual background prior to jury selection, defense counsel requested that the trial court inform potential jurors of the burden of proof in a criminal case. the trial court did so multiple times during jury selection. the first time, the trial court indicated that a defendant is presumed innocent3 proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. but the prosecution need not 3 specifically, the trial court underscored, he point is law favors him. 5 prove the case beyond all possible or imaginary doubt, because everything in life is subject to possible the trial eference during jury selection to the reasonable doubt standard, which incurred with no objection, is the subject of the instant appeal. the trial court told potential proof beyond a reasonable doubt. you must have an abiding convinced beyond all possible doubt, or all imaginary doubt, because everything in life is subject to those. i think the language may sound foreign to you, but i think the concept is not. i think in your hearts and in your minds you will know whether you have a reasonable doubt or not, because it is in the hearts and minds of the jury that reasonable doubt is found or not shortly afterwards, the court told jurors [e] when a new group of potential jurors was called, the court [t]he requirement that proof be beyond a reasonable in questioning the jurors, [t]he felony, wwhatever it is. in a criminal case . . . . meaning you have to prior to jury deliberations, the court properly instructed jurors on the presumption of innocence and the meaning of reasonable doubt. 6 2. the issue is preserved even though trial counsel did not object conviction except upon proof beyond a reasonable doubt of every fact necessary to constitute the (in re winship (1970) 397 u.s. 358, 364.) an instruction on results in structural error. (sullivan v. louisiana (1993) 508 u.s. 275, 281; people v. nicolas (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 1165, 1179.) . . . presumption of innocence to ensure against unjust convictions, (jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 315.) our supreme court criminal justice system that before a jury may convict a defendant of a criminal offense, it must find the prosecution has (people v. aranda (2012) 55 cal.4th 342, 349.) doubt instruction more than any other is central in preventing (people v. brigham (1979) 25 cal.3d 283, 290.) for purposes of this appeal, we assume that the challenged statements made during jury selection were tantamount to a jury instruction. our assumption is consistent with people v. johnson (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 1169, 1171-1172 in which this division assumed that the definition of reasonable doubt given during jury selection was equivalent to a jury instruction. 7 section 1259 permits appellate review of any instruction that affects a the reasonable (people v. johnson, supra, 115 cal.app.4th at p. 1172) and is fundamental to criminal justice (people v. aranda, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 349). we thus instructions during voir dire violated due process. 3. there is no reasonable likelihood the way that violates the constitution e doubt during jury may not be judged in artificial isolation, but must be considered in the context of the instructions as a whole and the estelle v. mcguire (1991) 502 u.s. 62, 72.) we whether there is a reasonable likelihood that violates the constitution. (ibid.) dthey should rely only on their hearts and minds rather than the evidence in the case is unpersuasive. we first observe the challenged instruction was not given to the empaneled jurors, but would ultimately serve people v. elguera (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1214, 1222.) more significantly, just before jury deliberations, jurors were instructedwhat the facts are. it is up to all of you, and you alone, to decide what happened, based only on the evidence that has been presented to you in this trial. [] do not let bias, sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion influence your (italics added.) 8 the court also instructed jurors as followscriminal charge has been filed against the defendant is not evidence that the charge is true. you must not be biased against the defendant just because he has been arrested, charged with a crime, or brought to trial. [] a defendant in a criminal case is presumed to be innocent. this presumption requires that the people prove a defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. whenever i tell you the people must prove something, i mean they must prove it beyond a reasonable doubt unless i specifically tell you otherwise. [] proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. the evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. [] in deciding whether the people have proved their case beyond a reasonable doubt, you must impartially compare and consider all the evidence that was received throughout the entire trial. unless the evidence proves the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, he is entitled to an acquittal and you must find him not guilty(italics added.) as the italicized language indicates, the trial court directed jurors to focus on the evidence and measure the evidence against the reasonable doubt yardstick. in addition to the quoted definition of reasonable doubt, jurors were provided written instructions with the standard definition of reasonable doubt in calcrim no. 220.4 4 riminal charge has been filed against the defendant[s] is not evidence that the charge is true. you must not be biased against the defendant[s] just because [he has] been arrested, charged with a crime, or brought to trial. [] a defendant in a criminal case is 9 the language. no party referred to it during closing argument. the argument that t single reference to the hearts and minds of jurors during jury selection impermissibly lowered the this case is distinguishable from people v. johnson (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 976 (johnson). in johnson, the appellate court proof below the due process requirement of proof beyond a id. at p. 985.) in johnson, the trial court told jurors that they could find the defendant guilty even if they (id. at p. 980.) reasonable doubt to everyday decision-making in a such as getting married, starting a family, or going to college. (id. at pp. 979-980.) the trial court stated that determining presumed to be innocent. this presumption requires that the people prove a defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. whenever i tell you the people must prove something, i mean they must prove it beyond a reasonable doubt [unless i specifically tell you otherwise]. [] proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. the evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. [] in deciding whether the people have proved their case beyond a reasonable doubt, you must impartially compare and consider all the evidence that was received throughout the entire trial. unless the evidence proves the defendant[s] guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, [he is] entitled to an acquittal and you must find [him] 10 whether the defendant the (id. at p. 983.) ibid.) the prosecutor further emphasized the trial nts by arguing to jurors that the reasonable doubt standard applied to everyday decisions . (ibid.) the johnson facts are absent here. the trial court did not equate the beyond a reasonable doubt standard with a lower standard such as one employed in everyday decision making. nor did the prosecutor in this case rast to the prosecutor in johnson, who argued that a juror returning a guilty some doubt brain dead. (johnson, supra, 119 cal.app.4th at p. 983.) dunited states v. hernandez (3rd cir. 1999) 176 f.3d 719 (hernandez) is also misplaced. first, hernandez is not binding. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 190 [federal circuit court decision not binding].) nor is hernandez factually apposite. in hernandez, the majority concluded that the following statements to jurors after the jury was empaneled, but before they heard evidence, impermissibly sorry to tell you, but thheart and your own soul and your own spirit and your own judgment det(id. at p. 729.) the trial court further told jurors: you feel inside as you listen to the evidence . . . .ibid.) the 11 hernandez court explained the instruction suggested that jurors could convict the defendant based upon what they believed in their own heart, soul and spirit whether or not that belief was based upon a reasoned conclusion that the evidence established (id. at p. 731.) the appellate court further reasoned that the instruction allowed heightened standard of proof apibid.) in contrast, here the instructions did not allow jurors to convict defendant based on a subjective belief ungrounded in an evaluation of the evidence. shortly after the challenged statement regarding reasonable doubt, the trial court emphasized prior to their deliberations, jurors here were instructed to consider all the evidence impartially. in further contrast to hernandez, the instruction did not permit jurors to base their decision on our conclusion that no structural error occurred is consistent with victor v. nebraska (1994) 511 u.s. 1. victor ust] correctly id. at p. 5.) further, it is insufficient to show that jurors could have misunderstood the instruction. (id. at p. 6.) there must be a did so apibid.) here, taking the instructions as a whole and in context, there was no .5 5 defendant identifies no other prejudice. 12 b. defendant demonstrates no prejudicial error in juror no. 3386 over a batson/wheeler motion asserts that the exercise of a peremptory challenge was the product of purposeful discrimination on the basis of race or another prohibited ground. (people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1158 (gutierrez).) the trial court granted the prbatson/wheeler motion and prohibited defense counsel from using a peremptory challenge to excuse juror no. 3386. the trial court found a prima facie case of discrimination and no racially neutral explanation. defendant argues that he should have been permitted to excuse the juror. the attorney general argues that the trial court correctly concluded defense counsel failed to offer race neutral reasons for excusing the juror. recent decision in gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th 1150, requires certain express findings that were absent here. we conclude, however, that any such error was not prejudicial. 1. factual background prior to requesting the court to excuse juror no. 3386, who was white, defense counsel exercised peremptory challenges against prospective juror nos. 2235, 4134, 2623, and 4238, all of whom were white. prospective juror no. 2235 lived in venice and experienced recent threats and yard invasions. he did not know if the vandalism was committed by gang members. he described himself as a victim of substantial racial violence when he was growing up in guam and hawaii and believed there was substantial gang activity in hawaii. 13 prospective juror no. 4134 expressed concern that gangs of a criminal street gang was presumed innocent. d with respect to prospective juror no. 2623, counsel explained: he [prospective juror no.] counsel later stated: also a studio executive. he would be impatient. i thought he would be kind of conservative. i noticed he had some weird movements with his wrists atrial court did not notice any unusual wrist movements. with respect to prospective juror no. 4238, defense counsel explained: [h]e sat on a jury before and reached a verdict. i prefer jurors who have no jury experience.the trial court found that neither prospective juror nos. juror no. 3386 previously had served on a jury in a criminal matter, and the jurors reached a verdict. her place of employment had been tagged with gang graffiti, but she explained that the tagging would not prejudice her. she indicated she favored restrictions on firearms, as did other potential jurors. defense counsel did not ask her any questions during jury selection. following a motion by the prosecutor, the court expressed concern that defense counsel had dismissed prospective juror nos. 2623 and 4238 and juror no. 3386, all of whom were white. defense counsel explained that he wanted to excuse juror no. tagged with gang graffiti. and also . . . her position was there 14 the crime here did not occur in burbank. the court found a prima facie showing that white jurors were excused based on their race. the court then indicated it neutral basisjuror no. 3386 and precluded defendant from excusing that juror. defendant had unused peremptory challenges by the time the jury was empaneled. 2. although the trial court made no explicit finding of purposeful discrimination, the error was not prejudicial challenge violates equal protection. (people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612; georgia v. mccollum (1992) 505 u.s. 42, 59.) the trial court employs the following three-step process in evaluating whether the peremptory challenge was based on the : (1) was there a prima facie showing that the advocate exercised a peremptory challenge based on race; (2) if so, the burden shifts to the advocate to provide a race neutral reason; (3) the court then determines whether there was purposeful discrimination. (people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 612; see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) the third not the gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) s determination regarding the sufficiency of tendered justifications with [citation.] we presume an advocates use of peremptory challenges occurs in a constitutional manner. [citation.] when a reviewing court addresses the trial courts ruling on a 15 batson/wheeler motion, it ordinarily reviews the issue for substantial evidence. [citation.] a trial courts conclusions are entitled to deference only when the court made a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered. [citation.] what courts should not do is substitute their own reasoning for the rationale given by [counsel], even if they can imagine a valid reason that would not be shown to be pretextual. . . . if the stated reason does not hold up, its pretextual significance does not fade because a trial judge, or an appeals court, can imagine a reason that might not have been shown (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159.) because the trial for the peremptory challenge of juror no. 3386, the question of whether the prosecutor established a prima facie case is moot. (people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th 602, 613, fn. 8; hernandez v. new york (1991) 500 u.s. 352, 359.) the reasons provided by defense counsel, although ultimately rejected by the court, were unrelated to race. they concerned the tagging of her f business and her belief that firearms should be illegal. thus, contrary to the attorney generalargument, defense counsel provided race neutral reasons for excusing juror no. 3386. stated otherwise, there was no discriminatory intent inherent in the explanation. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) the third step required the trial court to assess the gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1168.) defendant argues that the trial court failed to find purposeful discrimination and instead conflated steps two and three. the record arguably sbecause the trial court did not make explicit findings that defense 16 counsel engaged in purposeful discrimination. the absence of such a finding does not mandate reversal because we conclude that defendant has not demonstrated prejudice. erroneous denial of a peremptory challenge is not structural error. (singh, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 1331.) such error ndamental unfairness, or . (ibid.) an error is structural and thus subject to automatic reversal, only in a very limited class of cases. (neder v. u.s. (1999) 527 u.s. 1, 8.) structural errors involve the complete denial of counsel, a biased trial judge, racial discrimination in the selection of a grand jury, denial of self-representation at trial, denial of a public trial, and a defective reasonable doubt instruction. (ibid.) defendant has not demonstrated structural error. as explained in singhresult in any fundamental unfairness, or interference with the factfinding function . . . .singh, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 1331.) although the purposeful exclusion of members of a racial group from a grand jury constitutes strikes at the fundamental values of our judicial system vasquez v. hillery (1986) 474 u.s. 254, 262), the erroneous denial of a peremptory challenge does not similarly result in the systematic exclusion of a racial group. impairing the constitutional guarantee of an impartial jury and a rivera v. illinois (2009) 556 u.s. 148, 152.) peremptory challenges, so state law determines the consequence rivera v. illinois, 17 supra, 556 u.s. at p. not apply california law and instead apply the law of a different state is not compelled by any authority he cites. defendant does not argue that he suffered any prejudice from the denial of tis essentially impossible for a defendant to demonstrate prejudice from a reverse-batson/wheeler the difficulty in establishing prejudice does not relieve defendant from demonstrating prejudice. [a] rule of reversal per se would have policing a criminal defendants discriminatory use of peremptory challenges. (singh, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 1331.) because defendant does not argue, and the record does not suggest, that the findings contributed to the verdict, we have no basis for reversal.6 c. no other alleged error during jury selection defendant remaining challenges to jury selection identify no prejudicial error. specifically, defendant argues that the court erred in (1) conducting batson/wheeler hearings outside of 6 the singh wheeler with a successful prosecution wheeler challenge: ordinary wheeler error also puts the judicial system in the untoward place of countenancing invidious discrimination, even if there were no prejudice to the particular defendant. in the context of a successful prosecution wheeler challenge, if an objectionable juror in fact acted in any manner during deliberations that is inconsistent with an unbiased fact finder, a defendant can seek (singh, supra, 234 cal.app.4th at p. 1331.) 18 (2) scolding potential jurors during voir dire; and (3) denying four challenges to potential jurors for cause. first, assuming that the court erred in holding hearings on batson/wheeler motions in chambers outside of presence, defendant was not prejudiced. the only prejudice defendant identifies was his inability to explain his reasons for telling his counsel to dismiss prospective juror no. 2623. prospective juror no. 2623 did not sit on the jury, and it follows that defendant was not prejudiced from his inability to explain his rationale because of the chambers venue of the discussion. further, even if the court considered the excusal of prospective juror no. 2623 when it precluded defense counsel from dismissing juror no. 3368, as set forth above, defendant has failed to demonstrate prejudice from empaneling juror no. 3368. defendant also cannot demonstrate prejudice from his claim that the in its questioning of potential jurors during jury selection. defendant oning of prospective juror nos. 2891 and 0511. prospective juror no. 2891 stated that if the believe that i could give a fair verdict.you have the right hour t.v. prospective juror no. 2891 responded: impatient too, can you tell? your duty as a citizen is to serve on jury duty. there is no right in this state, or the u.s., to come in and say you get to pick how long your duty is to serve. [] are you seriously telling me that you think you, as a juror, have the right to come in and say i ort 19 ?when the juror explained that he knew it was wrong, but might vote with the majority to you know that this is not a way to get out of jury duty, to tell this just going to assume that you were in a weak moment here when you [said] this. i just am unwilling to prospective juror no. 0511 described a gang member urinating on her and vandalizing windows at her workplace. she also believed that a gang member broke into her house. the juror indicated these incidents might prevent her from giving let everyone go home, no one will ever get convicted, and no one who is innocent will ever get their trial done. so, yes, i understand, and, yes, the citizens of this country to step forward, serving as jurors, so that the court going to be fair to him, or are you going to say, no, my life is so defendant points out that the court questioned other potential jurors ability to be fair. although we do not condone the tone or content of the trial none of the challenged conduct involved an empaneled juror. defendant demonstrates no harm from the alleged improper colloquies with the potential jurors. although he argues that other potential jurors may have been unwilling to answer questions truthfully, his speculation is not supported by the record. nor was alleged comparable to people v. abbaszadeh (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 642 or people v. mello (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 511, in which it was 20 undisputed that the trial court told jurors during voir dire to lie under oath if the potential juror harbored a racial bias against the defendant. (abbaszadeh at pp. 645-647.) here, potential jurors were not told to lie, and the record does not suggest they would have concealed defendant cannot demonstrate prejudice from his argument that the trial court should have granted his requests to dismiss four potential jurors for cause. prospective juror no. 4771, who was married to someone in law enforcement, indicated that she had more confidence in police than in other witnesses. although she initially stated she was prejudiced in favor of law enforcement, she ultimately acknowledged she would as previously described, prospective juror no. 2891 reported that he might become impatient and vote with the majority. prospective juror no. 5575 stated that she was mugged by gang members. she although initially she questioned her ability to be fair, she ultimately agreed that a defendant should not be found guilty of a crime merely because the defendant is a gang member. prospective juror no. 6044 expressed concern about being fair to someone in a criminal street gang based on general media accounts. defendant used his peremptory challenges to dismiss the four potential jurors and still had additional peremptory challenges when the jury was empaneled. in the words of our occurred when the trial court denied his for-cause challenges because he removed those jurors with . . . peremptory challenges. . . . because no incompetent juror who should 21 have been dismissed for cause sat on his case . . . defendant is not entitled to reversal of the (people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912, 914.) the jury that sits is impartial, the fact that the defendant had to use a peremptory challenge to achieve that result does not mean a id. at p. 917.) d. defendant demonstrates no error relating to defense -examination of the gang expert, and curtailment of that examination defendant argues that the trial court improperly vouched g expert, introduced matters not in evidence, and undermined the presumption of innocence when it los angeles police department. defendant further argues that the court improperly curtailed defense c-examination of the gang expert. defendant bases all of his arguments on a single, brief colloquy, which we summarize prior to explaining why his argument is not well-founded. 1. factual background during cross-examination of the prosecutiodefense counsel tried to suggest that the los angeles police department fit the description of a criminal street gang. after the expert described the criteria for a criminal street gang, a description of what the l.a.p.d. is like, they all wear a certain type of 22 question. the trial court requested disparage nine jurors were then excused and, outside the presence of the jury, the trial court chastised defense counsel for implying that the los criteria of a criminal the trial to me it is unjustified. it is when the jurors returned to the courtroom, the trial court please disregard the last line of questioning. i have found it inappropr [defense counsel] 2. defendant forfeited the argument and demonstrates no prejudicial error defendant forfeited his argument by failing to object to the (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1220.) generally, a timely objection permits a trial court to evaluate an objection and correct any error. (see people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 203.) moreover, defendant has failed to demonstrate that the trial comments require reversal whether measured by the watson or chapman standard of review.7 first, dquestioning comparing the los angeles police department to a criminal street gang merely because police officers wear uniforms was a non sequitur and irrelevant. second, the record does not that the trial court vouched for the 7 people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818; chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. 23 gang expert, presented facts not in evidence, undermined the presumption of innocence, or limited cross-examination. the court used harsh terms to underscore the irrelevance of defense questioning. it did nothing more. its comments did not touch on the presumption of innocence. argument that his cross-examination was improperly limited lacks merit because a defendant is not entitled to ask irrelevant questions. t]he trial court retains wide latitude in restricting cross-examination that is repetitive, prejudicial, confusing of the issues, or of marginal relevance. (people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 372.) additionally, defendant does not show he was denied a fair trial. o]ur role . . . is not to determine whether the trial judges conduct left something to be desired, or even whether some comments would have been better left unsaid. rather, we must determine whether the judges behavior was so prejudicial that it denied [the defendant] a fair, as opposed to a perfect, people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 78.) trial court persists in making discourteous and disparaging remarks to a defendants counsel and witnesses and utters frequent comment from which the jury may plainly perceive that the testimony of the witnesses is not believed by the judge . . . it has transcended so far beyond the pale of judicial fairness as to (people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1233.) that did not occur in this case; the isolated comment in the course of a lengthy trial did not deny defendant a fair trial. (people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 81-82.) as defendant acknowledges, the trial court instructed 24 days you think you may know how i feel about something, you think i know you know how i feel about a witness, you think i know you know how i feel about one of [the] lawyers per chance, jury room. nothing that i feel or to tell you what your verdict should be. do not take anything i said or did during the trial as an indication of what i think about denied a fair trial. e. resentencing is required in supplemental briefs, the parties agree that the case must be remanded to afford defendant an opportunity to present evidence relevant to youth offender parole hearings. they dispute whether remand is necessary for the trial court to exercise its newly-obtained discretion on striking a firearm enhancement. we conclude that the trial court should consider both issues on remand. 1. mitigating evidence it is undisputed that remand is necessary to afford defendant the opportunity to present mitigating evidence, if any, relevant to a future youth offender parole hearing. section 3051, governing parole hearings for youthful offenders, was amended effective january 1, 2018 to apply to persons 25 years old or younger at the time of the offense, which includes defendant. ( 3051, subd. (a)(1).) because at the time of his sentencing, the statute did not apply to him, defendant lacked the opportunity to 25 make a record relevant to a future youth offender parole hearing. (franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284.) in franklin, our high court remanded the case to the trial court to ensure defendant had the opportunity to present youth-related mitigating factors, an opportunity which rendered moot his eighth amendment challenge to his sentence. (franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 286.) the court explained: the parties to make an accurate record of the juvenile offenders characteristics and circumstances at the time of the offense so that the board, years later, may properly discharge its obligation -related factors ( 4801, subd. (c)) in id. at p. 284.) judicial changes in the law generally are retroactive, and it is undisputed that franklin should be applied to defendant. (people v. birks (1998) 19 cal.4th 108, 136.) remand is necessary for the parties to develop an appropriate record. 2. firearm enhancement when the trial court sentenced defendant, it was required to apply a 25-years-to-life firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). effective january 1, 2018, the statute now affords a court discretion to strike or dismiss the gun discharge/use enhancement. (stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) the statute applies retroactively to defendant because his conviction was not final as of the effective day of the amendment, and he may benefit from the potential reduced sentence. (see people v. robbins (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 660, 678.) 26 exercise (people v. belmontes which is unaware of the scope of its discretionary powers can no than one whose sentence is or may have been based on misinformation regarding a ibid.) thus, where a trial court imposes a sentence in the belief that it lacks discretion to strike an enhancement, remand is necessary to permit the trial court to exercise its discretion. (people v. brown (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1213, 1228.) the attorney general relies on people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894 to argue this case is an exception to the general rule requiring remand. the attorney general maintains that under the reasoning of people v. gutierrez, we can and should deny remand because it would serve no purpose in light of comments at the resentencing hearing. the defendant in people v. gutierrez sought a remand people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 clarifying that trial courts have discretion under the three strikes law to strike prior convictions in the interests of justice. the people v. gutierrez court explained that remand would not, in any event, have exercised its discretion to lessen the sentence. it stated that imposing the maximum sentence was believed was required by the three strikes law, by imposing the high term for count 1 and by imposing two additional discretionary one-people v. gutierrez, 27 supra, 48 cal.app.4th at p. 1896.) thus, in that case, the trial court had considered, at least hypothetically, whether it would exercise its discretion. this case is distinguishable from people v. gutierrez. although the trial court stated that it impose the same sentence if it had discretion, the court lacked a complete record when it made that statement. specifically, the court was not aware of any mitigating evidence defendant may present in the franklin hearing. such evidence may be relevant to whether the firearm enhancement should be stricken especially given that defendant has no prior criminal convictions. e same sentence does not conclusively demonstrate the court would have imposed the same sentence if it knew it had discretion. upon remand, the trial court should exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h).8 8 we find no cumulative error warranting reversal. 28 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the case is remanded to the trial court for resentencing. the trial court is directed to hold a hearing pursuant to people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261 and to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: rothschild, p.j. johnson, j. 