filed 8/14/17 p. v. villa ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and appellant, v. ruben villa, defendant and respondent. b269082 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba292983) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, larry p. fidler, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded with directions. jackie lacey, district attorney, roberta schwartz and matthew brown, deputy district attorneys, for plaintiff and appellant. ivy kessel and alex r. kessel for defendant and respondent. _______________________ 2 introduction defendant ruben villa was charged by information with murder (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a); count 1), possession of a firearm by a felon (former  12021, subd. (a)(1); count 2), assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); count 3), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; count 4). on count 1, the jury convicted defendant of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (a)) and found true the allegation he personally used a firearm in the commission of the crime ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). the jury convicted villa on counts 2 and 3, and as to count 3 the jury found true the personal firearm use allegation ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). the jury convicted villa on count 4 and found true the allegations he personally used and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.5, subd. (a), 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d)). villa moved for a new trial, in part on the ground the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury as to count 4 on the lesser included offense of grossly negligent discharge of a firearm ( 246.3, subd. (a)). the trial court granted the motion as to count 4. the people filed this appeal. (see  1238, subd. (a)(3).) we reverse the order granting a new trial as to count 4, reinstate the conviction on that count for shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, together with the related enhancement, and remand for sentencing. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 facts a. prosecution the victim, matthew brandon simms, had been dating amada alvarez for two or three years. during her relationship with simms, alvarez also became romantically involved with villa. relationship with villa and periodically asked her if she was still seeing him. from villa in the el sereno area of los angeles. alvarez and jensen got together almost every day to smoke methamphetamine. because alvarez did not have a car, simms dropped alvarez off and pi on october 23, 2005, jensen was inside her house when she heard simms drive up to pick up alvarez. she heard villa yelling at simms that he told simms not to come back up there. alvarez went outside and began cursing at villa, who warned her that simms had better not come back up there. the following day, october 24, simms dropped off alvarez alvarez was planning to stay only about 15 minutes. simms made a u-turn and stopped in front of villahouse, with villaalvarez noticed villa outside, talking to the occupants of a car that was stopped in the street. when villa saw alvarez and simms, he went into his house. jensen came outside and was talking with simms. suddenly, she saw villa leaving his yard, holding a gun. she 4 villa holding a gun and running out of his driveway toward villa fired a few the street. alvarez and jensen saw and/or heard villa fire a few more shots through the back window of the car as it rolled down the street. alvarez asked villa what he was doing. he told her to shut up and that the shooting was her fault for letting simms disrespect him. according to jensen, villa head and said he should shoot her too. he tucked his gun inside car. he then returned to his to go check on simms. jensen blamed alvarez for the shooting and stopped talking to her after it happened. , was in the driveway of her house, working on stolen vehicles he had parked in the driveway. he heard several gunshots and dropped to the ground. he then heard five to 10 more gunshots.2 he shooting at it. estevez was worried about the police arriving at the scene because of the stolen vehicles. he left for a few days to avoid police attention. officer ricardo ortega of the los angeles police department was the first to arrive at the scene. he found simms slumped forward in his car, which had crashed into a tree. 2 estevez denied telling the police in an interview that he saw villa fire at simms through the car window at point blank range. 5 officer ortega observed a bullet wound in left cheek and blood in the car. the front drivthe passenger windows were closed; all were intact. the rear window and rear wing there were multiple bullet holes in eight shell casings from a semiautomatic handgun were found at the scene. the casings appeared to b paramedics took simms to the hospital. simms had gunshot wounds to his face, chest, and back. simms died from a gunshot wound to the chest; the bullet pierced his lung, lacerated major blood vessels, and exited his body through his neck. there was no soot or stippling around the gunshot wounds, indicating that the muzzle of the gun was more than two feet from simms when he was shot. according to senior criminalist nathan cross of the los angeles police department, there were no bullet marks inside that would have been caused by someone shooting he found were consistent with someone having fired into the car from the rear. b. defense villa testified on his own behalf. he met alvarez through jensen in april 2005. he had a relationship with her for several months. while she told him that she was living with another man and helping him take care of his child, she did not initially tell him or that he was her boyfriend. about two weeks after villa began seeing alvarez, he had a confrontation with simms. about 10 minutes after having been 6 picked up by simms, alvarez returned and came to see villa. she was bleeding from her mouth, told him that simms had thrown her out of his car, and warned him that simms had threatened to kill him. while alvarez and villa were talking, simms approached them, pointed a gun at villa, and said something about with alvarez. villa told simmpushed simms back toward simms later called villa to apologize, saying it was okay if alvarez preferred villa to him. villa had another confrontation with simms when he was walking with alvarez. simms drove up, jumped out of his car, and tried to come at villa. alvarez got in between the two men and began arguing with simms, and villa walked away. there was also an incident in which villa was in his front yard and simms drove up and ran at villa, holding a machete and threatening to kill villa. villacame out of the home, grabbed a shovel, approached simms, and told him to leave. simms returned to his car and drove away. villa ended his relationship with alvarez in august 2005. two months later, on october 23, villa was talking to one of his friends by his house when he noticed simms leahouse. as simms drove away, he yelled curses at villa, who yelled curses back at simms. alvarez and jensen came outside, and alvarez asked villa why he was yelling at simms. villa told alvarez to tell simms to stop coming there and to stop disrespecting him. late the next morning, villa was waiting for his coworkers to pick him up for work. when they arrived, he gave them a for being late and then went inside his house to 7 get his keys. when he came back out, he saw simmsmiddle of the street, facing downhill. seat, and no one else was in the car. villa approached the open window of the door and told simms not to disrespect his family. simms pointed a gun at villa and cursed at him. villa knocked the gun away as simms fired a shot out the window. villa tried to grab the gun away from simms; as they fought over it, the gun fired again, and villa ended up with the gun in his hand. villa wanted to go back to his house, but he thought simms would kill him if he tried to do so, and then he thought about his family. villa starts taking off, and just like impulse . . villa did not intend to kill simms; he just wanted to protect himself and his family. villa remembered that alvarez was yelling at him and that he probably told her it was all her fault. in a daze. everything happened . . on cross-examination, villa denied shooting simms in the face and said he did not see any blood after the first two shots were fired. he denied d continuing to fire at it, and he could not explain how shell casings ended up further down the street in the direction the car had traveled. when he fired at the car, he was not trying to kill simms; was an impulse . . . he fired two shots at simms as he was driving away. when the car came to a stop about half a block away, villa fired five more times: thinking he is going to come out and start shooting at me with 8 another gun. i ran to the side by my driveway, and as soon as were fired uncontrollably from [his] hand. after the incident, villa did not call 911, because he does not trust the police. he he disposed of the gun by throwing it in a gutter in el monte. he did not keep guns around because he was on parole and subject to search at any time. on redirect examination, the following colloquy took place: did you ever fire the gun . . . and take aim at the body of [simms]? no. did youyou shot at the car? yes. you were trying to hit the car? it was an impulse. it was a reflex. i mean did you have time to think about everything as we are in court going through it step-by-step? how fast is this happening out there? from my recollection, it was over in about 30 new trial motion one of the grounds for villato count 4, the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury sua sponte on discharging a firearm in a grossly negligent manner ( 246.3, subd. (a)), a lesser included offense of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (see people v. ramirez (2009) 45 cal.4th 980, 990; people v. overman (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1344, 1362). 9 this was based on villahis car and tried to shoot villa with it, and villa was not trying to shoot at simms or the car when he fired the gun. villa argued that if the jury found he acted in self-defense, it nonetheless could have found that he was grossly negligent in shooting the in opposition, the people argued that no instruction on the lesser included offense was warranted and that any error in failing to give the instruction was not prejudicial. the court granted the new trial motion as to count 4, noting hether it was imperfect self-as to why he shot [simms] and what he was thinking when he ould not have at least considered [the lesser offense], even though the court did discussion a. standard of review a defendant may move for a new trial on the basis of instructional error. (see  1181, subd. 5; people v. iraheta (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 611, 619.) an order granting a motion for new trial is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. ault (2004) 33 cal.4th 1250, 1260-1261.) 10 b. instruction on lesser included offenses the trial court hageneral principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the included offenses if there is evidence that, if accepted by the trier of fact, would absolve the defendant of guilt of the greater offense people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 115-116.) thus, the obligation to instruct on a lesser included offense arises only if the record contains substantial evidence that the defendant committed the lesser but not the greater offense. (see people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 705.) section 246 prohibits willful and malicious discharge of a firearm at certain specified targets, including an occupied motor celebratory gunfire. (see people v. ramirez, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 985-987.) subdivision (a) of section 246.3 (section 246.3(a)) prohibits willful discharge of a firearm in a grossly negligent the supreme court has held that section 246.3(a) is a necessarily included lesser offense of section 246. both offenses require that the defendant willfully fire a gun. although the mens rea requirements are somewhat differently described, both are general intent crimes. the high probability of human death or personal injury in section 246 is similar to, although greater than, the formulation of likelihood in section 246.3(a), which difference between the two, and the basis for the more serious treatment of a section 246 offense, is that the greater offense requires that an [occupied motor vehicle] be within the 11 section 246.3(a) are necessarily included in the more stringent requirements of (people v. ramirez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 990.) c. analysis the trial court was required to instruct on section 246.3(a) only if the record contains substantial evidence that villa violated section 246.3(a) but not section 246. the people argue that the record contains no such evidence. we agree. villa admitted shooting at the car while aware that it was occupied by simms and was well within firing range. there was no evidence to the contrary. the only differences between section 246 and section 246.3(a) are that section 246 requires that an occupied vehicle be within firing range and that there be a high probability of human death or personal injury; section 246.3(a) does not require the presence of an occupied vehicle in firing range and requires only that injury or death could result. (see people v. ramirez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 990.) there was no evidence that villa fired a gun but not at the car occupied by simms, or that he fired a gun in such a manner that injury or death could result but was not testimonythat he fired twice at the car from about 10 feet away and five more times from about half a block awayconfirmed that he did fire at an occupied vehicle and that death or injury was highly probable. ny, if believed by the jury, was evidence he did not fire the gun intentionally. according to villa, the first two shots were fired as he and simms struggled over the gun. once villa took possession of the gun, he fired at simms twice from a distance of about 10 feet while simms was driving away, but 12 his , after that, five more but if the jury had believed this testimony and had interpreted it as showing that villa did not fire the gun intentionally, then the jury would have been required to find him not guilty under both section 246 and section 246.3(a), because both offenses require his impulsivity and lack of intent therefore does not provide a basis on which he could be acquitted under section 246 but convicted under section 246.3(a). villa argues that the jury could have believed that he acted in self-defense and that the malice element of section 246 was therefore negated, but the jury could still have convicted him under section 246.3(a). the argument lacks merit. if villa acted -defense (i.e., under the honest and objectively reasonable belief in the need to use force to protect himself from imminent death or great bodily injury), then he would be not guilty under both section 246 and section 246.3(a). (see, e.g., people v. lee (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1413, 1427 [applying perfect self-defense to a charge under  246.3].) and if he acted in -defense (i.e., under the honest but objectively unreasonable belief that he was in imminent danger of death or great bodily injury), then that would not be a defense under section 246. (see people v. iraheta, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at p. 623 [imperfect self-[] 246 and similar ; see generally id. at p. 620 [explaining that imperfect self-defense is not a true defense but rather is a theory of manslaughter].) there is consequently no theory of self-defense 13 that would render villa guilty under section 246.3(a) but not guilty under section 246. for all of the foregoing reasons, we conclude that the trial court did not err by failing to instruct the jury on section 246.3(a). motion for new trial on that basis. disposition the order granting a new trial as to count 4 is reversed, the conviction on that count for shooting at an occupied motor vehicle is reinstated, together with the related enhancement, and the matter is remanded for sentencing. in all other respects, the order on vilis affirmed. menetrez, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 