filed 10/17/17 p. v. leopard ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george gary leopard, defendant and appellant. b269439 los angeles county super. ct. no. va138424 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. higa, judge. reversed as modified with directions. richard d. miggins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction defendant george gary leopard was convicted of 15 counts stemming from the molestation of his five-year-old step-granddaughter. on appeal, defendant contends there is insufficient evidence that any act was committed with duress or that 11 of the 15 charged acts were committed at all. he also instruction on the use of propensity evidence misstated the law and proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. we conclude there was sufficient evidence that defendant committed the lewd acts but insufficient evidence of duress. we therefore modify the judgment to reflect convictions of lesser-included offenses that do not require duress. we also concludeas have the other courts considering this issuethat the version of caljic no. 2.50.01 used in this case impermissibly lowered the prosecutionof proof. we therefore reverse the modified judgment and remand for retrial. procedural background by amended information filed november 30, 2015, defendant was charged with one count of forcible oral copulation of a minor (pen. code,1  269, subd. (a)(4)/ 288a, subd. (c)(2); count 1); three counts of sexual penetration of a child ( 269, subd. (a)(5)/ 289, subd. (a); counts 68); and 15 counts of forcible lewd act upon a child ( 288, subd. (b)(1); counts 1125).2 as to 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 at the preliminary hearing on june 9, 2015, the people announced unable to proceed on counts 25, 9, and 10 of the complaint and dismissed them. on december 1, 2015, just before trial, the 3 all counts, the information alleged that the victim was under age 14 ( 1203.066, subd. (a)(8)); that defendant had substantial sexual contact with her (ibid.); and that the offenses were committed by force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury (id., subd. (a)(1)). defendant pled not guilty and denied the allegations. the pretrial motion to appoint expert witnesses. at trialover defense objectionthe court instructed the jury using caljic, the pattern jury instructions produced by the thomson reuters corporation, rather than calcrim, the official jury instructions approved by the judicial council. (see cal. rules of court, rule 2.1050(a); iduse of the judicial council instructions is strongly encouraged..) after a trial at which he testified in his own defense, the jury found defendant guilty of all counts and found the conduct allegations true. the court run 10 of the counts concurrently under section 667.6, subdivision (c), and sentenced him to an aggregate term of 57 years to life. the court imposed a determinate sentence of 42 years for counts 1124 ( 288, subd. (b)(1))a consecutive low term of three years for each count.3 the court imposed the mandatory indeterminate people dismissed counts 6, 7, and 8 under section 1385. on december 7, 2015, the court dismissed count 25 under section 1118.1. 3 it appears from the record that the court concluded consecutive sentencing was mandatory under section 667.6, subdivision (d), rather than discretionary under subdivision (c). the court did not explain the basis for its conclusion that all incidents occurred on separate occasions, however. we note that if defendant is convicted upon retrial, the court should state the basis for its finding that consecutive sentences are mandatory under subdivision (d). should the court 4 sentence of 15 years to life ( 269, subd. (a)(4)) for count 1 ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)), to run consecutively. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. factual background denise o. was born on march 1, 2001. when she testified at trial in december 2015, denise was 14 years old. defendant . he was 5'11" and weighed 185 pounds. defendant randmother in a mobile home in bellflower. from the time denise was four years old until her grandparents moved to san jacinto when she was nine, , ana o., dropped her off at the mobile home for babysitting. ana usually dropped off her two oldest daughtersdenise and desiree o.when she had to go to the doctor or get groceries. while she typically brought both girls to her home, on two or three occasions, ana dropped denise off alone. and picked them up. when denise was five years old and in kindergarten, defendant began acting inappropriately toward her. the first time this happened, defendant and denise were sitting on a couch in the living room watching television. defendant told denise to sit on his lap. when she did, he pulled up her skirt, put his hands under the skirt, slid her panties to the side, and instead conclude consecutive sentences are discretionary, the court should state the reasons for its sentencing choice under subdivision (c). (see people v. pitmon (1985) 170 cal.app.3d 38, 54.) 5 touched and rubbed her vagina. the incident lasted less than five minutes. denise did not tell anyone what had happened. sometime after this first incident, defendant again touched . in that incident, after defendant he unzipped his pants, pulled them down enough to expose his penis, and told denise to touch his penis. denise quickly touched his penis with her hand. then defendant told denise to put her mouth on his penis. she licked his penis for about a second. ultimately, defendant on five different days. each incident happened the same way, and it never happened when her sisters, desiree and deanna o., were there. defendant also had denise touch his penis four times. he had her put her mouth on his penis four times. finally, defendant kissed denise inappropriately on five occasions by putting his tongue in her mouth. though denise could not recall when defendant stopped molesting her, she thought the molestation lasted for six months or a year. curious but not afraid. in fact, she testified that at the time, she did not think defendant was doing anything wrong. six or seven years later, when denise was in sixth grade, she started seeing a therapist for anxiety. during the second appointment, denise told the therapist about the touching and said it felt like a dream. that was the first time she learned the touching was wrong. after the session, the therapist asked ana questions about defendant, which led ana to ask denise if defendant had done something to her. denise told her mother that defendant had sexually molested her. the parties stipulated that the therapist was a mandated reporter of sexual abuse. 6 abuse claim. acevedo had not been trained in forensic interview techniques, and denise was not given a forensic interview. at recorded call to defendant. according to acevedo, a pretext call is an investigative technique whereby a victim attempts to get a suspect to implicate himself in a crime. during the call, denise told defendant she wanted to discuss times he had done touch me in my pyet; she just wanted defendant to apologize to her. defendant repeatedly apologized to denise, saying it had happened a long pleaded with denise not to tell her mother or anyone else, saying done, and that he would get in trouble and go to jail. after denise threatened to tell her mother, she asked why defendant touch me and put your penis in my mouth. h, i did some stupid, i defendant admitted that he knew what he had done was wrong. he did not remember doing anything to her sisters or to anyone else. the people also presented evidence of uncharged conduct one day when she was seven or eight years old, she was in the living room watching television with defendant, when he asked if he could take her picture. they were sitting on separate couches, facing each other. desiree was wearing short shorts. as defendant took the photograph, he told desiree to spread her 7 legs. defendant repeatedly told her to spread her legs while he took four or five photographs of her body with his mobile phone. desiree complied.4 during the 2015 pretext call, denise alluded to this incident. denise told defendant she remembered when he told desiree to spread her legs and took photographs of her while she at trial, defendant testified that he panicked when denise called him and accused him of touching her inappropriately. he claimed he did not do any of the things denise accused him of doing but was afraid denise would falsely accuse himand if she did, people would believe her. defendant apologized to denise on the telephone in the hopes that she would not say anything to satisfy denise by telling her what she wanted to hear. 4 647.6 (annoying or molesting a child), and was therefore admissible as propensity evidence under evidence code section 1108, subdivision (d)(1)(a). a violation of section 647.6 requires the people to prove: the defendant engaged in conduct directed at a child; [] 2. a normal person, without hesitation, would have been disturbed, the defesexual interest in the child or in children generally; and [] 4. the people v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 1161; see id. at pp. 11611163.) 8 contentions defendant contends: (1) there is insufficient evidence of three of five occasions of sexual abuse; (2) there is insufficient evidence of duress; (3) the court abused its discretion by denying the courtroom during defense closing argument; (4) counsel provided constitutionally inadequate representation by failing to ask the court to admonish the jury to disregard the crying; (5) caljic no. 2.50.01 misstated the law and lowered the burden of proof; (6) there was insufficient evidence that the uncharged conduct with desiree was a sex offense; (7) the jury should not have been instructed on the elements of section 647.6; (8) the uncharged conduct should have been excluded under evidence code section 352; (9) the court failed to make the required findings about the necessity of a victim support person; (10) the court failed to instruct the victim support person not to prompt or sway the witness; and (11) the victim support personuct confrontation clause rights. discussion while defendant raises approximately 11 issues on appeal, we only address sufficiency of the evidence and instructional error, as those issues are dispositive. 1. sufficiency of the evidence a criminal defendant may not be convicted of any crime unless the prosecution proves every fact necessary for conviction beyond a reasonable doubt. (u.s. const., 5th amend.; u.s. const., 14th amend.; see cal. const., art. i,  7, 15; in re 9 winship (1970) 397 u.s. 358, 364; jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 316.) this principle is so fundamental to the american system of justice that cprotection against jury irrationality or error by the independent review of the sufficiency of the evidence undertaken by the trial and appellate courts. (united states v. powell (1984) 469 u.s. 57, 67.) defendant contends there is insufficient evidence that denise acted under duress, a required element of all counts, or that he committed 11 of the 15 charged lewd acts. we agree with the former argument and disagree with the latter. 1.1. standard of review in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence, we review the entire record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. zamudio disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty ibid.) in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) the same standard applies where the conviction rests primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 113.) we may not reweigh the evidence or resolve evidentiary conflicts. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) in light of these principles, we may not reverse for 10 whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support [the people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) deference is not abdication, however, and substantial evidence is not synonymous with any evidence. a decision supported by a mere scintilla of evidence need not be affirmed on appeal. [citation.] although substantial evidence may consist of inferences, those inferences must be products of logic and reason and must be based on the evidence. inferences that are the result of mere speculation or conjecture cannot support a [guilty verdict]. the ultimate test is whether a reasonable trier of fact would make the challenged ruling considering the whole record. [citationsin re james r. (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 129, 135; evid. code,  600, subd. an inference is a deduction of fact that may logically and reasonably be drawn from another fact or group of facts found or otherwise established in the action. 1.2. there is insufficient evidence of duresscoercion achieved through threat of force, violence, danger, hardship, or retribution. to convict a defendant of violating section 288, subdivision (b)(1), the people must prove the following elements beyond a reasonable doubt: the defendant willfully touched any part of a yor caused a child to touch the either on the bare skin or through the clothing; in committing the act, the defendant used force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury; 11 the defendant committed the act with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of himself or the child; and the child was under the age of 14 years at the time of the act. ( 288, subd. (b)(1); see calcrim no. 1111.)5 in this case, the prosecution argued the lewd acts were accomplished by duress. duress is a direct or implied threat of force, violence, danger, hardship or retribution sufficient to coerce a reasonable person of ordinary susceptibilities to (1) perform an act which otherwise would not have been performed or, (2) acquiesce in an (people v. pitmon, supra, 170 cal.app.3d at p. 50, quoted with approval in people v. leal, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 10041005.) duress psychological coercion. people v. senior (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 765, 775 (senior).) coercion, in turn, synonym discussion of coerce, merriam-webster <https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ coerce> [as of oct. 5, 2017].) coercion may be more likely where, for example, the defendant holds a position of authority overor is much older or larger thanthe victim. (senior, supra, 3 cal.app.4th at p. 775.) 5 to convict a defendant of aggravated sexual assault by oral copulation ( 269, subd. (a)(4)/ 288a, subd. (c)(2); count 1), the touching must be an act of oral copulation. the other elements are the same. (people v. leal (2004) 33 cal.4th 999, 10041005 [noting  288 definition of duress also applies to  269 and  288a].) 12 other relevant factors include threats to harm the victim, physically controlling the victim when the victim attempts to resist, and warnings to the victim that revealing the molestation would result in jeopardizing the family. people v. veale (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 40, 46.) ultimately, however, psychological coercion, without more, does not establish duress. (people v. espinoza (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1287, 1321 (espinoza).) there must also be s] participation was impelled, at least partly, by an implied threat . [citation.(ibid., alteration in espinoza.) here, made her feel confused and curiousnot disgusted or afraid. she also repeatedly testified that she did not think defendant was doing anything wrong. to be sure, denise performed or submitted to some acts because defendant told her to. while that evidence might be enough to establish lack of consent, however, lack of consent is irrelevant to duress. (people v. soto (2011) 51 cal.4th 229, 244248 [because lack of consent is not an element of the offense, consent is immaterial].) denise testified unequivocally that she was not under duress. according to denise, defendant did not threaten to punish her, to tell her mother she had disobeyed him, or to withhold dinner; he did not use force, threats, or intimidation to make her comply; he did not warn her not to tell anyone or suggest that telling would break up the family. denise testified that she was not afraid of her step-grandfather; she was not afraid something bad would happen to her if she did not comply with his demands. indeed, although denise touched him for no more than a second each time, defendant neither asked her to continue nor physically compelled her to do so. 13 the people nevertheless argue defendant coerced denise to that thanks to these factorsand only these factorsdefendant certainly, a the defendant did not use force or threats must be considered in light of her age and her relationship to the defendant.people v. cochran (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 8, 14 (cochran).) such factors are relevant to whether any threat of force, violence, danger, hardship or is sufficiently coercive. (ibid.) evidence of youth or family relationship does not absolve the prosecution from proving threats or pressure in the first instance, however. (see people v. hecker (1990) 219 cal.app.3d 1238, 1251 [while all sex crimes with children are inherently coercive, the legislature has determined that defendants who compound their commission of such acts by the use of violence or threats of violence should be singled out for more particularized deterrence].) proposition that either age or family relationship, without more, is sufficient to sustain a duress finding. while cochran and senior discussed those issues, those cases also involved additional evidence pointing to duress. in senior, the first time the defendant molested the victim, he threatened to hit her if senior, supra, 3 cal.app.4th at p. 770.) since the defendant had hit the victim and her siblings in the past, this did not appear to be an idle threat. (ibid.) then, defendant warned the victim that if she told anyone about the molestation, there would be a divorce. (ibiddefendant14 that he id. at pp. 770, 771.) senior concluded that these factorscombined with the physical restraint imposed in some subsequent molestationsprovided sufficient evidence of an nce, duress finding for later molestations in which the defendant did not explicitly threaten the victim. (id. at p. 775776.) though cochran featured less compelling testimony than senior, the cochran jury was able to infer duress from video evidence of the actual molestation in the family home. (cochran, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 15.) tibid.) moreover, the defendant in the which the jury could have would break up the family if she did not comply id. at pp. 1516.) in short, the evidence in cochran and senior extended well beyond the quantum of evidence hypothesized in cochranfootnote 6i.e., that where a child is molested by her id. at p. 16, fn. 6)and the evidence in this case falls far short of it. espinoza is not persuasive. the people attempt to distinguish that case, which found insufficient evidence of duress, by suggesting that here, far closer and more authoritative relationship to denise (as her frequent babysitter) than the defendant in espinoza did to his victim, who had been living in another state 15 cited authorities, however, the molester in espinoza was the fatherand as with the other cited authorities, the people do not explain why a step-grandparent or (espinoza, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at p. 1292.) nor do the people acknowledge the precarious position in which the espinoza victim found herself. at request, the defendant in that case had driven from california to nebraska, picked up the victim and her sisters, and brought them to live with him in salinas. (ibid.) midwest. (id. at pp. 1292, 1295 [victim and sisters stayed with care].) paternity aside, it is not clear that the espinoza victim, a special needs student and previous molestation victim living id. at pp. 1292, 1294 [sisters did not believe viabuse report], 1296 [same], 1321.) after reviewing the entire record, we find no substantial evidence that denise performed or submitted to the charged acts under duress. consequently, the section 288, subdivision (b), convictions must be modified to the lesser-included offense of violating section 288, subdivision (a). ( 1181, subd. 6;  1260; people v. bailey (2012) 54 cal.4th 740, 748 [where court finds insufficient evidence of greater offense but sufficient evidence of lesser-included offense, reviewing court may modify the judgment to reflect conviction of lesser offense]; espinoza, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at pp. 13211322 [same].) likewise, conviction for forcible oral copulation of a child ( 269, subd. (a)(4)/ 288a, subd. (c)(2); count 1) must be modified to the 16 lesser-included offense of violating section 288a, subdivision (c)(1). 1.3. there is sufficient evidence to support the number of counts. ambiguous to support convictions for 11 of 15 incidentsnamely, the acts that occurred on the third, fourth, and fifth occasions. we disagree. to be sure, the evidence also would have supported a conclusion that denise was not molested on five separate occasions. for example, denise testified that she was never molested when her sisters were present, but her mother testified that she only left denise alone two or three times. and, while denise plainly recalled two occasions and may have recalled a third, she testified repeatedly that she was guessing about the total number. she explained that she simply could not remember each time distinctly. as discussed, however, we may not reweigh the evidence or resolve evidentiary conflicts (people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181), and there was also enough evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude defendant committed 14 lewd acts and one act of oral copulation. denise specifically remembered defendant kissing her with his tongue five times. (see in re r.c. (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 741, 750751 there can be no innocent ].) denise also testified that she penis at least four times and certain that she toupenis at least four times. on each of those occasions, defendant 17 additional occasion on which defendant touched only her vagina. there is sufficient evidence to sustain the verdict. 2. instructional error defendant argues that the court erroneously instructed the jury regarding the use of evidence of his propensity to commit sex offenses. (evid. code,  1108.) he maintains that the challenged s burden of proof because it told the jurors they could find any charged offense true by a preponderance of the evidence and then use that finding to infer that he had the disposition to commitand did commitother charged offenses. defendant is correct. 2.1. forfeiture and standard of review as a preliminary matter, the people failure to object to the instruction on this ground at trial forfeited the error.6 the people are mistaken. rrect jury instructions on the general principles of law relevant to people v. cruz (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 1178, 1183 (cruz).) certainly, a criminal defendant has a right to accurate instructions on the s burden of proof. (people v. aranda (2012) 55 cal.4th 342.) and it is settled that a defendant need not object to preserve a challenge to an instruction that affects his substantial rights. (people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 976, fn. 7; see  12also review any instruction given, refused or modified, even though no objection was made thereto in the trial court, if the 6 any caljic instruction, however. 18 ;  1469 [same].) whether a defendants substantial rights were affected, however, can only be determined by deciding if the instruction as given was flawed and, if so, whether the error was prejudicial. (people v. hudson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1002, 10111012 [forfeiture rule does not apply to incorrect statements of law].) that is, if claim has merit, it has not been forfeited. thus, we must necessarily review the merits of his claim. we review instructional errors de novo. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) 2.2. as given, caljic no. 2.50.01 misstated the law. sexual offense or offenses is not made inadmissible by section 1101, if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to section 352. (evid. code,  1108, subd. (a).) (stats. 1995, ch. 439,  2, p. 3429) and, since then, courts have understood that it at least allows admission of evidence of uncharged sexual offenses to show a propensity to commit sexual cruz, supra, 2 cal.app.5th at p. 1185.) thus, in this case, the court properly allowed desiree to testify that one day when she was seven or eight years old and wearing short shorts, defendant told her to spread her legs so he could take a picture of her. in addition, the supreme court held in people v. villatoro (2012) 54 cal.4th 1152 (villatoro), that the statute charged in the current prosecution to be used to show a propensity to commit other charged offenses in the same case. [citation.]cruz, supra, at p. 1184.) 19 as we will explain, while the instructions in this case were only by a preponderance of the evidence before it can be used for cruz, supra, 2 cal.app.5th at p. 1184.) caljic no. 2.50.01.7 the first time, the court instructed the jury as follows: in determining whether defendant has been proved guilty of any sexual crime of which he is charged, you should consider all relevant evidence, including whether the defendant committed any other sexual crime, whether charged or uncharged, about which evidence has been received. the crimes charged in counts 1, 1124 may be considered by you in that regard. a. any conduct made criminal by penal code section 647.6(a). the elements of this crime are set forth elsewhere in these instructions. if you find by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant committed any such other sexual offense, you may, but are not required to, infer that the defendant had a disposition to commit sexual offenses. if you find that the defendant had this disposition, you may, but are not required to, infer that he was likely to commit and did commit the crime of which he is accused. 7 all undesignated jury instruction numbers are to caljic. 20 however, even though you find by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant committed another sexual offense, that is not sufficient by itself to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he committed the charged crimes you are determining. if you determine an inference properly can be drawn from this evidence, this inference is simply one item for you to consider, along with all other evidence, in determining whether the defendant has been proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of the charged crimes that you are determining. [emphasis added.] at this point in the instructions, the court had already instructed the jury on note-taking, independent investigations, and how to evaluate evidence, but had not yet instructed the jury on the presumption of innocence, reasonable doubt, or preponderance of the evidence. then, after giving no. 2.50.01, the court read the jury the following caljic instructions: no. 2.62 explaining that the jury could draw a negative inference him; no. 2.70 defining confession and admission; no. 2.72 about corpus delicti; no. 2.81 about lay opinion testimony; no. 2.90 about the presumption of innocence and reasonable doubt; no. 3.30 about general intent; no. 4.71 explaining the people did not need to prove the precise dates of the charged crimes; nos. 10.55 and 10.59.10 concerning the elements of count 1; no. 1.23.1 defining consent; no. 10.60 that the require corroboration; no. 10.42 concerning the elements of counts 1114; no. 17.02 that each count is a distinct occurrence; no. 17.24.1 concerning allegations of duress and substantial sexual contact; no. 1.06 about the identities of the parties and 21 charged crimes; no. 10.41 concerning the elements of the lesser-included offense of section 288, subdivision (a); and no. 3.31 about specific intent.8 finally, as its last substantive instruction, the court gave a longer version of no. 2.50.01: in determining whether defendant has been proved guilty of any sexual crime of which he is charged, you should consider all relevant evidence, including whether the defendant committed any other sexual crime, whether charged or uncharged, about which evidence has been received. the crimes charged in counts 1, 1124 may be considered by you in that regard. a. any conduct made criminal by penal code section 647.6(a). the elements of this crime are set forth elsewhere in these instructions. if you find by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant committed any such other sexual offense, you may, but are not required to, infer that the defendant had a disposition to commit sexual offenses. if you find that the defendant had this disposition, you may, but are not required to, infer that he was likely to commit and did commit the crime of which he is accused. however, even though you find by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant committed another sexual offense, that is not sufficient by itself to prove beyond a reasonable 8 as defendant does not challenge any of these instructions on appeal, we express no opinion about their accuracy or propriety. 22 doubt that he committed the charged crimes you are determining. if you determine an inference properly can be drawn from this evidence, this inference is simply one item for you to consider, along with all other evidence, in determining whether the defendant has been proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of the charged crimes that you are determining. [emphasis added.] the court provided the elements of section 647.6, subdivision (a), then continued: within the meaning of the preceding instructions, the prosecution has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that a defendant committed a crime other than those for which he is on trial. you must not consider this evidence for any purpose unless you find by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant committed the other crime. if you find other crimes were committed by a preponderance of the evidence, you are nevertheless cautioned and reminded that before a defendant can be found guilty of any crime charged in this trial, the evidence as a whole must persuade you beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty of that crime. finally, the court concluded by defining preponderance of the evidence: that has more convincing force than that opposed to it. if the evidence is so evenly balanced that 23 you are unable to find that the evidence on either side of an issue preponderates, your finding on that issue must be against the party who had the burden of proving it. you should consider all of the evidence bearing upon every issue regardless of who produced it. first consider whether the offenses charged in counts 1 [and 1124] had been established by a preponderance of the evidence, while holding its ultimate decision on the same offenses in suspension. then the jury was required to decide whether the preponderance finding showed a propensity, and whether this propensity, in combination with the other evidence, proved those offenses a second time, this time beyond a reasonable doubt.(cruz, supra, 2 cal.app.5th at pp. 11851186.) we agree with the cruz court that this was error. in villatorothat the instruction applied to the charged offenses before the jury could draw a contended the jury could have used any standard. the supreme court disagreed, because the instruction given (a modified prove each element of every charge beyond a reasonable doubt and prove it beyond a reasonable doubt before you may consider [usually, the] pattern instruction, which referred only to the use of uncharged offenses to show propensity, stated that those uncharged offenses need be proved only by a preponderance of the evidence. [citation.] because the modified instruction stated 24 instead that the reasonable doubt standard must be applied, sk the jury would apply an impermissibly low cruz, supra, 2 cal.app.5th at p. 1185.) in short, the instruction in villatoro, which referred only to charged offenses, explained that any charged crime must be found beyond a reasonable doubt before it could be used as propensity evidence of another charged crime. (villatoro, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 11671168.) we agree with cruz villatoro did not expressly hold that currently charged offenses must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt before they can be used to show a propensity under evidence code section 1108, it strongly implied that rule. (cruz, supra, 2 cal.app.5th at p. 1186.) e instruction used in the present case, by contrast, expressly stated that the preponderance standard applied to the determination of whether [defendant] committed charged and uncharged offenses for the purpose of deciding whether he had a propensity to coid. at p. 1185.)9 2.3. reversal is required. the instruction at issue here nearly impossible task of juggling competing standards of proof during different phases of its consideration of the same evidence. 9 the people argue no. 2.50.01 correctly stated the law because the supreme court upheld caljic no. 2.50.01 in people v. reliford (2003) 29 cal.4th 1007, 1012. that argument overlooks the fact that reliford involved the use of uncharged offenses to show propensity, not charged offenses, and therefore did not address the issue presented here. (id. at pp. 10111012.) 25 of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. consequently, we find the error to be reversible per se cruz, supra, 2 cal.app.5th at p. 1187, emphasis added; accord, people v. nicolas (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 1165, 11791182 [same evidence used to prove mental state under evid. code,  1101 and to prove gross negligence, an element of the offense].)10 10 because we conclude the error is structural, we need not address prejudice. we emphasize, however, people suggest, we would conclude that the people have established neither that the jury applied the correct burden of proof nor that the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [reversal required for federal constitutional errors unless doubt that the error complained of did not contribute to the verdict ].) 26 disposition the judgment is modified as follows. count 1 is modified to reflect a conviction of the lesser-included offense of violating penal code section 288a, subdivision (c)(1), due to the insufficiency of the evidence of duress. counts 1124 are modified to reflect convictions of the lesser-included offense of violating penal code section 288, subdivision (a), due to the insufficiency of the evidence of duress. as modified, the judgment is reversed and the matter is remanded for retrial of the lesser-included offenses in accordance with the views expressed in this opinion. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. stone, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 