filed 4/28/17 p. v. etuk ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. akaninyene william etuk, defendant and appellant. b269520 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la080975) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. michael v. jesic, judge. affirmed. eric cioffi, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and zee rodriguez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * 2 defendant akaninyene william etuk appeals from the judgment entered following a trial in which the jury found him guilty of assault with a deadly weapon (baseball bat; pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)). he was sentenced to prison to the two-year low term. defendant contends the judgment must be reversed, because the trial court revoked his in propria persona status in violation of his constitutional right to self-representation and, alternatively, because the court denied his pitchess motion (pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess)). in propria persona status was not an abuse of discretion. defend threatened to compromise the pitchess motion also was not an abuse of discretion. substantial evidence supports the trial g that defendant failed to carry his initial burden to show good cause for an in camera inspection of the requested documents. background anthony calhoun was the victim in two violent encounters with defendant at the north hollywood park, which was frequented by transients. this case arose from the second incident only. the first occurred on october 25, 2014, about 8:40 p.m. mr. calhoun and april gutierrez, his girlfriend, noticed defendant threatening others in the park. he then threatened to kill them and grabbed his metal golf club. holding the club above his head, he swung it downward and struck unarmed mr. s head to break 3 off. as mr. calhoun lay on the ground, defendant resumed hitting him with the club. shortly, in response to an assault with a deadly weapon call, los angeles police department (lapd) officer theodore jacobson arrived at the scene. he saw defendant, who matched . a walking stick and a headless, metal golf club lay next to him. mr. calhoun had contusions in the shape of a golf club head to his lower and mid-back and to his left shoulder. the second incident, which is the subject of this appeal occurred, about six months later, on may 12, 2015, about 11:15 a.m., at the same park. while approaching mr. calhoun, ms. gutierrez, and others present, defendant stated he wanted to that he intended to kill them all. someone flagged down officers joshua fillinger and brent lamoureux, who were on vehicle patrol, and reported the impending assault. at the scene, defendant held a wooden baseball bat above his head and swung four or five times at mr. calhoun. with each swing, defendant approached closer to mr. calhoun, who was about a foot or two away. mr. calhoun, who was unarmed, tried to protect himself and backed away to avoid the bat. the two officers ordered defendant to drop the bat repeatedly before he complied. they then arrested him. at trial, defendant admitted he struck mr. calhoun with the golf club but explained he did so only after mr. calhoun had swung a black metal pole/pipe at him, which grazed his shoulder and struck his neck. he denied he had threatened anyone and asserted he cooperated with the police. as for the subject incident, defendant testified that while walking through the 4 park, he saw mr. calhoun draw his index finger across his neck, which he interpreted to mean mr. calhoun intended to kill him. after retrieving a bat from his sleeping spot, defendant raised it over his head and told mr. calhoun, who was approaching with a silver object confronted with the bat, mr. did not see the officers search anyone. on rebuttal, officer fillinger testified defendant never yelled out mr. calhoun had a knife or anything about a knife. no knife was recovered. the officers would have looked for one had a knife been mentioned. discussion 1. in propria persona status revocation not abuse of discretion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion by revoking his in propria persona status, because his misunderstanding regarding the inadmissibility of police reports with the integrity and fairness of the trial that immediate termination [was] appropriate. (people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1, 10 (carson).)used the issue of the inadmissibility of the police report as a pretext to revoke [his] pro per status. consider many of the critical factors essential in any -representa we find no abuse of discretion. 5 a. pertinent proceedings motion to represent himself (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta)). on august 28, 2015, the court and defendant engaged in the following colloquy regarding the inadmissibility of police supports [his] point[,] the police testifies and he testifies inconsistent[ly], differently than something different in this report? explained police reports into evidence. ay. if the officer testifies to something different theres a process how you can i canisbe able to introduce police reports. the jury is not going to get pactually do follow-peach witnesses, police officers, if their statement on the stand is s subsequently, at the same hearing, the trial court explained to defendant that his in propria persona status, which was his choice, did not entitle him to special dispensation from 6 those concerning evidence and theories of defense that he wanted to present to the jury. put in every bit of evidence that you want to bring in admissible. there [ on october 20, 2015, the court reminded defendant that you on every single one of these you that. and you continually do stuff that goes against the way d to do them causing [the court] to have to defendant later actually, you know, bring when asked why he needed to authenticate the police report, the court you want to impeach someone with, like if they said something to thut the police report itself is . . . [] . . . [] . . . [h]earsay. announced 7 actually help me decide because we can actually have this discussion again in front of them. you abide by my rulingsonor, we all abide by the rulings of the constitutio me just understand, are you going to follow my orders in this case hif he meant have seen cases that the police report has been authenticated and the court he responded the court interpreted defendants statements to mean he 8 s clear to [me] that [defendant] has no orders. by his actions pro per status is revoked. take him back. defendant responded, absolutely clear to me that since the beginning of this you have going to do things the way you want to do it. that you want the jury to come in. you want to be able to argue whatever you want to argue and not b. applicable legal principles -representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the courtroom. neither is it a license not to comply (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 834, fn. 46.) deliberate dithreatthe core concept of a trial or to compromise the cours ability to conduct a fair trial [citation], s faretta rights are subject to forfeiture. each case must be evaluated in its own context, on its own facts, in light of the considerations discussed below. when determining whether termination is necessary and appropriate, the trial court should consider several factors in addition to the nature of the misconduct and its impact on the trial proceedings. one consideration is the availability and suitability of alternative sanctions. [citation.] misconduct that is more removed from the trial proceedings, more subject to rectification or correction, or otherwise less likely to affect the fairness of the trial may not justify complete withdrawal of the 9 s right of self-representation. [citations.] the court should also consider whether the defendant has been warned that particular misconduct will result in termination of in propria persona status. [citation.] not every obstructive act will be so flagrant and inconsistent with the integrity and fairness of the trial that immediate termination is appropriate. by the same s acts need not result in a disruption of the trialfor example, by successfully dissuading a witness from testifying. the likely, not the actual, effect of the misconduct should be the primary consideration. additionally, the trial court may assess whether the defendant has intentionally sought to disru[citation.] in many instances, such a purpose will suffice to order termination; but we do not hold that an intent to disrupt is a necessary condition. . . . ultimately, the relevance inheres in the effect of the misconduct on the trial proceedings, not the defendants purpose.carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 10-11, citations omitted.) the trial courts des right of self-representation for serious and obstructionist misconduct is reviewed for eference to the s assessment of . . . the nature and context of his misconduct and its impact on the integrity of the trial in determining whether termination of faretta rights is necessary to maintain the carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 12.) in propria persona status to engage in such acts [of serious and obstructionist misconduct], wherever they may occur, the trial court does not abuse its discretion in determining he has forfeited the right of continued self-id. at p. 9.) 10 c. revocation of in propia persona status not abuse of discretion defendaruling of the trial court to the contrary, and thereby, such to subvert the core concept of a trial s ability to conduct a fair carson, supra, 35 cal.4th in propria persona status therefore was not an abuse of discretion. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 408 [no abuse where evidence substantial].) the record reflects the trial court patiently and repeatedly admonished defendant to comply with and follow the law, e.g., rules of court and evidentiary rulings, which admonitions defendant consistently ignored or disregarded. that defendant intended to flaunt his disobedience is evident in his invitation to have the jury second-place before the jury matters that could not be admitted as evidence. no potential feasible alternatives to revoking his in propria persona status were available for the trial court to continually obstreperous misconduct not trial but transform the trial itself into a farce. further, the s in propria persona status orders made clear that if he defied the court, his in propria persona status might end. 2. denial of pitchess motion not abuse of discretion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his pitchess motion for discovery of the personnel files of 11 officers jacobson, fillinger, and lamoureux. again, we find no abuse of discretion. a. pertinent proceedings in his pitchess motion, defendant sought disclosure of certain information from the personnel records of officers jacobson, fillinger, lamoureux, and other law enforcement officers. specifically, he wanted the records of all complaints of officer misconduct consisting of coercive conduct, intimidation, verbal abuse, aggressive behavior, or violence, excessive force, aggravated violence, racial bias, gender and ethnic bias, sexual orientation bias, violation of constitutional right[s], destruction of evidence, [and] jury tampering, but not limited to the he also sought disclosure of all complaints reports, fabrication of probable cause, false testimony, perjury, using excessive force, intimidating, coercion, taking and receiving bribe[s], and false or misleading [information] in reports including but not limited to fal further, he requested the telephone number of all persons who filed complaints, who may be witnesses/or were interviewed by investigators in his defendant asserted with regard to the golf club incident, the police did not to include o[b]taining a dna sampl[e] from those weapon[s] to determine [a] match he . . . for the [knife], and fail[ed] to obtain information from a nonprejudice[police department is out to vio] constitution[al] 12 right[s] which include but [are] not limited to [freedom from] illegal seizure, violation of due process . . . he further urged unnamed police officers hospital to fabricate records and inject him with foreign additionally, defendant asserted officer fillinger had perjured himself during the preliminary hearing, which also by not producing exculpatory evidence on the sworn affidavit of the probable cause in its opposition, the lapd custodian of records argued the motion was defective in failing to meet the requirements under warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011 (warrick) that there be factual specificity to support an officer misconduct claim and a showing of how the discovery sought would support the proposed defense. at the hearing, defendant argued no investigative background and that his consistent contact with lapd showed [him] and lapd [in] that steven cohen, counsel for lapd, challenged the defense claim that an incomplete investigation resulted in an inaccurate report by the own observations at the scene as well as victim and witness statements. further, there were no factual allegations of officer misconduct. in denying the motion, the court reasoned: 13 search pitchess, and thus, no good cause for an in camera hearing existed. b. applicable legal principles pursuant to pitchess, a defendant is entitled to information nment of the facts and a fair pitchess, suprapitchess enactment of penal code sections 832.7 and 832.8 and evidence city of los angeles v. superior court (2002) 29 cal.4th 1, 9.) our supreme e penal code provisions define (pen. code,  832.8) and provide that such records are confidential and subject to discovery only pursuant to the procedures set forth in the evidence code. (pen. code,  832.7.) ibid., quoting from city of santa cruz v. municipal court (1989) 49 cal.3d 74, 81-82.) warrick explained how to assess the evidence in support of a pitchess motion to determine whether the defendant has established good cause for in- to whether the defendant has established the materiality of the requested information to the pending litigation. the court does that through the following inquiry: has the defense shown a logical connection between the charges and the proposed defense? is the defense request for pitchess discovery factually specific and tailored to support its claim of officer misconduct? will the requested pitchess discovery support the proposed defense, or is it 14 likely to lead to information that would support the proposed defense? under what theory would the requested information be warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 1026-1027.) c. initial burden not met enforcement personnel records is subject to review for abuse of people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) the pitchess motion in this case did not propose a defense to the charge of assault with a deadly weapon nor articulate how the requested discovery would support that proposed defense. neither did the motion describe a factual scenario indicating there was any officer misconduct, or explaining defendantactions in a manner that would have established some type of defense. the declaration here did not describe an alternate version of events in contrast to the police reports. the trial court therefore did not abuse its discretion in finding the information in the personnel records of officers jacobson, fillinger and lamoureux was immaterial and in denying the pitchess motion without an in camera hearing. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 