filed 7/25/18 p. v. nuby ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. maurice nuby, defendant and appellant. b269910 los angeles county super. ct. no. ta133127 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded for resentencing. corey evan parker, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kathleen a. kenealy and xavier becerra, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and zee rodriguez and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted maurice nuby of second degree murder and found firearm allegations true. the trial court sentenced nuby to state prison for 15 years to life, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement. we affirm vacate his sentence and remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the imposed firearm enhancement. background an amended information filed november 5, 2015 charged nuby with an april 28, 2014 assault with a firearm, and assault with a semiautomatic firearm, on alfredo sanchez (counts 1 and 2); the february 7, 2014 murder of dayveon perkins in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a)1 with allegations of personal firearm use in violation of section 12022.53, subds. (b)(d) (count 3); and four prior prison term allegations under section 667.5, subd. (b) (which were stricken after trial at the . nuby pleaded not guilty to all three counts and denied the special allegations. on november 5, 2015, the prosecution stated it was unable to proceed on counts 1 and 2, nuby went to trial on the murder count. a jury found nuby guilty of second degree murder and found the firearm allegations true. the trial court sentenced nuby to state prison for 15 years to life, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), with custody credits and restitution, fines, and fees. nuby filed a timely notice of appeal. 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 1. the night of the murder at trial, kristopher burton testified that he knew perkins, the victim, from church and from the neighborhood. late at night on february 7, 2014, perkins called burton to invite him to his birthday party at an apartment on west adams boulevard. when burton arrived at the party, 40 to 50 people were crowded into the small apartment and perkins was dancing and clowning around. the lights were on in the bedroom and the kitchen but off in the living room, which was very dark. a man and a woman argued in the bedroom, and when that stopped, making gang signs and asking where people were from. a man out on the patio banged on the window, and when burton went out to tell him to stop, he threw a punch at burton. a fight started in the living room between burton and the man from the patio, perkins and another man joined the fight. everyone else ran out of the apartment and left the six men fighting. burton knocked one man out and another stopped fighting, so burton went into the kitchen, leaving perkins fighting in the living room. he saw a man try to hit perkins with a ciroc bottle. perkins grabbed the bottle and punched the man, who fell to the floor. from his position in the kitchen about five feet away, burton saw nuby, who had long cornrow braids down to the middle of his back, walk in the front door and pull out a small black gun with his right hand. nuby aimed the gun at side and burton heard one shot. he ran to where perkins lay on the floor, covered him up, and told him he would be all right. after making sure someone called the police, burton ran out of the apartment after nuby. nuby headed for the stairs and 4 burton followed him, but got locked in the staircase. after someone opened the stairway door, he talked to the police. shown a still photo exhibit, burton identified the shooter, who wore red pants and a chicago bulls hat. lanesha browning testified she was at the party when the fight broke out in the crowded apartment. she called 911 after the shooting and told the operator she thought perkins was shot in the stomach area by the braids in his hair, getting they ass whoo when browning saw the shooter with the gun, she at first thought it was a toy. the living room was so dark, sdescribe the shooter. she ran out after the first shot, and heard another shot. she told the police shortly afterwards that the shooter was a black male wearing a black top. brittney mccray testified that she was with browning at the party. the apartment was dark and so crowded she could barely walk. she saw a man waving a ciroc bottle in the air trying to hit perkins. or the shooter, but she heard a shot, and as she was running out she saw perkins hit the floor. los angeles police department (lapd) officer saul deleon responded to a radio call and found perkins lying face up in the living room with a gunshot wound in his abdomen. the hall was crowded, the atmosphere was hectic, and a university of southern california (usc) police officer was talking to the victim. officer deleon interviewed browning, who said the gun was a blue steel semiautomatic handgun, and she could positively identify the shooter if she saw him again. burton gave officer deleon the same description of the gun, and said that as the 5 shooter ran out he put the gun in his waistband. burton said he would be able to identify the shooter if he saw him again. officer deleon recorded descriptions of the shooter as a black male, five feet eight inches, wearing a black hoodie. 2. the investigation laura nissley was the general manager of the apartment building, which was also student housing for usc. she provided general surveillance video to the policerequest, she narrowed the surveillance video to include footage of someone resembling the description of the suspect (america[n] male wearing red, white, and blue with a chicago . lapd detective todd patino interviewed browning three days after the shooting, on february 10. she wrote a statement bl[ac]k jacket and white tee-shirt with cornrows neck length who detective patino then showed her the surveillance video, and she identified nuby, with his hair in cornrows and wearing red pants, a gray and black sweater, and a bulls hat, as the shooter . the video showed nuby entering the elevator. his hands were in the front pocket of his sweater that seemed to hold an object, suspects often carried guns in their shirt pocket or waistband. after the interview with browning, detective patino asked nissley to narrow the surveillance video search to someone with red pants, a bulls hat, and cornrows. when detective patino interviewed burton on march 4, burton described the fight in the living room, the shooting, and his pursuit of the shooter, who had braids and wore a grey 6 sweater, red pants, and a bulls hat. burton then watched the surveillance video and identified nuby, wearing red pants and a bulls hat, as the shooter. he later identified nuby in a six-pack. detective patino visited perkins in the hospital on april 10. he had visited twice before when perkins was still in a coma, had tubes down his throat, and was not able to speak. on april 10, detective patino visited perkins for the third time. he introduced himself and spoke to perkins for five to 10 minutes, asking if he remembered anything about the night of the shooting. perkins provided nothing of use, and detective patino did not record or take notes of the conversation. detective patino visited perkins again on april 24, but did not record or take any notes of the conversation. on may 26, 2014, perkins died of complications from the gunshot wound to his abdomen. the police found a 9-millimeter bullet casing and a spent round near the sliding glass door. the shell casing matched casings collected in two long beach cases, including a murder on february 10, 2014. ballistic testing established that the long beach murder involved the same firearm. detective richard arciniega testified he interviewed deon hall. the transcript of the interview was introduced into evidence, and a video of the interview was played for the jury. hall identified nuby and others in the elevator surveillance photo. ,and hall then sold the gun to someone named joe for $375. joe later told hall he used the gun to kill someone in long beach. detective arciniega testified that after the interview with hall, nuby became the key suspect. 7 hall testified at trial with a grant of use immunity and generally denied his statements at the interview and that he bought a gun from nuby. on july 22, detective arcineiga interviewed burton, who described the shooter as a hispanic man with braids. (burton testified the shooter could identified nuby as the shooter in a six-pack photo array. detective arciniega arrested nuby, and he and his partner interviewed nuby on july 25, 2014. the jury heard the recording of the interview and saw a transcript. nuby agreed to the interview after he answered, yes to questions regarding whether he understood: his right to remain silent; his statements may be used against him; he had the right to the presence of an attorney and if he could not afford one, an attorney would be appointed free of charge. nuby said he cut his hair after he got out of jail in december and was trying to get a job. nuby at first denied that a photograph detective arciniega showed to him was of him and his friends, and denied owning clothing shown in the photograph. detective arciniega offered a hypothetical about a party at a usc apartment building, a fight, and whether nuby would defend a friend. asked what nuby would say if someone said he shot someone while trying to protect a friend, nuby responded: protect nobody.and he had not been at a party on adams on february 7. shown the photographs and the surveillance video, nuby and admitted it was him in the videoknow anything about what happened. 8 smart. you all went to school for it, attorney here because, you guys went to school for your job doing right now, questioning me. [m]y attorney would be . . . my attorney, my attorney went to school for, uh, to defend people against people like you all. so, uh, i would feel more comfortable if he was present, you know? detective arciniega said the police only had one side of the story, and nuby said: honestl he identified himself in the photographs agaigot to talk to your lawyermore qu the interview continued, however, with detective arciniega telling nuby, somebody got shot and people are saying that it was you, [,] and both detectives said, y nuby reminded the detectives that anything he said would be held against him, and, replied: ohknow who got shot or who shot him, and, [w]hoever told you i didsaid he knew nothing about any shooting. nuby did not present any evidence in his defense. 9 discussion 1. nuby has forfeited his claim that pretrial identification procedures were impermissibly suggestive nuby argues that the pretrial identification procedures were so impermissibly suggestive that they presented a very he does not identify any police procedures that were improperly suggestive, instead pointing out weaknesses in the identifications made by the witnesses at trial. such weaknesses or which is people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) and nuby did not raise the issue of suggestive identification procedures in the tris asserting that unduly suggestive pretrial identification procedures tainted the courtroom identifications, so that the witnesses should not have been permitted to identify defendant in court, defendant has forfeited the claim by failing to make a (id. at pp. 585586.) 2. the plea offer was not so unclear as to prejudice nuby just before beginning jury selection on november 5, 2015, the trial court reminded nuby that she had told him he faced 50 years to life (in what apparently was an unreported proceeding). was only looking at count 3 which is the murder. and in that case you were looking ati said 50 years to life. but i was wrong. i neglected to take into account you have priors and also if nuby was convicted on all 10 charges, he faced 77 years and four months. the prosecutor was offering 23 years[manslaughter] which is 11, 10 years for the gun possession, and 2 year the court pointed out nuby was a young man and suggested he called a brief recess to give nuby a chance to talk to his parents without the prosecutor present. after the recess, nuby refused the offer, acknowledging he . after another brief recess, the court asked the prosecutor, and 2, are you announcing unable to proceed at this point?prosecutor responded, yes; and the court going to be looking at the murder; iand the prosecutor answered, bifurcate the priors, the court only going to be looking at is the count 3. along with that is that he personally used a firearm. so thosebefore , nuby argues the oral proceedings were unclear, leaving open the possibility that the two dismissed counts were merely nform [nuby] that there now was only one charge that would ever be going to trial we disagree. the court made it clear that only one count remained. the court also clarified that the only remaining count was murder, and then directly addressed nuby to emphasize the 11 nuby also argues that the court never discussed the potential sentence he might face on the murder charge alone. but the court had already advised nuby that he faced 50 years to life on the murder charge alone. the trial court also stated that the offer was 23 years for voluntary manslaughter and two years for the prior prison terms, without any mention of the other counts, and gave nuby time to consult with his parents. nuby and his counsel were advised of the potential sentence and the offer on the murder count. is meritless. he does not allege this constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. further, he has no constitutional right to a plea bargain and the prosecutor had no legal obligation to make any plea offer. (people v. trejo (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 646, 655656.) 3. nuby cannot show prejudice from the consolidation of counts 1 and 2 with count 3, when counts 1 and 2 were dismissed before trial nuby argues the trial court erred when in august 2015, over his opposition, it consolidated counts 1 and 2 (assault with a firearm and assault with a semiautomatic firearm on alfredo sanchez on april 28, 2014) with count 3 (murder of perkins on february 7, 2014). the transcript of the hearing. nuby admits that assault with a firearm and murder are so that all three offenses are in the same class of crimes, which permits joinder under section 954. (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 924.) when (as here) the statutory requirements for joinder are satisfied, the court retains discretion to order severance in the interest of justice and for good cause. (id.) nuby must make a clear 12 showing of potential prejudice to show that the trial court abused its discretion in ruling that the counts would be consolidated. (id. at pp. 924925.) after consolidation, counts 1 and 2 were dismissed before jury selection began, and nuby went to trial on count 3 only. nuby has not made a clear showing of potential prejudice from the joinder. 4. the trial court did not err when it gave a voluntary manslaughter instruction nuby and his counsel stated they did not want an instruction on voluntary manslaughter. the court agreed and instructed the jury. at the next court session, the court stated it had reconsidered after more research and believed substantial evidence supported the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter. although both sides opposed it, the court would give the instruction, and both sides could argue against it. the court gave the instruction. in closing, the prosecution argued to the jury there was no evidence of heat-of-passion voluntary manslaughter or imperfect self-defense. the defense argued that although nuby was at the party, he did not participate in any arguments or fights, and did not shoot perkins. after his conviction, nuby filed a motion for new trial arguing there was absolutely no evidence to support the voluntary manslaughter instruction. at the hearing, the trial court explained it had a duty to give all applicable instructions if supported by substantial evidence. ight got hit situation for a voluntary manslaughter.and there was plenty 13 of evidence to support the instruction. the court denied the motion for new trial. we agree the court properly gave the instruction. the trial court must instruct the jury on a lesser included offense if substantial evidence shows the offense committed may have been less than the charged offense. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1008.) a killing that would otherwise be murder may be voluntary manslaughter if the defendant killed someone without the malice required for murder, upon or in a heat of passion. (people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 221.) testimony established the small apartment was crowded and dark, and at least six people were brawling in the living room. lanesha browning told the 911 operator the shooter they ass whooped. perkins, the victim, was in the middle of the brawl when nuby pulled out his gun. conduct in the heat of passion must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victim[, and] sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to id. at p. 254.) a jury could reasonably conclude that perkinsactive participation in the brawl could have caused an ordinary person who was getting ass whooto act rashly and without reflection. substantial evidence supported the instruction. 5. nuby failed to object when the interview was played to the jury, and he does not demonstrate prejudice interview, detective arciniega asked hall what kind of hat nuby was wearing in a photograph, and hall 14 then asked, [a] when hall answered, , the red?adding: hall also told the detectives that nuby was on parole in his nuby had been jailed for drug possession and assault with a deadly weapon before his release. nuby argues on appeal that thexchange was gang evidence with only marginal relevance, which (along with the reference to his prior convictions) was highly prejudicial. nuby did not object to these portions of the interview, either upon the admission of the transcript into evidence nor when the prosecution showed the jury a videotape of the interview. in the trial court on the ground or grounds urged on appeal, we generally will not review people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 84.) this claim is forfeited. in any event, the brief exchange with hall about red clothing referred to a group photo, and implies that red is not a crips color. any gang association was attenuated, and the defense may have made a tactical decision not to highlight the exchange by making an objection. (people v. rices (2017) 4 cal.5th 49, 8081.) moreover, after the jury saw the video, the trial court admonisto from mr. nuby and also mr. hall there were a couple references with regard to jail and being arrested. those things were not offered for the truth of the matter and you can not [sic] consider them in evaluating the evidence in this case. that was just part of the 15 general conversation . . . . [] [y]ou can not [sic] use that nor hold it against mr. nuby in any way, shape o even absent an objection, the trial court neutralized any prejudicial effect with this advisement, which we presume the jury heeded. 6. the trial court properly admitted into evidence defense counsel objeinterview with detective arciniega, arguing that nuby had requested an attorney and the detectives miranda v. state of arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. after reviewing the recording, the court concluded nuby who knew his rights, and who did not unequivocally assert his right to an attorney before page 22 of the transcript. at that point, nuby said: i feel more comfortable with my attorney here because, you guys went to school for your job doing right now, questioning me. [m]y attorney would be . . . my attorney, my attorney went to school for, uh, to defend people against people like you all. so, uh, i would feel more comfortable if he was p after that statement, detective arciniega recognized he had asserted his right to have a lawyer present: the court agreed to admit the interview only up to page 22. nuby did not explicitly say he wanted his lawyer present, but the detectives understood that he had asserted his right to counsel (although . after further discussion, withdrew his objection, and requested that the entire transcript be admitted and the entire recording be 16 played for the jury, for tactical reasons (uff that could help mr. nuby, after what w). after a suspect has waived his right to counsel (as nuby did after the officers advised him of his rights at the start of the interview), police officers must stop a custodial interrogation when a suspect clearly and unequivocally asserts the right to counsel. (davis v. united states [t]he (ibid.) the standard is objective: would a reasonable police officer under the circumstances understand the statement to be a request for an attorney? (ibid.) while the police may seek to clarify an ambiguous request, they are not required to do so. (id. at p. 461.) an unambiguous request for counsel. (id. at p. 462.) nor are: probably be a good idea for me to get an attorney. (people v. bacon (2010) 50 cal.4th 1082, 1105); [i]f for anything you guys are going to charge me i want to talk to a public defender too, for any little thing. (people v. gonzalez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1111, 1116, 1126); i need to know, am i being charged with this, .(people v. suff (2014) 58 cal.4th 1013, 1069); i want to see my attorney ca.(people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 432, italics omitted). we agree with the trial court that , [would] feel more comfortable with my attorney here,was ambiguous. the officers were not required to stop questioning nuby. nevertheless, the court intended to exclude the rest of the interview because the interviewing ostatement as a request for counsel. then 17 requested the interview be admitted in full because it could help nuby. the admission of the entire interview was not error. 7. the absence of a written record of hospital interviews was not prejudicial error nuby argues that lapd policy required detective patino to keep a written record of his attempts to interview perkins in the hospital after the shooting, and that if such records existed, the defense had a right to review the records. requested copies of any records of the hospital interviews. detective patino testified that perkins was in a coma the first two times the detective came to the hospital. the third and fourth times he visited, perkins was conscious but intubated. detective patino did not take notes of his conversations with perkins, noting in the chronological report after the third visit that perkins did not provide useful information or help to identify a suspect. due process requires the prosecution to disclose material exculpatory evidence to the defendant, regardless of the good or bad faith of the prosecution. (brady v. state of maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, 8788.) when the evidence is only potentially exculpatory, however, the defendant must show bad faith when the prosecution fails to preserve the evidence. (arizona v. youngblood (1988) 488 u.s. 51, 5758.) here, nuby has not shown that any evidence existed or was suppressed, lost, or destroyed. detective patino testified that he did not take notes of his two conversations with perkins on his third and fourth visits, and there is no evidence to the contrary. the defense had the chronological report that recorded the dates of detective even if we were to assume that any such evidence might exist, and that the evidence might be to 18 s advantage, notes of the conversations would be only potentially exculpatory. nuby would have to show that the prosecution or the police acted in bad faith, which he does not argue. his counsel was ineffective in not pushing harder to discover written records of the hospital interviews. defense counsel requested the records and received the chronological report. we see no deficient performance by counsel, and certainly no prejudice, in failing to pursue written records of the substance of the interviews when there is no evidence those records exist. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687.) 8. we remand for a new sentencing hearing in light of senate bill 620 in supplemental briefing, nuby argues we should remand his case to the trial court to allow the court to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancement imposed under former section 12022.53, subd. (h). we agree that remand is necessary. when the trial court sentenced nuby in january 2016, it had no discretion to strike the firearm enhancement imposed under section 12022.53. (former  12022.53, subd. (h).) in october 2017, the legislature passed s.b. 620, which took effect on january 1, 2018. section 12022.53, subdivision (h), now section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an the people concede the amendment applies retroactively to -final judgment, but argue we should decline to 19 remand because the record shows the trial court would not have exercised its discretion to strike the firearm enhancement. [r]emand is required unless the record shows that the trial court clearly indicated when it originally sentenced the defendant that it would not in any event have stricken a firearm people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 425; people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896.) g hearing, the trial court pointed out that nuby had already been to state prison, and, though a young man, he had committed a number of crimes including grand theft, robbery, and burglary. the court mentioned letters of recommendation and character letteevening, decided to take a loaded firearm to a party that he at. nuby and his friends [i]the letters did not reflect the man depicted in the videos its, all the court imposed 15 years to life for second degree murder (as required by section 190, subdivision (a)), plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement, for a total of 40 years to life. al, the court referenced the 40-years-to-life sentence, and disagreed that nuby man . . . . charges before and now a murder charge, over nothing. absolutely nothing. because he wanted to be a tough guy, bring 20 somebody in cold blood. [] you knowand i think one of your things was he was involved with church? guess what, he was involved with church when he did the murder. . . . even come close to somebody that warrants being on bail on [a]t the very beginning of the case, he was offered something that the court thought was incredibly reasonable. trial. and i believe his family even talked to him. and it was his choice. [] and he is a headstrong young man. hebecause t. . . . he the trial court expressed dismay at the senselessness of o the party and the resulting clearly state what it would have done if it had the authority to choose whether to impose the firearm enhancement, which resulted in a 25-years-to-life term that more than doubltotal sentence. the court had no discretion to impose a sentence lower than 15 years to life for the second degree murder conviction, so it had no occasion intent to impose (people v. mcdaniels, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 427.) we therefore remand to allow the trial court to decide in the first instance whether the firearm enhancement should be stricken. 21 disposition nubythe limited purpose of allowing the trial court to consider whether to strike the firearm enhancement imposed under penal code section 12022.53. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. kalra, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 