filed 10/23/17 p. v. carlson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. guy e. carlson, defendant and appellant. b269138 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma062794) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted guy carlson of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a))1 and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). the people also proved carlson had a prior conviction for a serious felony under sections 667, subdivision (a), and 1170.12. carlson argues that the trial court erroneously excluded certain exculpatory hearsay evidence and that substantial evidence does with premeditation. with regard to his sentence, carlson argues that the people failed to adequately allege he suffered a conviction for a serious felony and that the trial court mistakenly believed section 667, subdivision (c)(6), mandated a consecutive sentence on the conviction for possession of a firearm by a felon. we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling some of the hearsay statements were not admissible as prior consistent statements, and any error excluding some of the hearsay statements that may have qualified as prior inconsistent statements was harmless. we also conclude substantial evidence supports the attempted premeditated murder conviction, but the trial court imposed an unauthorized sentence on the conviction for possession of a firearm by a felon. therefore, we remand to the trial court for resentencing with directions to impose a sentence on count 2 in accordance with the law and to exercise its discretion to impose a consecutive or concurrent sentence on that 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 original sentencing hearing, section 667, subdivision (c)(6), did not mandate a consecutive sentence. factual and procedural background a. the shooting carlson and charles wynn were pimps. latia peters was a prostitute who worked for and lived with wynn and had known carlson for about six months. peters believed carlson wanted her to live with and work for him instead of wynn. while walking back to wyn-mart on january 15, 2014, peters encountered two other women who worked for carlson. peters called wynn on her cell phone. one of the women grabbed peters, took her purse, and emptied it on the ground. wynn arrived to break up the ensuing fight. as peters and wynn began walking back to their apartment, carlson drove up beside them in a white suburban. carlson got out of the car and argued with wynn in the street. he then went back to the suburban and picked up a gun from the apartment when she heard four gunshots. wynn ran to avoid getting hit. when peters got back to the apartment, she noticed a bullet hole in her purse, but no one was hurt. b. the investigation 1. neighborhood witnesses the shooting. twelve-year-old seth c. was playing in his front yard near the intersection where the shooting occurred. he 4 oach the intersection, and an african-american man he later identified as carlson got out of the van. seth said the man wore jeans and a t-shirt and was bald or had thin braids in his hair. the man saw several people on the street begin running the opposite direction. he heard gunshots, but he could not see where they were fired. jacurie daniels lived in a second-floor apartment near the same intersection. she said she was standing by a window inside her apartment when she saw a white suburban approach a man on the street. the driver got out of the car and confronted the gesture. daniels said the two men appeared to be arguing, but she could not hear them. the driver went back to the suburban, reached inside, and pulled out a gun. the other man ran away as the driver fired multiple shots at him, moving the gun slightly to the left and right. the driver got back in the suburban and began chasing the other man with his right arm extended, pointing the gun out the passenger window. the driver never caught up to runner disappeared into an apartment building, and daniels called 911. she described the shooter as a light-skinned african-american wearing a white t-shirt and jeans. robert hanna lived in a mobile home park near the same intersection. while walking to his mailbox, he heard yelling and screaming. hanna said a man, later identified as wynn, yelled as he was crossing a street on foot, while an himsuburban made a sharp u-turn, and the driver got out and d] back and 5 2. two weeks after the shooting, detective robert mcgaughey and his partner recorded an interview with wynn. wynn said he did not know the shoowent to the same school, and wynn thought he was a member of a crips street gang. after detective mcgaughey reminded wynn he nevertheless told the detectives the shooter was a slim, african-american male with braids and he drove a white suburban. wynn said the shooter drove up to him, jumped out of his car, and started walking toward him. wynn made a gesture or five rounds. wynn made various statements about the started running, just back and forth. they taught me in boot -zwynn also said the shooter got back in his car and followed detectives he thought the shooter lived in the same neighborhood. 6 detective mcgaughey subsequently spoke with wynn twice on recorded phone calls. in one of those calls, wynn gave detective mcgaughey additional details about the fight involving hile wynn was trying to help peters gather her things, the suburban came up the street toward wynn. the driver got out and he shot wynn said peters had already walked up the street toward the apartment when the driver shot at him. know this guy, man. [wicked or winket is] the name that was given to me from somebody. so i could be telling you something mcgaughey additional details about where the shooter might live. following up on that information, detective mcgaughey registered to carlson parked in a driveway not far from where wynn lived. on april 1, 2014 detective mcgaughey recorded another interview with wynn while wynn was in custody on a pimping charge. wynn suggested he wanted to help detective -pack photographic lineup, and wynn identified carlson as the shooter, 7 at point was known only as mcgaughey met wynn at a restaurant and had another recorded conversation with him. wynn said carlson had followed him into a fast food restaurant the previous day and asked whether he had carlson he did not know anything because he had just been released from jail. wynn asked detective mcgaughey for mcgaughey told him the best thing he could do was to say where wynn said he did not know where carlson lived but thought he detective mcgaughey later obtained a videotape from surveillance cameras in the fast food restaurant showing wynn walking through the parking lot followed by a gray cadillac. the 3. minary hearing detective mcgaughey arrested carlson on april 22, 2014 and seized two cell phones. files extracted from the phones 8 owner, after the preliminary hearing on may 8, 2014, counsel for carlson asked another attorney, marc hodges, to accompany him to a holding cof the interview, wynn said he did not know who the shooter was or where the shooter was aiming, and he never saw a gun. he also said, the police gave me a name. . . . i [tried] to tell the detectives the influence of crystal meth when the police interviewed me and came with photos. this whole thing is a bunch of lies and saying that bec 4. detective mcgaughey interviewed peters on july 30, 2015. she said that on the day of the shooting someone she knew only by said wiccet asked the women who had attacked her if they were all right, and peters began walking away. wiccet got out of his car and confronted wynn, but peters did not hear what was said. wiccet got back into his car. peters stopped to wait for wynn, anything. peters said he shot two or three times from inside his shooting, she and wynn started walking back to their apartment. peters noticed her purse had bullet holes in it. 9 detective mcgaughey pressed peters on the issue of identified carlson as wiccet in a six-pack photographic lineup c. the trial the people charged carlson with attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (count 1) and possession of a firearm by a felon (count 2). the people also alleged carlson suffered a prior serious felony conviction for robbery within the meaning of sections 667, subdivision (a)(1), and 1170.12. trial commenced september 3, 2015. wynn testified for the people, and, although he remembered meeting with detective mcgaughey on several occasions, he could not recall telling the detective most of what he had said in previous interviews and conversations. the trial court, over objections by counsel for carlson, allowed the prosecutor to impeach wynn using the transcripts from those interviews and conversations. during a nscripts, on cross-examination by counsel for carlson, wynn said he did not see anyone get out of the car, he did not see the shooter, he did not see where the shooter was aiming, and the police gave 10 interviews he was under the influence of drugs or cooperating with police to avoid violating the terms of his probation. d. the verdict the jury found carlson guilty on both counts. after true the allegations regarding carlsentencing without objection. the trial court sentenced carlson on count 1 to life in prison with the possibility of parole and a minimum period of confinement of 14 years (7 years doubled), plus five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). on count 2 the court imposed a consecutive term of one year, four months (one-third the middle term of two years, doubled). carlson timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding hearsay testimony from marc hodges carlson contends the trial court erred by excluding evidence of certain statements wynn made to hodges following the preliminary hearing. those statements included that wynn er as prior consistent statements under evidence code section 1236 or prior inconsistent statements under evidence code section 1235. 11 rights to due process and to present a complete defense. we review the trial courts rulings on the admission of evidence for abuse of discretion.people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 859; see people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 462.) he application of the ordinary rules of evidence under state law do not violate a criminal defendants federal constitutional right to present a defense, because trial courts retain the intrinsic power under state law to exercise discretion to control the admission of evidence at trial. (people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 503; see people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 155; people v. andrade (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 1274, 1290.) this general rule will give way only in extraordinary and unusual circumstances, for example, where the evidence is of such probative strength that its exclusion violated the defendants constitutional right to present a defense. (abilez, at p. 503; people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 90; see people v. robinson (2005) 37 cal.4th 592, 626-627 [exclusion of allegedly exculpatory testimony under evidence code section 352 did not 1. relevant proceedings counsel for carlson called hodges to testify and to interview wynn after the preliminary hearing on may 8, 2014. after the court overruled a hearsay hodges if wynn told him the shooter was aiming at him, and the 12 prosecutor again objected the question called for hearsay and was the witness stand. . . . so in order for it to be impeachment of mr. t with what he stated on the witness stand, and he stated all these things on the witness stand, and was impeached with his own improperly impeaching the testimony that was offered by mr. wynn on the witness stand. . . [where] he did not identify counsel for carlson said wynn previously gave detective mcgaughey contradictory information, stating both that he did and did not see the shooter and that he saw carlson point the gun at know the shooter was aiming at him was admissible either as a prior consistent statement or a prior inconsistent statement. counsel for carlson settled on the exception for prior consistent statements because the people had previously used the not know who the shooter was or where the shooter was aiming, and therefstatements was consistent with previously impeached testimony. consistent with the in- 13 the court observed that a prior consistent statement must comply with evidence code section 791. that provision provides that evidence of a prior consistent statement is admissible where . . . that is inconsistent with any part of testimony at the hearing has been admitted for the purpose of attacking his credibility, and the statement was made before the alleged inconsistent statement; or [] (b) [a]n express or implied charge has been made that testimony at the hearing [was] recently fabricated or [was] influenced by bias or other improper motive, and the statement was made before the bias, motive for fabrication, or other improper motive is alleged to have arisen.trial court ruled wynn made the prior consistent statement offered by counsel for carlson on may 8, 2014, after the inconsistent statements in the interview transcripts the people introduced, which wynn made to law enforcement between january and april 2014. the court also noted wynn made the prior consistent statement after wynn felt threatened by carlson, which could have motivated him to fabricate his testimony. the court therefore ruled the prior consistent statement did not comply with evidence code section 791. counsel for carlson also asked to elicit testimony from shooter. counsel for carlson argued this statement was a prior inconsistent statement under evidence code section 1235 because wynn made it after he had identified carlson in a six-pack photographic lineup. the court reminded counsel for carlson that the declarant had to make the prior inconsistent statement before the statement it was inconsistent with, and 14 o-pack photographic identification. the court therefore excluded this statement as well. the court allowed counsel for carlson to ask hodges about worn a shirt on the day of the shooting, and did not see the car or a gun. when counsel for carlson resumed direct examination of hodges, he did not ask any further questions and did not elicit any of the statements the court had ruled were admissible. 2. admissible as prior consistent statements vidence of a statement previously made by a witness is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is consistent with his testimony at the hearing and is offered in compliance with section 791o be admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule, a prior consistent statement must be offered (1) after an inconsistent statement is admitted to attack the testifying witnesss credibility, where the consistent statement was made before the inconsistent statement, or (2) when there is an express or implied charge that the witnesss testimony recently was fabricated or influenced by bias or improper motive, and the statement was made prior to the fabrication, bias, or improper motive.people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 802, disapproved on other grounds in people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1216; see people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 843 vidence of a previous statement made by a witness is admissible under the prior consistent statement exception to the 15 hearsay rule if there has been an express or implied charge that s testimony is recently fabricated and the prior consistent statement was made before the motive for fabrication is alleged to have arisen.) 2014 that carlson was not aiming at him was admissible under subdivision (b) of evidence code section 791, which requires that testimony was fabricated or influenced by bias or improper motive and that -of-court statement occurred before the bias, motive for fabrication, or other improper motive arose. (see people v. brents (2012) 53 cal.4th 599, 615.) the prosecutor did indeed go influenced by bias or improper motive by eliciting testimony from wynn that cast doubt on his claims he did not see the shooter, influence of drugs at the time detective mcgaughey questioned testimony was motivated by fear. carlson at the fast food restaurant on april 9, 2014. the next day wynn admitted to detective mcgaughey that he was a created a motive for him to fabricate the statements he made to 16 hodges several weeks later in may 2014. (see people v. flores (1982) 128 cal.app.3d 512, 524 [trial court did not err in excluding allegedly consistent statement made after the bias, motive for fabrication, or other improper motive arose].)2 3. the statements to hodges were not admissible as prior inconsistent statements or their exclusion was harmless vidence of a statement made by a witness is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is inconsistent with his testimony at the hearing and is offered in compliance with section 7703 the fundamental requirement of section 1235 is that the statement in fact be inconsistent with the witnesss trial 2 people v. kennedy (2005) 36 cal.4th 595, disapproved on another ground in people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 458-459, cited by carlson, is distinguishable because the statements in that case occurred in the right chronological order for purposes of evidence code section 791. the witness in kennedy made the consistent statement the day after the crime, and the motive for enforcement and the district attorney threatened the witness with prosecution and gave her immunity. (kennedy, at p. 614.) 3 of justice otherwise require, extrinsic evidence of a statement made by a witness that is inconsistent with any part of his testimony at the hearing shall be excluded unless: [] (a) the witness was so examined while testifying as to give him an opportunity to explain or to deny the statement; or [] (b) the witness has not been excused from giving further testimony in 17 testimony. [citation.] inconsistency in effect, rather than contradiction in express terms, is the test for admitting a witness[s] prior statement(homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 859; see cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 462hen a witnesss claim of lack of memory amounts to deliberate evasion, inconsistency is implied. [citation.] as long as there is a reasonable basis in the record for concluding that the witnesss i dont remember statements are evasive and untruthful, admission of his or her prior statements is proper. (homick, at p. 859; see people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 711.) carlson argues certain statements wynn made to hodges were admissible under evidence code section 1235 as prior testimony. the trial court did not rule on the admissibility of the statements as prior inconsistent statements under evidence code section 1235 because counsel for carlson elected to proceed under evidence code section 1236 after the trial court forced him to take a position. carlson now argues the trial court should have his identification was false and that [carlson] was not the under evidence code section 1235. the first statement, that wynn said his identification was false, did not qualify as a prior inconsistent statement under evidence code section 1235. that statement would have been inconsistent with trial testimony by wynn that his identification was true (or accurate). but wynn never said that at trial. to the 18 identification of carlson as the shooter was false actually would have been consistent with his trial testimony. the second statement, that carlson was not the shooter, may have been that he did not see the shooter. even if the trial court erred in excluding this statement, however, any error was harmless. carlson from offering an equally contradictory statement that was by admitting the transcripts. moreover, peters identified carlson as the shooter in her interview with detective mcgaughey. e cannot say the excluded evidence was so vital to the defense that due process principles required its admissionabilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 503), any error was harmless. (see people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1001 on of evidence does not require reversal except where the error or errors caused a people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1102-1103 [harmless error standard applies to the erroneous exclusion of hearsay evidence]). b. substantial for attempted murder carlson argues substantial evidence does not support the that, because the people conceded carlson fired the first shot into the g 19 carlson of attempted premeditated and deliberate murder. carlson reads too much into these two concessions. 1. applicable law the people charged carlson with attempted murder and alleged he committed the crime willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation within the meaning of section 664, subdivision (a). a def (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 443; accord, people v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253, 1264.) deliberate means careful thought and weighing of considerations for and against the proposed course of action. (boatman, at p. 1264; accord, people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1216.) thus, intentional killing is premeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse. (boatman, at p. 1264; see pearson, at p. 443.) [t]he process of premeditation and deliberation does not require any extended period of time. the true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quicklyboatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1265; accord, houston, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1216.) judicial reliance on this language, however, has led to criticism that courts have collapsed any meaningful distinction between first and second degree murder. [citations.] in response, our state supreme court reaffirmed the significance of preexisting 20 reflection, of any duration to distinguish first degree murder (based on premeditation and deliberation) from second degree murder. (boatman, at p. 1265; see houston, at p. 1217; people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 813.) the supreme court in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15 identified three types of evidenceevidence of planning activity, preexisting motive, and manner of killingto consider in determining whether the evidence supports findings of premeditation and deliberation. (people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1069; people v. solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 812.) the supreme court in anderson did not purport to establish an exhaustive list that would exclude all other types and combinations of evidence that could support a finding of premeditation and deliberation.mendoza, at p. 1069; solomon, at p. 812.) the decision in anderson nevertheless provides a useful framework for considering the sufficiency of evidence of premeditation and deliberation. (see mendoza, at p. 1069; solomon, at p. 812.) on appeal we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.(abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 504; accord, people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 345.) the standard of review is the same in cases in which the people rely mainly on circumstantial evidence.abilez, at p. 504; see people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 960.) if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of facts findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a 21 contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgment. (abilez, at p. 504; jones, at p. 960.) 2. evidence of motive, planning, and method findings of premeditation and deliberation there was substantial evidence to support the jurys findings. peters told detective mcgaughey that carlson said told the detective carlson was on the phone with the women who fight. once carlson arrived, he got out of his suburban and confronted wynn, a rival pimp. carlson then returned to his car to retrieve a gun and shot at or in the direction of wynn from both outside and inside his car. this evidence supports reasonable inferences that carlson wanted peters to work for him instead of wynnthe motiveand that he planned the attack on wynn. even if carlson aimed the first shot at the ground, the facts that he returned to his car, got in, and pursued wynn while firing out an open window evidence the type of planning activity indicative of premeditation. (see people v. watkins (2012) 55 cal.4th 999, 1026 [sufficient evidence of planning shown where the defendant carried a loaded gun to the position from which he shot at the victim]; see also pearson, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 443 [premeditation exists where this evidence also supports the conclusion that carlson considered his options in formulating a course of action and chose 22 a manner of killing to accomplish it. carlson could have returned to his car and ended the confrontation, but instead he chose to prolong the confrontation by pursuing wynn and shooting at him. (see people v. sandoval that the manner of killing is prolonged . . . supports an inference people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1081 [killing was deliberate and premeditated where the defendant people v. wells (1988) 199 cal.app.3d 535, 541 [manner of killing evidenced premeditation and deliberation where the defendant fired a warning shot in the air then ran after the victim and shot him].) [he] was 4 while the record included evidence supporting such an inference, substantial evidence also supported the conclusion that carlson aimed at wynn while firing. (see people v. cunningham (2016) we accept reasonable inferences in support of the judgment and do not consider whether contrary inferences may be made from people v. ortiz (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 1354, 1379 o the extent [the defendant] argues there is evidence to 4 of an unloaded firearm. (see, e.g., u.s. v. santiago (s.d.n.y. 2013) 966 nterview seems to have meant that he started shooting without aiming at anything. 23 support a contrary inference, he misconstrues and/or misapplies testified carlson aimed and fired at wynn, as did neighborhood witnessresolution of conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the trier of fact. [citation.] moreover, unless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction.people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) we do not reweigh the evidence already weighed by the trier of fact. premeditation and deliberation. there is no evidence carlson acted out of fear or passion in response to something wynn did or said. (see sandoval, suprathat the murder was rash and impulsive, as when a defendant acts out of a fear or passion in response to a provocation that is evidence wynn was armed or did anything to threaten carlson. instead, the record contains substantial evidence that carlson upper hand in a dispute with wynn. (see mendoza, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. where the jury could have concluded the defendant, knowing he illegally possessed a gun, rapidly and coldly formed the idea to use the gun in an encounter with the officer].) 24 c. carlson forfeited his argument the information failed to allege the prior serious or violent felony in connection with count 1, attempted murder, and pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), the information alleged carlson suffered a prior conviction for robbery in 1997 with count 2, possession of a firearm by a felon, the information alleged carlson was a felon because he had been convicted of robbery in allege the 1997 conviction was a serious or violent felony counts 1 and 2, including an allegation under section 1170.12. it legation would be to double the sentence imposed, which is the consequence of having a prior strike. (see  1170.12, subd. (c)(1).) carlson argues the information failed to adequately plead a prior serious or violent felony conviction under section 1170.12. the people contend, and we agree, carlson forfeited this argument. section 1170.12 requires the people to plead and prove that the defendant has one or more prior serious or violent felony convictions. ( 1170.12, subd. (d).) this requirement ensu(houston, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1227; see people v. mancebo (2002) 27 cal.4th 735, 747.) where the defendant has notice of the sentence and does not object to the information in the trial court, he or she forfeits that objection on appeal. (houston, at p. 1228; see people v. valenzuela (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 1214, 1237 25 legitimately claim lack of notice, [and] the court has jurisdiction carlson had fair notice of the special allegation under section 1170.12. although the body of the information did not include the section 1170.12 allegation, the information summary on several occasions. for example, the trial court noted carlson stipulated to the prior robbery tity on the strike prior. all they decide is if someone with that name suffered the conviction. identity is to which generalconvictions, and the trial court referred to the fact that the trial merits. throughout this discussion counsel for carlson did not object or express surprise that the trial court could sentence carlson, if convicted, under the three strikes law. object to the propriety of the allegation he had been convicted of a serious or violent felony within the meaning of section 1170.12. which included requests to double the base terms under section 1170.12. when the trial court sentenced carlson in accordance with section 1170.12, counsel for carlson did not object. even if the information failed to plead the strike allegation with sufficient specificity, carlson had fair notice of that allegation 26 and failed to object at trial. (see houston, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. fendant failed to object at trial to the adequacy carlson cites people v. corban (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 1111 sentencing error even though he did not object prior to sentencing. the court in corban held the defendant could challenge a sentencing enhancement imposed after she pleaded no contest without first obtaining a certificate of probable cause under section 1237.5. (corban, at p. 1116.) the court in that challenge to the sentence was essentially a challenge to the validity of her plea. (ibid.) that is not the issue here. d. unauthorized on count 1, which the trial court referred to as the life in prison with the possibility of parole and a minimum period of confinement of seven years, doubled to 14 years under the three strikes law, plus five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). on count 2, the court imposed a determinate, consecutive term of one-third the middle term of two years, or eight months, again doubled under the three strikes law, for a total of 16 months. the sentence on count 2 is unauthorized. indeterminate term crimes and determinate term crimes are subject to two different sentencing schemes.people v. neely (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 787, 797.) sentencing for the indeterminate term crime of attempted murder is governed by section 664, subdivision (a). sentencing for the determinate term crime of possession of a firearm by a felon is governed by section 27 18 and section 1170 et seq., also known as the determinate sentencing law. (see people v. sasser (2015) 61 cal.4th 1, 8.) sentencing under these two sentencing schemes must be performed separately and independently of each other. (neely, at p. 797; accord, people v. garza (2003) 107 cal.app.4th 1081, 1094.) offenses for which an indeterminate sentence of life imprisonment or death can be imposed are not subject to [the neely, supra, 176 cal.app.4th at p. 798; see people v. felix (2000) 22 cal.4th 651, 659 [the determinate sentencing law does not that . . . expressly provides for imprisonment in the state prison consequently, when a defendant is sentenced for an indeterminate term crime (such as attempted premeditated murder) and a determinate term crime (such as possession of a firearm by a felon), there are no principal and subordinate terms. (neely, at p. 798; see garza, supra, 107 cal.app.4th at p. 1094 hen a defendant is sentenced to both a determinate and an indeterminate sentence, . . . neither term is principal ]or nly after each is determined are they added together to form the aggregate term of imprisonmentneely, at p. 797.) the trial court improperly combined the two sentencing schemes by declcount 2 as a subordinate term under section 1170.1. the result is an unauthorized sentence. (see neely, supra, 176 cal.app.4th at pp. 797-799.) therefore, we must remand the matter for resentencing on count 2. (id. at pp. 799-800; see people v. woods (20 28 s appeal is pending, the appellate court should affirm the conviction and remand the case for a people v. mustafaa (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1305, 1311 [remand is appropriate where imposition of an enhancement results in an unauthorized sentence].) carlson contends court was legally authorized to impose but which the court court could have arrived at the same 16-month sentence on count limitation that a greater aggregate sentence may not be sentence is generally unauthorized where it could not lawfully be imposed under any circumstance in the particular casepeople v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 354; see people v. moore (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 558, 572.) in this case, carlson never asked the trial court to strike his prior serious felony conviction pursuant to section 1385 (a motion commonly referred romero people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497), nor did prior serious felony conviction on its own. instead, carlson sentence based on a prior strike under ny failure on the part of a defendant to invite the court to dismiss under section 1385 following romero waives or forfeits his or her right to raise the issue on appeal. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 29 cal.4th 367, 375-376; see scott, at pp. 352-353.) thus, in the circumstances of this case, the sentence carlson proposes was not within the range of sentences the trial court was legally authorized to impose and, on remand, the trial court may in its discretion resentence carlson to a longer aggregate sentence. (see neely, supra, more severe sentence may be imposed following a successful appeal if the initial sentencpeople v. craig (1998) 66 cal.app.4th 1444, 1449.) carlson also argues the trial court erred by imposing a consecutive sentence on count 2. in particular, he contends the trial court erroneously believed it had to impose a mandatory consecutive sentence under section 667, subdivision (c)(6). in mandatory consecutive sentence since this is a strike offense, and even if the court had the option of running that concurrent, the court does not believe it is a [section] 654 offense, as the possession of a firearm was separate and apart from the attempted murder, although it was used in the attempted murder. [carlson] clearly had possession of it prior to that and we agree with carlson the trial court misread section 667, subdivision (c)(6), and misunderstood its discretion under that statute. consecutive sentences are only mandatory under section people v. hojnowski (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 794, 800 [section 667, subdivision (c)(6), making consecutive sentences mandatory in three strikes cases 30 when the defendant was convicted of more than one offense not committed on the same occasion or arising out of the same remove the multiple negatives from the quotation, if the offenses sharcommon acts or criminal conduct that serve to establish the elements of the current offenses, then concurrent sentencing is an optionpeople v. garcia (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1550, 1567; see people v. danowski (1999) 74 ither were committed on the same occasion or do arise from the same set of operative facts, the three strikes law does not mandate consecutive sentencing; the trial court retains discretion to the trial court did state that, even if it had the option of imposing a concurrent sentence on count 2, section 654 did not carlson used the firearm in attempting to commit murder, he possessed the firearm prior to the attempted murder. the standard under section 654, however, does not apply to section 667, subdivision (c)(6). the supreme court has rejected the argument that the analysis for determining whether 667, with the test for determining whether section 654 permits people v. lawrence (2000) 24 cal.4th 219, 225-question of whether multiple current convictions are sentenced concurrently or consecutively under the three strikes law, because section 654 does not allow any multiple punishment, whether concurrent or consecutive, and the analyses performed lawrence, at 31 p. 226; see garcia, supramultiple punishment provisions of section 654, subdivision (a) are the people contend carlson forfeited this argument because his trial attorney did not object at sentencing. the people concede, however, the court imposed an unauthorized sentence on count 2. because we must remand for the trial court to impose a new sentence on count 2, we direct the trial court to apply section 667, subdivision (c)(6), and determine whether the circumstances warrant a consecutive or concurrent sentence on count 2. (see people v. leon (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1003, 1023 [exercising discretion to resolve a sentencing issue not raised in in the interests of fairness and judicial economy, since the matter is already being remanded for other sentencing matters, and to forestall unnecessary ineffective assistance of counsel claimspeople v. deloza (1998) 18 cal.4th 585, the scope of its discretion to impose concurrent sentences for defend 32 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed and the matter is remanded for resentencing on count 2, possession of a firearm by a felon. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. menetrez, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 