filed 1/3/17 p. v. strathy ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and appellant, v. james harold strathy, defendant and respondent. b269852 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga097088) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, elaine lu, judge. affirmed. kevin smith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction james harold strathy appeals from the judgment entered after a jury convicted him of attempted carjacking in violation of penal code sections 664 and 215, subdivision (a),1 and misdemeanor leaving the scene of an accident in violation of vehicle code section 20002, subdivision (a). strathy contends there was insufficient evidence to support the latter conviction. we affirm. factual and procedural background strathy was driving on los robles avenue in san marino when he crashed head-on into a tree on the parkway between the curb and the sidewalk. witnesses testified that when strathy got out of his car after the crash he was bleeding from wounds on his head and face, and he william hernandez was also driving on los robles avenue, and when he came upon the crash site he saw strathy walking rolled down the passenger window, and asked strathy if he wanted him to call 911. in response, strathy opened the passenger door, flashed a metal object later determined to be a immediately drove off. strathy held onto the passenger door until he fell. strathy got up and began running down the street. 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 another witness, kenneth monis, followed strathy down the street to observe him until the police arrived. he caught up with strathy in a nearby parking lot and urged him to return to the scene of the accident. strathy eventually walked with monis back to the scene of the crash. when they arrived, the police were there and took strathy into custody. one of the police officers, daniel gosserand, testified that strhad collision damage that was consistent with a vehicle striking court received into evidence photographs officer gosserand took of the damaged tree. officer gosserand also testified that he spoke with strathy about the accident at the scene, and during that conversation strathy said he was driving about eight miles per hour when he lost control of his vehicle and collided with the tree. officer gosserand testified strathy appeared to understand his questions, gave appropriate responses, followed commands, and said nothing about having lost consciousness or blacked out before crashing into the tree. strathy, however, testified that as he approached the collided with the tree, and that the next thing he remembered was waking up in the hospital handcuffed to a gurney. strathy testified that he did not remember how fast he was driving as he approached the intersection, but recalled he had begun to brake for a red light. the people charged strathy with attempted carjacking ( 664, 215, subd. (a)) and leaving the scene of an accident (veh. code,  20002, subd. (a)). the people also alleged strathy 4 personally used a deadly weapon (in this case, a screwdriver) during commission of the attempted carjacking and had served 11 prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the jury found strathy guilty of attempted carjacking and leaving the scene of an accident. it found not true the allegation he used a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of the attempted carjacking. strathy admitted the prior prison term allegations. the trial court sentenced strathy to a 12-year prison term for attempted carjacking and a concurrent six-month term for leaving the scene of an accident. strathy timely appealed. discussion strathy challenges only his misdemeanor conviction for leaving the scene of an accident, contending there was to decide whether the evidence is sufficia reviewing court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable jury could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 453-454presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 423e do not reweigh evidence or reevaluate a people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 106.) 5 vehicle code section 20002, subdivision (a), requires the driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in property damage to stop the vehicle immediately at the nearest location that will not impede traffic or otherwise jeopardize the safety of other motorists. the driver must then immediately either (1) locate and notify the owner or person in charge of that property of the name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle involved or (2) leave in a conspicuous place on the property a written notice giving the name and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle involved and a statement of the circumstances of the accident and without unnecessary delay notify the police department of the city in which the collision occurred. (veh. code,  20002, subd. (a)(1)-the essential elements of a violation of [vehicle code] section 20002, subdivision (a) are that the defendant: (1) knew he or she was involved in an accident; (2) knew damage resulted from the accident; and (3) knowingly and willfully left the scene of the accident (4) without giving the required inforproperty owner. (people v. carbajal (1995) 10 cal.4th 1114, 1123, fn. 10; see 2 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) crimes against public peace and welfare,  313, p. 1061.) strathy challenges the second and third elements. regarding the second element, having knowledge the accident measurable damage to the tree, much less that [he] knew about into the tree with such force that, according to officer gosserand, 6 and he could reasonably conclude from this evidence that the collision damaged the tree and that strathy, who experienced the force of the collision, knew it. (cf. people v. holford (1965) 63 cal.2d 74, 80 [although conviction under vehicle code section 20001, which fpeople v. nordberg (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 1228, 1237 [same].) that strathy may not have known the extent of the damage does not mean he did not know there was damage. (see holford, at p. 80, fn. 3 [a conviction under vehicle code section 20002 does not require knowledge of the seriousness of the nature of the accident].) with respect to the third element, knowingly and willfully leaving the scene of the accident, strathy argues there was no evidence he willfully left the scene of the accident without when applied in a penal statute, require only that the without regard to wilit implies that the person knows what he is doing, intends to do what he is doing people v. atkins (2001) 25 cal.4th 76, 85; accord, people v. bollaert (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 699, 710; see people v. lowery (2011) 52 cal.4th 419, 427 willfully to describe the intent with which an act simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act,any intent to violate law, or to injure 7 anotherpeople v. crouch (1980) 108 cal.app.3d supp. 14, 22 [failure to give information required by vehicle code section 20002, subdivision (a), may not be willfuif the accused person were transported by ambulance from the scene in an unconscious conditionstrathy ran away from the scene of the collision by his own choice bollaert, at p. 710.) this evidence supports a finding he fled the scene of the accident willfully.2 strathy also argues there was no evidence he engaged in given the injuries he suffered supposed to take to report damage to the tree, if any, under these not that he failed to notify police of the accident before they arrived at the scene. his offense was that he left the scene without giving the property owner the required information. (see carbajal, supra, 10 cal.4th at p. 1124 [the crime under vehicle code section 20002strathy did not comply with the requirement of notifying the police department without unnecessary delay: instead of attempting to carjack william hernandez, strathy could have accepted his offer to call 911. (see people v. mcdonald (1956) 139 cal.app.2d 855, 858 [under former vehicle code provision requiring a driver involved in a lethal accident to report the 2 strathy does not argue his mental state after the collision away from the scene. 8 or highway patrol, the defendant did not ask to use the telephone at the house to which he went immediately after the accidentthus failed to avail himself of the first opportunity to make the required report disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. keeny, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 