 filed 5/10/17 p. v. beckett ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lamar beckett, defendant and appellant. b269829 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba437867) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig j. mitchell, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded. caneel c. fraser, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, john yang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant lamar beckett (defendant) was convicted at trial of second degree robbery (pen. code,  2111) and senten on appeal, defendant contends that: (1) the prosecutor committed misconduct when cross-examining defendant about some of his prior convictions; and (2) the trial court improperly imposed a sentencing enhancement for a prior serious felony conviction pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). we reject these contentions, affirm the conviction, but remand the matter to the trial court for the limited purpose of deciding whether to impose or strike three sentencing enhancements for prior prison terms pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). background i. factual background a. prosecution evidence lauren mobley testified that she was walking along spring street in downtown los angeles with a group of friends when she noticed defendant behind her, pushing a bicycle. defendant came up to her from behind and pulled the strap of her purse forcefully, attempting to take the purse. mobley screamed, instinctively held on to the purse strap, and fell as a result of defendant pulling on the purse strap. defendant ran off with the purse. defendant ran about 21 feet before he encountered don garza, a bystander, who recovered the purse from defendant and 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 returned it to mobley. garza provided a version of the events leading testimony. eventually, defendant left the scene of the incident. the police arrived soon thereafter, spoke to mobley, and ultimately apprehended defendant. b. defense evidence defendant testified that he was walking with his bicycle north on spring street while carrying a backpack and his defendant felt fatigued and experienced chest pains, and reached for a nearby rail. he then saw mobley fall down. s bike, which had a flat tire, fell into the dip of a tree planter. defendant fell toward the tree. defendant grabbed the tree and prevented his fall. defendant further testified that he believed there was a during his fall. defendant stated he did not know what he grabbed to catch his balance, but he claimed that he s purse. shortly after mobley fell down, several individuals started striking defendant, including garza who punched defendant in the face. people in the crowd told defendant to leave. defendant left the area to escape the crowd. about 25 minutes later, he was stopped by the police. the police asked if e lady, ii. procedural background defendant was charged in a one-count information with second degree robbery in violation of section 211. the information also alleged three types of sentencing enhancements 4 relevant to this appeal. pursuant to section 667, subdivisions (b) through (j), and section 1170.12, the information alleged that defendant sustained a prior strike conviction, namely, a 1993 robbery conviction. pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), the information alleged that defendant sustained a prior conviction for a serious felony, namely, the same 1993 robbery conviction alleged as a prior strike. pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b), the information alleged that defendant sustained three prior convictions resulting in prison terms. following trial, the jury found defendant guilty of second degree robbery. at a subsequent hearing, defendant admitted that he sustained the 1993 robbery conviction and the three prison priors alleged in the information. the trial court ultimately sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of nine years, consisting of the low term of two years for the robbery, which was doubled due to defendantprior strike conviction, plus five years for the prior serious felony conviction enhancement. the sentence did not include any enhancement for the alleged prison priors. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. prosecutorial misconduct defendant claims the prosecutor committed misconduct when she cross-examined defendant by asking him about prior convictions limiting impeachment to only certain convictions. we hold defendant forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct by failing to object at trial. 5 a. applicable law he applicable federal and state standards regarding prosecutorial misconduct are well established. . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal constitution when it so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. [citations.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury.people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819.) it may be misconduct for a prosecutor to violate a court ruling by eliciting or attempting to elicit inadmissible evidence in violation of a prior court order. (people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 839.) however, limited questioning that elicits inadmissible evidence is not misconduct where it pattern of conduct so egregious that it render[s] the trial people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, 952, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 380, 421 fn. 22.) with respect to impeaching a witness with his or her prior convictions, impeachment with a felony conviction is only proper (people v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d 301, 314, 317.) a witness may not be impeached with the mere fact of a misdemeanor conviction, but impeachment with the underlying conduct for the misdemeanor is permissible if it involves moral turpitude. (people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 297, 300, fns. 6 7 & 14, superseded on other grounds as stated in people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1460-1462.) b. relevant proceedings in t, the prosecutor identified various prior convictions that might serve as impeachment should defendant testify: (1) a 1993 felony conviction for robbery ( 211); (2) a 2003 misdemeanor conviction for domestic violence ( 273.5, subd. (a)); (3) a 2005 felony conviction for domestic violence ( 273.5, subd. (a)); and (4) three felony convictions in 2012, 2013, and 2014, for drug possession (health & saf. code,  11350, subd. (a)). after the -in-chief, the defense notified the trial court that defendant would testify, which led to a hearing outside the presence of the jury regarding what prior convictions the prosecution could use to im the prosecutor argued that (i.e., the 1993 felony robbery conviction) at both the misdemeanor and felony prior convictions for domestic violence were crimes of moral turpitude. accordingly, the prosecutor contended that all three convictions could be used to impeach defendant. agreed that the 1993 robbery conviction and the 2005 felony conviction for domestic violence could be used to impeach defendant. counsel, however, argued that convictions are fair game for im in response to the foregoing, the trial stated: going to leave th 7 or not he has been convicted of multiple felony charges? that is a completely permissible phraseology and question to pose. ony, the people may be able to explore the nature of the charges with respect to the penal code section 211 and the 273.5. but insofar as, i have indicated earlier, the relevance of felony convictions simply to call into question the v[e]racity of his testimony. what those convictions were at this point are not relevant. have articulated it. i will call counsel to sidebar if i believe any door is opened in the course of his testimo the trial court did not make any specific mention of whether underlying conduct could be used to impeach defendant. defendant then testified, and the prosecutor proceeded to cross-examine him. during that cross-examination, the following conviction? a crime of moral turpitude? i submit to the court not at this juncture. please ask the question in a more generic sense at this time. 8 who understand what a crime of moral turpitude is. this witness, perhaps, is one of them. please ask the question in a different manner. section t know what that section is, i will ask at the sidebar conference, the following exchange occurred between the trial court and parties: . . i was real clear on this. you can go through his statutes. . . . felony. correct? but she even mentioned the wrong date as well. after the sidebar, the prosecutor continued her cross-examination of defendant as follows: 9 3 were you convicted of a felony? [defendant]: to a misdemeanor. : we are not asking whether they were reduced at some point. at the time of conviction . of this year, is that correct? when you were convicted of that last felony? the defense made no contemporaneous or subsequent prosecutor made no further inquiry regarding c. forfeiture to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, the defendant must object at the time the claimed misconduct occurs and request a curative admonition to the jury or instruction. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1010; people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 938-939.) an objection on a different ground may not be sufficient to preserve a claim of misconduct. (people v. dykes he primary purpose of the requirement that a defendant object at trial to . . . prosecutorial misconduct is to give the trial court an opportunity, 10 through admonition of the jury, to correct any error and mitigate people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th either a timely objection and/or a request for admonition if either people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) defendant has forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct on appeal because he never objected to the ground, let alone prosecutorial misconduct. when the prosecutor asked defendant whether he suffered a felony conviction in 1993, defendant did not object and answered affirmatively.2 when the prosecutor twice asked defendant about his 2003 conviction, there was also no objection by the defense. after the first question, defense counsel requested a sidebar, but the trial court instead instructed the prosecutor to rephrase the question. after the prosecutor posed the rephrased question, the trial court then granted defense counsel request to approach. once at sidebar, however, the defense still did not articulate any objection s, let alone argue the prosecutor engaged in misconduct. rather, without any objection by the defense, the trial court through his felony convictions then demonstrated how the 2 as noted above, defense counsel had earlier conceded the 1993 robbery conviction could be used to impeach, and defendant does not contest otherwise on appeal. 11 after that, defense counsel merely commented that the 3 after the sidebar conference, the prosecutor posed no domestic violence conviction. instead, the prosecutor asked four questions in succession whether defendant had been convicted of a felony in 2005, 2012, 2013, and 2014, respectively. defendant did not object to any of those questions on any ground and answered yes to each.4 because defendant never objected to any of questions regarding his prior convictions, he failed to alert the trial court to purported misconduct and deprived the trial court of any opportunity to fashion an appropriate remedy as needed. indeed, if defendant had objected and convinced the trial court it was misconduct to ask if defendant was convicted in 2003 of a crime of moral turpitude or a violation of section 273.5 (neither of which defendant answered), the trial court could have cured the error by instructing the jury that questions of counsel are not evidence. (see people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 764 [presuming jury will follow instruction that statements of 3 the meaning of that statement is far from clear, but it would seem defense counsel acknowledged the 2005 domestic violence conviction could be used to impeach but meant to criticize the prosecutor for confusing it with the 2003 conviction. regardless, this passing comment about the incorrect date cannot logically be construed as raising a prosecutorial misconduct objection. 4 as noted above, defendant had earlier conceded the 2005 domestic violence felony conviction was permissible for impeachment and does not contest otherwise now. 12 attorneys are not evidence].)5 likewise, if defendant had objected and convinced the trial court that it was misconduct to impeach defendant with his 2012, 2013, and 2014 felony drug possession convictions, the trial court could have cured the error by striking such testimony and instructing the jury to disregard it.6 (see people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 434-admonished the jury to disregard any mention of the arrest, and afforded the trial court no such opportunities to address the claims of misconduct he now asserts for the first time on appeal. he has therefore forfeited them. (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1328; people v. tully, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1010; people v. thomas, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 938-939.) to avoid forfeiture, defendant argues his failure to object at trial should be excused because any objection would have been 5 the trial court did instruct the jury prior to deliberations that the attorre not evidence. thus, assuming arguendo that posing two unanswered questions was misconduct, it was harmless. (people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 564 occurred, reversal is not required unless the defendant can show ) 6 we recognize the trial court might have determined such convictions were not proper impeachment (see people v. castro, supra, 38 cal.3d at p. 317 []), but it was incumbent upon defendant to object when the prosecutor began questioning defendant about them, particularly because the trial court had indicated at the initial hearing to discuss impeachment that it drug possession convictions] alone for the 13 futile. specifically, defendant contends that he made two a, but those attempts . first, defendant claims the trial court uest for a sidebar when the prosecutor initially 2003 conviction. second, defendant claims the trial court once at sidebar to address the prosecutor misdemeanor conviction. the record dobjection would have been futile; indeed, it shows the opposite. to begin with, request for a sidebar was simply thata request to address the judge outside the presence of the jury. it is not reasonable to presume the trial court could have divined from such request that the defense believed the prosecutor had engaged in misconduct. further, as noted above, the trial court denied the initial request for a sidebar in favor of instructing the prosecutor to rephrase her initial question could not do so satisfactorily, the trial court immediately granted ch. once at sidebar, far from doing urt told the prosecutor that she could only the defense had ample opportunity at sidebar to raise the contention that the prosecutor had engaged in misconduct, but defense counsel only stated offhandedly at the end of the sidebar conference that the reasonable observer that the trial court had sufficiently for the sidebar. indeed, after the sidebar, the prosecutor adhered 14 contrary to defendantthis entire exchange demonstrates the trial court was responsive . the record provides no support for accordingly, we hold that defendant forfeited his claim that the prosecutor engaged in misconduct. ii. section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement defendant contends that the trial court improperly imposed a prior serious felony enhancement pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), claiming that, although he admitted he sustained the 1993 robbery conviction alleged in the information as the basis for both the serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and prior strike ( 667, subd. (b)-(i)) sentencing enhancements, his admission could only be used to support the prior strike enhancement. we disagree. a. relevant proceedings the information alleged pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1) that in 1993 defendant suffered a conviction for a serious felony (i.e., robbery) in case number ba078137. if true, the prior serious felony enhancement would subject defendant to an additional five-year consecutive term of imprisonment. the information also alleged that the same 1993 robbery conviction (case number ba078137) constituted a prior strike conviction pursuant to section 667, subdivision (b)-(j) and section 1170.12. if true, the prior strike enhancement would double the selected . at the hearing to address the allegations of the prior convictions, the following exchange occurred: 15 . . . proof of the alleged priors. . . . . [defendant] is going to admit the prior convictions, . . . . . again, he would like to admit those prior convictions, and we can go through that process for purposes of waiving that right to an actual trial . . . . . . on sel], that i take an admission with respect to the 667.5(b) priors alleged and the strike prior. involved in your jury trial, you waived your right to have the jurors make the determination if you suffered the prior convictions that are contained in the information. t you are going to now waive a trial before myself and admit that you have been convicted of those offenses. do you understand? the defendant: yes. the trial court then advised defendant of his rights. defendant waived those rights and admitted he sustained the three prison priors alleged in the information pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant also admitted he sustained the 1993 robbery conviction alleged in the information as follows: 16 the court: and with respect to the allegation in case[] no. ba 078137 that you were convicted of a serious or violent felony, in september of 1993, do you admit that prior conviction? the defendant: yes. double the base term pursuant to section 667, subdivisions (b) through (j). the trial court imposed an additional five years imprisonment for the prior serious felony conviction enhancement pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). b. analysis imposing the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) prior serious felony conviction enhancement. that provision provides that any person convicted of a serious felony who has previously been convicted of a serious felony shall receive a consecutive, five-year sentence for each prior conviction. ( 667, subd. (a)(1).) a serious felony listed in subdivision (c) of section 1192.7 ( 667, subd. (a)(4).) robbery is listed as a serious felony under section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(19). section 1025, subdivision (a) provides having suffered the prior conviction in all subsequent ed the prior conviction alleged as the basis for the enhancement, the trial court then determines whether the conviction qualifies as a 17 conviction that triggers application of the enhancement. (see people v. mcgee (2006) 38 cal.4th 682, 695; people v. kelli (1999) 21 cal.4th 452, 454; people v. woodell (1998) 17 cal.4th 448, 453.) here, defendant admitted that he sustained the 1993 robbery conviction in case number ba078137. the trial court inth[e] section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and the trial court correctly so concludedimposition of the prior serious felony enhancement based on conviction. defendant, nonetheless, contends that his admission of the 1993 robbery conviction cannot be used as the basis for the serious felony enhancement because defendant only admitted he sustained that conviction for use as a prior strike conviction. more specifically, defendant argues that he did not knowingly and voluntarily admit the 1993 robbery conviction for use as a serious felony enhancement because the trial court did not explicitly mention that enhancement or its accompanying five-year term of imprisonment wthe prior. this claim elevates form over substance and must be rejected. in deciding whether a defendant has knowingly and voluntarily admitted the truth of a sentencing allegation, the trial court must determine that the defendant was fully advised 18 of the constitutional rights waived by so doing, as well as the full penal effect of a finding of the truth of the allegation. (in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857, 865.) our supreme court has made the record affirmatively shows that [the admission] is voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances. [citations.] . . . .(people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 360 [emphasis in original] (mosby).) in adopting the totality of the circumstances test, the court in mosby (id. at 361.) here, while the trial court did not expressly mention section 667, subdivision (a)(1) or its five-year consecutive term of robbery conviction, we are satisfied that the record as a whole demonstrates defendant knowingly and voluntarily admitted the conviction for purposes of that enhancement. the information outlined all the charges and enhancements filed against defendant, including the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) five-year enhancement based on his 1993 robbery tbefore the trial court began its colloquy with defendant, defense counsel again confirmedwithout limitation the trial court then addressed defendant directly, confirming whether defendant understood right to have the jurors make the determination if you suffered 19 that had not intended to waive jury or did not intend to admit the 1993 robbery conviction for use as a prior serious felony under section 667, subdivision (a)(1).7 moreover, when asking defendant whether he had sustained the 1993 robbery conviction in case number ba078137, and without asserting any sort of limitation or caveat, defendant admitted he sustained that conviction. cord also sheds light on mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 365.) leniency (including a request that the trial court dismiss the strike enhancement), but all of the various potential sentences discussed by defense counsel included the five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). likewise, at the sentencing hearing, defendant never contended that the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) had yet to be proven, even after the trial court 7 prior to trial, defendant agreed to bifurcation of the prior conviction allegations and waived his right to a jury trial on those of jury on the allegations, the trial court initially referred only to the nd but the trial court ultimately asked defendant: that you have suffered prior convictions as alleged in the information [italics added.] without qualification, defendant 20 indicated that it had no discretion to decline to apply that enhancement.8 indeed, defendant concedes in his opening brief on appeal [defendant] had admitted both a strike prior and a section 667(a) the logical import of defendant proceeding at sentencing as if the five-year enhancement applied is that defendant fully understood he had admitted the conviction that triggered its application and knew its penal consequence.9 we recognize the would be even more clear if the trial court had engaged in the better practice of stating explicitly the sentencing enhancement admission of the prior conviction, but the record as a whole nonetheless demonstrates that defendant knowingly and voluntarily admitted the 1993 robbery conviction for purposes of the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) prior serious felony sentencing enhancement. 8 the five-year section 667, subdivision (a) enhancement may not be stricken by the trial court pursuant to section 1385, subdivision (a) or any other provision of law. (people v. garcia, (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1550, 1560-1561 (garcia).) 9 by contrast, it is not logical to conclude defendant chose to admit the robbery conviction as a strike prior (thereby potentially doubling the 2, 3 or 5 year base term for his robbery conviction), but admitted the conviction as a serious felony conviction without knowing it would subject him to a five-year term of imprisonment. 21 iii. three prior prison term enhancements the attorney general contends that the trial court erred by failing to either impose or strike the three prior prison term enhancements. we agree. defendant admitted the three prior prison convictions pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b), and the trial court found those allegations to have been proven. once such an enhancement is found true, it must be imposed or stricken. (garcia, supra, 167 cal.app.4th at p. 1561; people v. campbell (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 305, 311.) the trial court did neither, which was error. (people v. bradley (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 386, 390 we therefore remand for the limited purpose of the trial court determining whether to impose one or more of the prior prison term enhancement or strike one or more of them pursuant to section 1385, subdivision (a). (id. at p. 400; garcia, supra, 167 trial court must exercise its discretion and either impose or strike the section 667.5, subdivision (b) prior prison term enhancements 22 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court to impose or strike the three prior prison term enhancements alleged in the information. we otherwise affirm the judgment. not to be published in the official reports. kin, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. baker, j. judge of the superior court of the county of los angeles, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 