filed 3/13/17 p. v. franco ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alberto franco, defendant and appellant. b269287 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta054828) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, william c. ryan, judge. affirmed and remanded. david r. greifinger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris and xavier becerra, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction alberto franco, also known as antonio chavez and by his gang m has been serving a three-strike sentence of 25 years to life for possession of methamphetamine since 2000. in 2013 he filed a petition for resentencing under the three strikes reform act of 2012, enacted by the voters as proposition 36 (pen. code,  1170.126).1 in 2015 he filed a petition for recall of his sentence under the safe neighborhoods and schools act, enacted by the voters as proposition 47 ( 1170.18). the trial court held a hearing on both petitions in 2015. the court denied fran petition because it determined resentencing franco would pose an unreasonable risk to public safety under section 1170.18, subdivisions (b) and (c), but the court did not 36 petition. we petition and remand for the court to 36 petition. factual and procedural background a. on april 9, 2013 franco filed a petition for recall of his sentence under proposition 36. franco alleged his current offense was a june 2, 2000 conviction for possession of a controlled substance in violation of health and safety code section 11377, subdivision (a), for which he received a sentence of 25 years to life pursuant to the three strikes law. franco asked 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the court to sentence him as a second strike offender, and asserted he did not pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety under section 1170.126, subdivision (g). on april 19, 2013 the trial court issued an order to show cause. b. er proposition 47 on january 15, 2015 franco filed a petition for resentencing under proposition 47. franco stated he had been convicted of a violation of health and safety code section 11377, a felony that had since become a misdemeanor under proposition 47. he also alleged that resentencing him would not pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety under section 1170.18, subdivision (c). on january 21, 2015 the court issued an order to show cause. the people opposed the petition, conceding franco appeared eligible for resentencing but arguing resentencing would create an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety under section 1170.18, subdivision (c). the people noted franco had a pending proposition 36 petition. c. the evidence at the hearing on the petitions on october 8, 2015 the court conducted a hearing on both petitions. at the hearing, both sides called a prison gang expert to testify about the mexican mafia itpert, sergeant javier clift, was a 34-year who had 17 years of experience conducting prison investigations of mexican mafia sergeant clift explained that in 2010 franco was validated as a mexican mafia associate, which means 4 an associate is higher than a regular foot soldier but lower than a full member of the mexican mafia. although only an actual member of the mexican mafia can order an assault or a franco works on behalf of the llavero- in the prison,2 whom the mexican mafia gives the as a result of these activities with the mexican mafia, franco has been housed in a security housing unit since 2010. franco is also on a governing board of the mexican mafia, or table, not sanctioned by the prison authorities, that serves as a objectives in the prison. sergeant clift explained that inmates problems that are occurring instructions on how to resolve the issue. the mesa council is part that allows the mexican 2 the mexican mafia controls most of the street gangs in hispanic neighborhoods in southern california, as well as most of the hispanic criminal activity in the prison system. every mexican mafia member has a person, called a key-holder (in spanish, llavero), underneath him whom the member has placed in charge of a certain neighborhood with full authority to conduct rodriguez v. bitter (s.d. cal. 2015) no. 13-cv-962-lab-ksc, 2015 wl 773137, at p. 3; see u.s. v. rosalez (10th cir. 2013) 711 f.3d 1194, 1199 [members of the hispllavero- 5 mafia to resolve conflicts with other gangs. participation in this council puts franco at an elite level of the mexican mafia. franco has a record of prison rules violations related to his gang activities. in 2014 prison authorities discovered on franco a bindle containing two tes used by those loyal to the mexican mafia to communicate with each other. one within security housing unit, informinote was a roll call or roster identifying active mexican mafia associates and loyal gang members housed at one of the prison facilities, identifying the associate by first and last name, california department of corrections and rehabilitation [cdcr] identification number, date of birth, gang moniker, commitment offense, and reason for placement in security housing. the roster listed members, actual members, or associates, or other southern hispanic gang the rules violation report (rvr) for this violation stated that, by continued association, behavior, loyalty, and allegiance to the 3 3 an institutional gang investigator at the prison wrote that inmates in order to continue efforts to communicate gang information with persons identified on the pieces of paper. the individuals listed withidentified as validated associates of the mexican mafia . . . . inmates regularly maintain the names and cdcr numbers of other inmates throughout the [state], and by utilizing 6 es of rvr for by members and associates of the mexican mafia (eme) within each housing unit at correctional facilities. the eme utilize the house rules to maintain strict adherence to [its] policies and thereby control the southern hispanic population, referred to as panic failing to follow the rules outlined within the training material and identified by the eme member or associate maintaining control of the unit, will face discipline. the discipline is dependent upon the severity of the violation and may place the identified inmate in bad standing with eme and they are organizational and regimented structure utilized by the eme to carry out [its] violent policies through fear and intimidation. by maintaining and loyalty with the eme, as well as his good standing with the the senior hearing official in the prison concluded was part of the inmate central locator system through family/friends on the streets, use these names and cdcr numbers to locate the inmate within the state facilities, and thereby relay gang related information to the inmate and maintain communications. therefore . . . this document should be utilized as one source towards maintaining the active validation of [franco] as an associate of the mexican mafia . . . 7 gang activities on behalf of . . . and conduct criminal gang activities on behalf of the mexican leadership amongst the southern hispanic inmate population [and] supports eme politics and follows all rules set forth by the based on this evidence, sergeant clift opined that franco was a danger to the community and, if released, would commit further gang-related crimes such as murder, attempted murder, and solicitation to commit murder on behalf of the mexican mafia. noting that franco never denied his involvement with the mexican mafia or requested debriefing,4 sergeant clift explained, raditionally, if you are involved in the mexican mafia and you are not saying that you are not involved and you go back out on the streets, you will be involved in criminal activity. that is the life blood of the mexican mafia. they will go out and start intimidating. they will kidnap people, torture people, commit murder, solicit for murder. they will be involved in murders. to live in compton and work as a truck driver if released, sergeant clift stated driving a truck would make it easier for franco to commit crimes for the mexican mafia, including making threats to commit murder. sergeant clift further explained that, as a mexican mafia associate, franco would have authority, and in fact to control the hispanic gangs by taxing them and directing them on what they want done out in that 4 for demonstrating that an inmate has ended his active membership in a prison gang. (in re fernandez (2013) 212 cal.app.4th 1199, 1217.) 8 because franco is an older mexican mafia associate, younger gang members would consider him the criminal organizationk up to him, which would put franco icriminal tasks extortion, robbery, murders, attempt[ed] murders, the sales of narcotics, and the involvement of other c t, richard subia, waconsultant providing expert testimony and consultation to public who had training and experience investigating criminal street and prison gangs, including involvement in over 500 prison gang validations and debriefings. subiaand experience included prison disciplinary process, and assessing risk, both in custody e testifies only for petitioners in proposition 36 cases. subia acknowledged franco is a validated associate of the mexican mafia, but he believed inconsistent with what you would see in a prison setting,and subi according to subia, there are prisoner rules that are controlled by the prisoners. each has its own set of violations. each has its own set of subimake him a current danger to society because some of his rules violations involved conduct that called attention to himself, and be drawing 9 subia concluded franco did not pose unreasonable risk him being violent as opposed to d. in a 17-page memorandum of decision, the trial court pursuant to section 1170.18, subdivision (b), the trial court considered, and and rehabilitation record while incarcerated, and other evidence relevant to whether resentencing franco would result in an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. with respect to armed robbery involved a threat to kill the victim with an 1989 conviction for possession of a controlled substance, several probation violations, 1990 conviction for taking a vehicle without 1991 conviction for possession of a firearm as a felon, 1993 conviction for petty theft with a prior, 1994 conviction for second degree robbery, burglary and grand theft, and 1999 conviction for possession of methamphetamine. discipline, which included 10 serious rvrs, and his limited participation in rehabilitative programming. indicated two 2014 violations for possessing mexican mafia materials and the roster of active mexican mafia associates, two 2009 violations for disobeying orders, a 2007 violation for mutual combat, two 2005 violations for misuse of property and willfully obstructing a peace officer, a 2004 violation for conspiracy to traffic or distribute a controlled substance in prison, and a 2002 10 violation for introducing contraband into the prison. the court also noted franco had only rehabilitative programming. ith the mexican mafia in prison: associate of the mexican mafia security threat group (stg) on june 25, 2010. . . . confidential information indicated [franco] was part of a mexican mafia governing body . . . . [franco] was placed in administrative segregation on may 27, 2010, pending the investigation into his connection with the mexican mafia. after [franco] was validated as a mexican mafia associate, [he] was placed in the security housing unit (shu) for an indeterminate term on march 9, 2011. . . . on december 17, 2014, the classification committee elected to retain [franco] in the shu based on his status as an active mexican mafia ed the prison authorities had advised by going through the debriefing process, obtaining inactive gang member or associate status, and participating in the step down program.5 franco, however, never participated in the step down program. after reviewing this evidence, the court proposition 47 petition, concluding that resentencing him would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety under 5 the behavior based program that provides graduated housing, and willingness to refrain from [gang] behavior . . . 11 section 1170.18, subdivisions (b) and (c). the court noted franco had an extensive criminal record that is marked by substance s a conviction for a violent felony, and a history of recidivism and violations of probation and parole. the court sconvictions were remote, his involvement with the mexican mafia in prison created a causal link between those convictions and his current risk of danger. sent out mail containing symbols associated with the mexican mafia, has tattooed himself with symbols associated with the mexican mafia, has received rvrs for possessing a roster of active mexican mafia associates and a copy of the mexican he was part of a mexican mafia governing body . . . emphasizing influence both inside and outside the prison system due to [its] violent means of gaining profit for itself as well as the manner in which it deals with people who stand in its way or attempt to , becomes very difficult to leave this lifestyle even if one desires to found the mexican mafia and refusal to participate in [the step down program] the court stated that, 12 gangs while in the strictest of environments, the shu in state prison, it is not likely he will disassociate himself from gangs if released into the free community where he has scant educational engage in substance abuse, educational, or vocational programs. contained in the record demonstrates that resentencing [franco] would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety pursuant to the definition set forth in section 1170.18, subdivision (c) at this time due to his criminal history, disciplinary record, insufficient rehabilitative programming, continued gang involvement, and inadequate re-section 1170.18, subdivision (b). although the court stated at the proposition 36, stating discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in 7 petition on the ground resentencing would pose an unreasonable risk to public safety proposition 47 makes certain drug- and theft-related offenses misdemeanors, unless the offenses were committed by certain ineligible defendants. these offenses had previously been designated as either felonies or wobblers (crimes that can be punished as either felonies or misdemeanors).people v. rivera 13 (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1085, 1091.) as summarized by the legislreduces penalties for certain offenders convicted of nonserious and nonviolent property and allows certain offenders who have been previously convicted of such crimes to apply for reduced sentences. (people v. salmorin (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 738, 742.) u a felony sentence for an offense that is now a misdemeanor under proposition 47, may petition for a recall of that sentence and request resentencing in accordance with the statutes that were added or amended by proposition 47. [citation.] a person who satisfies the criteria in section 1170.18 shall have his or her resentenced to a misdemeanor . . . unless the court, in its discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to section 1170.18 thus provides a two-step mechanism. . . . first, the trial court must determine if the petitioner is eligible for resentencing under section 1170.18 based on a preponderance of the evidence. [citations.] if the court finds the petitioner eligible, the trial court must determine the factual issue of whether the petitioner presents an unreasonable risk of danger t (people v. hall (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1255, 1261-1262, fns. omitted; see people v. hronchak (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 884, 890before resentencing an otherwise eligible petitioner, the court must determine whether resentencing would pose an unreasonable risk ; people v. johnson (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 953, 965the court may still deny relief to an otherwise eligible petitioning defendant if the court determines, 14 based on evidence from any source, that resentencing would pose an unreasonable .) subdivision (c) of section 1170.18 defines the term unreasonable risk of danger to public safety, and subdivision (b) of the statute lists factors the court must consider in determining whether a new sentence would result in an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. [citation.] [u]nreasonable risk of danger to public safety means an unreasonable risk that the petitioner will commit a new violent felony within the meaning of [section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv) ]. (hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1262, fn. omitted.) section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv) provides a list of felsuper strikes. (hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1262, fn. 6.) the super strike felonies listed in that provision are: subdivision (b) of section 6600 of the welfare and institutions code. [] (ii) oral copulation with a child who is under 14 years of age, and who is more than 10 years younger than he or she as defined by section 288a, sodomy with another person who is under 14 years of age and more than 10 years younger than he or she as defined by section 286, or sexual penetration with another person who is under 14 years of age, and who is more than 10 years younger than he or she, as defined by section 289. [] (iii) a lewd or lascivious act involving a child under 14 years of age, in violation of section 288. [] (iv) any homicide offense, including any attempted homicide offense, defined in sections 187 to 191.5, inclusive. [] (v) solicitation to commit murder as defined in section 653f. [] (vi) assault with a machine gun on a peace officer or firefighter, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (d) of section 245. [] (vii) possession of a weapon 15 of mass destruction, as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of section 11418. [] (viii) any serious and/or violent felony ( 667, subd. (e)(2)(c)(iv).) the critical inquiry . . . is not whether the risk is quantifiable, but rather, whether the risk would be unreasonable. (hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1262.) in exercising its discretion, the court may consider all of the following: s criminal conviction history, including the type of crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the remoteness of the s disciplinary record and record of rehabilitation while incarcerated. [] (3) any other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. (hall, at p. 1262, quoting  1170.18, subd. (b).) the people have the burden of proving dangerousness under proposition 47 by a preponderance of the evidence. (people v. jefferson (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 235, 241.) section 1170.18, subdivision (b), repeadiscretion to determine that resentencing a petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safetys denial of a proposition 47 petition on the ground an eligible petitioner poses an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety for abuse of discretion. (hall, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at pp. 1263-1264.) the people do not dispute franco is eligible for resentencing under proposition 47. he was sentenced in 2000 to a prison term of 25 years to life on his conviction of possessing 16 methamphetamine in violation of health & safety code section 11377. (see people v. davis (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 127, 132 mong other changes to california criminal law, proposition 47 reduced a violation of health and safety code section 11377, subdivision (a) to a misdemeanor, rev. granted july 13, 2016; people v. lynall (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1102, 1105 ith the passage of proposition 47 . . . violations of health and safety code section 11377 became misdemeanors the issue is whether the trial court abused its discretion in finding resentencing franco would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. it did not. the court considered the proper factors under section 1170.18, subdivision (b) (disciplinary and rehabilitative record, and other relevant evidence), and made findings on each. (see hall, supra, 247 enumerated factor in exercising 1170.18, subdivision (b)].) the court relied on the fact that some of kill the victim of an armed robbery with an automatic weapon and possession of a firearm as obey the law even when on parole or probation. the court the court acknowledged that some of francconvictions were not recent, but balanced that fact against the fact his gang-related activities escalated during his time in prison 17 and his rvrs were as recent as 2014.6 history of recidivism alone is an insufficienfinding that a petitioner poses an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety, the multiplicity of prior convictions and the failure to comply with conditions of intervening periods of probation or parole give rise to a valid concern about a danger to public safety. the court found this is particularly true for franco because, even though his convictions his previous criminal history and his current risk of danger to public safety because of his gang the court further t rehabilitation, noting franco had taken advantage of few of the programs and avenues for improvement available to him in prison. the court observed that substance abuse treatment program in 2000, and that he has not engaged in any other substance abuse programming despite his (fn. omitted.) nor, as the trial court noted, had franco engaged in any significant educational or vocational programming during his incarceration. the court also properly considered under section 1170.18, subdivision (b)(3), relatively high-ranking position as an associate of the mexican mafia. criminal gangs like the mexican mafia exist to commit the kinds of crimes listed in section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv), including homicide and attempted homicide, solicitation to commit murder, and serious or violent 6 the court also commented that franco incurred his last 18 felonies that can be punishable in california by life imprisonment or death. (see u.s. v. martinez (9th cir. 2011) 657 f.3d 811, 815 he mexican mafia has survived for half a centuryenforces its will by violence including murde; vasquez v. thaler (w.d. tex. 2012) 2012 wl 2979035, at p. 23 any reasonable person would expect a member of the mexican mafia to . . . follow the orders of higher level officials in that organization and cjoyce, stars, : consequential symbols in california prison gang policy (2016) 104 cal. l.rev. 733, 739-740 [i]n california, prison gangs threaten safety both within and beyond prison wallsprison gangs have directed street gangs within their control to collaborate with drug cartels, and to assas behalfrafael, the mexican mafia (2007) p. 34 [penalty for failure to pay taxes to the mexican mafia is death]; mastin, rico conspiracy: dismantles the mexican mafia & disables procedural due process (2001) 27 wm. mitchell l. rev. 2295, 2302 he mexican mafia condones murder as a means to further its existence; cf. u.s. v. krout (5th cir. 1995) 66 f.3d 1420, 1427-1428 [texas mexican mafia, y its written constitution,tself as criminals dealing in drugs, contract killings, prostitution, large scale robbery, gambling, weapons, and in everything imaginable as the necessarily means being involved in the commission or attempted commission of ection 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv). the decisions (in 2010) to house and (in 2014) to keep franco in the dangerous even in prison; there is no reason to believe he will be 19 any less dangerous in the general public. (see small v. superior court (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 1000, 1005 security housing unit is an extended term placement designated for an inmate whose conduct endangers the safety of others or the security of the institutionpeople v. jefferson, supra, 1 cal.app.5th at pp. 243-244 [trial court properly considered proposition 47 .) there was evidence that inmates involved with the mexican mafia, if they are released from prison, will commit or solicit murders. as sergeant clift put it in describing associates of the mexican mafia sergeant clift also explained that franco would be in a position to commit these kinds of crimes for the mexican mafia because after release franco [in] constant contact with members of the mexican mafia on what they wanted done in then he would direct the southern hispanic gang members that pay homage to the mexican mafia to complete the . . . criminal tasks that the murders, attempt[ed] murders, the sales of narcotics, and the 7 sergeant clift testified 7 although the trial court stated in its decision that sergeant of his testimony. (see in re daniel g. (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 824, 830 he trier of fact may believe and accept as true only part of a s testimony and disregard the rest 20 that . . . the -release plans s reliable re-entry plan upon release, the risk of [franco] re- the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding resentencing franco would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. b. franco is entitled to a ruling on his proposition 36 petition as notethe court even stated its decision proposition 36 petition in the record. the people point to an april 4, 2016 minute order stating petition for recall of sentence pursuant to . . . section 1170.126 [i.e., proposition 36] on this appears to be a mistake. the courdecember 1, 2015 order denied proposition 36 petition. appeal, we must accept that part of the testimony which supports the j 21 disposition the 47 petition is affirmed. the matter is remanded for the trial segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. small, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 