filed 2/14/17 p. v. hall ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gwendolyn hall, defendant and appellant. b269163 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba424047) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, terry a. bork, bernie c. laforteza, and lisa b. lench, judges. affirmed. tara mulay and marta stanton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant gwendolyn hall of making criminal threats. (pen. code,  422.) the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed hall on probation. we affirm the judgment. facts on april 24, 2014, hall walked into the office of silver lake motors and told an employee, oscar campos (the victim), that she had an appointment to talk with the owner. campos told hall that owner was not at the business right then, and that she could wait for him if she wanted, but that he (campos) did not know if the owner would be coming back that day. hall waited at the business , . . . [m]aybe close to a couple of hours. throughout the time that hall was waiting, she repeatedly said s at some point, campos started going farther . . . eventually, hall threatened campos going to kill me. campos feared for his life and the lives of his family. a co-worker called the police. los angeles police department sean murtha responded to the location, conducted an investigation,1 and arrested hall. in august 2014, the people filed an information charging hall with the crime of making criminal threats. (pen. code,  422.) 1 officer murtha talked to campos, the co-worker who called in the report, and hall. 3 at the arraignment hearing on august 26, 2014, the trial court (hon. david r. fields) appointed alternate public defender jean costanza to represent hall. later during the hearing, judge fields motion pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden) to relieve alternate public defender costanza. marsden motion at her arraignment was the first of many proceedings arising from hallrepresentation. hall does not challenge marsden ruling on appeal. at a pre-trial hearing on october 17, 2014, the trial court marsden motion to relieve alternate public defender costanza. immediately after marsden motion, she expressed a desire to represent herself.2 self-representation. at a pre-trial hearing on january 15, 2015, the trial court (hon. bernie c. lafortezamarsden motion to relieve alternate public defender costanza. immediately after marsden motion, she again expressed a desire to represent herself. 3 judge laforteza denirequest to represent herself on the ground that she was disruptive. 2 marsden ruling on appeal. 3 marsden ruling on appeal. 4 at a pre-trial hearing on march 3, 2015, the alternate appointed bar panel attorney james cooper to represent hall. the criminal threats charge was called for a jury trial in early august 2015. by this time a new trial judge, hon. lisa b. lench, was presiding over the criminal case. during the ensuing jury trial, the prosecution presented evidence establishing the facts summarized above. hall testified in her own defense; she denied that she had made any threats against victim campos. the jury returned a verdict finding hall guilty as charged. on the initial date set for the sentencing trial counsel, bar panel attorney cooper, advised judge lench that hall wanted to make a marsden motion. judge lench continued the matter and suitability for probation pursuant to penal code section 1203.3. at the continued hearing, judge lench suspended imposition of sentence and placed hall on felony probation for three years subject to various terms and conditions, including that hall serve 234 days in jail, with 234 days of total presentence custody credit, including 117 actual days and 117 days of good time/work time credit. judge lench imposed ordinary fines and fees which are not questioned on appeal. hall thereafter filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. the faretta4 claims hall contends her criminal threats conviction must be reversed because judge bork erred in denying her request for self-representation at the pre-trial hearing on october 17, 2014, 4 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 5 and judge laforteza erred in denying her request for self-representation at the pre-trial hearing on january 28, 2015. we the governing law in faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806, the united states supreme court ruled that a criminal defendantsixth amendment right to counsel includes a right to self-representation. (id. at pp. 819-822; and see, e.g., people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 97-98.) faretta and its progeny teach that the right to self-representation in a criminal case keeps company with caution. accordingly, a trial court is required to faretta motion for self-representation only when otion is (1) unequivocal, (2) knowing and intelligent, and (3) made within a reasonable time before trial. (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) when a reviewing court is presented with a claim that a trial court erred in denying motion for self-representation, the reviewing court must examine the claim de novo. (people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1001-1002; people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, 218.) the reviewing court must whole record not merely the transcript of the hearing on the faretta motion itselfto request to waive his or her right to counsel and to proceed as a self-represented defendant. (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1070; see also people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 24.) the trial setting october 17, 2014 at the hearing on october 17, 2014, immediately after marsden motion, and hall had said that she wanted to represent herself, judge bork provided hall 6 with faretta waiver form. hall initialed the form at the indicated points -representation , and signed the form where indicated. she then returned the form to judge bork. after noting on the record that hall appeared to have reviewed and filled out the faretta form, judge bork explained to hall that he wanted to make sure that she understood the disadvantages of self-representation. judge bork specifically you go to trial, and if you are found guilty, the judge after the trial could sentence you up to three years in state prison, s serious consequences. [] now, the disadvantages that you have against laid out in this form that i know you just went over, because i saw you sitting there reading it, and i see you have initialed it.following exchange then ensued: okay. now, did you read everything in this form? all]: no. want efore any she does wants to represent me. [] we courtroom, and if going to prison anyway, if i go to trial. ]: where issue, and [] look, 7 willing to agree to this before i know that you have read and this form, and i boxes. [] and the potential consequences to you are very real and very grant your faretta request to represent yourself until i thoughtfully and we can go over it further. [] if you want to take it back and read it from start to finish so that we that. all] : are you waiting on me to say something? ]: yes. ]: i have nothing to say. sted. if i have to go with her, i be prepared for it. go with her as my lawyer. udge bork]: the immed faretta form. all]: i -- i about the law. judge bork]: the court finds that the defendant has failed, despite my request to read the advisement and waiver of right to counsel, and the right to represent yourself is denied. 8 analysis october 17, 2014 reviewed de novo, the facts summarized above demonstrate that hall did not knowingly and intelligently waive her right to counsel in favor of proceeding as a self-represented defendant. thus, motion to represent herself. before a trial court may find that a defendant made a knowing and intelligent faretta motion, a defendant must be advised of the risks of self-representation. (people v. burgener (2009) 46 cal.4th 231, 242.) although no particular form of words is required in admonishing a defendant who seeks to waive counsel and elect self-representationthe recordas a whole must demonstrate that the defendant understood the disadvantages of self-representation, including (people v. koontz, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1070.) here, after hall indicated that she wished to represent herself, she was given the faretta form, which she initialed and signed. but when judge bork asked hall whether she form, hall answered when judge bork then noted that hall had said that she had not read the form, he warned hall that her request for self-representation would be denied unless she read and understood the the consequences of self-representation. when the court offered hall an opportunity to read the form so that they could then about it substantivelysay the record plainly shows to waive her right to counsel in favor of self-representation was not knowing and intelligent. by her own admission, hall did not read the faretta form, and, when offered a chance to do so, she declined. 9 hall never said or otherwise indicated that she had any understanding of the proceedings, or of the rights that she would be giving up, or of the disadvantages of self-representation that she would be taking on. fairly construed, the record shows no more thshe had to be involved in a criminal case that was not unfolding in the manner in which she wished. reliance on people v. silfa (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 1311 (silfa) in an attempt to persuade us to have a different perspective falters. hall argues that silfa supports the proposition that a trial court may not use a standardized faretta waiver form as a for granting a request for self-representation, and that this is what happened in her case. but not the second. in silfa, the defendant completed a faretta waiver form and, in exchanges with the trial court, orally acknowledged that he understood his rights to counsel, to a jury trial, to use the subpoena power, to cross-examine witnesses, against self-incrimination, and to present a defense. (silfa, supra, 88 cal.app.4th at pp. 1314-1315.) the court then engaged the defendant in a discussion about the charges he faced, the procedures, and evidentiary situations that could arise at trial. (id. at pp. 1315-1321.) based upon that discussion, the trial court ruled that although the defendant was fully informed truly understand the consequences of his waiver. (id. at p. 1321.) the court of appeal reversed stalking, based on its conclusion that the record showed that the defendant 10 demonstrated that he was literate and understood the dangers of self-representation. (id. at p. 1322.) the court of appeal found that the trial court had improperly used the faretta form as a type of baseline defendant failed by not further showing that he understeach nuance of the complex subject matter presented. (ibid.) contrast, she expressly stated that she did not read the faretta form. ensuing inquiries were not a of hall to determine whether she case against her, and of the risks attendant to waiving counsel and taking on the task of self-representation. instead, they were questions by the court to determine whether hall had even bothered to try to learn the basic risks of self-representation. to have not done what judge bork did could arguably have been error. in short, judge bork did no more than try to gauge whether or not hall was making a knowing and intelligent faretta motion. judge bork did not herself. further, we will not ignore that hall made her request for self-representation immediately after judge bork denied her marsden motion, and that her request for self-representation was largely related to her lawyer, and not actually with a desire to represent herself. in other words, even in the event we were to find that judge bork used the faretta -representation, we would still find that judge bork nonetheless properly denirequest to represent herself because, in our de novo review, we find that request for self-representation was equivocal. (people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 11 814, 825 [a trial court may deny a request for self-representation frustration, or intended to delay or disrupt the proceedingsthe immediacy of a faretta motion after the trial court denies a marsden motion is a factor that may be considered in deciding whether a defendant actually wanted to rid him or herself of appointed counsel, in favor of self-representation, or was just further expressing dissatisfaction with counsel. (people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1205 (scott).) here, the timing of request for self-representation, coming as it did immediately following the denial of a marsden motion, supports the conclusion that the request was equivocal and made out of frustration. (people v. williams (1990) 220 cal.app.3d 1165, 1170 [a trial court may deny a faretta request that is made by a defendant when the trial court refuses to provide the defendant with another appointed attorney].) on the issue of equivocation, we find scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th 1197 instructive. in scott, the defendant made a marsden motion before trial. when it was denied, defendant tha (id. at pp. 1204-1205 & fn. 3.) when the trial court queried whether the defendant was sure he wished to represent himself, def (id. at p. 1205.) the defendant further stated that if he could not obtain a new appointed attorney, he would represent himself. (ibid.) on appeal, the appellate court concluded that the remarks, viewed in context and as a whole, were too equivocal to constitute a firm faretta request and that his requests for self-representation were made out of frustration at the denial of the 12 marsden motion, and were not a true, unequivocal request for self-representation. (scott, at p. 1205.) exact same nature. here, as did the defendant in scott, hall made a request for self-representation marsden motion and expressly showed that the motion was made only because she did not want the appointed attorney who was then representing her. when tasked with actually reading and discussing the faretta form, hall folded her hand. the timing of request, her comments, as well as her admitted failure to read the form that she signed demonstrate that frustration with appointed counsel was the catalyst for the motion rather than a well considered decision to forgo her constitutional right to counsel. (see people v. valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at pp. 98-99 to right of self-representation, made immediately following denial of marsden motion, supports conclusion that defendant did not make an unequivocal faretta motion]; and see people v. tena (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 598, 608 [accord].) the trial setting january 28, 2015 at a pre-trial hearing on january 15, 2015, judge marsden motion to relieve alternate public defender costanza, following which hall immediately stated that she wanted to represent herself. the matter was continued. when hearings resumed, judge laforteza tentatively decided to grant faretta request and started to try to advise her regarding her rights and the risks of self-representation. during this process, hall interrupted judge laforteza multiple times, and 13 courts have clearly withheld evidence at every court hearing . . . i guess i have to be stuck with her. because i have the expertise to after hall made this last statement, judge laforteza denied faretta request on the grounds that, due to her interruptions, she would not be able to follow the court rules and procedures. further, judge laforteza found that analysis -representation is not inviolate. a trial court does not abuse its discretion by denying a motion to represent himself on the ground that the defendant is disruptive during the faretta proceeding, and may terminate self-representation by a defendant who deliberately engages in obstructionist conduct. (see, e.g., people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at pp. 733-736; and people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 253-256.) here, the record shows that hall could not control herself at the time of the faretta proceeding before judge laforteza on january 28, 2015. thus, we find no error in judge -representation. to avoid such a conclusion, hall tethers her arguments regarding her second faretta motion to judge laforteza to the events surrounding her earlier faretta motion to judge bork. , her first faretta request involved no disruption,was never granted a right that could be terminated.was error not to grant her first request to proceed self represented, and that the error in denying her first faretta request was not cured by the events that subsequently happened at the time of her second faretta request. as put by hall in her 14 uring none of the proceedings subsequent to the first faretta request did [i] waive or forfeit the right to self-representation [that i] timely asserted nine months before trial . . . . ruling in october 2014 to deny -representation, her claims with respect to her second request to judge laforteza in january 2015 fail. in short, second faretta request rises and falls on its own. because hall was disruptive during the hearing when she made her second faretta request, judge laforteza properly denied that request. ii. the marsden claim hall contends that in the event reversal is not required based on her faretta claims, we should nonetheless remand for a hearing on [her] post-trial [marsden] request to replace trial counsel james cooper, because the trial court failed to hold a hwarranting reversal and remand for further marsden proceedings. the governing law a defendant in a criminal case is constitutionally entitled to the assistance of counsel in his or her defense. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  15.) it has long been recognized that a court must appoint counsel to represent an indigent defendant in a criminal case. (see gideon v. wainwright (1963) 372 u.s. 335, 344-345.) under marsden, a defendant has a right to seek new appointed counsel when he or she claims that continued representation by presently appointed counsel would substantially impair the right to effective assistance of counsel. (see, e.g., people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1190; and see 15 marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 123.) a trial court must appoint new counsel when it finds that a failure to do so would substantially impair the defendants right to assistance of counsel. (people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80, 89-90.) during a marsden hearing, the court must afford the defendant an opportunity to explain the grounds for the motion and to relate specific instances of his or her attorneys inadequate performance. (marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 124.) a trial court abuses its discretion when it refuses to listen to the defendants reasons for requesting new counsel. (people v. vera (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 970, 980 (vera); people v. moore (1988) 47 cal.3d 63, 76; people v. lewis (1978) 20 cal.3d 496, 498-499.) this said, a defendant can abandon a marsden request for new counsel by declining to make a showing at a later hearing. (vera, supra, 122 cal.app.4th at pp. 981-982.) the trial setting as noted above, at a post-trial hearing on august 26, 2015, thretrial counsel advised judge lench that hall wanted to make a marsden motion. the following exchanges then ensued: all]: [i]s it possible that i can give you some evidence that you can read? judge lench]: . . . [i]f you give it to me, then you give it to the [district attorney]. you give it [to] your lawyer. if he important for me to see --- ]: judge lench]: een down this road before. if you him to represent you at sentencing, we can talk about that on friday. 16 all]: okay. judge lench]: over to friday, but i am remanding you today. when proceedings resumed two days later, hall waived time for sentencing and judge lench ordered a diagnostic evaluation pursuant to penal code section 1203.03 to determine whether hall was a suitable candidate for probation. hall did not renew her request for new counsel at the later hearing. analysis -trial marsden motion is not required under vera, supra, 122 cal.app.4th 970. in vera, the defendant brought a marsden motion, and the trial court told the defendant that he could renew his motion at a later date, but the defendant did not do so. (vera, at pp. 975-976.) on appeal, the defendant argued that the trial court erred by failing to consider his marsden motion. (vera, at p. 980.) the court of appeal held that the defendant had abandoned his unstated complaints, reasoning as follows: while we are aware of no precedent finding abandonment of a marsden may amount to abandonment of a request to represent himself under faretta . . . . [citations.] if a defendant can abandon his request to substitute himself for counsel, a defendant can abandon his request to substitute another counsel. we conclude that defendant abandoned his unstated complaints about counsel by invitation to present them at a later hearing.id. at pp. 981-982.) here, judge lench told hall at the hearing on august 26, 2015[your lawyer] to represent you at 17 sat the hearing on friday, august 28, 2015, neither hall nor her counsel brought up the subject of substituting new counsel. moreover, we see nothing in the record to show that hall made any further comment or statements expressing a desire for substitute counsel at any hearing after the hearing on august 26, 2015 at which she raised the issue. under vera, we are satisfied that hall abandoned her post-trial marsden motion. reliance on people v. reed (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1137 (reed) for a different conclusion is misplaced. in reed, the defendant informed the trial court that he wanted substitute incompetence, and defense counsel told the trial court that he could not make the motion for the defendant. the trial court did (id. at pp. 1142-1144.) on appeal, the appellate court conditionally reversed the judgment, holding that th failure to hold a marsden hearing was error and that the error required further proceedings in the trial court to determine the the trial court was directed that, if it denied the motion after an appropriate hearing, then it was to reinstate the judgment. (id. at pp. 1148-1150.) reed is distinguishable from instant case because, here, hall made no showing that would necessitate a marsden hearing even though she was given an opportunity to revisit her original august 26 request a mere two days later. because hall failed to raise the issue of her request for substitute counsel at the august 28th or december 15th sentencing hearings, judge lench was not obligated to conduct a marsden hearing. 18 disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. flier, j. 