filed 10/21/16 p. v. dawoud ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. freddy dawoud, defendant and appellant. b269308 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba418043) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, laura f. priver, judge. affirmed. juliana drous, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 defendant freddy dawoud pled no contest to one count of child custody deprivation after he took his young son to egypt without permission from his now ex-(pen. code,  278.5, subd. (a).) he was sentenced to five years of probation. one probation condition was that he comply with a criminal protective order to stay away from his ex-wife and his children except pursuant to a valid family law visitation order. he later requested the criminal court terminate the protective condition and allow the family court to control his contact with his children. at a hearing on his request, the criminal court stated it had no objection to the family court allowing defendant supervised visits with his children, but expressed concern about unsupervised visits, given the nature of the court was willing to defer to the family courtexpertise on this issue. the court gave defendant two options: leave the protective condition as is, or revise the order to state that if the family court believed defendant should have visits with his children, they should not be unsupervised. defendant selected the second option. the court ordered that if the family court felt visitation was appropriate, the visits must be supervised, leaving the selection of a professional monitor or an appropriate family member to court specifically noted if the family court ordered unsupervised visitation, an come back before this between a rock and a hard place completely for the rest of his life, so to speak, or at least for thon probation for 5 years. but if he wants this court to lift the 3 defendant unreasonable and unconstitutionally overbroad. we disagree. reasonable conditions, as it may determine are fitting and proper to the end that justice may be done, that amends may be made to society for the breach of the law, for any injury done to any person resulting from that breach, and generally and specifically for the reformation and rehabilitation of the probationer . . . code,  people v. olguin (2008) 45 cal.4th 375, 379 (olguinondition of probation will not which the offender was convicted, (2) relates to conduct which is not in itself criminal, and (3) requires or forbids conduct which is not reasonably related to future criminality . . . . ibid.; see people v. lent (1975) 15 cal.3d 481, 486.) this test is conjunctive, so all three prongs must be met before a probation term will be invalidated. (olguin, at p. 379.) we review probation conditions for abuse of discretion. (ibid.) visitation condition fails because the condition had offense of child custody deprivation and was reasonably related to his future criminality. according to the evidence at the preliminary hearing, defendant fled the country with his son without telling his ex-wife. then, over the course of several months, he did not indicate he planned to return and only allowed her to speak with their son a she eventually had to go to egypt to obtain a custody order to bring their son back. the risk that defendant would reoffend was high, given he was an egyptian citizen, he worked in egypt, and he had family there. moreover, if defendant did take their son to 4 egypt again, his ex-wife might not be able to secure his return. egypt does not participate in the hague convention1 and defendant had obtained -his ex-wife from removing the children if they were in egypt. the criminal codefendant could exercise over his children and deterred him from committing another abduction, which could potentially deprive his ex-wife of custody permanently. contention the condition was [a] probation condition that closely tailor those limitations to the purpose of the condition to avoid being invalidated as unconstitu (olguin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 384.) we review constitutional challenges de novo. (in re shaun r. (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1129, 1143.) but if the condition does not restrict a constitutional right, we review simply for abuse of discretion under the standards set forth above. (olguin, supra, at p. 384.) defendant contends the condition that his visits with his children be supervised impinged on his rights to due process and visitation of in no way prevented him from accessing the courts to obtain visitation. to the contrary, it expressly allowed him to seek supervised visitation from the family court. if the family court decided unsupervised visitation was appropriate, the criminal court invited him to seek 1 the hague convention is an international treaty that aids in the return of abducted children to their home country. (see hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, oct. 25, 1980, t.i.a.s. no. 11670.) 5 modification of the criminal protective order to allow unsupervised visitation. and even if the condition did impinge on his right to access the courts, it was carefully tailored and defendant was at risk of reoffending.2 disposition flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 2 people v. perez (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 380 is unpersuasive. unlike the present case, in perez, the overbroad probation condition prohibited the defendant any court hearing or be[ing] within 500 feet of any court in which the defendant is neither a defendant nor (id. at p. 383, italics added.) here, there was no such blanket bandefendant was permitted to seek supervised visitation with the family court and could return to the criminal court if the family court recommended unsupervised visitation. 