 filed 1/24/18 p. v. brown ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. levar brown, defendant and appellant. b269810 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba426270) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, edmund w. clarke, judge. affirmed as modified and remanded with directions. paul couenhoven, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant levar brown raises contentions of trial and sentencing error following his conviction by jury of first degree murder with a firearm-use enhancement (pen. code,  187, 12022.53, subd. (b)(d)).1 for the reasons discussed below, the judgment is affirmed as modified and remanded with directions. background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. claudious johnson testified that in may 2010,2 he lived on the top floor of a two-story apartment building on figueroa street in los angeles with his twin brother claudio johnson, another brother, their mother, and their sister. claudio and claudious were 20 years old. the family had just moved into the apartment at the beginning of may. around 7:00 a.m., on may 30, claudious saw claudio go out the back door of the apartment, which opened onto a porch from which there were stairs leading down to a parking area behind the apartment building. this is where claudio parked his car. as he usually did each morning, claudio was going to his car to a man, not 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 all further date references are to the year 2010 unless otherwise specified. 3 hoping claudio was not in trouble. from the porch, claudious saw claudio and another man at the edge of the parking area. the gunman was wearing a gray hooded sweatshirt (or upper part of the gof a sheer fabric, like pantyhose, claudious could see the recently he had seen the gunman driving an old cadillac past ing. claudious and telling him to come downstairs. when claudious sastarted toward the stairs with the idea of helping his brother, but then thought better of it and turned around. as he ran back to the door of his apartment, claudious heard the gunman tell ran back outside. he saw claudio lying on the ground and the gunman fleeing on foot. on the day of the shooting, f.m. was living on flower street, around the corner from the victim. at about 7:00 a.m. she was sitting on her front porch when she heard a gunshot. thirty to 40 seconds later, she saw a man walk swiftly down 59th place and turn onto flower street. the man was wearing a light gray 4 hoody. he had the hood over his head and he had a stocking ilhouette eyes, nose, and mouth, but not his chin. (3rt 1537, 1539-1540.) the man seemed to be coming from the direction of the gunshot. there was a bulge in the front pocket of his hoody. camry, which was parked on the street. after a few seconds, the cadillac drove off. f.m. gave a 9-1-1 operator what she thought was a partial license plate number from the cadillac: 6lew16. los angeles police department officer edward pernesky and his partner happened to be just blocks away and were the first responders to the shooting scene. claudious flagged them down and said his brother had been shot. pernesky found claudio lying face doshot in the back of the head. pernesky could not find a pulse and mother and sister were crying hysterically at the foot of the them. his partner was still interviewing claudious. pernesky goodbye. while waiting for an ambulance to arrive, pernesky 5 key to a land rover. the other set had two keys, a los angeles public library card, a ralpcasings were found. a block away on flower street, police found tail-light assembly were lying in the street near the camry. claudio was pronounced dead at 7:14 a.m. the autopsy subsequently showed he had died from a single gunshot wound to the head, the bullet entering the back of his head and exiting his forehead. a few nights after the shooting, on june 3, police stopped a 2000 gray cadillac because its left tail-light was not working. -plate number was 6lea210 and the car was registered to defendant brown, who was driving. asked if he was in a gang, brown said that he was. after having been left on the street in the marina del rey area for a few weeks. brown retrieved his car from the tow yard on july 10. in august, a man purchased the cadillac and sold it to a junkyard. when the car was subsequently recovered by the police, it still had a broken left tail-light. the broken tail-light damaged tail-light assembly. when police showed f.m. a had seen drive away after claudio was shot. in addition to the cadillac, brown also owned a land rover. on july 21, brown went to a california highway patrol office and reported that his land rover had been stolen on june 28. brown explained that after his land rover became 6 disabled on the 10 freeway, a tow truck arrived, drove his car away, and he never saw it again. -girlfriend testified brown had owned a land rover and a cadillac, and that he would not let anyone else drive these cars. she also identified one of the keys recovered from the damaged. the police discovered that one of the other keys found at the library and supermarket rewards cards found at the shooting les (meaning samples to which there had been only one genetic contributor) obtained from the keys and the cards found at the crime scene were tested against dna taken from both brown and claudio. claudio was excluded as a contributor, but the dna profile matched brown. based on a statistical calculation, one in 400 would have been expected to have this profile. claudious identified brown as the gunman in a six-pack photo display and then again at trial. at the preliminary hearing, however, claudious testified that brown was not the gunman. at trial, claudious testified he had been purposefully untruthful at the preliminary hearing because he was angry and had been planning to take matters into want to tell the truth so [brown] can get out and i . . . take it on a group meeting at their church; claudious had been going to this meeting twice a week ever since. he explained that, as a result of talking to his father and the people at church, he realized 7 do. 2. defense evidence. lmay heard cla when the . . . gunshot went off . . . gray or white hoody. after firing the single shot, the gunman ran down 59th place toward flower street. when he reached the corner, he removed the hood from his head, turned around, and looked back toward the shooting scene. l.d. testified that this was when she got a look at his face: l.d. testified that this moment was the only time she saw seen her in that moment, l.d. quickly shut her window blinds. the gunman was not brown. 8 3. procedural history and trial outcome. with an enhancement for personally and intentionally discharging a firearm and causing death during the commission of murder ( 187, 12022.53, subd. (d)), he was sentenced to a prison term of 50 years to life. contentions brown contends on appeal that (1) the trial court prejudicially erred by denying his motion to present third-party culpability evidence, and (2) his presentence custody credits were miscalculated. 1. in limine motion regarding third-party culpability evidence. brown filed an in limine motion seeking to present evidence of third-party culpability. emphasizing the gang aspect suggested that michael motion asserted hughley was a member of the 59 hoover crips gang, which allegedly controlled the neighborhood where the shooting occurred. the motion further asserted hughley had been arrested a few months after the shooting in possession of a gun that matched the description claudious had given police (a rusted steel revolver with wooden grips) and that hughley knew a set of keys had been dropped at the scene, information allegedly not released to the public. the motion also relied on police interviews with claudious and his sister during which the following information had been learned: a gang member in the neighborhood they knew as knockdown, along with a friend of his, had been harassing the family ever since they first moved into the apartment; knockdown had sexually harassed 9 knockdown had threatened claudio with a gun. the people acknowledged that, as demonstrated by the contradictory identifications of the gunman over the course of time. in his initial police interviews, claudious inconsistently told detectives that he did not see the gunman; that he did see the gunman, who was a gang member from the neighborhood named knockdown; and that the gunman might have been a as the gunman in a photo array, but testified at the preliminary hearing that brown was not the gunman. then, at two subsequent trials (before judges rappe and ohta),3 claudious testified brown had been the gunman. the people also asserted 17, 2010, [l.d.] was shown a photographic lineup which included a photograph of knockdown. she specifically stated that knockdown was not the shooter. she told the detectives that knockdown was someone she had seen in the neighborhood in the past. she further explained that she 3 convoluted. the records of his prior trial proceedings (which are by no means complete) indicate the following chronology: initial trial proceedings were held by judge rappe and ended in a mistrial in march 2014; a retrial before judge egerton was terminated when the people dismissed the proceeding because of a missing witness in july 2014; a further retrial before judge ohta ended in a hung jury (which voted 11-1 for conviction); and the current retrial before judge clarke took place in 2015. 10 thought the shooter was an individual who she had seen hanging 4 after noting that it had read the many motion papers filed by each side, the trial court tentatively announced it was inclined -party culpability evidence: . . i have scoured these facts and looked for direct or circumstantial evidence that the person that the defense proposes as the suspicious third party, mr. hughley . . . , was physically present at any time close to the shooting. these facts, as i understand it, include a single actor, basically execution style, having a person kneel down and shooting him in the head. can always argue that some other person perpetrated the offense, and person is actually the one who did it, and not the defendant, the defense needs to link that other specific person to the perpetration of the crime by either direct or circumstantial evidence, that would make that potential person a suspect, in that he would have motives, or that he was a person who acted in an unkindly way towards the decedent or people close to him. but i saw nothing that would place that third party at the crime scene, or acting in any way that might be called perpetration of the 4 as authority for this assertion, the people cited page and provitranscripts are not part of our record on appeal, brown has not 11 invited to respond, defense counsel did not dispute the fact that l.d. had told police knockdown was definitely not the person who shot honor, i was going to suggest to the court that we hold this whole statement concerning mr. think open. i think that the ruling i make is based on the evidence i something develops during the trial . . . that causes me to change counsel concurred with this approach, and never raised the issue again. 2. legal principles. third party culpability if it is capable of raising a reasonable people v. sandoval (1992) 4 cal.4th 155, 176.) the seminal case regarding third party culpability evidence is people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826 (halladmissible, the third-party [culpability] evidence need not show committed the act; it need only be capable of raising a reasonable that any evidence, however remote, must be admitted to show a possible culpability. . . . [e]vidence of mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime in another person, without more, will not suffice to raise a reasonable doubt about a there must be direct or circumstantial evidence linking the third person to the actual perpetration of the crime(id. at p. -party culpability evidence like any other evidence: if relevant it 12 is admissible [citation] unless its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of undue delay, prejudice, or confusion id. at p. 834.) -party culpability] evidence may be excluded under evidence code section 352 if it creates a substantial danger of undue consumption of time or of prejudicing, (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 578.) as the united states supreme court in holmes v. south carolina (2006) 547 u.s. 319 [126 s.ct. 1727] (holmes . . prohibits the exclusion of defense evidence under rules that serve no legitimate purpose or that are disproportionate to the ends that they are asserted to promote, well-established rules of evidence permit trial judges to exclude evidence if its probative value is outweighed by certain other factors such as unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or potential to mislead the jury. [citations.] plainly referring to rules of this type, we have stated at . . . poses an undue risk of . . [] a specific application of this principle is found in rules regulating the admission of evidence proffered by criminal defendants to show that someone else committed the crime with id. at pp. 326327.) -party people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1242.) if the trial court has erred, that error is tested on appeal under the watson standard. (hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 836 [citing people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 (watsonconclude it is not reasonably probable that a result more 13 favorable to defendant would have been reached in the absence of people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 582583, overruled on other grounds by melendezdiaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305 [129 s.ct. 2527] [even assuming trial court erred by excluding third party culpability evidence, error was harmless under watson].) 3. discussion. we conclude that, even assuming arguendo the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to admit the proposed third party culpability evidence, any error was clearly harmless. we agree with brown that there were various facts pointing to hughley (whom the police apparently investigated) as a possible suspect. but the evidence that brown was the perpetrator was extremely strong. there was a significant gang element to the shooting, with the gunman uttering the challenge: ,identification, both key rings found at the crime scene contained keys and cards linked to brown; dna evidence tied brown to the keys dropped at the scene and excluded claudio; a neighbor provided eyewitness testimony that moments after the shooting, a man g-girlfriend testified brown would not allow anyone else to drive his cadillac; and the broken tail-light pieces found at the scene -story about the theft of his land rover (i.e., that he did not report the theft of his car by a private tow truck driver for three weeks) lacked credibility and suggested he wanted to distance himself from the keys found at the scene. 14 additionally, the theory that hughley was the gunman was directly contradicted certain hughley had not been the gunman. hence, the strongest testimony that brown was not the person who shot claudio), came from the same source who would have provided the the gunman). brown does not suggest, nor do we see, how he would have been able to overcome this credibility contradiction, i.e., convince the jury that l.d. was credible in one of her eyewitness identifications, but not credible in the other. hence, we do not find it reasonably probable that brown would have obtained a more favorable result had the third party culpability evidence been admitted. (see watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 837.) if it was erroneous, did not amount to a constitutional violation of right to present a defense. courts retain . . . a traditional and intrinsic power to exercise discretion to control the admission of evidence in the interests of orderly procedure and the avoidance of prejudice. [citations.] as we [have] observed . . . , this principle applies perforce to evidence of third-party culpability. . . hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 834835.) we conclude that tested by the watson standard, any error in excluding the proffered third-party culpability evidence was harmless. 15 2. recalculated. brown contends, and the attorney general properly agrees, that the trial court miscalculated his presentence custody credits. brown was arrested on april 11, 2011, and sentenced on january 14, 2016. the trial court awarded him actual presentence custody time for only 1,738 days, but a proper calculationwhich gave him credit for both the day of arrest and the day of sentencingwould have resulted in 1,740 days. (see people v. morgain entitled to credit for the date of his arrest and the date of people v. browning (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 1410, 1412 [day of sentencing counted for presentence custody credits even though it was only partial day].) we will order this error corrected. 3. sentencing claim based on new law. brown contends he is entitled to the benefit of a new sentencing statute that went into effect on january 1, 2018. we agree. in post-argument briefing, brown contends that, as a result of senate bill 620, signed by governor brown on october 11, 2017, this matter must be remanded for the trial court to exercise discretion as to whether to strike the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) enhancement. as relevant here, senate bill 620 provides that effective january 1, 2018, section 12022.53 is amended to permit the trial court to strike a sentencing enhancement under that section. the new provision states as section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. 16 the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any 2017, ch. 682,  2.) senate bill 620 went into effect january 1, 2018. because lant is eligible to have the matter remanded for resentencing because the amended statute granting discretion to the trial court has the potential to lead to a reduced sentence. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 742748 [for a non-final conviction, statute mitigates punishment and there is no saving clause, the rule is that the amendment will operate retroactively so that the people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 7578 [where statute enacted during pending appeal gave trial court discretion to impose a lesser penalty, remand was required for resentencing].) the attorney general, however, argues that we should not remand because no reasonable court would exercise its discretion firearm-which the factors in aggravation so powerfully outweigh any possible excuse that we can say with confidence that no more people v. robinson (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 609, 615616, disapproved on another ground in people v. scott we disagree. it is well-recognized that, in the first instance, sentencing issues are to be decided by the trial court. here, the trial court originally had no sentencing discretion to exercise because the penal code mandated a term of 25 years to life for first degree murder without special circumstances, and a consecutive term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement. (see  190, subd. (a), 12022.53, subd. (d).) under the amended 17 statute, the trial court now has such discretion. accordingly, because the record does not disclose whether the trial court would have stricken the firearm-use enhancement if it had had discretion to do so, a remand for resentencing is necessary. disposition the judgment is affirmed as modified and remanded with directions. the judgment of conviction is affirmed. brown is entitled to an additional two days of presentence custody credit, for a total of 1,740 days. the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of having the trial court determine whether to strike 12022.53, subdivision (d), firearm-use enhancement. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward an amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: lavin, j. dhanidina, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 