filed 3/7/17 p. v. capitan ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jason batts capitman, defendant and appellant. b269808 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba425784) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, shelly torrealba, judge. affirmed. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in an information, the people charged appellant jason b. capitman with one count of felony child abuse (pen. code,  273a, subd. (a)),1 with an allegation that he inflicted great bodily harm on the victim, his three-month old daughter ( 12022.7, subd. (d)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the allegation. a jury subsequently convicted him of the child abuse charge and found true the allegation. appellant advances two arguments in this appeal. first, he contends that the trial court erred by allowing the prosecution to introduce evidence of uncharged prior acts of domestic violence (evid. code,  1109) because it was more prejudicial than probative. second, appellant argues that the trial court abused its discretion in sentencing him to a maximum term of 12 years, calculated by application of the upper term of six years on the base count and six years for the great bodily injury enhancement. we find no abuse of discretion, and therefore we affirm. background appellant and regina m. dated for approximately three years and had a child together, s., in december 2013. in march 2014, regina went on a week-long trip, leaving s. with a, c.p., who in turn lived with her mother gloria. both women worked. regina testified appellant intended to visit for a few hours each day and for c.p. to take s. to work with her. when regina returned, she noticed scratches between s.appellant told regina that s. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 the next day, regina noticed that s. was quieter than normal. regina then noticed bruises on s.body, including her jaw and her arms. regina called the police and then took s. to the hospital, where she remained for several days. pediatrician diana guse testified that s. had bruising on her eyelid, jaw, and arm; scratches to the back of her head and over her lip; and a laceration on the back part of her internal palate. blood and ultrasound tests revealed a potential laceration on s.which was consistent with a single trauma incident, and x-rays showed a potential corner fracture to s.with trauma. board-certified child abuse pediatrician dr. janet arnold-clark reviewed s., ct scans, photos, and x-rays, and testified that the bruising on her face, arm, neck and back of head, a laceration of her liver, and other injuries consistent with trauma. she opined that the injuries were not the result of an accident or attack by a dog. regina testified regarding three previous incidents of domestic violence. the first incident occurred in 2012. appellant and regina were driving, and after regina refused to answer questions appellant leaned over and started choking her. in a second incident, also in 2012, appellant choked regina on the driveway outside of their home, after which regina ran down the driveway while appellant chased her yelling, after the incident in the driveway, appellant convinced regina to return to the house and, once inside, attempted to suffocate her with a pillow. regina did not report these incidents to the police. the third incident took place in 2014, the day prior e. appellant, while holding s., became angry, kicked a table, and grabbed regina by the neck and pushed her onto a couch. regina reported this incident to police. 4 discussion i. evidence of prior uncharged acts of domestic violence appellant argues that evidence of the three prior uncharged acts of domestic violence should not have been admitted because their probative value was substantially outweighed by the danger of undue prejudice, and that the admission of the evidence violated his due process rights under the united states constitution. the trial court, after a hearing, concluded that the incidents were not remote in time, all occurring within two and a half years of the charged incident, and that the evidence was more probative than prejudicial. a. standard of review regarding evidence of a criminal discretion. (people v. johnson (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 520, 531.) b. admissibility of domestic violence evidence absent an exception, character evidence, including evidence of specific instances of conduct, generally is inadmissible to prove conduct on a specified occasion. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) evidence code section 1109, however, provides several exceptions, two of which are relevant herein a criminal action in which the defendant is accused of an offense involving domestic violence, evidence of the defendants commission of other domestic violence is not made inadmissible by section 1101 if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to it also addresses pursuant to section 352, which shall include consideration of any corroboration and remoteness in time, in a criminal action in 5 which the defendant is accused of an offense involving child abuse, evidence of the defendants commission of child abuse is not made inadmissible by section 1101 if the evidence is not inadmis(a)(3).) although section 1109 does not admission of acts of domestic violence in a prosecution for an people v. dallas (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 940, 952 (dallas)), subdivision (d)(3) forth in section 6211 of the family code, if the act occurred no more than five years before the charged offense. (evid. code,  (fam. code,  6211, subd. (e).) in dallas, supra, the court discussed the admissibility of domestic violence propensity evidence in cases alleging child abuse: an assembly analysis important, prosecutors will be able to use propensity evidence in the prosecution of child abuse cases. . . . second, in any domestic violence case, the prosecutor will be able to bring in relevant definition of domestic violence in family code section 6211 can apply not only to the type of evidence admissible under evidence code section 1109, subdivision (a)(1), but also to the type of dallas, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 956.) the review required by the trial court pursuant to evidence code section 352 requires that the court, in its discretion, exclude its probative value is substantially outweighed by 6 the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue (evid. code,  352.) at trial, defense counsel objected to the admission of the three prior incidents to which regina testified, arguing that the first two incidents, occurring in 2012, were remote in time from the march 2014 incident. appellant contends that the probative value of the three domestic violence incidents to which regina testified is minimal, because s. and regina were not similarly situated. he contends that he and regina had a lengthy relationship and that each of the three incidents arose in the context of a conversation between them, and that the types of injuries to which regina testified were not the same as those suffered by s. we disagree. at least one of the incidents took place the day before , and appellant held s. in his arms as he committed the violent act against regina. appellant argues that the court should not have allowed all three incidents, with photographs, and argues that the jury was left with the impression that he was a consistently violent and aggressive person. he also argues that the case against him with respect to s. was circumstantial, although it was undisputed that appellant was alone with s. while regina was away, that the injuries appeared during that time, and that appellant attempted to explain them by stating they were caused by a dog. the trial court, after reviewing the evidence, concluded that the probative value of the three incidents, which were not remote in time, was not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission would unduly consume time or create substantial danger of undue prejudice. given the purpose of evidence code 7 section 1109, thisection 352 will not be disturbed on appeal unless the court clearly abused its discretion, e.g., when the prejudicial effect of the evidence clpeople v. jennings (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 1301, 1314-1315.) ii. sentencing appellant argues that the trial court abused its discretion in sentencing him to a maximum term of 12 years, calculated by application of the upper term of six years on the base count and six years for the great bodily injury enhancement. he contends that the trial court relied on irrelevant materials, failed to acknowledge mitigating factors, and improperly utilized s.vulnerability and relationship to appellant to impose the upper term when the charge required a finding that s. was under the age of five. a. objection at time of sentencing the people assert that appellant failed to raise objections to the rationale for the sentence with the trial court, and accordingly has waived that objection. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 351.) appellant contends that he was not apprised of the sentence the court intended to impose and permitted a chance to object or seek clarification. the trial court in this case, after which defense counsel argued several points. defense counsel also addressed the points raised by the people in the presentence report, which sought the maximum term. under california law, information pertinent to sentencing is frequently contained in the presentence probation report, thus enabling the parties to anticipate the trial courts 8 sentencing choice and its reasons. [citation.] in the rare instance where the actual sentence is unexpected, unusual, or particularly complex, the parties can ask the trial court for a brief continuance to research whether an objection is warranted, or for permission to submit written objections within a specified number of days after the sentencing hearing. such a procedure would satisfy a requirement, if any, under the due process clause of advance notice of the trial courtpeople v. gonzalez (2003) 31 cal.4th 745, 754.) moreover, as in gonzalez, appellant was permitted to make an objection relating to a different issue sentence, but did not address the sentencing rationale. (id. at p. 754.) because appellant had such an opportunity, his objection was waived. b. merits of sentencing decision even had appellant objected to the rationale underlying abuse of discretion. after considering the sentencing memoranda, the trial court imposed the upper term of 12 years based on several factors: s.that she was particularly vulnerable (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(3)), that appellant took advantage of his position of trust (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(11)), and that appellant was on probation at the time of the offense. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(b)(4).) appellant asserts that the trial court abused its discretion improperly basing its decision on a fact, s. that is an element of the great bodily injury enhancement; failing to acknowledge mitigating factors; and relying on improper evidence. 9 etermination of the appropriate term is within the trial s broad discretion [citation] and must be affirmed unless there is a clear showing the sentence choice was arbitrary or irrational [cweighing aggravating and mitigating factors [citations], and may balance them against each other in qualitative as well as qu.] one factor alone may warrant imposition of the upper term [citation] and the trial court need not state reasons for minimizing or disregarding circumstances in people v. lamb (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 397, 401.) we must affirm unless there is a clear showing the sentence choice was arbitrary or irrational. (ibid.) the court specifically rejected the mitigating factors offered mitigating factors thappellant correctly points out that the enhancement for inflicting great bodily injury, section 12022.7, subdivision (d), applies when a victim is under the age of five years. as such, he argues that the court erred in considering s.bility as aggravating factors. s., who was three months old at the time of her injuries, could not move, communicate or protect herself, and was more vulnerable to injury than an older child under five years of age. was not an abuse of discretion. (see, e.g., people v. ginese extreme youth within the given age range might also be viewed as making a victim particularly vulnerable in relation to others within the age range.) 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. lui, j. 