filed 1/30/17 p. v. lewis ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. keith dwayne lewis, defendant and appellant. b269597 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba406579) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. barbara a. smith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant keith dwayne lewis was convicted of the attempted murders of daniel and miguel meza (pen. code,1  664/187) and the assault with a firearm on alejandro arroyo ( 245, subd. (a)(2)), and various sentence enhancements were found to be true. he was sentenced to consecutive terms of life in prison on the attempted murder convictions, plus 25 years to life for a firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), and a consecutive term of 18 years to life on the assault with a firearm conviction and a gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). he appealed from the judgment. in june 2015, we issued an unpublished opinion in which we found the evidence was sufficient to prove that he aided and abetted the attempted, deliberate, premeditated murders and the assault with a firearm, but we found request for a marsden2 hearing to allow him to convey his dissatisfaction with his court-appointed lawyer and state the reasons he should be granted a new attorney. (people v. lewis, case no. b255077, filed june 2, 2015 (lewis i).) we reversed the judgment and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a marsden hearing, and directed that if the court determined that good cause for the appointment of new counsel was not shown at the hearing, the court must reinstate the verdicts and judgment, but if the court found there was good cause for 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 the appointment of new counsel, the court must appoint new counsel and set the case for retrial. on remand, the trial court conducted the marsden hearing, found that good cause was not shown, and reinstated the judgment. defendant now appeals from the reinstated judgment, challenging the marsden motion. finding no abuse of discretion, we affirm. background a. evidence relating to the crimes the evidence presented at trial relating to the crimes was set forth in lewis i as follows. murder victim daniel meza belonged to the rival loco park gang. around 8:30 p.m. on january 5, 2013, daniel and his younger brother miguel (who was not a gang member) entered a family market near 25th and hooper in los angeles, which was in loco park territory. after buying beer, they were leaving when daniel saw appellant and two other men whom he recognized as east side trece gang members outside: defendant, robert grandos (who daniel knew as little rob) and an unidentified third man. when they saw daniel, defendant and grandos capark. daniel was standing next to his brother, perhaps a foot away from defendant. he then saw defendant wave with his hand as if to 4 daniel started to go outside, and at the doorway heard shooting. he did not see anyone with a gun. he turned and ran into the store. he was shot seven times (three in his chest, two in his back, and two in his shoulder. a third victim, alejandro arroyo, who happened to be in the store, was shot in the wrist. cameras at the market and an edited video compilation was played for the jury during testimony. the video (exh. 3a) showed the following. defendant and two companions walked past the front window of the market. defendant (identified as the heavy set one of the group) looked in through the window as they passed, and did a double take, craning his neck as if to look again more closely through the window. all three men stopped, and then walked back to the front door, stopped, and separated, defendant standing in the doorway facing the market, according to daniel, who viewed the video while testifying, it was at this point that defendant hurled insults against the loco park gang. shortly thereafter, the video showed defendant stepping away from the doorway. miguel meza walked out the door onto the sidewalk. daniel appeared on the sidewalk at the doorway. at that point, defendaunidentified companion approached from behind defendant and started shooting in the direction of the store. defendant, who was only a few feet away from the shooter, appeared to flinch slightly and step aside toward the street. miguel and daniel fled inside the store. the shooter 5 approached nearer to the store and fired several more times. then he, defendant, and grandos ran off. department of corrections and rehabilitation. on the date of the shooting, gps tracking data showed that at 8:38 p.m. he was at 25th street and hooper (the approximate time and site of the shooting), and that approximately five minutes later he was at 1225 and 1227 west 27th street, the location of the home of robert grandos. dixon, who was familiar with the east side trece gang, was asked a hypothetical question based on the evidence of the shooting. he testified that such a shooting would have been committed to benefit the east side trece gang as a means of gaining respect and instilling fear. would typically be armed in anticipation of violence. similarly, daniel testified ever walk into another neighborhood without no gun . . . because you lewis i, supra, at pp. 3-5.) b. first appeal in his first appeal from the judgment, defendant contended there was insufficient evidence to support his convictions for attempted murder and assault with a firearm under an aider and abettor theory, and that the trial court erred in not holding a marsden hearing. as 6 convictions. with regard to regard to the marsden hearing, we set forth two witnesses hbailiff] this morning as the jury was in the box and were ready to start marsden motion and i just want to explain why. i felt that it was untimely. we are in the middle of trial. marsden motion, his is the first i have heard about it, judge. i would have (lewis i, supra, at p. 9.) for a marsden hearing, but concluded that the proper remedy was a limited remand to allow the court to conduct such a hearing. we noted attorney and never again asked for a marsden hearing. further, the record g (lewis i, supra, at p. 10.) in our disposition, we instructed that, in conducting complaint in light of the manner in which his counsel actually (lewis i, supra, at p. 11.) 7 c. marsden hearing on remand, the trial court began the marsden hearing by asking defendant what were his concerns when he asked for the hearing. defendant told the court that before he came into the courtroom on the first day of trial, he told his attorney, leo b. newton, that he did not want him as his counsel. he said that newton responded by telling years. you want to take that or into the courtroom. the court then asked defendant what he found deficient in tion. defendant identified four issues: (1) newton did not object when the prosecutor referrtestify because he was an admitted gang member; (3) the investigating officer who sat next to the prosecutor was coercing or badgering a witness (he explained that after the witness would say something, the officer would say something to the prosecutor, who would then ask the witness if he remembered it differently, i.e., to correct what the witness originally said); and (4) newton made no effort in the case, noting that he did not get an investigator to go to the scene to investigate and take photos, and he never came to talk to defendant. the trial court, which noted that it did not remember the prosecutor referring to defendant as a stupid criminal, asked newton prosecutor saying that. the court also asked newton whether he observed the investigating officer badgering the prosecutor as described 8 by defendant; newton said that he did not, and the court agreed that it did not observe such conduct, either. newton admitted that he had not hired one, but explained that he did not do so because the story defendant told him about what happened did not line up with the video of the crime. defendant told him that he saw these two groups, belonging to different gangs, and knew there was going to be a problem, so he left. he said he went home by taxi. he could not, however, provide any information about the taxi; he said it was a pirate taxi, that he got the phone number from a phone booth, and he could not remember which phone booth he got the number from. newton said he told defendant that he would not suborn perjury, and that defendant would have to give him something that would allow him newton also addressed before trial started that he did not want newton as his attorney. newton told the court that if defendant had told him that he did not want him as his attorney, he would have informed the court, but he stated that he did not have any recollection of defendant telling him that. the court then asked newton whether he had visited defendant. newton said that he had, both at the courthouse and at the jail. finally, the court asked newton if he believed he was prepared to defend the case. newton said he believed he was, and that he believed he defended it to the best of his ability. 9 in finding that defendant made an inadequate showing to require a new trial with a new attorney, the trial court stated that it accepted r not employing an investigator. it observed that the evidence against defendant was overwhelming -- defendant was seen on video gesturing to the victim, and there was no doubt it was defendant because he was wearing an ankle monitor that placed him at the scene. the court noted that it did not recall anyone calling defendant a stupid criminal,3 that it did not perceive any badgering of a witness, and that not only was daniel meza eligible to testify even though he was an admitted gang member, but the court found his testimony to be relevant and very credible. the court therefore denied marsden motion and reinstated his conviction and judgment. defendant timely filed a notice of appeal from the reinstated judgment. discussion the rules governing marsden motions are well established. f appointed counsel pursuant to people v. marsden, supradefendant to explain the basis of his contention and to relate specific instances of inadequate performance. a defendant is entitled to relief if 3 moniobject to such a statement would not show inadequate representation of defendant. 10 the record clearly shows that the appointed counsel is not providing adequate representation or that defendant and counsel have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective iew the denial of a marsden motion for abuse of discretion. [citation.] denial is not people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 599.) on appeal, defendant identifies four purported errors in the trial marsden motion.4 first, he argues that the fact that newton did not recall defendant ever saying that he wanted a new attorney shows there was a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. second, defendant argues the court erred in asking newton about his own subjective belief regarding his representation of defendant. third, he contends the trial court improperly based its decision on its knowledge of how newton performed in other cases. demonstrates he failed to provide adequate representation. we find no merit in any of these contentions. upon unreasonable interpretations of statements made at the marsden hearing. 4 in his reply brief, defendant expressly disclaims any other claim of error. 11 e we started trial that he wanted -- court -- i consider that is implying a marsden motion request and i ever having been that newton claimed that defendant never made any request for new counsel at the trial at all, and, in effect, called defendant a liar. not so. that newton did not understand that defendant told him before trial that he did not want newton to be his attorney -- presumably, because newton did not hear defendant when he purportedly made the statement, or because defendant did not make any such statement to him. in either case, explanation. (people v. smith to the extent there was a credibility question between defendant and counsel at the s explanationthus, we conclude the court did not abuse its discretion by impliedly rejecting intentionally ignored his statement before the start of the trial. short, two-question, colloquy to which defendant ascribes much assertions, and hearing those responses, the following colloquy occurred: 12 the courtmind that you were prepared to pros -- to defend this case? did you believe you were prepared to defend the case? mr. newton: yes, your honor. the court: and did you defend it to the best of your ability? mr. newton s experience, and there is no indication marsden motion. indeed, the court expressly stated its grounds for denying the motion, all of which grounds were proper considerations for the court in ruling on a marsden motion. in his final claim of errorto hire an investigator resulted in inadequate representation because the key issues at trial -- and abettor -- grounds that [defendant] did not convince him of his innocenthat an investigator could have interviewed witnesses and investigated the scene. but newton stated that he did not hire an investigator, not because defendant did not convince him that he was innocent, but because defendant told him a version of the events that was incontrovertibly false, and newton saw no reason to have an investigator investigate that version of events. while defendant claims 13 that, even if there was no reason to investigate the version of events he told newton, an investigator nevertheless could have interviewed witnesses and investigated the scene, he fails to identify how such an investigation could have resulted in information relevant to the only real issues at trial -- whether defendant knew that the shooter intended to kill and whether defendant intended to aid the shooter in the attempted murder or assault with a firearm. we fail to see (and defendant does not explain) how an investigator would assist in the defense, since the relevant issues were based entirely upon what was in we conclude that under the circumstances of this case, newton did not provide inadequate representation by failing to hire an investigator, and that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding defendant had failed to show good cause for his original request to substitute new counsel. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 