filed 9/28/17 p. v. askew ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan lamar askew, defendant and appellant. b270934 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma039230) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. charles a. chung, judge. affirmed. paul kleven, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and david w. williams, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 following revocation of probation imposed by a negotiated plea agreement, jonathan lamar askew (defendant) was sentenced to eight months in state prison to run consecutively with the agreed upon term of 21 years from the prior case. defendant then filed an appeal challenging the cases. given gaps in the record, we remanded the matter to the trial court with directions. while on remand, defendant claimed his 21-year sentence from the prior case was unauthorized and filed a motion for modification of his sentence and requested that he be allowed to withdraw his plea based on that illegality. the trial cosentence, but denied his request to withdraw his plea. defendant now appeals the modified judgment contending the trial court exceeded its jurisdiction by altering the plea agreement without his consent, and violated his right to withdraw from the unlawful plea agreement. we affirm the judgment of conviction. background1 on august 21, 2007, the district attorney filed an information charging defendant with two counts of assault with a deadly weapon (knife) in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1).2 the information alleged with respect to both counts that defendant had caused great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a) and that he 1 people v. askew (sept. 28, 2015, b257800). we take judicial notice of this opinion. (evid. code,  452, subd. (d)(1), 459, subd. (a).) 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 committed the offenses for the benefit of a street gang within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the information also stated both crimes were serious felonies under section 1192.7, subdivision (c).3 on may 23, 2008, defendant, who was self-represented, withdrew his not guilty pleas and entered into a plea bargain in which he pleaded nolo contendere with respect to both counts and admitted the great bodily injury and gang allegations in exchange for a 21-year suspended prison sentence and five years of formal probation, of which the first year would be served in jail.4 the 21-year sentence was comprised of the high term of four years for count 1, plus three years for the great bodily injury enhancement and 10 years for the gang enhancement on that count, and then an additional one year for count 2, which was one-third of the midterm, plus an additional three years for the great bodily injury enhancement on that count. the gang enhancement sentence for count 2 was imposed and stayed. in august 2012, the district attorney alleged defendant had committed the crime of robbery in violation of section 211. the trial court revoked 3 s criminal conduct are not material to his contentions on appeal. 4 the prosecution initially offered defendant a deal of a guilty plea to count 1, with an admission to the great bodily harm allegation, in exchange for seven years in state prison. defendant made a counteroffer of a plea on all counts in exchange for one year in county jail and a suspended 21-year sentence. the prosecution rejected alternative offer of a plea on all counts and a 21-year suspended sentence if year in county jail as a condition of probation. defendant accepted the 4 theft as a lesser included offense of robbery. on july 21, 2014, the trial court sentenced defendant to 21 years and eight months in state prison, which was comprised of his agreed upon 21-year sentence in the prior case and eight months for the current case. thereafter, defendant filed an appeal on the grounds that he was denied the correct number of actual custody days when he was sentenced for trial court with directions. before the hearing on remand, defendant filed a motion for moother things, that the imposition of both the great bodily injury and gang enhancement to count 1 in his prior case was contrary to people v. gonzales ortunity to withdraw his plea. on february 4, 2016, the trial court held a hearing on the matter. in addition to resolving the presentence custody credits in the prior case, the sentenced to both the great bodily injury and gang enhancements in count 1 of four years for count 1, plus 10 years for the gang enhancement on that count, and then an additional one year for count 2, which was one-third of the midterm, plus an additional one year for the great bodily injury enhancement 5 on that count, which was also one-third of the midterm.5 the trial court then , nder of was amended to reflect the modified sentence. on march 14, 2016, defendant filed a notice of appeal and request for certificate of probable cause on the grounds the trial court exceeded its jurisdiction by altering the plea agreement without his consent and violated his right to withdraw from the plea agreement which was unlawful.6 the trial court granted the certificate of probable cause. contentions defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his request to rescind the plea agreement. relying on people v. superior court (sanchez) 5 it appears the trial court reduced the great bodily injury enhancement sentence on count 2 based on section 1170.1, subdivision (a), which provides and a consecutive term of imprisonment is imposed . . . [t]he subordinate term for each consecutive offense shall consist of one-third of the middle term of imprisonment prescribed for each other felony conviction for which a consecutive term of imprisonment is imposed, and shall include one-third of the term imposed for any specific enhancements applicable to those 6 on january 23, 2017, the people filed a motion to dismiss the appeal, which was deferred to the panel. the people contend we should construe coram nobis which is not cognizable in a coram nobis dress (people v. miller (2012) 202 cal.app.4th 1450, 1456 [finding cognizable an appeal from a motion to withdraw a guilty plea based on an authorized sentence made five years after defendant entered into a negotiated plea bargain].) 6 (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 567 (sanchez), defendant contends when a sentence agreed upon in a plea agreement is unauthorized, the trial court is required principles entitle him to rescind the plea agreement because his consent was agreeing to in exchange for his plea, so if the agreement is considered to be an unlawful contract, or one impossible to perform, the entire agreement the people contend defendant is estopped from challenging the plea agreement, citing people v. hester (2000) 22 cal.4th 290 (hester). discussion the trial court did not err in denrescind the plea agreement [t]he process of plea negotiation contemplates an agreement negotiated by the people and the defendant and approved by the court. (people v. segura (2008) 44 cal.4th 921, 929-930.) guilty [or nolo contendere] plea is entered in exchange for specified benefits such as the dismissal of other counts or an agreed maximum punishment, (id. at pp. 930-931.) becomes more favorable to a defendant unless, of course, the parties agree (id. at p. 931, italics added.) . . . imposition of both the great bodily injury and gang enhancement to count 1 7 people v. gonzalez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1325, 1331-subdivision (g) of [section infliction of great bodily injury on the same victim in the commission of a parties, the trial court was the earlier unauthorized sentence. (in re renfrow (2008) 164 cal.app.4th n when defendant does not challenge the reduction of his sentence. rather, the issue on appeal is whether defendant was entitled to rescind the plea agreement as a result of the unauthorized sentence. we agree with the people and conclude defendant is estopped from challenging the plea agreement to which he agreed and from which he benefited. the principles articulated in hester, supra, 22 cal.4th 290, are applicable to situation. in hester, in exchange for his plea to five substantial counts and a personal use allegation, the trial court sentenced the defendant to an agreed term of four years in state prison with concurrent three-year terms for other felonies and concurrent jail terms for the misdemeanor counts. (hester, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 293.) on appeal, the defendant argued his sentence was unauthorized because the trial court failed to stay the three-year term on his assault charge in violation of hester, at p. 294.) the court of appeal found a sentencing error and modified the judgment to stay the three-year-term under section 654. (ibid.) our supreme court reversed, concluding a defendant is estopped from 8 challenging an unauthorized sentence when the defendant pled guilty in return for a specified sentence. (id. defendants have pleaded guilty in return for a specified sentence, appellate courts will not find error even though the trial court acted in excess of jurisdiction in reaching that figure, so long as the trial court did not lack fundamental jurisdiction.[7] the rationale behind this policy is that defendants who have received the benefit of their bargain should not be allowed to trifle with the courts by attempting to better the bargain through ibid.) defendant here, by accepting the plea agreement, was able to avoid prosecution on two counts of assault with a deadly weapon with long prison sentences in exchange for one year in county jail and probation. as in hester, having already received the benefit of his bargain, we conclude defendant is estopped from challenging his plea agreement on appeal. (in re griffin procedure in excess of jurisdiction may be eso hold otherwise would permit the parties to trifle with the courts. defendant cites sanchez, supra, 223 cal.app.4th 567, as authority that a plea agreement based on an unauthorized sentence must be nullified and the parties placed in the position they were prior to the plea agreement. in sanchez, the parties entered into a plea agreement under which defendant agreed to plead no contest to one count of attempted murder in exchange for an indeterminate term of 25 years to life and dismissal of the other counts. 7 hear or determine the case, an absence of authority over the subject matter or in re reno (2012) 55 cal.4th 428, 478.) here, there is no dispute the trial court had fundamental jurisdiction to sentence defendant. 9 (id. at p. 570.) at sentencing, the trial court noted the 25-years-to-life term defendant to the term allowed by law for attempted murder, which was life with the possibility of parole, effectively giving the defendant a minimum term of seven years rather than 25 years. (id. at p. 571.) the court of request to vacate the plea and by imposing a sentence other than what was id. at p. 577.) in so ruling, parties were subject to a mistake of law, the people were entitled to rescind the agreement, which means that the trial court should have granted the id. at p. 573.) defendantreliance on sanchez is misplaced. in sanchez, the issue on appeal was whether the trial court could unilaterally alter the terms of a plea agreement due to an authorized sentence. (sanchez, supra, 223 cal.app.4th at p. 572.) the court of appeal not (id. at p. 573.) here, unlike sanchez, the trial court modified the terms of the plea agreement with the consent of both parties. sanchez also did not analyze the doctrine of estoppel and it is therefore distinguishable. accordingly, to permit defendant now to withdraw his guilty plea, trifle with the courts . . . .hester, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 295.) defendant is therefore estopped from challenging the plea agreement.8 8 because defendant is estopped from challenging the plea agreement, we need not address whether general contract principles entitle defendant to rescind the plea agreement. we note that in sanchez, the case relied on by 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. goodman, j.* we concur: chavez, acting p.j. hoffstadt, j. there is some authority that mutual mistake of law affords no basis for relief from the contract (1 witkin, summary of cal. law (10th ed. 2005) contracts,  272sanchez, supra, 223 cal.app.4th at p. 573, fn. 2.) * retired judge of the los angeles superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 