filed 9/20/17 p. v. jaime ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus p. jaime, defendant and appellant. b270110 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba433297) appeal from post-judgment orders of the superior court of los angeles county, renee f. korn, judge. reversed and remanded for further proceedings. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant jesus jaime pleaded no contest to felony leaving the scene of an accident that resulted in death (veh. code,  20001, subd. (b)(2)), run.1 the trial court sentenced him to three years in prison and ordered him to pay direct victim resti sole contention on appeal is that the restitution orders must be reversed because his criminal conduct, leaving the scene of an accident, did not cause damages. people v. martinez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1093, we reverse the restitution orders and remand for further proceedings. factual and procedural background 1. facts2 on the evening of january 27, 2015, jaime was driving eastbound on 48th street in los angeles when he collided with reanna goss, a pedestrian. jaime did not stop, identify himself, or render aid. goss was transported to the hospital. she died of her injuries. the following morning, jaime turned himself in. he stated miles per hour when he hit something. he could not see what he 1 the plea form indicated a plea to vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (b)(2). as discussed below the crime is defined in section 20001, subdivision (a), and the penalty provisions are set forth in subdivision (b). 2 jaime pleaded no contest before a preliminary hearing was held, and agreed that the probation and police reports provided the factual basis for the plea. the trial court also reviewed a videotape of the accident. we glean the facts primarily from the probation report. 3 hit, but believed he hit a person. he panicked and did not stop. he abandoned the car and wandered around all night. when interviewed by police, jaime admitted that at lunchtime on the day of the accident, he coors and smoked marijuana. he denied being under the influence at the time of the accident. 2. procedure on april 14, 2015 jaime entered an open plea of no contest, pursuant to people v. west (1970) 3 cal.3d 595, to felony leaving the scene of an accident resulting in death (veh. code,  20001, subd. (b)(2)). the trial court sentenced jaime to the midterm of three years in prison. it imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole revocation restitution fine, a court operations assessment, and a criminal conviction assessment. after restitution hearings, the court ordered jaime to pay $11,062.97 plus interest to the for funeral expenses; $1,451.75 plus interest to the city of los angeles fire department; $9,469.23 plus interest to centinela hospital medical center; $11,464 plus interest to harbor ucla medical center; and $4,686.91 to the victim compensation and government claims board. jaime timely appealed, challenging the restitution orders only. discussion people v. martinez requires that the orders granting victim restitution must be reversed at the restitution hearings, jaime stipulated that the amounts awarded were the amounts in controversy, but objected that any direct victim restitution was improper because there was no showing death and economic damages were a consequence of his leaving the scene of the accident. defense counsel noted that the appellate courts were split on the question 4 of whether a defendant, who is sentenced to prison in a hit-and-run case, could be required to pay victim restitution and the issue was pending before the california supreme court. counsel asserted that in the instant matter there had been no factual determination that jaime was responsible for the accident, or nce of his flight. the trial court acknowledged the split of authority, but concluded victim restitution was appropriate because the hospital bills were jaime contends that the restitution orders were an abuse of discretion because injuries and economic losses were not the result of the crime of which he was convicted, leaving the scene of an accident. he urges that his plea to violating vehicle code section 20001 did not constitute an admission that he was responsible for the accident, and therefore his plea did not give rise to liability for injuries or death resulting from the accident. relying primarily on people v. rubics (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 452, disapproved by people v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1107, fn. 3, the people contend that the restitution the direct result of they urge that by pleading no contest, which included appellant admitting his involvement in the osses. according indispensable part of his criminal liability, regardless [of] whether he w after the parties completed briefing, our supreme court issued its opinion in people v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th 1093. 5 1. applicable legal principles and people v. martinez we review a restitution order for abuse of discretion. (people v. giordano (people v. hume (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 990, 995.) it is the unequivocal intention of the people of the state of california that all persons who suffer losses as a result of criminal activity shall have the right to seek and secure restitution from the persons convicted of (cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. (b)(13)(a).) this constitutional mandate is codified in penal code section 1202.4, which direct victim restitution for those losses incurred as a result of the crime of which the defendant was convictpeople v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1101.) penal code section 1202.4 states that, case in which a victim has suffered economic loss as a result of , the court shall require that the defendant make restitution to the victim or victims in an amount established by court order . . . .(id., subd. (f), italics added.) the restitution order shall, to the extent possible, fully reimburse the victim for every determined ecoid., subd. (f)(3); people v. martinez, supra, at p. 1101.) thus, penal code section 1202.4 victim restitution is limited to losses caused by the criminal conduct for which the defendant sustained the conviction. (people v. rahbari (2014) 232 cal.app.4th 185, 190; people v. woods (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1045, 1049.) vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (a), provides: driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to a 6 person, other than himself or herself, or in the death of a person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident 3 lthough the vehicle code section 20001(a) offense is commonly referred to as a hit and run, the term is something of a more accurately described as fleeing the the act made criminal (people v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1102.) under vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (a), an injury accident is a condition precedent to the duty to stop, provide identification, and render aid, but it is not an element of the crime and does not constitute part of the conduct forbidden by the statute. (martinez, supra, at pp. 1102-1103; corenbaum v. lampkin (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 1308, 1340.) a defendant who flees the scene of an injury accident has committed a crime even accident was s own negligencefor conviction. (martinez, supra, at p. 1103 [ it is not a criminal offense under california law to be an accident may be the fault of others; it may occur without ; corenbaum v. lampkin, supra, at p. 1340.) prior to martinez, the appellate courts were divided regarding the propriety of a direct victim restitution award when 3 vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (b) sets forth the penalty for failing to stop when the accident results in injury or death. vehicle code sections 20003 and 20004 specify the information and aid that must be provided, and impose a reporting requirement. 7 a defendant convicted of leaving the scene of an accident was sentenced to prison. (compare people v. escobar (1991) 235 cal.app.3d 1504, 1509 s are caused or exacerbated by the , people v. cowart (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 945, 955, and corenbaum v. lampkin, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at p. 1340 with people v. rubics, supra, 136 cal.app.4th at p. cle code] section .) resolving the question, martinez concluded that, under the plain language of penal code flight from the scene of the accident in which he or she was involved, but not losses incurred solely as a result [of] the accident itself.people v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1103.) the court reiterated that a conviction under vehicle code section 20001 does not require any showing of the responsibility for the underlying accident. [i]f restitution for accident-related injuries required nothing more than proof that involved in an accident that caused serious injury then [penal code] section 1202.4 would authorize an award of restitution even in cases in which the victim was solely at fault. to permit such an award based solely on the defendants passive involvement in the accident would serve no recognized restitutionary purposesignificant constitutional questions.martinez, supra, at p. 1104.) involvement in an aforms no part of the conduct proscribed by vehicle code section 20001(a), but instead describes an event that gives rise to 8 the statutory duty to stop, provide identification, and render aid. thus, even if defendant had been at fault in the accident . . . his negligence might well give rise to civil tort liability, but it would not give rise to an obligation to make direct victim restitution for injuries caused by a collision that involved no criminal wrongdoing.id. at pp. 1104-1105.) however, martinez concluded that victim restitution is required where the losses result is, his flight from the scene without identifying himself, rendering aid, or otherwise fulfilling his statutory obligations. (people v. martinez, supra, where the flight leads to a delay in the victims access to medical care, for example, and the victims injuries are exacerbated as a result, those costs are properly characterized as the result of the commission of a crime for the purposes of a restitution order. [citation.] similarly, the cost of tracking down a defendant who has fled the scene of the accident may be recoverable because such losses, too, result from the defendants unlawful flight.(ibid.) 2. application here martinez revvehicle code section 20001, subdivision (b)(2), does not establish the requisite connection between the crime and the economic lossestraffic accident, nor does his conviction imply that he was at fault in the accident. crime, rather, was leaving the scene of the accident without presenting identification or rendering aid. thus, under [penal code] section 1202.4, the trial court was authorized to order restitution for those injuries that were caused 9 the accident, but it was not authorized to award restitution for people v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1098.) in light of martinez. they urge that jaime admitted he had been drinking and smoked marijuana at lunch on the day of the accident. although he claimed he was not under the influence when the accident occurred, they argue that his self-serving statement should not be credited. they also point out that his flight hindered a determination of whether he was intoxicated or impaired when the accident occurred. but jaime was not charged with or found guilty of driving under the influence, or any criminal offense other than leaving the scene of an accident. we cannot assume he is guilty of criminal conduct that was not charged or adjudicated. the people also rely on people v. carbajal (1995) 10 cal.4th 1114, as indirect support for their argument. in carbajal, the court concluded a trial court does not abuse its discretion by conin a hit-and-run case. (id. at pp. 1119, 1124-1125.) but the [penal code] section 1202.4 conditipeople v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1101.) courts may impose probation conditions that foster rehabilitation and are reasonably related to the offense or future criminality, even when the loss was not necessarily caused by the criminal conduct underlying the conviction. (ibid.than its power to order direct victim restitution under [penal 10 code] section 1202.4 in cases in which the defendant receives a nonibid.) here, jaime was not granted probation; he was sentenced to prison. carbajal is unavailing. the people further argue, correctly, that restitution is proper in a hit-and-run case insofar as the act of leaving the scene (see people v. martinez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1107; people v. escobar, supra, 235 cal.app.3d at p. 1509 [restitution is proper to the extent the leaving the scene]; corenbaum v. lampkin, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at p. 1340 [the damages recoverable in a civil action people v. valdez (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 82, 90 [great bodily injury allegation may attach to a veh. code,  20001, subd. (a) offense when the injury was caused or aggravated by the people urge that the trial court found the restitution orders were appropriate in light of the materials it reviewed, including police reports and a video of the collision. they maintain that because the propriety of the restitution orders is a factual question, and jaime has not provided a record containing all the materials reviewed by the trial court, he has forfeited his challenge to the restitution orders. but the trial court never directly addressed, let alone made an express exacerbated it statthis case are appropriate that those hospital bills for the injuries that she suffered as a cause of the accident are directly tied to the offense in this case. [] this court believes that restitution is appropriate based upon the underpinnings of the facts in this 11 family, heard from the people and heard from the defendant. i make it , understandably, on the now discredited rubics rationale to memorandum, in arguing the aggravating factors outweighed mitigating factors, possible intoxication, and the powerful impact of the collision; thfleeing. as far as the record before us shows, the court did not or exacerbated . under these circumstances, there is no forfeiture. however, as noted, the law was unsettled at the time of the restitution hearing. the trial court does not appear to have exacbecause the trial court did not so limit restitution, the people did not have occasion to present evidence demonstrating a connect. accordingly, on remand the people may, in their discretion, move for a further restitution hearing in which they will bear the burden of proving by a preponderance of the attributable to, 4 4 jaime requests that we take judicial notice of the videotape the trial court reviewed. we decline to do so because, in light of our resolution of this matter, our review of the videotape at this 12 (see people v. aguilar (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 857, 862 [standard of proof at restitution hearing is preponderance of the evidence].) juncture is unnecessary. it is for the trial court, in the first instance, to make factual findings on the question of whether or 13 disposition the orders granting victim restitution are reversed. the matter is remanded for conduct of leaving the scene of the accident caused or exacerbated victim restitution. not to be published in the official reports bachner, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 