filed 2/22/17 p. v. cook ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph cameron cook, defendant and appellant. b270542 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137535) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, ricardo o. ocampo, judge. affirmed. 2 emry j. allen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, yun k. lee, deputy attorney general, douglas l. wilson, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ the jury convicted defendant and appellant joseph cameron cook of the following offenses: counts 1 and 2attempted robbery (pen. code,  211, 664)1: count 3first degree murder ( 187, subd. (a)) with a special circumstance of murder committed while defendant was engaged in attempted robbery ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)(a)); count 4attempted murder ( 187, 664); and count 5possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). the jury also found true firearm use allegations under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), in counts 1 and 2, section 12022.53, subdivision (d), in count 3, and section 12022.53, subdivision (c), in count 4. the trial court sentenced defendant in count 3 to life in prison without parole, enhanced by 25 years to life for the use of a firearm. in count 4, defendant was sentenced to life in prison, plus 20 years for the gun use enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (c)). the trial court imposed a consecutive 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 term of eight months for possession of a firearm by a felon in count 5. sentences were imposed and stayed in counts 1 and 2 pursuant to section 654. defendanevidence was insufficient as to counts 35 and the special circumstance finding; (4) the prosecutor committed misconduct; (5) the trial court committed instructional error; (6) trial counsel provided ineffective assistance; (7) the trial court erred in failing to sua sponte strike the special circumstance; and (8) the sentence imposed was unconstitutional. we affirm the judgment. facts2 the crimes on january 10, 2015, defendant and his girlfriend, leslie mojica, were involved in a traffic accident with the murder victim, darrell daniels, and his partner, cynthia clegg. mojica was driving her red mini cooper with a white top when the accident occurred. defendant got out of damaged, and demanded $500 from daniels. defendant said that he wanted daniels 2 defendant did not offer evidence in his defense. 4 skidded because the road was wet. he said that he had his insurance information in the glove compartment. defendant lifted his shirt to show daniels a gun he had tucked in his waistband. he put his hand on the gun as if to pull it out. daniels made a u-turn and began driving home. defendant daniels and clegg were about to turn into the driveway of their house when mojica skidded her car to a stop and blocked the entrance. mojica got out and stood by t shut. daniels said something to defendant, and defendant moved call the police. defendant began screaming at daniels, demanding money multiple times. s mother to call the police. she then went back outside, accompanied by her adult son, who was intellectually disabled.3 defendant was still demanding money. daniels told him that clegg was 3 act, which revised various statutes to replace references to people v. townsel (2016) 63 cal.4th 25, 33, fn. 1.) 5 mojinformation. defendant asked clegg if she had any money. clegg told daniels that the police had been called. mojica urged defendant to leave before the police arrived. they drove away. the police arrived soon afterward and took was still angry. he and mojica smoked marijuana. the money. he felt disrespected because daniels was black.4 johnson. a short time later, defendant went outside to speak with johnson. when defendant returned, he asked mojica for her car keys so that he could put a gun in her car. mojica gave him her keys. defendant told mojica they were going back to over to him if he signaled her so he could get the gun. mojica and defendant went outside, where johnson was waiting for them in his champagne-colored suv. defendant got into the front with mojica following behind in her car. approximately 45 minutes to an hour after the incident with defendant, daniels decided to move his suv into the garage, in case defendant returned. his stepfather, ruthel patton, had his car parked in the garage, so they went outside to switch places. patton backed his car out of the 4 defendant is also black. 6 garage and across the street to allow daniels to move his suv inside. mojica parkhouse on the same side of the street. johnson parked his suv across the street. defendant got out of the suv and he signaled to mojica, who drove over to him. defendant opened the passenger side door and pulled a black western-style gun out from under the seat. defendant walked back four or five gunshots as she was driving. clegg was in the kitchen, which had a doorway into the garage. she heard a scuffle and people screaming. as clegg entered the garage to investigate, she heard daniels yell, mother to call the police. clegg then heard three gunshots. around the same time, patton drove his car back into the driveway. a black man approached from the right side man pointed a gun at patton and fired a shot. the bullet passed through the windshield, hit the dashboard, and tore nable to and did not see where he went. patton turned off the engine and got out of the car. he went into the garage and saw daniels sitting in the suv. he shook daniels and said his name, but daniels did not respond. as clegg was running back to the garage, patton came 7 slumped over in his suv. she saw a white van driving away. and johnson arrived approximately 10 to 15 minutes later. the investigation evidence at the scene residence around 8:30 p.m. daniels was deceased when they arrived. his body was partially inside a ford explorer suv, there was blood on the floorboard, center console, and passenger seat. there were two bullet holes in the water another bullet hole was found in the rear portion of the suv below the window. no weapon was found in the suv. after hole through the windshield of pbullet was recovered from the center console. no shell casings were found at the scene. an autopsy showed that 8 daniels died from a single gunshot wound in the middle of his back on the right side. detective morris spoke to clegg about what had happened earlier in the day. she said they had been involved in an accident with a couple in a small red mini cooper car with a white top. the driver was a hispanic female and the passenger was a black male. clegg subsequently identified defendant and mojica in separate six-pack photographic lineups. the recovered bullets were consistent with bullets fired from a .38 special or a .357 magnum caliber revolver. the conclusion that a revolver was used was explained by the absence of any shell casing at the scene that would have been ejected from a semiautomatic firearm. defendant and mojica on january 13, 2015, deputy adam kirste stopped mojica while she was driving with defendant in the car. they were placed under arrest. mojica was taken into custody and interviewed by detective morris and his partner. at first, mojica lied to the detectives about what had occurred because she was afraid. she eventually told the police what really happened and provided them with after the interview, but she was required to check in daily with police. 9 mojica was rearrested on february 4, 2015. the detectives interviewed her again. she was charged with murder, and a special circumstance was alleged. in may 2015, mojica gave a video recorded statement and detectives. on june 30, 2015, mojica entered into a plea agreement to receive a lesser sentence if she testified truthfully in court. cell phone records pursuant to a search warrant, detective morris obtained records relating to the cell phone number mojica identified as belonging to defendant. the number was 10, 2015, at 5:47 p.m., before the murder, an outgoing call phone. johnson was later arrested, and the detective at trial, the parties stipulated that defendant suffered a prior felony conviction on december 2, 2014, in the los angeles county superior court. discussion 10 coerced witness testimony defendant contends he was convicted on the basis of agreement impermissibly required her to testify consistently with her proffer to the district attorney, which was itself the product of coercive police interrogation tactics. imony in the trial court. (people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 11781179.) recognizing this, defendant argues that trial counsel was representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, and that he was prejudiced, i.e., that it is reasonably probable the result would have been more favorable had counsel acted people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, 489 (hillhouseshowing on either one of these components, the ineffective people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1126.) here, defendant has shown no basis for trial counsel was not competent. plea agreement 11 fundamental right to a fair trial in violation of federal (people v. medina (1974) 41 cal.app.3d 438, 456 (medinaonly when the agreement requires the witness to testify to truthfulness of those statements is the mutually shared understanding of the witness and the prosecution as the basis for the plea bargain. (people v. boyer [(2006)] 38 cal.4th [412,] 456 [(boyerpeople v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 863 (homickhe bargain [must be] expressly contingent on the witness (people v. reyes (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 426, 434 (reyes), quoting people v. garrison (1989) 47 cal.3d 746, 771 (garrison).) a witness who testifies pursuant to an immunity agreement does not give coerced testimony if the agreement requires only that the witness testify truthfully and completely and does not require that the witness testify in a particular fashion. (medina, supra, at pp. 454456; people v. pinholster (1992) 1 cal.4th 865, 939, overruled on another ground in people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 459there is a certain degree of compulsion inherent in any plea agreement or grant of immunity, it is clear that an agreement requiring only that the witness testify fully and truthfully is (people v. allen (1986) 42 cal.3d 1222, 1252 (allen).) we independently review the 12 plea agreement was coercive, thus depriving defendant of a fair trial. (people v. badgett (1995) 10 cal.4th 330, 350 (badgett).) testimony5 mojica testified that she was initially charged with special circumstance murder, but later agreed to plead guilty to a lesser charge and a reduced sentence of six years eight months, in exchange for her truthful testimony. in may 2015, prior to entering into the plea agreement, mojica made consulted with her attorney before making the proffer. the district attorney had not promised her anything in exchange for her truthful statement. mojica entered into the plea agreement in june 2015. she understood that her reduced sentence was predicated on the truthfulness of her testimony at trial, as determined by the judge, not the district attorney or jury. she also understood that the determination of her truthfulness was not dependent upon the outcome of the trial. on cross-examination, mojica agreed with defense ad been charged with special 5 neither the plea agreement nor the proffer is contained in the record on appeal. 13 prison without the possibility of parole. she also agreed that e for her proffer. she was aware that if she was able to make a deal with the district attorney she would have to testify honestly. relevant here, defense counsel elicited the following testimony regarding the proffer and plea agreement: l]: so you gave a statement to the [deputy district attorney] here, along with detectives, right? came to you and they said, okay, if you testified along the way you made the statement, you have a deal, right? on re-direct examination, mojica testified that the f the people should conclude that she had not been completely truthful and candid, the statements in the proffer could be used against her. the plea bargain she signed on june 30, 2015, required her truthful testimony, and stated that her truthfulness at trial would be determined by a neutral magistrate or judge. mojica understood that a judge would determine her truthfulness before she made the decision to enter into the plea agreement. discussion 14 letter of the plea agreement herein called for mojica to consistent [sicattorney, to the satisfaction of the district attorney, the entity empowered to charge her with capital murder for any have had no basis for making this determination other than reliance on the but the parties agree that its terms required only that she testify truthfully, as determined by a neutral magistrate or contention. (see allen, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 1252 [plea agreement requiring testimony to be truthful does not violate due process]; see also garrison, supra, 47 cal.3d at p. 771 [plea agreement offends due process only if it expressly requires that the witness testify consistently with a prior statement].) terms, mojica understood it to require her to testify consistently with her proffer.6 even if we were to accept the 6 defendant relies on medina, supra, 41 cal.app.3d at pages 452454, which in turn cites to people v. green (1951) 15 fail. defendant points to a singular portion of mojtestimony in which she summarily agreed with defense mutually shared understanding of the witness and the case here. (homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 863.) although the district attorney had not promised her anything at the time, mojica testified that she made her proffer in the hope that it would lead to a plea agreement. when she made the proffer, mojica knew that a future plea agreement would require her to testify truthfully at trial. having already certified to the truthfulness of the proffer, she would have anticipated that the district attorney would expect her to 102 cal.app.2d 831, 834, 837838 (green), in support of his determinative of whether her testimony was coerced. neither case addressed the question of whether an could render the accommedina, supra, at pp. 450, 456 [immunity under section 1324 order could not require accomplice to testify consistently with prior recorded statement]; green, supra, at pp. 834835 [promise conditioned upon preliminary hearing testimony resulting in defendant being held to answer].) 16 testify to a substantially similar version of events at trial. assured that it is the truth. however, unless the bargain is expressly contingent on the witness sticking to a particular version, the principles of medina (garrison, suprareyes, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 435.) negotiation of the plea agreement, demonstrated that she knew she was required to testify truthfully regardless of whether her testimony was consistent with her proffer. she stated multiple times that she was obligated to tell the truth under the terms of the plea bargain. that mojica agreed -worded question does not undermine our conclusion that she correctly understood the testimony as inconsistent, the inconsistency arises not from her own words, but from her failure to dispute leading people v. fields (1983)] 35 cal.3d [329,] 360[] [(fieldsallen, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 1252, fn. 6.) finally, the parties agree that the plea agreement trial court and not the district attorney, a point that demonstrates she understood. we reject out of hand the demeaning argument that the court 17 points out, the trial court was in a position to independently racity through her demeanor, her testimony, and the testimony of other witnesses. there is no reason to believe that the court would abdicate its responsibility to the prosecutor had an objection been made. interrogation lation of [his] own rights in order to have standing to argue that testimony of a third badgett, supras trial idproduced at trial process rights implicated and the exclusionary rule . . . applied. when a defendant seeks to exclude evidence on this ground, the defendant must allege that the trial testimony is coerced [citation], and that its admission will deprive him of ibidtestimony was coercboyer, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 444.) testimony7 7 not contained in the record. 18 mojica spoke with police officers on three occasions, once on january 13, 2015, and twice on february 4, 2015. following the february 4 interviews, she was charged with special circumstance murder. mojica admitted that her statements to police were internally inconsistent and inconsistent with her preliminary hearing and trial testimony in some respects. the detectives encouraged her to be honest, but she sometimes lied and withheld information. she lied because she did not want to be implicated and was afraid of what story throughout the interviews because, as they progressed, she believed telling police more would benefit her. at the end of her january interview with police, mojica was released after she told the officers that defendant told her he fired a shot, but was not sure whether he hit anyone. in her february interviews, mojica again stated that defendant had fired a shot but did not know if it hit anyone. she testified consistently in this regard at the preliminary hearing and at trial. mojica implicated herself at the end of the february interviews, admitting that the gun was in her car and that she drove over to defendant on his signal. discussion 19 defendant argues that police used coercive implicating him, in violation of his right to due process. we discern nothing in to police were coerced, nor would any coercion have affected the reliability of her testimony at trial in light of the plea no transcripts of the police interrogations in the record, but evidence she was coerced. the detectives told mojica she was facing a special circumstance murder charge. they accused her of lying and repeatedly told her to tell the truth and to protect herself. in january, they released mojica after she implicated defendant in the shooting. none of [e]xhortation[s] to tell the people v. flores (1983) 144 cal.app.3d 459, 469), and offers of release from custody (badgett, supra, 10 cal.4th at p. 355), are all permissible tactics that police may use in questioning. having concluded that neither the plea agreement nor that counsel did not render ineffective assistance. (see people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 587 [rejecting [c]ounsel is not 20 gang membership testimony testimony that she feara gang member. he specifically contends: (1) the prosecutor committed misconduct in questioning mojica; (2) the trial his motion for mistrial was an abuse of discretion. testimony prior to trial, the court ordered that there be no agreed to admonish the witnesses order. at trial, the prosecutor questioned mojica as follows: defendant about the shooting]? that a problem? -- defense counsel immediately objected and moved to strike the testimony. the court ordered the testimony stricken. at a sidebar discussion, defense counsel moved for 21 mistrial on the basis evidence had been explicit, and the testimony was unduly prejudicial. the prosecutor insisted she had admonished defense counsel did not dispute that mojica had been properly admonished. the court reiterated that it had stricken the testimony and that the jury was not to consider it, although the testimony could mind, regardless of its truth, as her mental state was relevant to her credibility. the court denied the motion for mistrial and again ordered the testimony stricken. the prosecutor requested that the testimony be admitted for the utilizing a limiting instruction to prevent potential prejudice. the court then excused the jury and heard argument from the parties on the matter. defense counsel argued that the court had ruled on the matter pre-trial and determined there would be no gang-related testimony. because counsel had not questioned the jury regarding potential gang bias during voir dire, defendant would be prejudiced by the admission of gang testimony at this point in the trial. the prosecutor again her state of mind and credibility. the court ruled that the testimony would remain stricken and the jury would be instructed not to consider stricken testimony. it reasoned that although the testimony 22 was relevant, defendant had not been given the opportunity to question the jurors regarding any biases relating to gangs. the court stated it would admonish mojica. the prosecutor could elicit that mojica was afraid to testify, but could not discussion misconduct is forfeited because he failed to object on that basis below. (people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 13501351.) even if the issue had been preserved for appeal, it is plain from the questioning was proper. the prosecutor was entitled to harm had prevented her from being honest with the detectives initially. the prosecutor had admonished mojica did not question her in a way that would lead her to not intentionally solicit, and could not have anticipated [the improper testimony],people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 125.) the record also demonstrates that the trial court did 8 8 he challenges the 23 we further conclude that any prejudice arising from the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion for mistrial is unsupported. prejudici(people v. albarran particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions. people v. mcnally (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1419, 1428hear unsolicited and inadmissible comments and in order for trials to proceed without constant mistrial, it is axiomatic the prejudicial effect of these comments may be corrected by judicial admonishment; absent evidence to the contrary the error is deemed id. at pp. 14281429.) subject matter is of such a character that its effect . . . cannot id. at p. 1429.) was no ptsd evidence of any kind presented in this case. 24 were unable to cure any potential prejudice to defendant. mojica made a single, brief statement that the trial court immediately struck from the record. no other witness made refadmonished the jury both before the presentation of evidence and following trial that it was not to consider stricken presumed to have followed an admonition to disregard people v. olivencia (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 1391, 1404.) we have no reason to believe that the jury did not do so here. moreover, there was overwhelming evidence of defendantdefendant became very angry after daniels rear-ended yelling and making repeated demands for moneydespite the fact that daniels and clegg attempted to resolve the matter by giving him their insurance information. defendant lifted up his shirt to show daniels a gun in his waistband. when daniels and clegg fled in their car, defendant told mojica to pursue them, and they followed the couple to their home. once they arrived, defendant continued to demand money in an aggressive manner even after the couple explained that they had no money because clegg was undergoing dialysis, and her adult sonwho was clegg stated the police had been called. he and mojica then returned to his 25 apartment where he continued to rant about getting the money. defendant told mojica to give him her car keys so that he could put a gun in her car. he enlisted the help of his smojica drove over to the house separately, with the gun in her car. defendant instructed her to drive over to him if he signaled her so that he could retrieve his gun. he signaled her soon after arriving and took the gunwhich mojica described as looking like a revolverand walked toward three shots. mojica, who was driving away, heard four or five shots. defendant later admitted to mojica that he fired a shot, although he did not know if anyone was hit. inflicted by bullets shot from a revolver. in light of the overwhelming evidence against defendant, any error was harmless. sufficiency of the evidence unreliable and uncorroborated, and that in the absence of her testimony, there was insufficient evidence to support the convictions in counts 3, 4, and 5. he also argues that even if the remaining evidence is considered in conjunction with first degree felony murder. finally, defendant challenges 26 the trial courtarguments lack merit.9 the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] reversal on the ground of insufficiency of the evidence is unwarranted people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) propensity to lie (counts 3, 4, and 5) rst argumentthat mojwas unreliableis based on his contention that her annot 9 defendant does not contest that the entirety of the corroborated and admitted, is sufficient to support counts 4 both corroborated and properly admitted, it is unnecessary for us to further address whether substantial evidence supports the verdicts in those counts. 27 incentive to lie, mojica herself testified to the significantly reduced prison sentence she received in exchange for testifying truthfully. she also admitted that she gave the district attorney her proffer in the hopes that she would be granted leniency. because the jury was made fully aware of the circumstances surrounding her testimony, her testimony was not so unreliable as to make the trial fundamentally unfair. (see people v. lyons (1958) 50 cal.2d 245, 265 (lyons), overruled on another ground in people v. green ibid.) the defense presented the numerous inconsistencies in her interviews with police to the jury at length. mojica readily admitted that she repeatedly lied to detectives while insisting to them that she was being truthful, and that she withheld information until she believed it would benefit her to be honest. the jury was in a position to make an informed corroboration (counts 3 and 4) 28 uncorroborated with respect to counts 3 and 4. this is incorrect. a conviction cannot be based only on accomplice testimony. ( 1111.) there must be sufficient corroborating commission of the offense; and the corroboration is not sufficient if it merely shows the commission of the offense or ibidis sufficient even though slight and entitled to little (people v. wood (1961) 192 cal.app.2d 393, 396; people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 966 (frye) rroboration need only be slight, overruled on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390testimony need be corroborated, and the corroborative evidence need not establish every element of the offense charged. [citation.] all that is required is that the evidence such a way as may reasonably satisfy the jury that the people v. dejesus (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 1, 25.) in determining the sufficiency of corroborative evidence, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict and garrison, supra, 47 cal.3d at p. 774.) 29 clegg testified that, after the traffic accident, defendant approached her and daniels and angrily demanded $500 several times. defendant then lifted his shirt to reveal the butt of a gun, which he had tucked in his waistband. when daniels and clegg fled the scene, defendant and mojica followed them to their house, and defendant again angrily demanded money. he left the scene only after clegg established that defendant had a motive for shooting daniels and knew where to find him. the murder took place approximately 45 minutes after the initial encounter. the murder weapon was determined to be a revolver, consistent that there is testimony aside from that of the accomplice which tends to connect the defendant with the commission of the crime, the function of the appellate court is performed. questions of the weight of the evidence and the credibility of the witnesses are for the trial court, and since the circumstances reasonably justify the finding of guilt, an opposing view that they also may be reconciled with innocence will not warrant interference with the judgment lyons, supra, 50 cal.2d at p. 259, quoting people v. henderson (1949) 34 cal.2d 340, 346347.) evidence of uncharged attempted robbery 30 defendant was charged in counts 1 and 2 with attempted robbery of daniels and clegg at the accident scene and at their home immediately afterward. the commission of those attempted robberies ended when that a third uncharged attempted robbery occurred when home, killed daniels, and attempted to kill patton. the uncharged attempted robbery and the special circumstance. defendant contends insufficient evidence supports the finding that he intended to commit robbery when he murdered daniels and attempted to murder patton. he get money from daniels was the only evidence of the third attempted robbery. defendant argues that because she was insufficient absent corroboration. defendant is mistaken. possession of another from his person or immediate presence, against his will, accomplished by means of force or people v. bonner (2000) 80 cal.app.4th 759, 763 (bonner)specific intent to commit a crime and a direct but ineffectual act done towar attempt connotes the intent to accomplish its object, both in law . . . 31 required must be more than mere preparation, it must show that the perpetrator is putting his or her plan into action. that act need not, however, be the last proximate or ultimate step toward commission of the crime. [citation.] where the intent to commit the crime is clearly shown, an act done toward the commission of the crime may be sufficient for an attempt even though that same act would be (bonner, supra, 80 cal.app.4th at p. 764.) corroborating evidence is not required to establish elements commission of the crime in such a way as may reasonably satisfy the jury that the [accomplice] is tellinpeople v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 535.) clegg testified that defendant demanded money at the scene of the car accident, and that he followed them home and again demanded money. the murder occurred only 45 minutes later. that defendant attempted to rob daniels and clegg shortly before the murder is circumstantial evidence of testimonies constitutes substantial evidence supporting the uncharged attempted robbery for purposes of the murder conviction and the attempted robbery special circumstances 32 defendant intended to rob danielshe said that he was and that he took a direct step towards doing sohe returned to motion for judgment of acquittal defendant separately challenges the his motion for judgment of acquittal as to the special properly corroborated. we review the denial of a motion for acquittal pursuant to section 1118.1 for substantial evidence. (people v. stevens (2007) 41 cal.4th 182, 200.) in light of our properly admitted, we hold that substantial evidence prosecutorial misconduct the parties agree that, for purposes of the special circumstance and the felony murder theory of first degree commission of an attempted robbery. (see people v. salas (1972) 7 cal.3d 812, 822 823 (salas) [felony-murder]; fields, supra, 35 cal.3d at pp. 364, 367368 [robbery murder special circumstance].) in both contexts, an attempted robbery ceases when the defendant reaches a place of 33 temporary safety, as defendant had when he returned to his house after the two charged robbery attempts (counts 1 and 2). (see salas, supra, at pp. 822823 [felony murder]; fields, supra, at pp. 367368 [robbery murder special circumstance].) under these circumstances only a third, uncharged attempted robbery, in which defendant was engaged at the time of the murder, could form the basis for the special circumstance and murder conviction. defendant contends the prosecutor inappropriately argued that the two charged attempted robberies could form the basis for the special circumstance and the murder under a felony murder theory, and that counsel was ineffective for failing to object on this basis at trial. the attorney general does not disagree with defendant regarding the law as applied to the facts of this case, but argues the argument was forfeited, and that, regardless, it is without merit. we agree with the attorney general. proceedings when arguing in support of the two attempted robbery counts, the prosecutor discussed the events that took place at the scene of the car adefendant followed him home. she did not discuss counts. the prosecutor then discussed felony murder based on attempted robbery: 34 [of first degree murder]. the defendant attempted to commit a robbery. because -- about this -- the initial attempts at robbery at the location of the accident when he demands the money, he chases them, gets incident of attempted robbery. get back to his house, he has reached a temporary place of safety; therefore, the attempted robbery has stopped. okay. -- attempt at robbery after the defendant and ms. mojica leave . motivation . . . . caused the death of another person. we know that happened. we know he shot and killed mr. daniels. 35 know he intended to commit a robbery when he went back to the location? through this whole thinmoney. he demanded money repeatedly. he asked [clegg], s up with the money. and when he got home, after he shot and killed him, he was still angry because he never got his money. that has been his motivation throughout this whole the prosecutor also discussed the attempted robbery special circumstance, stating: felony murder theory of first degree murder]. the defendant how we know thihouse. know his motivation from the beginning has been money. that is his intent. his intent is robbery because he wants the money. used the death of 36 that atte defense counsel also discussed the two attempted robbery charges without any mention of the events that took he discussed the attempted robbery special circumstance: have not proven the special circumstance allegation to be true, once again, based on circumstance itself has to be corroborated in some manner that there was an attempted [sic] murder and that mr. daniels was killed during the course of it, while engaged in it. around the crash scene or at the house the first time because of the safety rule that [the prosecutor] talked to you about. true, again, based entirely on the testimony of ms. mojica, that he went back for the money. that was her testimony. defense counsel continued to argue that there was insufficient proof of the special circumstance because there was no evidence at the scene to indicate an attempted robbery. nothing was taken, and nothing was disheveled in such a way as to indicate defendant was searching for 37 money. he strongly emphasized that the attempted robbery that defendant was concerned with getting money from daniels when he returned to the house, which was not credible. discussion we agree with the attorney general that defendant has forfeited his claim by failing to specifically object to the people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298 (riggs).) because defendant argues trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance in this regard, however, we review the merits. (see in re dennis h. (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 94, 98.) persuade either the trial court or the jury, and it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] under the federal constitution, conduct by a prosecutor that does not rerightsof the right to remain silentbut is otherwise worthy of condemnation, is not a constitutional violation unless the o infected the trial with unfairness as to 38 [citationsof prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundthe defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to riggs[, supra,] 44 cal.4th [at p.] 298.) a defendant who fails to object at trial e people v. wrest (1992) 3 cal.4th 1088, 1105.) views as to what the evidence shows and what inferences may be drawn therefrom.citation.] . . . people v. welch prosecutorial remarks constituting misconduct, we examine whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury would have understood the remark to cause the mischief people v. osband (1996) 13 misconduct based on remarks to the jury, the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. [citations.] in conducting this inquiry, damaging rather than the least damaging meaning from the [citation.] (people v. spector (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1335, 14021403.) 39 reference to the uncharged attempted robbery as a could rely on evidence supporting the two charged attempted robberies when considering the special circumstance and murder charge. likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of frye, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 970.) it was entirely appropriate for circumstantial evidence that he harbored the intent to rob daniels when he returned to his house. (see people v. denis (1990) 224 cal.app.3d 563, 567568.) the prosecutor made clear that she was relying on the facts of the prior events attempt at robbery after the defendant and ms. mojica leave th 40 to the special circumstance, d killed him during the no reason to believe the jury would have understood the we cannot conclude counsel was ineffective on this s tactical decision not to object to an argument that the jury would not be reasonably likely to misunderstand falls within the range of reasonable professional assistance. (people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th [r]eviewing courts defer to counsetactical decisions in examining a claim of ineffective nor was there prejudice. when arguing with respect to the charged attempted robberies, neither party referred to evidence that occurred after defendant left the house the first time. there was no confusion as to when the first two attempted robberies ended. defense counsel specifically anything that happened around the crash scene or at the house the first time because of the safety rule that [the highly questionable testimony that defendant returned to the house to see about the money. moreover, as we discuss in more detail below, with respect to the special circumstance, the jury was correctly instructed that the 41 murder must have occurred while defendant was engaged in the commission of an attempted robbery (calcrim no. 730), and that an attempted robbery is complete when the perpetrator reaches a place of temporary safety (calcrim no. 1600, as modified.) it was also instructed that in order to find defendant guilty of murder under a felony murder theory of liability, the murder must have taken place while defendant was engaged in the commission of an attempted people v. vasquez (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 1512, 1518.) in light of the combrespect to the special circumstance, and the instructions given, it is not reasonably probable that the outcome of the trial was affected by the prosecu attempted robbery special circumstance instruction defendant contends that, under the unique facts of this case, the trial court erred in refusing to modify calcrim no. 730. he argues the instructions given likely confused the jury as to whether defendant was required to have been engaged in the commission of an attempted robbery when he committed murder in order to find the special circumstance true. ial court regarding this issue. 42 although he proposes no specific language, he asserts that: have instructed the jury to the effect that for the special circumstance allegation to be found true, the attempted robbery upon which the special [circumstance] is predicated must have been in progress at the time of the murder; and that as a matter of law, the attempts alleged in [c]ounts 1 and 2 were not in progress at the time of the shooting herein. thus, as a matter of law, the murder, was not committed while the perpetrator was engaged in the commission of the 10 proceedings defense counsel objected to the wording of the third element of attempted robbery murder special circumstance in calcrim no. 730 (apr. 2008 rev.). the instruction stated in relevant part: circumstance of murder committed while engaged in the commission of attempted robbery. that this special circumstance is true, the people must prove that: 10 argument regarding the special circumstance and felony murder even further confused the matter. as we have discussed, the argument was neither confusing nor misleading. 43 commit robbery; death of another person. cide whether the defendant committed or attempted to commit robbery please refer to the separate instructions that i have given you on that crimes [sic]. you must apply those instructions when you decide whether the people have proved the special circumst (italics added.) defense counsel argued that the third element of defendant did an act that caused the death of another person while engaged in the commission of an attempted robbery(italics added.) counsel acknowledged that this exact language was included in the first paragraph of the not give any bracketed language to that effect. it gives a couple of options with element[ ] 3 . . . dealing with whether its [sic] the death of anthe exact language defense counsel requested was already in the first paragraph of the instruction. the prosecutor 44 believed the instruction was clear, and she did not want any additions made to the instructions that were not bracketed options. the court refused to modify calcrim no. 730, reasoning that the instruction was clear and should be read the court noted that other legal principles were contained in paragraphs that were separate from the elements, and the jury would understand that it should integrate the law provided. the parties then discussed the wording of calcrim no. 1600, concerning the elements of attempted robbery. defense counsel requested a modification to the instruction commission of the attempted robbery related to the special circumstance could be traced back to the alleged attempted robbery at the accident scene and then in front of the house when, in fact, all the testimony is that they returned to that earlier act cannot form the basis of the special the prosecutor stated that she was comfortable with the court agreed with defense counsel that there could be a possibility for confusion. it determined to modify calcrim no. 1600 to include the following language: 45 crime of attempted robbery continues until the perpetrator reaches a place of temporary safety. safety if he or she has successfully escaped from the scene or the court gave calcrim no. 730 without modification, and incorporated the language set forth above in calcrim no. 1600. law trial court must instruct on general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence and necessary people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 996.) included in this duty is the obligation to instruct on each element of the offense. (people v. miller (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 190, 207, fn. instruction to meet the needs of a specific trial, so long as the instruction given properly states the law and does not create people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 943, fn. instruction offered by the defendant if it incorrectly states the law, is argumentative, duplicative, or potentially confusing [citation], or if it is not supported by substantial evidence [citatipeople v. moon (2005) 37 cal.4th 1, 30 46 (moon).) a defendant is entitled to a pinpoint instruction only upon request when there is evidence supportive of the people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 824 (gutierrez).) states the law under the independent or de novo standard of review. (people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218.) review of the adequacy of instructions is based on whether the trial (people v. partlow (1978) 84 cal.app.3d 540, 558 [(partlowcommitted in giving or not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which people v. yoder (1979) 100 cal.app.3d 333, 338.) possible, so as to support the judgment rather than defeat it (people v. laskiewicz (people v. ramos (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1082, 1088 (ramos).) discussion denying his proposed modification to calcrim no. 730. 47 the trial court also properly instructed the jury in light of the specific facts of this case.11 the exact language defendant proposed was already contained in the first paragraph of the instruction, so the jury was properly advised that defendant was required to have been engaged in the commission of an attempted robbery at the time he committed the murder. the court did not err in refusing a modification that was duplicative. (moon, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 30.) read as a whole, the instructions precluded the use of the charged attempted robberies as the basis for the special circumstance. calcrim no. 1600, as modified, instructed that a robbery ends when the defendant reaches a place of ramos, supra, 163 cal.app.4th at p. 1088, quoting partlow, supra, 84 cal.app.3d at p. 558.) court was required to instruct sua sponte regarding the people v. saille (1991) 54 cal.3d 1108, 1119.) the court has no sua sponte duty to give such pinpoint instructions absent request. (ibid.; gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 824.) defendant did not request a clarifying or amplifying instruction apart from requesting modifications to calcrim nos. 730 and 1600, 11 defendant only challenges calcrim no. 730 as applied to the facts. 48 and therefore forfeited his argument that the trial court should have further instructed the jury on appeal. (people v. san nicolas (2004) 34 cal.4th 614, 669.) unanimity instruction defendant contends that as a result of the errors alleged, the jury was given a choice between the charged attempted robberies and the uncharged attempted robbery as factual predicates for the special circumstance allegation. he claims that under these circumstances, the jury was required to unanimously agree with respect to which of the attempted robberies served as the predicate for the special circumstance. he argues the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give either caljic no. 17.01 or calcrim no. 3500 with respect to the unanimity requirement. we disagree. s guilty of a specific crime. [citation.] therefore, cases have long held that when the evidence suggests more than one discrete crime, either the prosecution must elect among the crimes or the court must require the jury to agree on the people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 877878.) with respect to special circumstances, a unanimity instruction is required if different felonies are alleged as the to the two acts of robbery were entirely differentid. at p. 879.) 49 here, there was no basis to give a unanimity instruction. only the single, uncharged attempted robbery could legally serve as the basis for the special circumstance. the jury was fully and fairly instructed in this regard, and the prosecutor and defense counsel both emphatically stressed the fact that neither of the charged attempted robberies could serve as predicates because they were a unanimity instruction could only confuse the jury by causing it to believe that more than one of the attempted robberies was a viable basis for the special circumstance. moreover, as the attorney general argues, in light of the facts in this case, giving a unanimity instruction would be contrary to law. the trial court did not err. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues that trial counsel was ineffective for failing to move for a new trial on the basis of the special circumstance contentions raised above. having found no merit in any of the special circumstance arguments, we reject the contention. (see hillhouse, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 489 [finding of ineffective assistance of counsel requires a showing of prejudice].) 50 sua sponte duty to strike special circumstance defendant also contends the trial court was required to strike the special circumstances finding on its own motion in light of his arguments above. we likewise reject this argument. (people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 199 [where no error was found there is no basis for the court to strike a special circumstance].) cruel and unusual punishment/equal protection defendant contends that his sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole (lwop) is a violation of the unusual punishment and requirement of equal protection under the laws. defendant first claims that his lwop sentence constitutes cruel and unusual punishment, given his relative youth. he argues that miller v. alabama (2012) ___ u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455], graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, and roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, are applicable to his case. in those cases, the united states supreme court , including immaturity, a lack of appreciation of the consequences of their actions, and a greater ability to reform. (people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1375.) defense 51 imposed sentencecourt rejected this argument, as do we. as the court properly concluded, these supreme court authorities are not applicable to defendant, who was not a minor at the time of the murder. (people v. perez (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 612, 618; people v. argeta (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1478, 1482 (argeta); people v. abundio (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1211, 12201221.) nt that the fact that similarly situated youths are not subject to lwop violates equal protection principles. defendant is not objections always raised against categorical rules . . . [, it] is the point where society draws the line for many purposes roper v. simmons[, supra,] 543 u.s. [at p.] 554; see graham [v. florida], supra, 560 u.s. at p. ___ [130 s.ct. at p. 2016].) . . . such arguments would have no logical end, and so a line must be drawn at some point. we respect the line our society has drawn and which the united states supreme court has argeta, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 1482.) defendant also contends that he was denied equal protection because he was unfairly singled out with respect to the special circumstances allegation. defendant offers no anecdotal observation at sentencing that he rarely saw 52 special circumstances allegations, despite the high number of potentially qualifying robbery/murders charged. we reject this contention as well. due process challenge to sentencing finally, defendant contends that his due process rights were violated because he was wrongly found subject to the special circumstances finding and was therefore sentenced based on an assumption that was untrue. because we have valid, this claim necessarily fails. disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p.j. kin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 