filed 6/7/17 p. v. german ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rafael german, defendant and appellant. b270020 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba410044) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. charlaine f. olmeda, judge. affirmed. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant rafael german (defendant) appeals from his conviction of second degree murder. he contends that substantial evidence did not support a finding of implied malice, and unforeseeable intervening act. as we find no merit to either contention, we affirm the judgment. background an amended information charged defendant in count 1 with driving under the influence of alcohol and a drug, causing injury, in violation of vehicle code section 23153, subdivision (a). in count 2, defendant was charged with driving with a blood alcohol content of .08 percent, causing injury in violation of vehicle code section 23153, subdivision (b), and in count 3, with driving with a suspended or revoked driving privilege, in violation of section 14601.1, subdivision (a). count 51 charged defendant with the murder of sur promise cullins (cullins) in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a). as to counts 1 and 2, the amended information further alleged that defendant proximately caused bodily injury and death to the victims in violation of vehicle code section 23558. a jury found defendant guilty as charged, and found true the special allegations. on january 29, 2016, the trial court sentenced defendant to a term of 15 years to life in prison as to count 5, a term of three years as to counts 1 and 2, count 1 to run concurrently and count 2 stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. the court imposed a concurrent term of six months as to count 3. the court scheduled a later hearing to determine victim restitution and presentence custody credit, and ordered defendant to pay mandatory fines and fees. 1 there was no count 4 in the amended information. 3 defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. prosecution evidence subject incident on april 11, 2013, shortly after 8:00 p.m., jovan simril (simril) attempted to cross four-lane avalon boulevard at 80th street, with her three-year-old son, cullins. although there was no marked crosswalk or traffic signal, simril had crossed at that intersection many times. according to a police officer who had patrolled the area, it is common for people to cross avalon boulevard at intersections which are not marked with a crosswalk. the speed limit in that area is 35 miles per hour. simril carried cullins in her arms resting on her right hip as she crossed the street. she wore a black leather jacket, and cullins wore a gray hoodie. the weather was clear though it was not yet dark, the streetlights were on. simril looked both ways, first to the left, saw no cars, and then to her right. at first, she saw no cars on the right, so she began crossing the southbound lanes, and had barely made it to the double yellow line in the middle of the street, when she travelling northbound.2 simril testified that defendant was she turned and tried to run back to the curb, but was hampered by her wedge heels and the weight of cullins on her hip, so she tried to move cullins to her left hip. the next thing she knew she was in the middle of the street with a broken leg, and cullins was lying face down in the gutter, which she estimated to be about 40 feet away. simril dragged herself to cullins as people gathered around them. 2 although the jury had the advantage of diagrams and photographs to help them envision the scene, the parties failed to have the exhibits transmitted to this court. 4 simril admitted that she had consumed beer and smoked marijuana earlier that day, and that she had used cocaine a few days before that. she denied being under the influence of marijuana or cocaine at the time of the accident. simril spent several days in the hospital, where a metal rod and screws were used to repair her leg. cullins died at a different hospital. officers delia martinez and antonio martinez, were the first police officers to arrive on the scene. they encountered a crowd of 30 to 40 people, some flagging them down, surrounding simril and the unconscious cullins. some pointed toward defendant, who was then facing the officers. as soon as defendant looked at the officers, he turned around and began speed-walking in the direction of his car, parked on the south side of avalon boulevard, followed by several people in the crowd. officer delia martinez followed defendant as he got into the suv, and when she saw brake lights and then backup lights, she told him to step out of the car. she had to repeat the request several times before he complied. was dark. they came out of nowhere. pointing to the corner, defendant said, 3 speech was slurred and his eyes were red. he told her that he coholic beverage. after paramedics arrived, officer antonio martinez joined his partner, who was still with defendant. defendant was agitated and verbally confrontational with the crowd. there was ty 3 it is not unlawful for pedestrians to cross in unmarked crosswalks at intersections. (see vehicle code sections 21950, 21954.) 5 maintaining his balance, his speech was slurred, and his eyes were glassy, red, and watery. while administering a field sobriety test, officer martinez asked defendant whether he had taken any medication, whether he was ill or injured, and whether he had been drinking alcohol. defendant replied that he had drunk md three to four hours before the incident. however, defendant thought it was 7:00 pm, when it was actually 8:40 p.m. he said he had not eaten anything that day. defendant did not perform satisfactorily on the field sobriety tests, including inappropriate laughing, and officer antonio martinez formed the opinion that defendant was under the influence of alcohol and unable to operate a motor vehicle on the highway. he also formed the opinion that defendant had violated vehicle code section 21950, subdivision (c), failing to reduce speed for pedestrians. car turned up a full, capped , as well as one that was open with purple liquid residue. a bottle cap was found in the there were no skid marks near the accident scene. all the of the car. a debris trail traveled from the number one northbound lane into the left-turn and number one lanes of southbound avalon boulevard. although there were no witnesses to the collision, one person saw defendant make a u-turn afterward and come back into the southbound lane. officer kimberly gipson transported defendant to the police station about five minutes away. at 9:31 p.m. and again at 9:35 p.m., she administered a breathalyzer test. the first test showed a blood alcohol content of .16 percent. the second showed a blood alcohol content of .14 percent. officer gipson offered defendant a blood test but he refused. although she did not 6 question defendant, he told her that he should have kept going like he did the last time. criminalist melissa kramer-samarrett explained the effects of alcohol on perception and reaction time. even small doses of alcohol affects distance perception and reaction time, and tend to narrow the plane of vision, much like wearing blinders. with a blood alcohol content as low as .05, most people are significantly impaired in the ability to drive a motor vehicle. in field sobriety and breathalyzer tests, kramer-samarrett gave her opinion that having a blood alcohol content of .16 and then a .14 percent about 20 to 40 minutes after the collision, meant that it was not safe for the subject to have been driving a motor vehicle. deputy medical examiner pedro ortiz performed the autopsy on cullins. dr. ortiz testified that the child died due to multiple blunt injuries to the head which resulted in a fractured skull and bleeding in the brain. cullins also suffered otherwise survivable fractures in the pelvis and both legs. in his opinion, the child was struck by a vehicle in the legs first, then was propelled out of his mo dr. ortiz testified that the information he was given by officers was inconsistent or was missing facts regarding the contact between a car caused cullins to be propelled. on cross-examination, dr. ortiz agreed that it was possible that the child was propelled as a result of being thrown as opposed to being struck by something. prior uncharged incident on december 1, 2012, just after midnight in west covina, defendant ran a red light while driving his ford f-150 truck, and struck a sedan that was about to turn left. witness kevin jimenez (jimenez) testified that the light was a stale red, and the sedan had a green left-turn arrow. after colliding with the 7 back up and go forward several times. the sedan was very close to witness carlos espinoza (espinoza) to be endangering the ignition key, and he and espinoza forced defendant out of the truck. espinoza testified that defendant was incoherent, his speech was slurred, he could not focus, and appeared to be intoxicated. defendant walked away from the scene toward a gas stumbled while walking to the gas station, and appeared to jimenez to be drunk. after espinoza threatened to make him remain there, defendant sat on the curb, and soon the police arrived. police corporal nicholas franco, an experienced investigator of cases involving driving while intoxicated, arrived at the scene about 12:40 a.m. he interviewed the driver of the sedan, and then spoke to defendant. corporal franco observed injuries on defendant, swelling around his left eye and purplish discoloration. in additioneyes were bloodshot and watery, he had difficulty maintaining balance, and he smelled of alcohol. defendant admitted that he had been drinking alcohol, that he had taken a vicodin tablet, and that he felt the effects of both. corporal franco also he placed defendant under arrest, and blood was drawn at the police station at 2:17 a.m. a later analysis of the blood sample blood alcohol content at that time was .11 percent. 8 senior criminalist somavadey neal testified that, assuming that a man who weighed 230 pounds stopped drinking at 11:35 p.m., and registered a blood alcohol content of .11 at 2:17 a.m., would be the equivalent of five cans of beer, five glasses of wine, or five shots of hard liquor. his ability to drive a motor vehicle safely would be impaired. the parties entered into several written stipulations regarding dmv records that have not been made part of the appellate record. as both parties have summarized them in their briefs without objection, we accept their representations as to the stipulations and the contents of the dmv records. one dmv record se had been suspended twice, once on november 3, 2012, and again on january 27, 2013. another showed that in 2009 and 2011, ,which influence of alcohol, drugs, or both impairs your abilities to drive or operate a motor vehicle safely. if you drive under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or both and someone is killed as a result of your driving, you defense evidence officer delia martinez was recalled as a defense witness. in her opinion, defendant had been northbound at the time of the collision. emergency room physician nadia fakoory testified that she treated simril after the collision. dr. fakoory found that simril was clinically intoxicated. simril reported that she had been drinking alcohol and had used crack cocaine sometime that day or that night. dr. fakoory administered morphine due to broken leg, and afterward ordered urine and blood tests. cocaine, and opiates. her blood alcohol content was .147, almost 9 .148 percent. the supervisor of the laboratory, jovita velasco, testified that it was possible to test positive two days after ingesting cocaine and marijuana, as metabolites, a byproduct of the drugs, will remain in the body for that long. traffic accident reconstruction expert, c. dean brewer was retained by the defense. he reviewed the preliminary hearing transcript, police reports, photographs, and diagrams, and he observed a black rubber abrasion mark on the left side of the car in opinion, the leading edge of the front hood of ppears to have hit the child at about his legs. location the height of vehicle. brewer estimated that after the impact, the child traveled through the air a distance of 83.2 feet. based upon witness statements and certain formulas, brewer estimated that about 35 to 40 miles per hour. brewer found no evidence that defendant was driving recklessly or at an unsafe speed, or that he swerved or crossed the double yellow line into the southbound traffic. opinion, it was simril who crossed the double yellow line, stepped she was in the number one northbound lane of avalon boulevard. brewer agreed, however, that it was possible that the collision occurred in the southbound lanes. all of the debris was located on the southbound side of the street, and although the location of the first undisturbed piece of debris usually indicated the location of impact, brewer did not know whether the debris had been disturbed. brewer explained how it was difficult to see someone at night wearing black or dark colors, or a person with a dark 10 complexion.4 however, his report indicated that the intersection was well lighted, with four street lights on the corners, including one over the area where simril stepped off the curb. brewer estimated that simril had walked approximately 40 feet into the street, which would have placed defendant about 500 feet away (167 yards, or the length of one and three-quarters of a football field), when she stepped off the curb, about eight seconds before the collision. because she was illuminated only by street lighting, brewer thought it was probable that defendant did not see her. if defendant had seen her, he would have been able to stop within 271 feet, or about 90.3 yards. defendant should have been able to see her when he was 188.18 feet away, and based upon vehicle capabilities, drag coefficient, and usual human behavior and reaction time, brewer would expect some reaction at that distance in an attempt to avoid the collision. brewer concluded that the accident was not necessarily alcohol related, as intoxicated drivers sometimes experienced appropriate reaction times, and accidents unrelated to alcohol did happen. toxicology expert rody predescu testified about the possible effects of opiates, cannabinoids and cocaine. he testified a person would not be impaired by marijuana 12 hours after its use, or by cocaine two days following ingestion. within those times, however, the effects could include hallucinations, a false sense of confidence, loss of touch with reality, lack of coordination, impaired judgment, and the inability to perceive danger. in his opinion, the combination of alcohol and these drugs could possibly enhance the effects of the other drugs. a all four substances. 4 simril is african-american. 11 record showed that morphine was administered before she was tested for opiates. simril was recalled as a defense witness. she testified that her side of the street was clear before starting to cross, and she could see fairly far. at some point, when defendant got close to them, he crossed to the wrong side of the street. simril was not car. he did not try to stop and did not honk. simril believed that if defendant had kept going straight, he would not have hit them. defendant did not testify. discussion i. substantial evidence of implied malice defendant contends that his conviction of second degree murder was unsupported by substantial evidence showing that he acted with a conscious disregard for human life. g a claim of insufficiency of evidence in a criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. jones applies when the conviction rests primarily on circumstantial (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, jury might have drawn from the circumstantial evidence. people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 396.) must begin with the presumption that the evidence . . . was (people v. hamlin (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 1412, 1430.) reversal 12 (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought, which may be express or implied. ( 187, subd. (a);  malice is implied when the killing is which are dangerous to life, which act was deliberately performed by a person who knows that his conduct endangers the life of [citation.] in short, implied malice requires a defendants awareness of engaging in conduct that endangers the life of another -- people v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 143.) in people v. watson (1981) 30 cal.3d 290, 300-301 (watson), the california supreme court held that an intoxicated driver who proximately causes death may be convicted of second degree murder when implied malice is proven. defendant has noted that since watson, courts considering whether substantial evidence supports a conviction under this theory have relied on some or all of the following factors: (1) a blood-alcohol level above the .08 percent legal limit; (2) a predrinking intent to drive; (3) knowledge of the hazards of driving while intoxicated; and (4) highly dangerous driving. (people v. batchelor (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 1102, 1114, quoting people v. talamantes (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 968, 973.) defendant contends that the judgment must be reversed because the evidence does not support the fourth factor, highly dangerous driving. however, no specific combination of factors is required, and neither watson nor cases following it prescribed a required formula or checklist for analyzing the evidence in 13 vehicular homicide cases, but have instead used a case-by-case approach. (people v. olivas (1985) 172 cal.app.3d 984, 989.) ts merely are circumstances to be considered in evaluating culpability. disregard for life, and the facts demonstrate a subjective awareness of the risk [citationspeople v. contreras (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 944, 955, quoting watson, supra, 30 cal.3d at p. 298.) defendant concedes that substantial evidence established influence,but contends that the prosecution also had to prove that he engaged in highly dangerous driving. he contends that the evidence failed to show that he drove in a manner that was highly dangerous to human life because there was no evidence that he was speeding, driving recklessly, or swerving. he cites several cases in which the defendant drove recklessly or with excessive speed. (see watson, supra, 30 cal.3d 290; people v. moore (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 937; people v. ortiz (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 104 (ortiz); people v. contreras, supra, 26 cal.app.4th 944; people v. fuller (1978) 86 cal.app.3d 618.) none of these cases held that such facts must be proven as a required element of second degree vehicular murder, and there is no such rule. (see people v. moore, supra, at p. 942.) to support his argument, defendant quotes the following remarks in ortiz, supra, 109 cal.app.4th at page 116: the real danger presented by drunk driving, in other words, is not intoxication itself, but its conduciveness to recklessness and the significant public threat the latter conduct presents. . . . when you are a drunk driver, the only reason you pose a danger to people is if you drive badly in addition to drinking too much, drinking too much and obeying the conditions of the road doesnproduce bad consequs the crashing of cars and the killing 14 of people that increases one's subjective awareness of the perils of driving badly and speeding and crossing over double yellow lines and passing unsafely . . . defendant apparently construes this passage as holding that driving while intoxicated is not, by itself dangerous to human life, and thus requires additional evidence of dangerous driving. the ortiz court did not so hold. a closer reading of the opinion reveals that the court was describing how circumstantial evidence of his subjective awareness of the danger to life posed by drunk driving. the court reason that driving under the influence is unlawful is because it is dangerous . . . id. at pp. 113-114, quoting people v. mccarnes (1986) 179 cal.app.3d 525, 532.) thus, the factors on which defendant relies are elements of the crime. instead, they are meant to assess circumstantial evidence indicating a subjective awareness of the risk to human life posed by driving while intoxicated. as dof the risks of driving under the influence, we need not refer to the factors at all. regardless, substantial evidence supported a reasonable inference that for the circumstances, his attention was not on the road, and that he crossed over the double line. simril testified that when defendant it was simril was not running. she f the curb, and managed to almost reach the middle of a four-lane, well lighted roadway, a distance of approximately 40 feet, giving defendant ample opportunity to notice her. in addition to the at the victims just before impact. nevertheless, there were no skid marks at the intersection, defendant claimed that he never 15 saw the victims, and he did not even know what he had hit. simril thought that defendant crossed to the wrong side of the street before impact, but did not know for sure, as she was blinded by the lights of his car. however, her belief found some corroboration in the opinion of d, who testified that although defendant was headed northbound, it was possible that the impact occurred in a southbound lane, as debris was found on the southbound side of the street. brewer also testified that given the conditions, defendant should have been able to see her prior to the collision, and given normal human reaction time, he should have been able to see her in time to take appropriate action to avoid the collision.5 in sum, defendant concedes that the evidence established that he drove with a blood alcohol content more than .08 percent and that he was aware of the risks involved in driving drunk. supported by substantial evidence. 5 defendant argues that we should consider conflicts in the onflicted with some of her preliminary hearing testimony, and contradicted her prior testimony that defendant swerved; brewer testified that simril may have stepped in the no evidence that defendant was exceeding the posted speed limit. we do not reweigh the evidence or resolve conflicts in the evidence. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) if there is conflicting testimony, we must accept the resolution of disputed facts and inferences, its evaluations of credibility, and the version of events most favorable to the people, to the extent the record supports (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 342) 16 ii. cause of death defendant contends that the evidence failed to establish defendant contends that cullins might have sustained the fatal head injuries as a result of having been hurled though the air by his mother due to her intoxicated state. defendant argues that such facts amounted to an unforeseeable intervening cause of death. contributory negligence of the victim is not a defense. [citations.] in order to exonly be a cause of his injury, it must be [an unforeseeable] superseding cause. . . . [a] s predictable effort to escape a peril created by the defendant is not considered a superseding cause of the ensuing injury or death. [citations.] . . . s conduct causes panic an act done under the influence of panic or extreme fear will not negative causal connection unless the reaction is wholly abnormalpeople v. armitage (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 405, 420-421, fn. omitted.) defendant contends that the act of a highly intoxicated mother throwing her child into the air after he suffered survivable injuries in a collision was unforeseeable. premise is apparently that only an intoxicated mother would, in a panic, attempt to throw her child to safety, whereas a sober mother would calmly take stock of the circumstances after the impact and (as she was being knocked to the ground herself) decide not to throw her child. while we find no logic to simple reason that there was no substantial evidence that cullins was hurled though the air by his mother, either before or after the collision. defendant contends that dr. ortiz was unable to determine the cause of death. he is mistaken. dr. ortiz testified that 17 cullins died of head injuries, and also sustained survivable fractures of the pelvis and both legs. further, contrary to was unable to determine the cause of the head injuries, he testified that in his opinion, the child was struck by a vehicle in the legs first, was then propelled dr. ortiz testified that the information given to him by officers was inconsistent or missing facts regarding the contact between the unclear about what was missing. however, he did confidently opine that being struck by a car caused cullins to be propelled and that he landed on his head, which caused his death. possible that the child was propelled as a result of being thrown as opposed to being struck by something. the opinion cited by defendant was given in response to several defense questions to dr. ortiz in cross-examination, asking whether cullins could have been struck by something other than a car, whether his head injuries might have been caused by something other than being struck by a vehicle, and whether it was possible that he was thrown as opposed to being struck by something. constitute substantial evidence only if it is based upon an adequate factual foundation. (people v. $47,050 (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 1319, 1325; see people v. douglas (1987) 193 cal.app.3d 1691, 1695.) an on assumptions of fact without evidentiary support [citation], or on speculative or conjectural factors . . . [citation.]people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1008-1009.) 18 here, there was no evidence that simril threw her son, nor was there evidence that she was even capable of hurling a three-year-old child 80 feet through the air, the distance estimated by . on the other hand, cullins was propelled by the impact testimony that she held him in her arms, trying to transfer him to her other hip, when she was struck by the car, and by the testimony of preliminary hearing transcript, police reports, photographs, and diagrams. brewer observed a black rubber abrasion mark on the left side of the car which was consistent with shoe, and found that the height of the shoe marks, the damage to the hood and side os position hip, and his leg injuries, were all consistent with his having been struck by the car. from such testimony and the fact that cullins was propelled 80 feet through the air, the jury could reasonably conclude that it was the impact that propelled him to his death. instruction regarding independent intervening cause but allowed defense counsel to argue the theory at length in summation. the jury rejected defendits verdict, and there is evidence to support the implied finding of guilt as the more reasonable of the two hypotheses, this court is bound by people v. towler (1982) 31 cal.3d 105, 118.) as the weight of the evidence caused and no substantial evidence supported 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst __________________________, j. hoffstadt 