filed 2/23/17 p. v. ochoa ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rogelio ochoa, defendant and appellant. b270739 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba431910) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, leslie a. swain, judge. affirmed as modified. leslie conrad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 appellant rogelio ochoa appeals from the judgment after his conviction for first degree murder. we correct a sentencing error but otherwise affirm. factual background on the afternoon of june 25, 2014, steven ruiz, age 48, was at the home of a friend, juan perez, on south avenue 19 in los angeles. both men had been members of the clover gang, but were no longer active. ruiz had a visible clover tattoo on the back of his leg. at around 1:30 p.m., ruiz received a phone call and went driveway. he asked perez if he had heard gunshots and said that and saw ruiz lying dead. ruiz had been shot four times; one shot, to the head, had killed him instantly. the street was otherwise empty. the police found no eyewitnesses to the shooting. the police began investigating appellant, who sometimes stayed at his sister yolanda montoyareviewed his facebook accounts and cell phone records. when appellant was arrested on an unrelated charge in october 2014, police interviewed him but he denied having committed the killing or being part of a gang. when the police left the interview table with his finger, which a detective testified indicated 1 1 the video camera was not visible in the interview room, and the police believed that appellant was unaware he was being recorded. 3 about a month later, while appellant was still in custody, police arranged for him to be placed in a jail cell with an informant. unbeknownst to appellant, both the informant and the cell were equipped with audio recording devices. appellant told the informant he was a member of the eastside 18th street previously was claimed by the clover gang. appellant said he o the clover gang, had done it. replied, meone in the head with a hollow point bullet.2 appellant said it [] . . . [] appellant said he considered just walking past and not doing told him to turn around. appellant reenacted the shooting, indicating that he shot four times, and confirmed it took place in fronwiped the bullets clean of fingerprints, and any potential witnesses wer at trial, the jury heard the audio recording of the jail cell conversation with the informant and watched the video of 2 the parties stipulated that the criminalist, if called, would body. 4 appellan the prosecution introduced cell tower near the crime scene at 2:28 p.m. the day of the killing, which the prosecution argued placed appellant at the scene. facebook account. a message from appellant on july 13, 2014, stated, july 19, 2014 facebook conversation, a man wrote to appellant , ha, lol [(laughing out loud)], yeah. proximately a [t]-[p]retty hing and shaving his head bald. montoya said that sometime after the killing appellant went to 3 at some point montoya confronted appellant about the shooting in a facebook message, and appellant stopped corresponding with her. the prosecution introduced evidence of two instances of graffiti near the crime . 3 montoya testified that the trip to mexico was planned before the killing happened, as she learned from speaking with her mother. the prosecution objected on the basis of speculation and hearsay, and the court sustained both objections. 5 the defense presented no evidence. in closing, the defense argued that appellant was innocent and falsely took credit for the killing in order to impress the informant, whom he feared. the defense also argued that appellant had virtually no involvement with the eastside 18th street gang until after he was in custody. the jury deliberated for less than two hours before returning a guilty verdict. procedure the jury convicted appellant of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))4 and found true the allegations regarding gang and firearms enhancements ( 186.22, subd. (b), 12022.53, subd. (d)). the court imposed a sentence of 25 years to life for the murder, another 25 years to life for the firearms enhancement, and stayed the gang enhancement. the court also imposed various fines and awarded credits. discussion 1. testimonial hearsay appellant argues that the prosecution introduced case-specific, testimonial hearsay statements prohibited by our people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez). for the reasons below, we find no reversible error.5 4 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 5 respondent argues appellant forfeited this issue by failing to object on confrontation clause grounds in the trial court. any objection would likely have been futile because the trial court was bound to follow pre-sanchez evidence is admissible and does not violate the confrontation 6 a. relevant proceedings below at trial, montoya testified that her brother was friends with a member of the 18th street gang named drama, now deceased. defense counsel objected repeatedly to the testimony and hearsay, and the court sustained those objections. later, officer juan cobian of the los angeles police department testified as a gang expert. the prosecution asked cobian explained that drama was a member of the eastside 18th street gang who had died two years before steven ruiz was killed. cobian testified that drama had been killed by a rival clover gang member in an area over which the two gangs were equivalent to defense counsel objected throughout this testimony, first on relevance grounds, then on foundation and hearsay grounds. the court sustained the objections regarding foundation and asked the prosecution to lay one before proceeding. cobian explained that he had obtained the information regarding h from the investigating detectives. the court permitted the prosecution to continue its questions and overruled defen the prosecution briefly mentioned drama during its closing timony that [i] clause. (see, e.g., people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104, 1128-1131.) we therefore will address the merits of this claim. 7 big part of regarding drama. defense counsel did not mention drama in his closing argument, nor did the prosecution mention him in rebuttal. b. analysis in sanchez, our high court considered the extent to which crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawford) limits an expert witness from relating case-specific hearsay in explaining the basis for an opinion, and it clarified the application of state hearsay rules to that kind of expert testimony. it held the case-specific, out-of-court statements conveyed by the progang expert constituted inadmissible hearsay under state law and, to the extent they were testimonial, ran afoul of the confrontation clause of the federal constitution as interpreted in crawford. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 670-671.) canvassing confrontation clause cases, the court concluded memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. nontestimonial statements are those whose primary purpose is to deal with an ongoing emergency or some other purpose unrelated to preserving facts id. at p. 689.) -specific out-of[-]court statements, about which asserts that the admission of this evidence prejudiced him because it provided a motive for killing ruiz, helped establish that appellant committed the crime to benefit a gang, and 8 ord we need not decide whethave been excluded under crawford and sanchez because, harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 874.) the information regarding drama was a minor point in the case. the testimony on the issue was pages of closing argument and 14 pages of rebuttal.6 defense counsel did not mention drama at all in closing.7 we think it regarding drama during deliberations. the points that appellant claims were established by regarding dramamotive and gang affiliationwere established far more compellingly by other evidence. most obvious was the audio recording from the jail cell in which appellant, in addition to admitting to killing ruiz, acknowledged his gang membership, his enmity towards clover war with the clover gang. one could reasonably infer that this evidence alone led the jury to reach a guilty verdict in under two 6 moreover, that discussion pertained only to 7 we acknowledge that defense counsel not mentioning drama during closing may have been a strategic decision rather than an indication that the defense did not consider the evidence the jury heard very little about drama during the closings. 9 hours, including the finding that appellant had committed the crime for the benefit of a criminal street gang. corroborated parts of the jail cell admission, there was other evidence that did so as well. this includes the cell phone evidence suggesting appellant was at the scene of the crime, the testimony regarding his dramatic change in appearance shortly before the killing, graffiti near the crime scene connecting his gang monith street gang, and the video of appellant tracing a gang name with his finger in the police interview room. given this evidence along with the jail cell admission, we think it unlikely beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury would have reached a different verdict had the court prejudice, there is no reversible error, even were we to accept hearsay under sanchez and crawford. 2. insufficient evidence of gang enhancement appellant argues there was insufficient evidence to support th street gang included commission of one or more enumerated felonies, as required under section 186.22, subdivision (f). we reject this argument. a. applicable law and proceedings below in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact 10 could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66.) this standard applies whether direct or circumstantial evidence is involved. (ibid.) organization, association, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the [enumerated] criminal acts . . . among others, felony vandalism, grand theft of a vehicle, robbery, assault with a deadly weapon, and possession of narcotics for sale. ( 186.22, consistently and repeatedly have committed criminal activity listed in the gang statute. also sufficient might be expert testimony . . . people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 324, citation omitted (sengpadychith).) here, cobian began his testimony by establishing his qualifications as a gang expert. he stated that he had served five years in the gang enforcement unit. as part of his duties, he focused on gang crimes and gang activities, and in particular monitored the criminal activities of four gangs, including clover and eastside 18th street. he explained that he obtained information about gangs by talking to other gang officers, meeting with community groups, and interviewing gang members themselves. he said he had contact with members of the 18th 11 street gang on a daily basis and had arrested some of them. he had been involved in many gang crime investigations, including investigations of eastside 18th street. later in his testimony, cobian stated that the primary [f]elony vandalism, grand theft auto, robberies, [assault with a deadly weapon] shootings, [and] possession of narcotics and firearms b. analysis appellant acknowledges that a prosecutor may establish factual foundation, and was therefore insufficient to support the at of the gang expert in in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605 (alexander l.). but alexander l. is distinguishable. in that case, a deputy sheriff testified as a gang expert regarding the varrio viejo gang. (id. at p. 611.) speaking of the gang few assaults with a deadly weapon, several assaults. i know involved with auto thefts, auto/vehicle burglaries, felony graffiti, (ibid.) on cross-examination, the deputy testified that the vast majority of cases he knew of involving varrio viejo were graffiti-related. (id. at p. 612.) the court of e circumstances of these crimes, or where, when, or how [the deputy] had obtained ibid.) never elicited from him at trial.alexander l., supra, 149 12 cal.app.4th at p. testimony with that of the gang expert in people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605 (gardeley), disapproved of on other grounds by sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at page 686, footnote 13. (alexander l., supra, at p. 613.) in gardeley, the alexander l. nts and with other [gang] members, his personal investigations of hundreds of crimes committed by gang members, as well as information from his colleagues and various law enforcement (alexander l., supra, at p. 613, quoting gardeley, supra, at p. 620.) testimony rejected in alexander l. the deputy in that case listed a number of crimes without any indication as to whether they -examination that most of the crimes he knew about were grafitti-related crimes. (see people v. margarejo (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 102, 107 [noting that the deputy in alexander l. direct examination and contradicted himself on cross- cobian, in contrast, stated unequivocally that the primary activities of the eastside 18th street gang included committing felonies listed under the gang enhancement statute. ment. (see people v. martinez (2008) 158 and distinguishing alexander l. because the expert in that case 13 did not directly testify that criminal activities constituted [the also, like the expert in gardeley, and unlike the expert in alexander l., cobian laid a foundation for his opinion when he testified extensively to his qualifications and experience, such that the trial court could assess the reliability of his testimony. sources as that of the expert in gardeley, including investigations of numerous gang crimes, conversations with members of the relevant gang, and discussions with colleagues. the concerns that led the alexander l. are absent here. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, reinforces our conclusion sanchez disapproved gardeley to the extent it suggested an expert may properly testify regarding case-specific out-of-court statements without satisfying hearsay rulessanchez, supra, at p. 686, fn. 13.) but sanchez held that an expert may provide descriptions of [gang] conduct and . . . -reid. at p. 698.) on this basis, the court found personal knowledge. (ibid.) indeed, the expert in sanchez specifically testified regarding the primary activities of the gang, and the court took no issue with that portion of his testimony. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 672.) the qualifications of the 14 expert in sanchez were similar to those of cobian and the expert in gardeley, including a long tenure as a gang suppression officer, involvement in hundreds of gang-related investigations, and interactions with gang members and community members. (id. at p. 671.) investigations and his conversations with other officers may does not constitute substantial evidence in support of his sanchez we must reject this argument. as with including his participation in gang investigations and his interactions with colleagues, gang members, and community -recognized experts may rely in providing general background testimony regarding gangs. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 698.) consistently and repeatedlycommitted the crimes cobian identified as primary activities, as required under sengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at page 324. (italics omitted.) this argument lacks merit. sengpadychith either by evidence that the gang consistently and repeatedly committed the enumerated felonies or by expert testimony. (ibid.) here, the prosecution chose the latter course. establish the eastside included the commission of felonies enumerated under section 186.22, subdivision (e). 15 3. sentencing error the parties have identified a sentencing error that must be corrected. the abstract of judgment reflects that an enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), was imposed and stayed. this enhancement adds 10 years to a sentence for a violent felony committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. this enhancement should not have been imposed, even if stayed. appellant was sentenced to 25 years to life for first degree murder committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang, with an additional 25 years to life imposed for his use of a firearm. because he was sentenced for a crime punishable by life imprisonment, he is not subject to a 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c)instead, he is subject to a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5).8 (people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1004.) disposition the judgment is modified to delete the 10year gang enhancement imposed under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) 8 with a firearm enhancement fixes a parole eligibility date greater than 15 years, and therefore the 15-year minimum term set by section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) has no direct effect on his parole eligibility date. (see people v. lopez, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 1008-186.22(b)(5) . . release date, id. at p. 1009, quoting people v. johnson (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 1230, 1238.) 16 and to replace it with the 15year minimum term for parole eligibility required by section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). the trial court is directed to forward a modified abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 