filed 3/1/17 p. v. frederick ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james bryan frederick, defendant and appellant. b270211 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa084117) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, daniel b. feldstern, judge. reversed with instructions. __________________ c. matthew missakian, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant james bryan frederick challenges his conviction for burglary of a vehicle. frederick smashed the passenger side ck and began rummaging around inside. he was completely naked at the time. when maribel g. and her husband came outside to investigate, frederick ignored their shouts and continued searching through the frederick contends that the court erred by failing to instruct the jury on a lesser included offense of vehicle tampering and by excluding evidence relevant to his defense of mistake of fact. we agree and reverse his conviction. facts and proceedings below shortly before 9:00 p.m. on august 16, 2015, maribel g. heard a sound of glass breaking and a car alarm going off outside her home in the canyon country area of santa clarita. she and her husband nestor g. went outside and saw frederick inside mariy vehicle, a gray nissan armada, which she had parked on the street. he was completely naked and was searching through the car, throwing bills and other items around inside it. he opened the glove compartment and started pulling things out of it. maribel and nestor g. yelled at frederick, asking him what he was doing and telling him to stop, but he did not respond. maribel g.her a phone, with which maribel g. called 911. frederick attempted to get out of the car, but every time he did so, maribel g. frederick then appeared to reach down to the area near the gas pedal, where maribel g. had a number of additional bills. at thifrederick still inside the car and rummaging through the glove 3 compartment. a deputy removed frederick from the car and arrested him. maribel g. found that the interior of the car was in disarray, with various bills, cds, and other items scattered around. there was also a rock inside the car near the gas pedal, which frederick had apparently used to smash the passenger side window. in a patch of grass outside the passenger side of the car, maribel g. found a wedding ring and a glasses case that had previously been in the glove compartment. deputies recovered a torn shirt that apparently belonged to frederick in a gutter near the car. own car, a mercedes gl450, parked less than one block away. utility vehicles. an information charged frederick with second degree burglary of a vehicle, in violation of penal code section 459.1 the information also alleged that frederick had suffered two previous convictions for prison priors pursuant to section 667.5. after the jury found frederick guilty, and frederick admitted the prison priors, the trial court sentenced him to four years in county jail. the sentence consisted of the upper term of three years for burglary, plus one additional year for one prison prior. the court resulted in only a single commitment. 1 unless otherwise specified, subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 4 discussion frederick raises three contentions on appeal. first, he contends that the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of vehicle tampering. next, he contends that the trial court erred by excluding relevant evidence of his mental state. finally, he contends that his trial attorney rendered ineffective assistance by failing to request a specific instruction regarding mistake of fact. we need not decide whether frederick is entitled to relief for ineffective assistance of counsel because we agree with his two remaining contentions. because these errors cumulatively prejudiced frederick, we reverse his conviction. i. jury instruction on vehicle tampering frederick contends that the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury regarding the lesser included offense of vehicle tampering. (veh. code,  10852.) we agree. it is settled that in criminal cases, even in the absence of a request, the trial court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and which are necessary for the jus understanding of the (people v. st. martin (1970) 1 cal.3d 524, 531 . . . .) that obligation has been held to include giving instructions on lesser included offenses when the evidence raises a question as to whether all of the elements of the charged offense were present (see, e.g., people v. hood (1969) 1 cal.3d 444 . . .), but not when there is no evidence that the offense was less than that charged.people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154 (breverman).) this duty to instruct on lesser included offenses arises whenever there is 5 substantial evidence evidence from which a jury composed of reasonable [persons] could . . . conclude[] that the lesser offense, but not the greater, was committed. (id. at p. 162.) an error in failing to instruct a jury on a lesser included offense is reviewed for prejudice under the standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson), such that reversal of a the defendant would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the error not occurred2 (breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 178.) wil[l]fully injur[ing] or tamper[ing] with any vehicle or the contents thereof or break[ing] or remov[ing] any part of a vehicle without the consent of the owner.(people v. mooney (1983) 145 cal.app.3d 502, 505 (mooneyis much broader than merely damaging a vehicle, [and] includes act inconsist(ibid., quoting people v. anderson (1975) 15 cal.3d 806, 810.) because burglary of a vehicle requires that the perpetrator break into a locked vehicle (see  459), it is impossible to burglarize a vehicle without also tampering with it. (mooney, supra, 145 cal.app.3d at p. 505.) vehicle code section 10852 defines a lesser included offenseof burglary of a vehicle. (mooney, supra, at pp. 505-506.) frederick argues that there was substantial evidence to support a conclusion that he tampered with the vehicle, but that he to commit grand or petit larceny or any felony 2 because we conclude that frederick suffered prejudice from the cumulative effect of the errors in this case, we do not address whether the error in the jury instructions alone prejudiced him. 6 bizarre. as we explain further below (see discussion part iii, post), there was substantial evidence to suggest that frederick broke into mistook it for his own. if he had entered the car determined to steal, he would have been expected to flee when her car alarm went off, or at least when maribel and nestor g. came out of the house and found him. instead, he remained in the car rummaging through maribel g.evidence, there was sufficient evidence to support a conviction for tampering rather than burglary of a vehicle. (see breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162.) the people argue that no jury instruction was required because the evidence at trial was not consistent with a conviction for tampering. they cite a portion of mooney in which the court stated that the defendant could not have been convicted of if the jurors found he entered a locked vehicle.(mooney, supra, 145 cal.app.3d at p. 506, italics omitted.) in this otherwise, frederick would not have needed to smash the window with a rock. thus, according to the people, substantial evidence did not support a conviction for tampering. this argument misreads the law. burglary of a vehicle the intent to commit larceny or any felony. ( 459.) in mooney, the testified he entered to steal.(mooney, supra, 145 cal.app.3d at p. 506.) the only question, then, was whether the door was locked at the time the defendant entered the vehicle. the court held that if it had not been locked, the defendant would not have been guilty of burglary but would still be guilty of 7 tampering because opening the door of an unlocked vehicle to facilitate a nonconsensual entry to commit theft both interferes s right to possession and improperly alters the closed state of the vehicle.ibid.) the same reasoning applies in this case. here, just as in mooneycommitted one of the two elements of burglary of a vehicle. in mooney, the defendant admitted he intended to steal property from within the car. here, frederick clearly broke into a locked vehicle. by his actions, frederick, like the defendant in mooney, interfered was whether the defendant had committed the second element of burglary. in both cases, if the jury answered in the negative, it could properly convict the defendant of tampering rather than burglary. thus, just as in mooney, the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury as to vehicle tampering. ii. exclusion of evidence regarding frederimental state frederick contends that the trial court erred by excluding evidence relevant to his defense. relevant evidenceevidence . . . having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the only relevant evidence is admissible xcept as otherwise provided by statute, all relevant evidence is admissible. the test of relevance is whether logically, naturally, and to establish material facts such as identity, intent, or motive. [citations.] the trial court retains broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 995.) errors in the exclusion 8 of evidence are reviewed under the watson standard, except when process.3 (id. at p. 999.) during cross-he attrelevance, and the trial court sustained the objection. and the trial court erred by excluding it. to the question, along with any follow-up questions, would tend to establish a material factwhether frederick believed the car he broke into was his own. as we discuss below (see discussion part iii, postalleged mistake of fact. question would have been relevant, it should have been excluded as tionconfused . . . did not explicitly call for the deputy to respond with hearsay. the deputy might have answered by describing the alternatively, if she answered by reporting what frederick said, that statement might have been admissible under a hearsay existing state of 3 in this case, because we conclude (see discussion part iv, post) that the errors cumulatively prejudiced frederick under the watson standard, we need not decide whether the error in excluding s right to due process. 9 mind, emotion, or physical sensation, subd. (a)(1).) there is no basis for concludinresponse would have been inadmissible. iii. pinpoint instruction on mistake of fact frederick contends that his attorney provided him with ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to request a pinpoint instruction regarding mistake of fact.4 because the other errors in the case require that we reverse his conviction (see discussion part iv, post), we need not decide whether frederick is also entitled to relief on the basis of ineffective assistance of counsel. nevertheless, the issue of an instruction on mistake of fact may arise again on retrial, and for that reason we will comment on this issue. we agree that an instruction on mistake of fact5 would have been appropriate in light of the facts of this case. 4 because the trial court correctly instructed the jury on the general principles of law regarding burglary, including the specific intent requirement, and a mistake-of-negate f of an element of the offense(people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 996), the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on mistake of fact. (see people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 873-874 (covarrubias).) 5 the relevant pattern instruction is calcrim no. 3406. as applied to the facts of this case, that instruction would have read as follows: [burglary] if [he] did not have the intent or mental state required to commit the crime because [he] did not know a fact or mistakenly believed a fact. s conduct would have been lawful under the facts as [he] believed them to be, [he] did not commit [burglary]. 10 the evidence was overwhelming that frederick broke into inside the vehicle, with the alarm blaring, a window smashed, and a defense was based almost entirely on the claim that he did not intend to steal from the car, but rather confused it with his own. a jury instruction on an affirmative defense is appropriate when there is substantial evidence to support it. (people v. salas is sufficient to warrant a jury instruction, the trial court does not determine the credibility of the defense evidence, but only whether jury, was sufficient to ibid.) because burglary is a specific intent crime, in order for frederick to establish a defense of mistake of fact, he needed to show only that hwas his own, not that that belief was reasonable. (people v. russell (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1415, 1427, disapproved of on another ground by covarrubias, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 874, fn. 14; people v. navarro (1979) 99 cal.app.3d supp. 1, 10-11 (navarro).) under that standard, there was sufficient evidence to support inside the car, according to the testimony of both maribel g. and the [he broke into his own car, he] did not have the specific intent or mental state required for [burglary]. if you have a reasonable doubt about whether the defendant had the specific intent or mental state required for [burglary], you must find [him] not guilty of that crime. 11 looking through papers he found in the glove compartment. the only evidence of theft was a wedding ring that frederick apparently took from the glove compartment and discarded into the grass along with a glasses case. otherwise, frederick simply rummaged through paperwork inside the car. in light of the fact that he took all these actions while completely naked, a jury might reasonably conclude that frederick was in a disordered mental state and honestly believed that he was inside his own car. iv. the cumulative effect of the errors prejudiced frederick when there are multiple errors in a case, the cumulative effect of the errors may prejudice the defendant, even if each error, considered on its own, is not sufficiently significant to require reversal. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 844.) that is the case here. it is reasonably probable that frederick would have obtained a more favorable result at trial if not for the errors in the jury instructions and the exclusion of evidence. (see watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) the errors in this case in combination prejudiced frederick in a way they would not have done on their own. testimony from the that he is more credible if frederick was not entirely mentally sound at the time. the mere fact that the deputy felt the need to tell frederick that the car he had broken into was not his own suggests that the deputy perceived him to be in a disordered state. testimony from the deputy regarding the way he appeared and behaved after he was told the car was not his own would have clarified this point, and would have been the only 12 broke into the car. the lack of a lesser included charge compounded the effect of the earlier error. in determining whether the omission of a lesser included offense from the jury instructions prejudiced a defendant, an appellate court may consider, among other things, whether the evidence supporting the existing judgment is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, that there is no reasonable probability the error of which the defendant complains affected the result.(breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 177, italics omitted.) as we have seen, the evidence that frederick had the intent to commit larceny or any felony at the if the jury had been permitted to hear additional testimony increases the probability that the jury would have acquitted him of burglary, while convicting him of vehicle tampering, if only given the opportunity. v. conditional reversal because burglary of a vehicle is a specific intent crime, a defense of mistake of fact does not require the defendant to show that his mistake was reasonable. (navarro, supra, 99 cal.app.3d at pp. supp. 10-11.) by contrast, vehicle tampering is a general intent crime.6 consequently, a mistake of fact is 6 the statute that defines vehicle tampering forbids or tamper[ing] with any vehicle or the contents thereof willfully in a penal statute usually defines a general criminal intent, absent other stan intent to 13 a defense to vehicle tampering only if the mistake was reasonable. (id. at p. supp. 10.) although there was substantial evidence that frederick believed the car he broke into was his own, there was no evidence to suggest that this mistake could have been tampering as a matter of law. ies of affirming or reversing a judgment. where the prejudicial error goes only to the degree of the offense for which the defendant was convicted, the appellate court may reduce the conviction to a lesser degree and affirm the judgment as modified, thereby obviating the necessity for a people v. thomas (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 630, 647.) with this authority, an appellate court may reduce a conviction to a lesser included offense. (people v. romo (1967) 256 cal.app.2d 589, 596;  1181, subd. (6).) on remand, therefore, the prosecution shall have the option to retry frederick for burglary, or to accept a modification of the judgment to reflect a conviction for vehicle tampering. if the prosecution elects to accept the modification of the judgment, the trial court shall resentence frederick in accordance with the modified judgment. do a further act or achieve a future consequence. (people v. atkins (2001) 25 cal.4th 76, 85.) 14 disposition the judgment of the trial court is reversed. on remand, the prosecution shall have the option to retry frederick for burglary, or to accept a modification of the judgment to reflect a conviction for vehicle tampering. if the prosecution elects to accept the modification of the judgment, the trial court shall resentence frederick in accordance with the modified judgment. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 