filed 5/4/17 p. v. childress ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lakendrick childress, defendant and appellant. b270380 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na102107) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. phillip a. trevio, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and eric j. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 lakendrick childress appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of first degree home invasion robbery in violation of penal code1 section 211 (count 1), assault with a firearm in violation of section 245 subdivision (a)(2) (count 2),2 and possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (count 5). with respect to counts 1 and 2, the jury found the personal firearm use allegations to be true. ( 12022.53, subd. (b), 12022.5.) in subsequent proceedings, the trial court found true all of the prior conviction allegations. the court sentenced appellant to an aggregate term of 28 years in state prison. appellant contends the trial court erred when it denied a defense batson-wheeler3 motion, and the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct in closing argument to the jury, requiring reversal. we disagree and affirm. factual background approximately 9:30 p.m. on june 29, 2014, marcia zepeda and her brothers-in-law, anthony and steven zepeda, were gathered around the dining room table at four or five men entered the house through the unlocked screen door. all of the men wore black hooded sweaters or sweatshirts with the hoods drawn tight, covering their heads. pointing a hunting rifle with a scope at the occupants of the room, appellant 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the jury acquitted appellant on two additional counts of assault with a firearm. 3 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler). 3 ordered them down to the floor. marcia stood up from the table, and confronted appellant, pushing the rifle away as she yelled at him to get out of her house. anthony demanded $20 bills from his pocket, handed afraid that the men might try to harm her dog, marcia dragged the dog through the house and outside. when she realized no one had followed her, she went to the side porch and started screaming to get help from the neighbors. appellant repeated the order to get down on the floor, and poked anthony in the stomach with the barrel of the rifle. anthony in the ribs. anthony fell to the floor hitting the back of his head on a wooden table. when the assailants fled, appellant, who was still carrying the rifle, dropped one of the $20 bills on the porch. during the commotion, down, exposing his face. marcia and anthonylant brought them within two feet of him, and all three victims were able to see face clearly. police responding to the call regarding a home invasion robbery encountered a crowd of people on the corner near e officers in the direction the suspects had run, and the officers saw a person running across the street about two blocks away. the officers attempted to follow but lost track of the person. after losing sight of the subject, the officers doubled back to the area where they had first seen him and found appellant walking on the sidewalk. the officers detained appellant, who was carrying a black hooded sweater and sweating profusely. police also found a long rifle 4 with a scope matching the description of the rifle used in the robbery along the route the subject had been seen running. in separate field show-ups, marcia, anthony and steven unequivocally identified appellant as the perpetrator with the rifle. a neighbor who had gone outside when he heard marcia screaming also identified appellant in a field show-up as the man who had run by him carrying a rifle. sometime in the evening on the day of the robbery, appellant visited his grandmother at her home, not far from but the grandmother could not recall what time he was there and did not know if he was at her house during the time of the robbery. discussion i. batson-wheeler a. relevant background prospective juror nos. 4101 and 6121 were both african-american womenperemptory challenges to excuse these jurors prompted a defense batson-wheeler motion. prospective juror no. 4101 worked in the office of development and university affairs at charles r. drew university of medicine and science. she had no prior jury experience. prospective juror no. 6121 was retired from her previous employment as a civil service clerical worker. she had served on three civil juries and one criminal jury. the juries reached verdicts in two of the civil cases, and the court declared a mistrial in the other civil case. the criminal case was a domestic violence prosecution which resulted in a mistrial due to an honest difference of opinion among the jurors. 5 during voir dire, prospective juror no. 4101 stated that although she had e legal crime dramas, she did not know what to expect in this trial because this was her first experience as a juror. in response to the district aquestions, the prospective juror said she did not think the government or police departments have unlimited funds for criminal investigations. the prosecutor then asked if she expected to see in this trial the of lab testsand other types of evidence one sees in legal dramas on television. prospective juror no. 4101 the district attorney exercised his first peremptory challenge against prospective juror no. 4101. the court excused the juror and replaced her with prospective juror no. 8897, who was also african-american.4 after the defense exercised its first peremptory challenge, the prosecution accepted the panel with two african-american jurors. when the prosecution used another peremptory challenge to excuse prospective juror no. 6121, the defense made a batson-wheeler motion on the ground that appellant is african-american, and the prosecution had excused two of the three african-american prospective jurors. the court found the defense had made a prima facie showing of discrimination and asked the district attorney to explain his reasons for excusing these prospective jurors. the prosecutor explained that prospective juror no. statement that she did not know what to expect about the 4 prospective juror no. 8897 was an aerospace engineer with no prior jury experience. 6 evidence that would be presented at trial indicated to him that she might anticipate the same expenditure of resources in this case prosecutor added that he tended to disfavor people in education or university employment. finally, the prosecutor pointed out that the juror who replaced no. 4101 was also african-american, and it would make no sense to excuse one juror on account of race only to have her replaced by another juror of the same race. the district attorney explained that he excused prospective juror no. 6121 because two of the four cases on which she had served as a juror had resulted in mistrials. the prosecutor also reminded the court that after exercising his first peremptory challenge, he had accepted the panel with two african-american jurors. accepting the district a as race-neutral, the trial court denied the batson-wheeler motion. b. the trial court did not err in denying the defense batson-wheeler motion both the federal and state constitutions prohibit any s use of peremptory challenges to exclude prospective jurors based on race. (batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 97; georgia v. mccollum (1992) 505 u.s. 42, 59; wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276277.) doing so violates both the equal protection clause of the united states constitution and the right to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 (people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612 (lenix).) the familiar batson/wheeler inquiry consists of three distinct steps. the opponent of the peremptory strike must first make out a prima facie case by showing that the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. 7 if a prima facie case of discrimination has been established, the burden shifts to the proponent of the strike to justify it by offering nondiscriminatory reasons. if a valid nondiscriminatory reason has been offered, the trial court must then decide whether the opponent of the strike has proved the ultimate question of purposeful discrimination. (people v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 42; lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 612.) this case concerns the third step of the batson-wheeler inquiry; that is, whether the trial court correctly determined that the prosecutor had not engaged in purposeful discrimination in exercising his peremptory challenges to exclude two african-american prospective jurors. e apply a substantial evidence analysis. (miller-el v. cockrell (2003) 537 u.s. 322, 339; people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 900.) and because the issue comes down to the credibility of the -neutral explanation, we accord great deference to demeanor belies a discriminatory int (snyder v. louisiana (2008) 552 u.s. 472, 477; lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 614.) the supreme court has recognized that such assessments of credibility and demeanor lie peculiarly within the province of the trial judge, and in the absence of exceptional circumstances, an appellate court should defer to the trial courtdetermination. (snyder v. louisiana, supra, 552 u.s. at p. 477.) justification need not support a challenge for causetrivial reason, if genuine and [citation.] a prospective juror may be excused based upon facial expressions, gestures, hunches, and 8 even for arbitrary or idiosyncratic reasons. the proper focus of a batson/wheeler inquiry, of course, is on the subjective genuineness of the race-neutral reasons given for the peremptory challenge, not on the objective reasonableness of those reasons. . . . all that s reason for exercising the peremptory challenge is sincere and legitimate, legitimate in the sense of being nondiscriminatory. (people v. malley (2016) 62 cal.4th 944, 975.) each of these jurors to be both plausible and supported by the record. the district attorney explained that prospective juror responses to questions about legal crime dramas suggested to him that the juror might expect the police and prosecution to devote the same level of resources to this case as is portrayed in fictional crime dramas. perception was not entirely accurate, the explanation does not where the record suggests that a mistake may underlie the prosecutions exercise of a peremptory challenge, we rely on the good judgment of the trial courts to distinguish bona fide reasons . . . from sham excuses belatedly contrived to avoid admitting acts of group and give gres determination that the use of peremptory challenges was not for an improper or class bias purpose. (people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 78.) the trial court thus properly accepted the the standards of investigation and evidence collection depicted in such programs to be a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason to excuse prospective juror no. 4101. the prosecutor also stated that he tends not to favor university employees as jurors. the supreme court has held that 9 employment background may provide a reasonable nondiscriminatory justification for exclusion. (people v. watson (2008) 43 cal.4th 652, 677.) finally, both the trial court and the prosecutor noted that the juror who replaced no. 4101 was also african-american, and the prosecutor had accepted the panel with two african-american jurors. while not dispositive of a people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 20, overruled in part on other grounds in people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1216, quoting people v. snow (1987) 44 cal.3d 216, 225; see also lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 614.) as for prospective juror no. 6121, the district attorney explained that he exercised his strike because two of the four cases on which she had previously served as a juror had resulted in mistrials. our supreme court has recognized thacircumstance that a prospective juror has previously sat on a hung jury is a legitimate race-neutral neutral reason for people v. manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 78.) s justification in this instance. ii. prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends the district attorney committed prejudicial misconduct in his rebuttal argument by misstating the law and improperly shifting the burden of proof to defendant. we disagree. in rebuttal the prosecutor argued: the defense also tried 10 with him who can say they were with him were those other guys who were t defense counsel objected that the prosecutor was trying to shift the burden of proof. the trial court overruled the objection, the jury will next, the district athe defendant wants you to say, oh, you know what no dna, no dna and they harped on that and as [defense counsel] also actually mentioned, i asked detective kloss, detective kloss is the dna able to be tested by both sidesse comments drew the same objection from defense counsel with the same ruling from the court. the both sides are able to test it. detective kloss gave you a reason, his honest reason for whthe fact of the matter is that if this information was so important finally, the prosecutor returned to the theme of the evidence supporting a conviction that the defense could not explainsweating and carrying a heavy sweater on a hot summer night; where the suspect had fled when police were trying to track him; and the lack of any equivocation on the part of the witnesses who identified appellant in the field show-up. appellant maintains that by repeatedly criticizing the defense for failing to provide an innocent explanation for the evidence against him, the prosecutor impermissibly shifted the 11 burden of proof from the prosecution to the defense. the error was prejudicial, he asserts, because it led to confusion of the jury about the reasonable doubt standard as evidenced request for further definition of the standard during deliberations.5 as our supreme court has often it is improper for the prosecutor to misstate the law generally [citation], and particularly to attempt to absolve the prosecution from its prima facie obligation to overcome reasonable doubt on all elements [citation]. [citation.] improper comments violate the federal constitution when they constitute a pattern of conduct so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819.) improper comments falling short of this test nevertheless constitute misconduct under state law if they involve use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. (ibid.) to establish misconduct, defendant need not show that the prosecutor acted in bad faith. (id. at p. 822.) (people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, prosecutorial misconduct is not the good faith vel non of the prosecutor, but the potential injury to the defendant. [citation.] when . . . the claim focuses on comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, a 5 after deliberating for nearly two hours, the jury urors who believe because they are not 100 percent sure, they have reasonable definition of reasonable doubt in caljic no. 2.90. 12 court must determine at the threshold how the remarks would, or people v. benson (1990) 52 cal.3d 754, 793; cortez, supra, at p. 130.) s remarks to the jury, the defendant must show that, [i]n the context of the whole a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. [citations.] in that the jury drew the most damaging rather than the least damaging meaning s statements. (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 667.) we also comments were a fair respon (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1337; people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 386 [s challenges to rebuttal must be evaluated in light of the defense argument to which it replied].) appellant contends s on the innocent explanation for much of the evidence against him, and the failure of the defense to conduct its own dna tests were intended to (and did) shift the burden of proof to the defense. not so. ts during rebuttal argument did not suggest to the jury that the defense bore any burden of proof. rather, with regard to all three instances of alleged misconduct, the district aconsisted of nothing more than fair comment on the state of the and defense c appellant attempted to present an alibi defense through his 13 during the evening of june 29, 2014. by pointing out that the actual alibi because the grandmother could not specify the time appellant was with her, the district attorney simply made a fair comment on the state of the evidence, which the prosecution is entitled to do. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 608.) similarly, the prosecutor was entitled to highlight and comment on evidence presented at trial to which no objection was made or sustained. here, detective kloss testified without objection that the defense could have performed dna tests on the evidence, even though neither he nor the prosecutor had ordered such tests. the prosecutor was also entitled to rebut the defense argument that the entire case against appellant was built on nothing more than flawed field identifications, which could not stand up to various so arguing, defense counsel had offered several innocent characterizations of the evidence that suggested reasonable doubt. in response, the prosecutor appropriately highlighted the reasonable and innocent explanations the defense had omitted from its argument. a prosecutor has wide latitude during argument, which may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, [and] can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefrom. (people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 957; people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 221.) in this distinction clearly exists between the permissible comment that a defendant has not produced any evidence, and on the other hand an improper statement that a defendant has a duty or burden to produce evidence, or a duty or burden to prove his (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 14 1340.) here, the district ain response to the defense closing argument neither crossed the line into prejudicial prosecutorial argument, nor shifted the burden of proof to the defense. accordingly, we find no prosecutorial misconduct occurred. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 