filed 10/21/16 p. v. brown ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lamarr antoine brown, defendant and appellant. b270294 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va139663) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael a. cowell, judge. affirmed. alan e. spears, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 following a jury trial, defendant and appellant lamarr antoine brown, was found guilty of second degree robbery and admitted two prior prison term enhancement allegations. he was sentenced to a state prison term of four years. we affirm. factual summary viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. trial evidence. kent villa, a student at los angeles city college, wanted to upgrade his cell phone from an iphone 6 to an iphone 6 plus. using a cell phone application called offerup, villa contacted someone who wanted to purc 6. villa accompanied this person to a bank atm and watched him withdraw $500, which the person handed to villa in exchange for villa shopped on offerup for an iphone 6 plus and made contact with defendant brown. they agreed to meet that same day in bell gardens. when villa arrived in bell gardens, he parked and saw brown get out of his car and open the trunk. when villa approached, brown told him to get into the back seat. villa did so and brown handed villa what appeared to be a factory-sealed cell phone box. villa began inspecting the iphone 6 plus. he checked the phone identification number on a cell phone application called swappa, which revealed that ineligible to be sold. when villa informed brown of this, brown if [he] even [had] the money in the $500 that had come 3 from the atm and handed it to brown, who claimed that the beforehand and that it appeared to be normal currency. brown insisted ,trying to scam him, l out a burner if villa did not get out of the car. both got out of the car. brown then over as if he was going to reach for a weapongot scared. however, villa acknowledged that he never saw a gun. saying that he was a member of the crips gang, brown threatened to beat villa up and asked him for more money, but villa did not have any more money. brown got back into his car not have the villa was scared. brown once again got back into his car. as he started to drive off, car villa was able to get out of the way. brown drove off and villa called 9-1-1. the iphone 6 p brown testified in his own defense. he confirmed that he had made an appointment to meet villa to sell him an iphone 6 plus. when villa was examining the phone in the back seat of ht it was ineligible for resale. when villa handed him the $500, brown accused villa of brown could tell from the texture of the money villa handed him that it looking through the bills he noticed they did not have 4 that real money had. brown denied ever threatening to beat villa up or shoot him. when brown tried to return the money in exchange for the cell phone, villa backed away from him and brown decided not to pursue the matter. brown testified he had acquired the iphone 6 plus from a friend who worked as an assistant manager for t-mobile. she could obtain iphones cheaply and brown had bought a number of them from her; he believed it was legal to resell these phones. 2. trial outcome. the jury convicted brown of second degree robbery and brown admitted two prior prison term enhancement allegations. (pen. code,  211/212.5, subd. (c), 667.5.)1 the trial court sentenced brown to a total term of four years in prison. we appointed counsel to represent brown on appeal. after reviewing the record, counsel filed an opening brief requesting this court to independently review the record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441. brown has filed a supplemental opening brief. discussion we have examined the entire record and are satisfied that appellate counsel has fully complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable appellate issues exist. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278 [120 s.ct. 746]; people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 443.) in his supplemental brief, brown makes several claims of trial error which are without merit. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 5 brown claims his offense constitutes a misdemeanor under proposition nothing was taken from the victim . . villa testified the $500 had just come out of a bank atm machine, and although proposition 47 has reduced some theft-related crimes to misdemeanors where the value of the property taken does not exceed $950 (e.g., shoplifting [ 459.5]; petty theft [ 490.2] and receiving stolen property [ 496]) proposition 47 has left the felony offense of robbery unchanged ( 211). villa, and however, the evidence at trial was more than ample to prove that control of it by threatening to beat or shoot the victim. (see people v. cooper becomes robbery if the perpetrator, having gained possession of the property without use of force or fear, resorts to force or fear there was sufficient evidence of 6 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: lavin, j. stratton, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 