filed 4/13/17 p. v. barnes ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. deandre j. barnes, defendant and appellant. b270755 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma063887) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed. marta i. stanton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction deandre barnes appeals from the judgment entered after the trial court sentenced him to consecutive prison terms for, among other offenses, three counts of vandalism (pen. code,  594, subd. (a))1 and five counts of contempt of court ( 166, subd. (c)(1)). barnes contends that, under section 654, the trial court should have stayed the terms imposed on three of the contempt counts because those offenses had the same factual basis as the vandalism offenses. we affirm. factual and procedural background -girlfriend, kiyonie davis, and her mother, sandra cannon, obtained a protective order against barnes. the order provided that for a period of three years molest, destroy or damage personal or real property [of], disturb the peace [of], keep under surveillance, or block [the] movements ic, telephonic, or written contact with went to visit davis at the home she shared with her mother, brother, and children. when she arrived, smith saw barnes sitting on the hood of an suv in the driveway. because smith knew there [were] issues with him,she called davis, who was inside the house, to alert her. smith also called the police. smith entered the house, and soon after barnes began banging on the back door. 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 smith called the police again, but by the time they arrived barnes was gone. on july 8, 2014 davis was at home with her family when she heard tapping at her bedroom window. as she rose to investigate, barnes threw the headboard of a bed through the window, shattering the glass. barnes fled down the street. piece of glass to scratch the paint on the sides and hood of parked in the driveway, less than 20 feet from the door who was inside the house with the rest of her family, and she called the police. barnes again fled down the street. a repairman was $1,300. on august 1, 2014 cannon came home to find a letter, addressed to davis, pushed through a broken window near the front door. from the handwriting, the content (you, babeand just sick of you lying to me all the time) and the signature (), davis knew the letter was from barnes. on december 25, 2014, after davis, cannon, and their family had moved to another home, barnes again smashed a window, this time with a cinderblock that landed on the bed where davis was sleeping. nes yelled into the room, and he again fled down the street. finally, beginning december 30, 2014 and continuing through at least january 20, 2015, barnes sent davis a series of threatening messages through a social media site. one of the messages stated: while your kids watch you bleeding blood. now imagine bullets breaking your 4 gi based on these events, the people charged barnes with one count of felony vandalism, two counts of misdemeanor vandalism, five counts of contempt of court, and one count of stalking ( 646.9, subd. (b)). three of the incidents in 2014 were each the basis for one count of vandalism and one count of contempt of court: barnesa window with a headboard on july 8, july 13, and his smashing a window with a cinderblock on december 25. after a court trial in january 2016, the trial court found barnes guilty on all counts. the court sentenced him to the upper term of four years for stalking, eight months (one-third the middle term) for felony vandalism, and 364 days for each remaining count, all terms to run consecutively, for a total of 11 years 8 months.2 barnes timely appealed. discussion section 654 provides in relevant part: that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the section 654 precludes multiple punishments for a single act or indivisible course of conduct. the proscription against double punishment . . . is applicable where there is a course of 2 the trial court found barnes also violated his probation in another case, and sentenced him to a consecutive term of eight months. 5 conduct which violates more than one statute and comprises an indivisible transaction punishable under more than one statute . . . . the divisibility of a course of conduct depends upon the intent and objective of the actor, and if all the offenses are incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of them but not for more than one.on the other hand, if the evidence discloses that a defendant entertained multiple criminal objectives which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, the trial court may impose punishment for independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of conduct. [citations.] the principal inquiry in each case is whether the defendants criminal intent and objective were single or multiple. each case must be determined on its own facts. [citations.] the question whether the defendant entertained multiple criminal objectives is one of fact for the trial court, and its findings on this question will be upheld on appeal if there is any substantial evidence to support thepeople v. pinon (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 956, 967-968; see people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 885-886 [s punishment will be co].) barnes contends the trial court should have stayed the terms imposed for the three counts of contempt of court that were based on the incidents of july 8, july 13, and december 25, 2014 because those offenses the three vandalism counts. (see people v. kramer (2002) 29 offenses for which section 654 prohibits multiple punishment, the trial court must impose sentence for one of them and stay 6 [execution] of sentence for t.) barnes argues these acts on the same dates against the same victimoccasion, his house to commit vandalism resulted in the same violations of the restraining substantial evidence supports finding, however, that barnes entertained multiple criminal objectives on each of these occasions. on each, barnes violated the protective order by coming within 100 yards of davis and cannon, and the trial court could reasonably infer his objective in doing so was to harass them. the april 11, 2014 incident in which barnes sat on an suv in the driveway before banging on the back door and fleeing illustrates that damaging property was not necessary to accomplish that objective. on the occasions in question (july 8, july 13, and december 25), however, barnes not only came within 100 yards of davis and cannon, evincing an intent to harass them, he went further and smashed windows and scratched s truckconduct suggesting an additional, independent objective of damaging their property. (see people v. perry (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 1521, 1527 [t some point, the degree of force or violence used or threatened a different and a more sinister goal than mere successful co i.e., an independent objective people v. cleveland (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 263, 271-272 [same].) substantial evidence section 654 did not apply to the contempt of court convictions arising from the incidents on july 8, july 13, and december 25. 7 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. small, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 