filed 1/16/18 p. v. combs ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dayvion deandre combs et al., defendants and appellants. b270594 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta136745) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john t. doyle, judge. affirmed in part and reversed in part with directions. richard a. levy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant dayvion deandre combs. 2 mark alan hart, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant cedric octavia harris. brett harding duxbury, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant paul demetrius allen, jr. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, noah p. hill and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general for plaintiff and respondent. seeking to avenge the death of a friend, londale mcneil (mcneil), dayvion deandre combs (combs), cedric octavia harris (harris) and paul demetrius allen, jr., (allen) drove into a rival gang territory looking for the man they believed was deathkeiun harris.1 when they could not find keiun, the four drove deeper into the gang territory. mcneil and combs then opened fire on another vehicle they spotted. two menleroy bernardez (bernardez) occupied the vehicle. mcneil, who stood in front of combs, fired a single shot from his .357-caliber revolver. combs fired 15 shots, one of which fatally struck mcneil. 1 keiun harris is not related to cedric harris. we refer to keiun harris by his first name for the sake of clarity, intending no disrespect. 3 combs, harris, and allen were subsequently charged with conspiracy to commit murder, as well as the murder of mcneil, the attempted murder of bernardez and , and shooting at an occupied vehicle. the people also charged defendants with various firearm and gang enhancement allegations. a jury convicted combs on all counts and found all the firearm and gang allegations to be true. the jury convicted harris on all counts but did not find every firearm and gang allegation to be true. the jury convicted allen of the conspiracy and murder charges, but acquitted him of the remaining counts. the jury found the gang allegations to be true with respect to allen but rejected the firearm allegations. combs, harris and allen raise numerous issues on appeal, four of which require reversal or remand to the trial court for resentencing. first, we hold that insufficient evidence supported two convictions. thus, with respect to allen, we reverse the judgment on counts 1 and 2 as well as the accompanying gang enhancement allegations. second, we hold that the sentencing enhancements penal code2 section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c), must be stricken because the information did not specifically allege that combs personally used and discharged a firearm and the jury did not make such findings. furthermore, because the jury 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 found only that a used and discharged a firearminstead of finding that combs personally used and discharged a firearmsection 12022.53, subdivision (e)(2), prohibits imposition of the firearm enhancements in addition to the gang enhancement. sentence and remand the matter for resentencing. third, on remand, at sentencing, which imposed a 10-year sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), rather than the 20-year sentence (imposed under section 12022.53, subdivision (c)) as indicated on the abstract of judgment. on remand, the parties must also confirm that harris has now received the correct amount of custody credits. fourth, we remand so that the trial court can exercise its new discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), and determine whether any of remaining firearm enhancements should be stricken. we affirm the trial court in all other respects. background combs, harris and allen were charged with conspiracy to commit murder ( 182, subd. (a)(1); count 1). the conspiracy count listed five overt acts: mcneil and combs armed themselves with firearms in order to murder keiun; mcneil and combs enlisted harris and allen to assist with keiu; mcneil, combs, harris and allen got into a vehicle to murder keiun; mcneil, combs, harris and allen went into rival gang territory to murder keiun; and mcneil, 5 combs, harris and allen attempted to locate and murder keiun. combs, harris and allen were also charged with the murder of mcneil ( 187, subd. (a); count 2), and the attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of bernardez ( 664, 187, subd. (a); counts 3 & 4), as well as shooting at an occupied vehicle ( 246; count 5). the information also alleged that, as to counts 1 through 4, a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b) and (e)(1), and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (c) and (e)(1). the information also alleged that, as to counts 1 through 5, a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm which proximately caused great bodily injury and death to mcneil, bernardez and subdivision (d) and (e)(1); that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1); and that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e).3 the information further alleged pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), (counts 14) and 186.22, subdivision (b)(4), (count 5) that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with 3 the prosecution later withdrew the subdivision (d) firearm allegation. 6 a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members.4 prosecution evidence i. the shooting combs, harris, and allen belonged to the 88 avalon garden crips (agc), a gang based near the avalon gardens public housing projects in los angeles.5 all three were friends with mcneil, a fellow member of the agc. at the time of the crimes in question, twere the 87 gangster crips, which claims an area just west of the several years earlier, mcneil had been struck in his hand by a bullet and his fellow gang member and best friend, kirk kirby (kirby), was killed in presence. mcneil believed keiun, a member of the rival 87 gangster crips, had perpetrated the homicide.6 mcneil 4 the information also alleged that combs, harris and allen had each suffered a prior conviction that qualified as a strike ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). all three defendants waived jury trial on the prior conviction allegations and the court subsequently found the allegations to be true. 5 arris was 6 m, saw keiun . keiun drove near her and asked pleasant avon being a derogatory term referring to the agc. mcneil told 7 later memorialized kirby by getting a tattoo near his right eyea tear drop and the letters nickname mcneil and his fellow gang members vowed retaliation for kirbys death. on october 25, 2014, mcneil and combs told harris house of chicken and waffles, a restaurant in rival 87 gangster crips territory. and harris then drove mcneil, combs, and allen in his suv to . they arrkeiun was not there. they continued driving in 87 gangster crips territory until they spotted a monte carlo near 88th place and wall street. drove the monte carlo while bernardez sat in the front passenger seat. bernardez had actually observed the suv moments before 7 at the intersection of 88th place and wall street. s suv, just past the intersection, faced eastbound on 88th place. mcneil and combs exited the suv and began firing at the monte carlo. mcneill stood in front of combs and fired a single shot from his .357-caliber revolver. combs pleasant about his personal rivalry with keiun and that he believed keiun was trying to kill him. 7 bernardez was an 87 gangster crips gang member and was was affiliated with another gang which was friendly with the 87 gangster crips. 8 fired 15 shots, one of which fatally struck mcneil in the back of the head. the bullet head and exited at a slightly higher level, through his forehead. mcneil collapsed to the ground. s mcneil and combs fired at the monte carlo, while bernardez ducked in his seat. several bullets struck the passenger side of the monte carlo, blew out a tire, and shattered the side and rear windows. combs got back into the suv and fled with harris and allen. after driving for the monte carlo near 87th street and broadway. a friend then picked up and bernardez and they left the area. ii. after the shooting police responded to the scene at approximately 6:11 p.m. lay face up on the southeast corner of 88th place and wall street. a .357-caliber revolver rested near his hand. the revolver contained five live rounds and one casing from an expended round. police gathered 15 expended .40-caliber casings spread throughout the southeast and northeast corners of 88th place and wall street. the casings had been fired from the same .40-caliber handgun. police later located and secured the abandoned monte carlo. the car had three bullet fragmentstwo inside the trunk and one in the rear tire. the bullets had been fired at a roughly 45 degree angle and traveled from the right side of the carthe passenger sideto the left. all three projectiles came from the same .40-caliber handgun. 9 a. eyewitnesses to the shooting p.s. was nearby when the shooting took place. she heard gunshots around 5:30 p.m. and witnessed a young black male near an suv shooting in a northwestern direction. she turned her attention away briefly and then watched the shooter enter the passenger side of the suv and drive away eastbound on 88th place. once the suv s body lying near the southeast corner with a gun next to his hand. she called 911. she declined to provide too many details during the callitch and get p.s. did not get a good look s face and could not identify him. s.g. heard the shooting as she walked up the stairs to her apartment. when she glanced in the direction of the gunshots, she saw a young black male walking diagonally from 88th place toward the northeast corner of the intersection as he fired shots in a westerly direction at the monte carlo. s.g. saw recall how he looked. however, she recognized her neighbor bernardez as the driver of the monte carlo. s.g. also noted that bernardez had a passenger inside the monte carlo who ducked in his seat during the shooting. as the shots rang out, bernardez stopped the car, hit a curb, and drove away as the shooter stepped backward and continued shooting. 10 b. admissions by the defendants 1. by harris to waldean bowling (bowling), lived in the avalon gardens housing projects. she had known combs his entire life and had known harris and allen for about seven years. combs and mcneil were close friends. funeral, harris approached bowling as she walked home. harris said he wanted to tell bowling what happened to her son, recognizing he could get killed for talking to her. harris said that before the shooting, both mcneil and combs told him that keiun was soon after that, harris drove mcneil, combs, s in order to find keiun. mcneil and combs were armed with handguns they had retrieved fro s suv. learned that keiun was not there, they drove to 88th place and wall street where they spotted the monte carlo. mcneil and combs exited the suv and fired at the monte carlo. harris sped away but came back after the shooting to pick up combs. when combs got inside the suv, harris saw mcneil lying motionless on the ground. combs told harris that termite (bernardez) was shooting at them. harris drove away from the location. harris had combs and allen get out of his suv before arriving at avalon gardens so that 11 neither officer jesse pineda nor people in the projects would know they were together.8 2. by combs to waldean bowling in january 2015, combs saw bowling waiting at the bus stop and gave her a ride home. combs discussed some combs admitted that he and mcneil had approached harris about going to combs said that he and mcneil got out of the suv when they saw the monte carlo. combs recognized one of the occupants as termite (bernardez). but combs insisted that he was on a different street when he heard shots fired between mcneil and the occupants of the monte carlo. according to combs, the monte carlo then drove past mcneil and headed toward combs. combs fired at the monte carlo and immediately got back into the suv, fleeing the location with harris and allen. combs claimed that the individuals in the monte carlo shot mcneil. 3. by allen , learned that mcneil had been shot, she went to the crime scene near 88th place and wall street. pleasant spoke with an officer at the scene but was told description. she then went to avalon gardens where she found allen and harris. when she asked them where mcneil was, allen vouched n avalon. 8 los angeles police department (lapd) officer pineda suv. 12 [mcneil] laid out over there. it was me, him, box [harris], and buddha [combs]. pleasant knew mcneil, combs, harris and allen were all members of the agc and believed truth. 4. by harris to pleasant later saw combs, harris and allen at a service for mcneil. during the event, she overheard harris describing the shooting. harris admitted that as he drove away, he looked in his rearview mirror, saw drop, and kept driving. iii. gang expert testimony officer pineda testified as the gang expert. he detailed his training and experience with gangs, including his familiarity with both the agc and its rival the 87 gangster crips. agc began in the avalon gardens housing projects and has about 110 to 120 active gang members. members display the colors green and blue to signify their association with avalon gardens and their allegiance to the crips. they often wear hats and clothing the activities include narcotics sales, street robberies, burglaries, shootings, attempted murders, and murders. officer pineda identified two agc gang members who were convicted of possession of a firearm by a felon and another gang member who was convicted of murder. 13 according to officer pineda, gangs thrive on fear, intimidation, and respect. gang members earn respect and status within the gang by committing violent crimes. committing a violent act against a rival gang member shows that a gang member is willing to put his life on the line and instill fear in their rivals, which increases respect for both the gang and gang member and allows the gang to expand its territory. creating fear in the community allows the gang to operate and commit crimes with impunity in its neighborhood. as the community becomes more fearful of the gang, it becomes less willing to cooperate with police or report gang-related crimes. indeed, beinby cooperating with police often brings violent consequences. officer pineda added that gang members usually access guns from weapons without the risk of a police search. gang members who travel into rival territory are expected to be armed since there is a strong likelihood they can be shot or killed if confronted by a rival. based on a hypothetical mirroring the facts elicited at trial, officer pineda opined the crimes were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with the agc. members join forces with trusted fellow members to seek out an enemy in order to shoot or kill him. such a team would divide the duties among a driver, shooters, and a lookout. a gang that shoots rivals in rival territory benefits from the attack because it instills fear into the rival gang by showing 14 that the gang does not back down from a fight and is willing to retali defense evidence lapd officer george chavez testified he received information from the watch commander reporting a possible suspect in an suv with possible bullet holes. officer chavez did not know who originally relayed the information about possible bullet holes. lapd officer hector beas testified about a field information (fi) card he had completed after interviewing p.s.9 the card noted that the shooter had fired in an eastward direction. officer beas said he assumed that when p.s. looked in an eastward direction as she described the gunman, she meant the shooting also came from that direction. officer beas admitted he never actually asked p.s. in which direction the shooter fired his weapon. mario guillen, who lived on the northeast corner of 88th place and wall street, testified that he saw gunshots being fired from a yellow car traveling northbound on wall street. however, guillen admitted that he remembered the car was yellow only after speaking to his cousin about it and did not independently remember the color of the car. 9 fi cards arcontact with an individual. the card contains personal information, the date and time of contact, associates, nicknames, and may also record statements made at the time of the interaction. (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 672 (sanchez).) 15 verdicts and sentences i. s verdict and sentence the jury convicted combs on all counts and further found all the firearm and gang allegations to be true. with respect to count 1, conspiracy to commit murder, the jury found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the jury also found that a principal used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1); that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1); that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of 12022.53, subdivision (b); and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (c). with respect to count 2, murder, the jury found that the crime was willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury also found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the jury also found that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm 16 within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). with respect to counts 3 and 4, attempted murder, the jury determined that the crimes were willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury also found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the jury also concluded that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). with respect to count 5, shooting at an occupied vehicle, the jury found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the jury also decided that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). the trial court sentenced combs to a total of 75 years to life, which included 25 years to life on count 1, doubled to 17 50 years to life as a second strike, plus an additional 20 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), as well as five years on the prior serious felony. the court imposed concurrent sentences on counts 2 through 4 and stayed sentence on count 5 pursuant to section 654. ii. s verdict and sentence the jury convicted harris on all counts. with respect to count 1, the jury found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the jury also determined that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1). however, the jury did not find that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). with respect to count 2, the jury did not find that the crime was willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury did find that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). however, the jury did not find that that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), or that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a 18 firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). with respect to count 3, the jury concluded that the crime was willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury also found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). however, the jury did not find that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), or that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). with respect to count 4, the jury did not find that the crime was willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury, however, determined that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the jury also concluded that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1). however, the jury did not find that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). with respect to count 5, the jury found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in 19 association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). however, the jury did not find that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), or that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). the trial court sentenced harris to a total of 65 years to life on count 1, which included 25 years to life, doubled to 50 years to life as a second strike, plus an additional 10 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)), as well as five years on the prior serious felony. the court imposed concurrent sentences on counts 2 through 4, and stayed sentence on count 5 pursuant to section 654. iii. s verdict and sentence the jury convicted allen of counts 1 and 2, but acquitted him of the remaining counts. with respect to count 1, the jury found that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). however, the jury did not find that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), or that a principal personally and 20 intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). with respect to count 2, the jury did not find that the crime was willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury did find that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). however, the jury did not find that that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), or that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). the trial court sentenced allen to a total of 55 years to life on count 1, which included 25 years to life, doubled to 50 years to life as a second strike, plus an additional five years on the prior serious felony. the court imposed a concurrent term on the remaining count. discussion i. admissions made by the defendants on appeal, combs, harris and allen challenge the statements they made to bowling and pleasant, which were admitted pursuant to the hearsay exception for declarations against interest. all three contend that the statements were 21 neither against their penal interests nor made under sufficiently trustworthy circumstances.10 we disagree. a. trial court proceedings before trial, the defense objected to the admission of any of the statements made to bowling and pleasant. combss attorney focused on the alleged unreliability of the statements as well as his inability to cross-examine harris and allen. according to s attorney, bostatements were unreliable because it was difficult to distinguish between what she actually heard from harris and combs and what she heard from other people on the streets. harriss attorney argued statement to pleasantin which he placed all three defendants at the scene of the shootingwas not truly interest since he did not admit that a crime had taken place. further argued that bowlingwere unreliable because she was biasedshe sought closure and already believed that combs had killed her son. the trial court found that the statements made in a against their penal interest. the court noted it had to look to the totality of the circumstances, including whether the declarant spoke from personal knowledge, the possible motivation of the declarant, what was actually said by the declarant, and anything else relevant to the inquiry. the 10 harris awe will address separate arguments raised by harris and allen when relevant and appropriate. 22 court then stated, well, if three alleged gang members wind up killing one of their own, there is a great degree of indicia of reliability when they make those statements to the mother and right at e have to come clean. this is our buddy. he got killed. tell his momma something about it to shed light on this. they were all close friends. so [] the timing as to one of the statements of one defendant, the timing of the funeral is very relevant. somebody else made a statement some time later, but, trying to come clean as to what happened. when someone sayswhen a murder occurs and then someone says to a out there, that puts him there. you put yourself at the scene of the murder. that gang evidence comes in, that could be sufficiently against your penal interest also. that speaker is in a unique position to know something about what just happened, puttingand he would not know that tiny fish [mcneil] was out there dead unless he saw it and had personal knowledge of it and goes back tells the cousin, no. telling you otherwise. on avalon. -year-old they say that. vouching to their own credibility and trustworthiness. 23 the court said it would be appropriate for the defense to cross-examine the witnesses as to whether the statements they heard were from their own recollection or were tainted by what other people had told them, including anything officers may have suggested during the police interviews. the court noted that the potential testimony served the nonhearsay purpose of explaining the effect on the listener and how such statements influenced the accuracy and believability of their testimony. the court said it would it caution the jury not to accept these statements for the truth stand about the accuracy of what she heard b. applicable law vidence of a statement by a declarant having sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made, . . . so far subjected him to the risk of . . . criminal liability . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement evid. code,  1230.) the proponent of such evidence must show that the declarant is unavailable, that the declaration was against ths penal interest [when made] and that the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission despite its hearsay character. 11 (people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 462.) 11 the declarants in this case were unavailable as witnesses because they were nontestifying codefendants. (see people v. fuentes (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 956, 961962.) 24 nevertheless, declarations against penal interest may [also] contain self-s statement wholly credible solely because it incorporates an admission of criminal culpability is (people v. campa (1984) 36 cal.3d 870, 883 (campa).) as scholars -serving statement lacks trustworthiness whether it accompanies a disserving (people v. leach (1975) 15 cal.3d 419, 439, fn. 15 (leach), quoting jefferson, declarations against interest: an exception to the hearsay rule (1944) 58 harv. l.rev. 1, 60.) moreover, that a hearsay statement may be facially inculpatory or neutral cannot always be relied upon to ruly self-inculpatory, rather than (williamson v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 594, 603 (williamson).) even a hearsay statement that is facially inculpatory of the declarant may, when considered in context, also be exculpatory or have a net exculpatory effect. (see, e.g., people v. coble (1976) 65 cal.app.3d 187, 191.) in the end-inculpatory or not can only be determined by viewing it in context(williamson, at p. 603.) in light of these concerns, the california supreme court has ption should not apply to collateral assertions within declarations against (campa, supra, 36 cal.3d at p. 882.) thus, 25 evidence code sectios exception to the hearsay rule is statement not itself specifically disserving to the interests of (leach, supra, 15 cal.3d at p. 441, fn. omitted; accord people v. shipe (1975) 49 cal.app.3d 343, 354 under leach, a exculpatory (e.g., one which admits some complicity but places the major responsibility on others) does not meet the test of trustworthiness and is thus inadmi(in re larry c. (1982) 134 cal.app.3d 62, 69.) s decision as to whether a statement is admissible as a declaration against penal interests for abuse of discretion. (people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 153. s dwill not be disturbed except on a showing the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manif(people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 534.) c. merits 1. s statements to bowling in his statements to bowling, harris outlined the s decision to arm themselves and their initial plan to seek out keiun. when they could not locate keiun, they drove to 88th place and wall street where they spotted the monte carlo. mcneil and combs exited the suv and fired at the monte carlo. harris sped away but returned after the 26 shooting to pick up combs. when combs entered the suv, harris saw mcneil lying motionless on the street. harris then drove away from the location and had combs and allen exit his suv before arriving at avalon gardens. harrisstatements identified every member of the conspiracy, including his critical role as their driver, acknowledging his participation in crimes that no reasonable person would admit to unless they were true. thus, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting s statements. in people v. gordon (1990) 50 cal.3d 1223 (gordon), the california supreme court considered statements made by an accessory, rauch, who told law enforcement officers that he had provided the defendant, his nephew, with shelter and medical care after the defendant had been wounded in a robbery. statement minimized his own role and portrayed his nephew in a much harsher light, the court ruled the statement admissible. be sure, rauch did not expressly admit either intent or knowledge. but he impliedly admitted both by his suspicious conduct throughout the incident in question. [] defendant argues to the contrary. s statement should be considered untrustworthy in view of its substance. he says it must be characterized as neutral or exculpatory, and therefore unreliable, because it admits no more than it does. we cannot so characterize the statement. to be sure, the criminal liability that the statement risks is not the highest. but it is (id. at p. 1252.) therefore, the trial court could have reasonably 27 concluded that s statement so far subjected him to the risk of criminal liability that a reasonable person in his position would not have made it unless he believed it to be true. (ibid.) in people v. wilson (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 271 (wilson), the defendant was convicted of two counts of attempted voluntary manslaughter based, in part, on statements his wife made to police in which she stated that, following the attempted homicides, her husband instructed her to retrieve from bushes near their residence the gun he had used in the attempted homicides and take it to his . although the statement implicated the defendant in a far more serious offense, the court found the statement s interest because it showed she was an accessory to the offense. (id. at pp. 275277.) ment is also disserving to [the nondeclarant] does not render the statement unreliable and (id. at p. 276.) people v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298 (greenberger) reached a similar result. in greenberger, a declarant had been the driver in a kidnapping and murder for hire in which his codefendant had been a principal actor. s statements described his role as only the driver as, the statements were nonetheless sufficiently disserving of the onable person in [the s] position would not have made them unless he (id. at p. 337.) 28 here, s statements were sufficiently disserving of his penal interest to be deemed admissible pursuant to evidence code section 1230. harris not only put himself at the scene of the crimes, he described his specific role in the offenses, making it clear he was there to assist the other defendants. he also clearly manifested understanding of the gravity of when he had the others leave the suv before returning to avalon gardens. s statements disserved his penal interest in a manner indistinguishable from the statements considered in gordon, wilson and greenberger. as in those cases, inculpatory statements about himself were inextricably intertwined with statements that placed more responsibility on the nondeclarant defendants and were, therefore, nonetheless admissible. (see people v samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 121.) nevertheless, while statements that are specifically a disservice to the declarant may be admitted, the statements must also be made under circumstances that demonstrate they are trustworthy. (see people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 612-614 (duarte); see also greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 337.) in determining trustworthiness, [t]he trial court must look to the totality of the circumstances in which the statement was made, whether the declarant spoke from personal knowledge, the possible motivation of the declarant, what was actually said by the declarant and anything else relevant to the in(greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 334.) t]he least 29 reliable circumstance is one in which the declarant has been arrested and attempts to improve his situation with the police by deflecting criminal responsibility onto others. tend to lose any identity of interest and immediately become antagonhowever, the most reliable circumstance is one in which the conversation occurs between friends in a noncoercive setting that fosters uninhibited disclo (id. at p. 335.) here, of course, harris unarguably spoke in a noncoercive setting. 2. s statements to bowling combs admitted that he and mcneil had approached harris about going to look for keiun, thus confirming this s account. combs also stated that he and mcneil exited the suv when they saw the monte carlo, and that he recognized one of the occupants as bernardez. but combs claimed that he was on a different street when he heard shots fired between mcneil and the occupants of the monte carlo, and that the individuals in the monte carlo were responsible for killing mcneil. according to combs, the monte carlo then drove past mcneil and headed toward combs. combs fired at the monte carlo and immediately re-entered the suv, fleeing the location with harris and allen. despite his attempt to minimize his role, combs still confirmed that he and mcneil were armed and had planned to confront keiun, that he got out of the suv with mcneil after recognizing one of the monte carlothat 30 and that he subsequently fired at the monte carlo.12 although combs said he shot at the monte carlo in self-defense, s statements were nonetheless sufficiently disserving of his onable person in [his] position would not have made them unless he believed (greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 337.) 3. statements to pleasant when pleasant asked allen and harris about mcneilwhereabouts after the learning about the shooting, allen [mcneil] laid out over there. it was me, him, box [harris], and buddha [combs]. although sparse, allenvouching statement did place the other defendants and himself at the scene of the crime and ly disserv[ed]s penal interest. (greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 335; duarte, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 612; leach, supra, 15 cal.3d at p. 441.) the statement was also made in noncoercive setting that fostered uninhibited disclosures. (see greenberger, supra, 58 12 we note that when attempting to exculpate himself, combs incriminated the victims rather than a codefendant. thus, this was not a case wherein one defendant admitted to some culpability in order to shift the bulk of the blame to another. we agree with th the ci statement indicate people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 607.) the trial court did not err in ruling the evidence was admissible under evidence code section 1230. 31 cal.app.4th at p. 335.) accordingly, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the statement. 4. harriss statements to pleasant pleasant later saw combs, harris and allen at a service for mcneil. during the event, she overheard harris describing the shooting. harris acknowledged that as he body drop, and kept driving. this admission corroborates the nearly identical admission harris made to bowlingthat he saw mcneil lying motionless on the ground as he drove away from the crime sceneand was once again made in a noncoercive setting. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the statement. ii. gang expert testimony combs, harris and allen challenge the admission of had a personal rivalry, and that the agc and 87 gangster crips had a general rivalry, contending that it constituted case-specific hearsay in violation of sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pages 670671. we disagree. a. trial court proceedings at a pretrial hearing, officer jesse pineda, testified that he knew of the specific rivalry between mcneil and keiun. officer pineda said he learned of the dispute by speaking with officers investigating officer pineda opined that the rivalry stemmed from mcneilhad caused opinion derived from the 32 investigating detective informing him that mcneil was in the car with kirby when kirby was shot and killed. the prosecutor also requested officer pineda to review to further support his opinion that there was a personal rivalry between mcneil and keiun. the court allowed officer pineda to do so given that bowling and pleasant were already subject to cross-examination. in addition to allowing officer pineda to rely upon the transcripts when opining about the mcneil and keiun rivalry, the court later allowed officer pineda to rely also upon his discussions with other officers. additionally, officer pineda testified about the general rivalry between the agc and 87 gangster cripsa rivalry he learned about through police-documented shootings and homicides between the gangs as well as his own personal involvement with some of the investigations and arrests made in those cases. with respect to the specific rivalry between mcneil and keiun, officer pineda testified during direct examination at trial as follows: q. now, you reviewed some transcripts of ms. that correct? a. q. are you aware of a rivalry between mr. keiun harris and londale mcneil? [counsel for harris]: objection. foundation. hearsay. 33 the court: overruled. [counsel for harris]: may we approach, your honor? q. are you aware? a. yes. q. and did you believe there was a rivalry between these two individuals on or prior to october the 25th, 2014? a. yes. [counsel for harris]: objection. foundation. hearsay. [counsel for combs]: join. overruled. [the prosecutor]: q. what was the opinion? a. yes. q. that there was a rivalry between these two? a. yes, that there was a rivalry. the prosecutor continued this line of questioning with officer pineda the next day: yesterday you gave an opinion about the rivalry between londale mcneil also known as t.f. and keiun harris and you gave an opinion that there was a rivalry; is that correct? a. [] . . . [] 34 q. were there any other factors that contributed to that opinion besides those two transcripts? a. as far as the gang rivalry? talking about? q. the rivalry between mr. mcneil and mr. harris, did you use other resources besides those transcripts to assist you in your opinion? a. yes. q. and were those other discussions with other officers as well? a. yes, they were. q. and so that also helped assist you; is that correct? a. q. and your opinion is still that there was a rivalry between mr. mcneil otherwise known as t.f. and [keiun], correct? a. correct. with respect to the general rivalry between the agc and 87 gangster crips, officer pineda testified during the direct examination as follows: q. now, yesterday i asked youyou said there was correct? a. q. and we saw a bunch of photos showing the is that fair to say? a. yes. 35 q. this rivalrywhen did this rivalry begin? in what year? a. in 2003. so your opinion is that since 2003 there has been a. q. ut opinion? a. [counsel for allen]: i will object. asked and answered. [counsel for combs]: join. the court: overruled. from speaking with other officers and also reading gang history books. b. applicable law in sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, the defendant was charged with drug and firearm offenses and active participation in the delhi street gang, along with a section 186.22 gang enhancement. at trial, a gang expert relied police documents, and an fi card as the basis for his expert opinion.13 those documents 13 a step notice provides the recipient information regarding potential penalties for gang-related criminal activity. the issuing officer also records the date, time, statements made at the time of the interaction, and 36 indicated sanchez associated with, and had been repeatedly contacted by police while in the presence of, delhi gang members. (id. at pp. 671673.) the expert had never met sanchez and had not been present when the step notice was s other police contacts. his knowledge derived solely from the police reports and fi card. based on the information in the step notice, the police documents, and the fi cards, and the circumstances of the offense at issue, the expert opined that sanchez was a member of the delhi gang and the charged crimes benefitted the gang. (id. at p. 673.) in sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, our supreme court held that -specific statements related by the prosecuts gang membership constituted inadmissible hearsay under california law. they were recited by the expert, who presented them as true statements of fact, without the requisite independent proof. some of those hearsay statements were also testimonial and therefore should have been excluded under crawford[ v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36]. the error was not harmless beyond a reasonable 14 (sanchez, at pp. 670671.) identifying information. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 672.) 14 in crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. 36 (crawford), the united states supreme court held that the generally bars admission at trial of a testimonial out-of-court statement offered for its truth against a criminal defendant, unless the 37 accordingly, the court reversed the true findings on the street gang enhancements. (id. at p. 671.) sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665 distinguished between -specific facts about which the expert has no independent knowledge. case-specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants alleged to have been involved in the case being (sanchez, at p. 676.) over time, the distinction between background information and case-specific hearsay had become blurred, the court noted, leading to the rule that relied, even if that matter was hearsay. (id. at pp. 678679.) limiting instruction was given; in cases where an instruction was inadequate, the evidence could be excluded under evidence code section 352. (id. at p. 679.) however, sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665 concluded s testimony regarding the basis for an opinion must be (id. at p. 679.) we recognize that the jury must consider expert basis testimony for its truth s opinion, hearsay and confrontation problems cannot be avoided by giving a limiting instruction that such testimony should not be considered for its truth. if an expert testifies maker of the statement is unavailable to testify and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination. (id. at p. 68.) 38 to case-specific out-of-court statements to explain the bases for his opinion, those statements are necessarily considered by the jury for their truth, thus rendering them hearsay. like any other hearsay evidence, it must be properly admitted through a (id. at p. 684.) alternatively, the evidence can be admitted through an appropriate witness and the expert may assume its truth in a properly worded hypothetical question in the tradit (ibid.) however, sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665 made clear that its holding did not do away with all gang expert testimony. rely on hearsay in forming an opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms that he did so (id. at pp. 685686.) background information accepted in their field of expertise under the traditional latitude given by the evidence code. they can rely on information within their personal knowledge, and they can give an opinion based on a hypothetical including case-specific facts that are properly proven. they may also rely on nontestimonial hearsay properly admitted under a statutory hearsid. at p. 685.) cannot do is relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by competent evidence or are covered by a hearsid. at p. 686.) 39 c. merits combs, harris and allen contend that officer pinexpert opinion violated the hearsay rule as well as the confrontation clause under sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665. to determine whether admission of office testimony constituted prejudicial error, we use the two-step analysis required by sanchezhearsay inquiry: is the statement one made out of court; is it offered to prove the truth of the facts it asserts; and does it fall under a hearsay exception? if a hearsay statement is being offered by the prosecution in a criminal case, and the crawford, supra, 541 u.s. 36 limitations of unavailability, as well as cross-examination or forfeiture, are not satisfied, a second analytical step is required. admission of such a statement violates the right to confrontation if the statement is testimonial hearsay(sanchez, at p. 680.) an improperly admitted hearsay statement ordinarily constitutes statutory error under the evidence code. (id. at p. 685.) where the hearsay is testimonial and is admitted in violation of crawford, the error is one of federal constitutional magnitude. (ibid.) with respect to the specific rivalry between mcneil and keiun, independently proven by competent evidence through the testimony of bowling and pleasant. (see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686.) when a case-specific fact has been independently proven by competent evidence, an expert is permitted to reiterate that fact in support of his opinions, even if the expert has no 40 personal knowledge of it. (people v. burroughs (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 378, 403, 407; people v. dean (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 186, 193.) here, bowling testified that her son mcneil had been struck by a bullet in the hand while his best friend and fellow gang member kirby was killed during a shooting. death, mcneil, combs, harris and allen drove together to keiun and retaliate against him. similarly, pleasant described the rivalry between mcneil and keiun, testifying that mcneil told her about the rivalry and how he felt keiun was trying to kill him. with respect to the general rivalry between the agc and 87 gangster crips, we note that facts are only case participants alleged to have been involved in the case being sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665 were the s personal contacts with police reflected in the hearsay police reports, step notice, and fi card. (id. at p. 676.) the california supreme court made clear that an about general gang behavior or ds s history and genera (id. at p. 698.) this standard plainly would include the general background testimony officer pineda gave about the general rivalry between the two gangs. by permitting this type of background testimony, the court recognized it may technically be based on hearsay, but an expert may 41 nonetheless rely on it and convey it to the jury in general terms. (id. at p. 685.) thus, after sanchez, officer pineda properly testified to noncase-specific general background information about the agc and its rivalry with the 87 gangster crips, even if it was based on hearsay sources like gang members and gang officers. testimony did not violate the confrontation clause because the relied-upon hearsay was not testimonial under crawford, supra, 541 u.s. 36. arily to memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. nontestimonial statements are those whose primary purpose is to deal with an ongoing emergency or some other purpose unrelated to (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 689.) unlike the step notice, police reports, and fi card in sanchez, nothing in the record suggests officer pineda obtained any of this information primarily to memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. (see ibid.) officer pineda conveyed no specific statements by anyone with whom he spoke, and reached only general conclusions. ay in and day out such information would be useful to the police as part of their general community policing responsibilities quite separate from any use in some unspecified criminal 42 (people v. valadez (2013) 220 cal.app.4th 16, 36 (valdez).)15 with respect to the specific rivalry between mcneil and keiun, the statements made to bowling and pleasant were admissible as party admissions (evid. code,  1220) and thus did not violate the confrontation clause. (see, e.g., people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 661662 [a confrontation clause].) furthermore, the statements did not implicate the confrontation clause given that bowling and pleasant testified and were subject to cross-examination. combs notes that during the pretrial hearing, officer pineda testified he learned of the mcneil-keiun rivalry after de. the record does not reveal how the officers learned of this rivalry and thus we do not know if they spoke to other gang members, friends, neighbors, other law enforcement personnel, or the defendants themselves. furthermore, information obtained from interactions between a gang expert and gang members or other officers does not necessarily constitute testimonial hearsay because information would be useful to the police as part of their general community policing responsibilities quite separate from any use in some unspecified criminal (people v. valadez, supra, 220 cal.app.4th at 15 valdez has retained its validity after sanchez. (people v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575, 585 (ochoa).) 43 p. 36.) on appeal, we cannot, and will not, assume that the information relayed by officer pineda was testimonial hearsay. (see ochoa, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at p. 585.) combs also argues that the testimony by bowling and pleasant was unreliable and that officer pineda improperly vouched for their credibility by basing part of his opinion on their testimony. however, pursuant to calcrim no. 332, the whether information on which the expert relied was true and accurate. you may disregard any opinion that you find unbelievable, unreasonable, or unsupported by the eviden thus, if the jury disbelieved the testimony that officer pineda relied upon, which required evaluating the credibility of bowling and pleasant, then the jury was free to -keiun rivalry. furthermore, no vouching occurred here. officer opinion of bowling and pleasantboth of whom were subject to cross-examinationas well as his discussions with other officers. officer pineda was allowed to rely on bowling and pleasant just as he was allowed to rely on information he gathered from any individual, gang member, or officer when forming a relevant opinion.16 16 officer pineda also never testified that bowling or pleasant were telling the truth or that the jury should find them credible. thus, the federal and out-of-state authority combs cites in support of his argument in this regard are inapposite. 44 iii. additional testimony from bowling combs claims additional testimony from bowling that what other people far worse told her about the circumstances of death constituted inadmissible hearsay. allen joins this contention. we disagree. a. trial court proceedings during a pretrial discussion about admitting statements made by combs, harris and allen as declarations against interest, the parties discussed admonishing the witnesses that they should not testify about what they heard from other sources. the prosecutor noted he had warned bowling not to testify about statements made to her by other people. j-examination, the court told bowling (outside the presence of the jury) that it had listened to her recorded police interview, including portions wh the word on the street somebody told [her]. right. ladies and gentlemen, i want you to listen closely to during cross-examination some questions by the defense attorneys to this witness about what others may have said to her are not to prove that those events actually happened but if any of those statements affected any of her testimony here in court. okay. you this. and the whole issue is that not what those other 45 persons actually said actually happened but how it may have these defendants said. when cross-s attorney, bowling testified that she had lived in avalon gardens for about thirty years; she knew that many agc gang members hung out there; she had the conversation with harris about two with combs sometime in january; she became frustrated because no one talked harris spoke to her; she had become depressed over her ; she did not go to police for a formal interview until february 2015; and she had some opinion about what might have happened to her son before going to the police about it. when cross-examined by harriss attorney, bowling acknowledged she had spoken with the police before speaking with harris and had formed an opinion based on her conversations with the police.17 when cross-examined , bowling added that by the time she was formally interviewed by detectives in february 2015, she 17 bowling also insisted that harris had used the word find keiun. counsel tried to impeach bowling with the transcript from the preliminary hearing wherein bowling testified harris did not tell her what precisely they were going to do to keiun when they found him. bowling said she did not remember this particular portion of her preliminary hearing testimony and confirmed that harris said 46 on redirect, bowling said had not talked to the police about the case before her formal interview with detectives. when she went to the crime scene after on re-cross, bowling agreed that it was hard to keep track of . bowling also confirmed that at the end of her interview with detectives, she told them on further redirect, bowling and the prosecutor had the following colloquy: you were also asked some questions about your thoughts and your opinions. i think it was your theories about the case; is that correct? yes. do your theories and opinions of the case go beyond what [combs] told you? yes. so your theories and your opinion and what you heard from other people is more than what just [combs] told you; is that correct? yes. yes. [counsel for allen]: objection. [counsel for combs]: vague. 47 the court the prosecutor then asked b[combs] more to although the defense objected, the court reminded counsel: you the court then admonished the jury: heard from other sources, people in the neighborhood, and then when he says theorieswell, statements that you heard are actually worse than what [combs] told you and ng offered for the truth that for the purpose of how it affected her mental state and her testimony here in court. not that whatever she heard bowling subsequently confirmed that harris or combs told her because neither harris nor combs actually admitted murder. b. applicable law as discussed above, hearsay evidence is evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated. (evid. code,  1200, subd. (a).) except as provided by law, it is inadmissible. (id., subd. (b).) n out-of-court statement is properly admitted if a nonhearsay purpose for admitting the statement is identified, and the nonhearsay purpose is 48 (people v. turner (1994) 8 cal.4th 137, 189.) one such nonhearsay purpose is to show formation to the hearer, and . . . the hearer, believing such information to be true, (people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4th 809, 863.) such evidence is not hearsay, reaction to the statement, not the truth of the matter asserted, is the relevant fact sought to be proved. (people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1162; people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 447.) ruling on the admissibility of evidence, including its determination of issues concerning the hearsay rule, is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 266.) ill except on a showing the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest mis (ibid.) appellate courts are also admissible evidence it will not be reversed because the trial court admitted that evidence upon a different theory, a mistaken (people v. brown (2004) 33 cal.4th 892, 901.) c. merits that what she heard from other peop than what combs told her was not offered for its truth but rather for the nonhearsay purpose of establishing its effect upon bowling. 49 thus, the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it admitted this portion of . defense counsel had repeatedly questioned bowling about the accuracy and reliability of her testimony, particularly whether she had confused rumors or gossip she heard from other sources with what harris or combs had actually told her. much the two sources of information. the statement was not offered to prove the truth of the matter assertedthat harris, combs and allen were responsible for mcneil or that the rumors they were responsible were in fact truebut rather to counter the argument that bowling had a bias or personal agenda that impacted her ability to discern fact from fiction. we do note, however, that the prosecutor could have asked the question in a manner which better ameliorated the concerns expressed by combs and allen on appeal. specifically, the prosecutor could have elicited testimony demonstrating that bowling was able to distinguish between her sources of information without detailing how she was able to do so or the relative horror of the details. neverthelesstrial court has abused its discretion; the showing is insufficient if it presents facts which merely afford an opportunity for a difference of opinion. an appellate tribunal is not authorized to substitute its judgment for that of the (people v. stewart (1985) 171 cal.app.3d 59, 50 65.) a trial court abuses its discretion only when its challenged people v. giminez (1975) 14 cal.3d 68, 72.) admission of this portion of meets that threshold here.18 iv. photo of combs combs contends the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted a photo showing him with the handle of a firearm in each front pocket. allen joins this contention. we disagree. a. trial court proceedings at trial, the court admitted a photo that combs posted to his instagram account on february 6, 2015. the photo 18 we also note that the court immediately gave a testimony, telling the jury not to consider the testimony for accurately recount the defen the court subsequently instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 226, which provides that, when judging the credibility of testimony was influenced by bias or prejudice, a personal relationship with someone involved in the case, or a personal interest in how the case [was] decided. lastly, the court instructed the jury that evidence admitted for a limited purpose may be considered only for that purpose and nothing else. we presume that the jury understood and followed these instructions. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 725.) 51 showed combs leaning against a wall with his arms crossed and with two handguns, one gun in each of his front pockets with the handles visible. in text that accompanied the instagram post, combs described the guns to a user: the firearm expert testified that the handguns appeared to be semiautomatic firearms that were consistent with the .40-caliber ammunition recovered at the crime scene. b. applicable law in order to be relevant and therefore admissible, i code,  210.) the test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable inferenceto establish material facts such as identity, intent, or motive. (see people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 337.) when an objection to evidence is raised under evidence code section 352, the trial court is s probative value against the dangers of prejudice, confusion, and undue time consumption. unless these dangers be overruled. (people v. babbitt (1988) 45 cal.3d 660, 688.) on appeal, the ruling is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. ashmus (1991) 54 cal.3d 932, 973, overruled on another ground by people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 117.) prejudice under evidence code section 352 is not so sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds 52 inconvenient. (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 438 (doolin).) evidence is not prejudicial . . . merely because it s position or shores up that of the proponent. the ability to do so is what makes evidence relevant. the code speaks in terms of undue prejudice. unless the dangers of undue prejudice, confusion, or time consump the probative value of relevant evidence, a sect (id. at pp. 438439.) prejudice under the statute applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section 352, prejudicial is not synonymous with damaging. (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 439.) rather, the statute uses the word in its etymological sense of prejudging a person or cause on the basis of extraneous factors. (ibid.) in other words, evidence should be excluded as unduly prejudicial when it is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant, but to reward or punish one side because of emotional reaction. in such a circumstance, the evidence is unduly prejudicial because of the substantial likelihood the jury will use it for an illegitimate purpose. (ibid.) c. merits in people v. riser (1956) 47 cal.2d 566, overruled on another ground in people v. chapman (1959) 52 cal.2d 95, 53 98, the california supreme court hen the prosecution relies . . . on a specific type of weapon, it is error to admit evidence that other weapons were found in [the des] possession, for such evidence tends to show, not that he committed the crime, but only that he is the sort of person who carries deadly weapo (id. at p. 577.) on the other hand, w]hen weapons are otherwise relevant to the s commission, but are not the actual murder weapons, (people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, 956, disapproved on another point in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) for example, in people v. carpenter (1999) 21 cal.4th 1016, 1052, the supreme court determined there was no abuse of discretion where the trial court allowed a witness to testify the defendant had told her he kept a gun in his van. necessarily was the murder weapon, it might have been. . . . the evidence was thus relevant and admissible as circumstantial evidence that [the defendant] committed the (ibid.; see people v. neely (1993) 6 cal.4th 877, 896.) thus, in order to possession of a weapon, some degree of connection between the weapon and the crime must be shown before the evidence can be deemed admissible, although this determination will turn on the facts of the individual case. (see people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 877, fn. 36.) here, the photo of combs was relevant and not unduly prejudicial. evidence showing combs in possession of 54 firearms of the same caliber ostensibly used during the shooting necessarily has more than minimal probative valueit has potential corroborative value of the forensic evidence gathered by police and the eyewitness testimony. there was also little risk that the photo would inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the evidence to rreactions rather than logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant.19 although the photo showed that combs had access to guns and glorified being armed, it was much less inflammatory than the evidence demonstrating he killed a fellow gang member during a mission to kill a rival. combs admitted he was armed at the scene. thus, the photo presented in detail through the testimony of was (people v. heard (2003) 31 cal.4th 946, 978.)20 19 the jury was also instructed that it must not be influenced by bias, sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion. 20 although combs also contends the photo was testimony, photographs do not have to be excluded simply because the prosecution introduced testimony on the same subject matter. (people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 134135.) 55 v. improper vouching combs contends that the prosecutor improperly vouched for a poargument. harris and allen join this contention. although we agree that the prosecutor engaged in improper vouching, we do not believe it rose to the level of reversible error. a. trial court proceedings detective christopher valento testified that other officers prepared fi cards after interviewing witnesses and turned the cards over to him. the detective then decided whether follow-up interviews were necessary. however, detective valento admitted that he had failed to conduct a follow-up interview with one of the witnesses. the detective confirmed that the murder book he prepared in this case had been turned over to the defense during discovery. detective valento also confirmed that an fi card had been prepared for witness p.s. the detective admitted he failed to interview witness mario guillen during the investigation. when questioned further about fi cards, detective valento said he needed to check to see what he had in his possession during a court recess. following a brief recess, the detective located fi cards in his possession, including p.s.. the prosecution acknowledged that although it had turned over police reports during discovery, it had not provided the fi cards to the defense. the court ordered that the fi cards be turned over to the defense immediately. officer hector beas subsequently testified he had interviewed p.s. as part of the investigation. according to 56 officer beas, p.s. was looking in an eastward direction when she spoke to him and never stated what direction the shooter was firing. however, officer beas acknowledged that in the fi card documenting p.s. officer beas clarified that p.s. was looking in an easterly direction and saying that she was saying that the shots came in an easterly officer beas added that his task was to briefly summarize p.s.ement and leave it to the detectives to follow up with a more thorough interview. officer beas said he had discussed the fi card with detective valento both the day before and the day of his testimony. officer beas also confirmed that the prosecutor had been present during both meetings with detective valento and that neither the detective nor the prosecutor the trial court subsequently instructed the jury pursuant to calrim no. 306 on the untimely disclosure of evidence.21 s attorney 21 the cpeople and the defense must disclose their evidence to the other side before trial within time limits set by law. failure to follow this rule may deny the other side the chance to produce all relevant evidence, to counter opposing evidence, or to receive a fair trial. [] an attorney for the people failed to disclose a field identification card of [p.s.] within the legal time period. in evaluating the weight and 57 criticized the prosecutor for belatedly turning over p.s.ov in his rebuttal argument, the prosecutor responded as information. f.i. card was not given over. t the end of the day. theyou put stuff on the f.i. card. he said shooting eastward. eastbound. well, we know that [p.s.] was in aknow north, south, east, west. that much is clear. she actually told you that in her testimony. the officer assumed. he made a mistake. but this is the other thing that i want to address. and is because i was present with the officer for both dates. so i would have had to be implicated in this as well. this is my bar card. right there. . . . . the back of my bar card is an ethics hotline. you want to jot this number down because you think i somehow acted unethically by having an officer change his testimony, in other words, having an officer commit perjury, the phone number for the ethics hotline of the california bar association is 1 (800) 238-4427. because significance of that evidence, you may consider the effect, if 58 harriss attorney objected on the ground that the prosecutor w was present. the officer said i was present. so that means i the court stated, the officer. [] b. applicable law amendment to the united states constitution when it he trial with such unfairness as to make the [citations.] in other result s right to a fair t[citation.] a prosecutors misconduct that does not render a trial fundamentally unfair nevertheless violates california methods to attempt to persuade (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1202 (cole).) the crucial issue vel non of the prosecutor, (people v. clair (1992) 2 cal.4th 629, 661.) s remarks to determine whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury misconstrued or misapplied them. (id. at p. 663.) alsos remarks 59 (cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1203.)22 c. merits with respect from vouching for the credibility of witnesses or otherwise bolstering the veracity of their testimony by referring to evidence outside the record. [citations.] nor is a prosecutor permitted to place the prestige of [his or] her office behind a witness by offering the impression that [he or] she has taken s truthfulness at trial. [citation.] hs assurances regarding the apparent honesty or reliability of prosecution witnesses are reasonably drawn therefrom, rather than any purported [his or] her comments cannot [citations.] misconduct arises only if, in arguing the veracity of a witness, the prosecutor implies [he or] she has evidence (people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 561.) 22 we do not agree with the people that the defendants forfeited their claim by lodging an incorrect objection. the trial court clearly understood, and expressly stated, that the hing was the trial error at issue. because we reach the merits of this claim, we need not raising an incorrect objection. 60 here, although the prosecutor vouched for both his own credibility as well as that of officer beas, he did not cite facts that were inaccurate, outside the record, or known to the prosecutor but not the jury. responding to the implication that detective valento and the prosecutor had improperly influenced offiy, the prosecutor discussed evidence already before the jurynamely, that the prosecutor was present during the meeting and no one told officer beas what to sayand said that if the jury believed the defense, he should be reported to the state bar. suggestion that he should be reported for any wrongdoing addressed the personal attack against the prosecutor as well as the credibility. thus, the prosecutor used his personal reputation and the prestige of his profession to vouch credibility as well as his own. this was plainly unacceptable and improper conduct. our finding that the conduct does not warrant viction should not be viewed nevertheless, given that the prosecutor did not cite facts that were inaccurate, outside the record, or unknown to the jury, discovery instruction, comments during closing argument infecte[d] the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process or involve[d] the use of deceptive or reprehensible 61 methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. (see cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1202.) vi. imperfect self-defense combs contends the trial court erred in failing to instruct sua sponte on the lesser included offenses of voluntary manslaughter and attempted voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. harris and allen join this contention. we disagree. a killing committed because of an unreasonable belief in the need for self-defense is voluntary manslaughter, not murder. unreasonable self-defense, also called imperfect self- that most culpable of with an actual belief that the lethal s own death or serious injury at the victim (people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 461.) however, imperfect self-defense is a narrow without exception that the defendant . . . had an actual belief in the need for self-defense. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) although a trial court must instruct the jury sua sponte on all lesser included offenses if there is substantial evidence from which a jury can reasonably conclude the defendant committed the lesser, uncharged offense, but not the greater, (see people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 68, disapproved on another ground by people v. romero and self (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 44), when the evidence is minimal and insubstantial, there is no duty to so instruct. (people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 196, fn. 5.) 62 here, no evidence supported an imperfect self-defense instruction. bowling testified that harris had said that mcneil and combs got out of the suv and fired at the monte carlo. harris sped away but came back after the shooting to pick up combs. when combs entered the suv, harris saw mcneil lying motionless on the ground. combs then told harris that termite (bernardez) was shooting at them. if s account, then it could only have found combs acted in perfect self-defense and nothing lessit would not have been objectively unreasonable for combs to fire when faced with an imminent threat from a shooter who had fired or was about to fire at him. thus, the trial court instructed the jury accordingly. s attorney admitted as much at sentencing, when she told the trial court that the defense theory had been perfect self-defense and she was unself- in short, the evidence supported convictions for either murder and attempted murder or acquittal based on self-defense.23 (see people v. valenzuela (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 1214, 1232.) where, as 23 according to combs, the evidence suggested he mptively in what he genuinely considered to be self-defense, even if this reaction was objectively unreasonable from the standpoint of the bernardez fired first. but combs did not testify, nor does the record before this court show, that he perceived an immediate risk of death or great bodily injury when he fired at the monte carlo. 63 establishes actual self-version, if believed, negates both actual and imperfect self- defense, the trial court is not required to give the imperfect self-defense instruction.24 (see people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 834.) vii. sufficiency of the evidence a. as to count 1 combs challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conspiracy conviction because no evidence corroborated s statements to bowling. harris and allen join this contention. harris also contends that, apart from his own admissions, the rest of the evidence regarding the conspiracy was insufficient because it did not constitute adequate corroboration. we disagree with both claims. allen contends that although the jury could reasonably infer combs and harris agreed to kill keiun, there was no evidence that he participated in any agreement or acted in a way to infer he shared their intent. thus, he could not have been convicted as a coconspirator or as an aider and abettor to their crimes. allen was convicted only on counts 1 and 2. we agree that there was not sufficient evidence supporting those convictions. 24 nothing in the record demonstrates that harris or allen had a different mind state than combs. thus, neither was entitled to an imperfect self-defense instruction. 64 1. applicable law a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a judgment implicates the substantial evidence standard of review. favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) we do not determine the facts ourselves, make credibility determinations or resolve evidentiary conflicts. (people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 210 (nelson); people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 (young).) conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive (young, at p. 1181.) thus, every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the (nelson, at p. 210.) moreover, unless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction. (people v. allen (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 616, 623.) in short, reversal on this ground is unwarranted unless it (people v. redmond (1969) 71 cal.2d 745, 755 (redmond).) a conspiracy requires two or more persons agreeing to commit a crime, along with the commission of an overt act by at least one of these persons in furtherance of the conspiracy. 65 (people v. swain (1996) 12 cal.4th 593, 600.) these elements may be established through circumstantial evidence or may be inferred from the conduct, relationship, interests, and activities of the alleged conspirators before and during the alleged conspiracy. (people v. herrera (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 46, 64.) conspirators are vicariously liable for the unintended acts of coconspirators if such acts are in furtherance of the conspiracy. coconspirators are liable for any reasonably foreseeable offenses committed by the perpetrator. (people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 188.) p]roof of a conspiracy serves to impose criminal liability on all conspirators for the crimes committed in furtherance of the conspiracy. . . . w]here several parties conspire or combine together to commit any unlawful act, each is criminally responsible for the acts of his [or her] . . . confederates committed in furtherance of the common design for which they combine. (people v. superior court (shamis) (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 833, 842843.) cient to prove a conspiracy . . . parties positively or tacitly came to a mutual understanding to commit a crime. [citation.] the existence of a conspiracy may be inferred from the conduct, relationship, interests, and activities of the alleged conspirators before and during (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1135 (rodrigues).) because conspiracy require the commission of the substantive offense that is the 66 (people v. morante (1999) 20 cal.4th 403, 416-417.) aider and abettor liability exists when a person who does not directly commit a crime assists the direct perpetrator by aid or encouragement, with knowledge of the s criminal intent and with the intent to help him [or her] carry out the offense. (people v. miranda (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 398, 407.) aiding and abetting may be s presence at the scene of the crime, companionship [with the perpetrator] and conduct before and after the offense, including flight. (people v. haynes (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 1282, 1294.) no one factor is dispositive; a combination of these circumstances, however, may satisfy the substantial evidence test. (miranda, at p. 407; in re lynette g. (1976) 54 cal.app.3d 1087, 10941095.) criminal offense is considered a principal in the crime. [citation.] in order for criminal liability to be imposed under knowledge of the criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of committing, or of (people v. swanson-birabent (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 733, 740.) ere presence at the scene of a crime which does not itself assist its commission or mere knowledge that a crime is being committed and the failure to in re 67 michael t. (1978) 84 cal.app.3d 907, 911.) although mere presence at the scene of a crime is not sufficient, alone, knowledge of the criminal purpose need not be obtained long prior to commission of the crime. (swanson-birabent, at p. not a prerequisite for (ibid.) 2. merits combs challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conspiracy conviction because, he contends, s statements to bowling. harris challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conspiracy conviction because, he contends, apart from his statements to bowling, the rest of the evidence regarding the conspiracy did not constitute adequate corroboration. penal code section 1111 provides in relevant part that: accomplice unless it be corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense; and the corroboration is not sufficient if it merely shows the commission of the offense or the estimeaning of section 1111 means all oral statements made by an accomplice or coconspirator under oath in a court proceeding and all out-of-court statements of accomplices and coconspirators used as substantive evidence of guilt 68 which are made under suspect circumstancespeople v. jeffery (1995) 37 cal.app.4th 209, 218, second italics added.) as our supreme court explained in people v. sully (1991) 53 cal.3d 1195testimonythat it is consciously self-interested and calculatedis not present in an out-of-court statement that is itself sufficiently reliable id. at p. 1230, italics added; see people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 682 [coconspirator hearsay statements were not testimony that required corroboration under section 1111].) we have a statements were specifically disserving toward his penal interest and fell within the declaration against interest hearsay exception. furthermore, his statements were not made under suspect circumstances. therefore, they were sufficiently reliable to require no corroboration. (see people v. jeffery, supra, 37 cal.app.4th at p. 218.) for this reason too, ed claim that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury, pursuant to calcrim no. 334, that corroboration of accomplice testimony was required. must fail. harris contends that, apart from his statements to bowling, the rest of the evidence regarding the conspiracy did not constitute adequate corroboration. we have, however, s out of court statements section 1111. accordingly, the statements can also be used 69 to corroborate all the other evidence presented at trial. other admissions, eyewitness testimony and gang evidence all provided sufficient corroboration. while sufficient econvictions, the same cannot be said for allen. according to the people, allen himself provided incriminating evidence supporting a reasonable inference that his role went beyond just being present with the others. as discussed above, spoke to allen and harris after the shooting. when she him, box (harris), and budd pleasant knew that mcneil, combs, harris and allen were all members of t he was telling the truth. in other words, allen simply confirmed he had been present at the scene along with the other men and that it was mcneil who had been killed. as correctly noted by allen, there were the only two pieces of y in questionhe was in the suv and he was at the scene. however, no evidence revealed that allen was present when the conspiracy was formed or when the weapons were obtained. moreover, there was no direct or circumstantial evidence that allen performed any kind of functional role that dayas a planner, a lookout or even a cheerleader. 70 thus, his attendance and utility were, and remain, unexplained. the people s testimony, in which explained that each gang member on a mission relies on the others to facilitate the commission of the crimes by serving as lookout, getaway driver, or shooter, and that all gang members going on such a mission would be armed and/or know the others were armed. as noted by allen, every gang member in every car in every gang rivalry crime is actively involved in a division of labor, without a shred of case-specific evidence proving shared intent, it proves far too much. we agree. sufficient evidence simply does not support an inference that allen positively or tacitly came to a mutual understanding to commit a crime. (rodrigues, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 1135.) furthermore, n mere presence at the scene of the crime nor his failure to prevent a crime establishes, without more, that he aided and abetted the charged offenses. (see people v. durham (1969) 70 cal.2d 171, 181.) while reversal is unwarranted unless it sufficient substantial evidence to support [the conviction],(redmond, supra, 71 cal.2d at p. 755), s meet this standard.25 because we reverse his convictions 25 allen was convicted of counts 1 and 2 onlyconspiracy to commit murder and the murder of mcneil. 71 based solely on insufficient evidence rather than trial error, the double jeopardy clause bars the prosecution from trying allen again. (see people v. steel (2004) 34 cal.4th 535, 544.) b. as to the gang enhancement combs contends the evidence was insufficient to that the gang enhancements were true.26 he claims that sufficient evidence did not establish that one of the activities was the commission of one or more of the crimes listed in section 186.22, specifically because officer pineda testified that the gang crimes were the chief or principal activities. allen joins this contention. we disagree. with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(1).) the prosecution must prove that the gang (1) is an ongoing association of three or more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) includes members who either individually or collectively have 26 the substantial evidence standard for claims of insufficiency of the evidence applies to special allegations, such as section 186.22 gang enhancements. (people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1224.) 72 committing, attempting to commit, or soliciting two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so- (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 698.) primary activities might consist of evs members consistently and repeatedly have committed (people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 324.) expert testimony may establish the primary activities. (ibid.) officer pineda testified that he had monitored the agc since 2008. he had extensive experience dealing with agc gang members and had testified as an expert on agc at least six times. officer pineda was also the main investigator in approximately 20 arrests involving agc gang members for crimes ranging from narcotics sales, possession of weapons, robbery, burglary, and shootings. the officer specifically identified two agc gang members who were separately convicted of possession of a firearm by a felon and another gang member who was convicted of murder. when asked, to list some of the primary activities of the agc, sales of narcotics. they are involved in street robberies. they are involved in burglaries. they are involved in officer pineda stated that this determination in either personally being the investigator of such crimes or also reading other reports, other crime reports in which 73 crimes involving avalon garden crip gang members have agc members. s argument to the contrary, activities included drug sales, robberies, burglaries, shootings, and murders. personal experience investigating crimesleading to 20 arrestsas well his review of other reports, demonstrated the offenses which the officer opined were t primary activities. although combs cites in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605 (alexander) to support his claim, the case is inapposite. in alexander, the gang expert testified he knew of past crimes committed by members of the gang, but did not provide any further information as to the specifics of the crimes and did not explain where, when, or how he learned of information concerning those crimes. on cross-examination, he admitted that the majority of cases connected with the gang involved graffiti, which is not one of the enumerated crimes in section 186.22, subdivision (e). (id. at p. 612 & fn. 2.) the fourth district of the court of appeal held that the testimony lacked foundation and was conclusory, and 74 could not be considered ss primary and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact (alexander, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 614.) the prosecution also offered evidence regarding two past criminal convictions of gang members from two years earlier. (id. at pp. 612613.) the fourth district concluded this evidence was also insufficient to establish the convictions do not provide substantial evidence that gang members had consistently and repeatedly . . . committed (id. at p. 614.) here, officer pineda testified that the agc had committed several of the enumerated crimes listed in section 186.22, subdivision (e) and clearly explained where, when, and how he had learned of the information concerning these crimes. thus, sufficient evidence supported the gang enhancement here. (see people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1465.) c. as to the firearm enhancement combs contends that insufficient evidence supports the section 12022.53 enhancement attached to the conspiracy conviction. specifically, combs maintains that the conspiracy had concluded by the time a firearm was discharged. we disagree. under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), any person who, in the commission of an enumerated felony personally 75 uses a firearm, shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for 10 years. under section 12022.53, subdivision (c), any person who, in the commission of an enumerated felony, personally and intentionally discharges a firearm, shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for 20 years. under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), any person who, in the commission of am enumerated felony, personally and intentionally discharges a firearm and proximately causes great bodily injury or death to any person other than an accomplice, shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for 25 years to life. whether a defendant used or discharged a firearm in the commission of a qualifying offense is a question of fact. (people v. masbruch (1996) 13 cal.4th 1001, 1007.) we review the sufficiency of the evidence to support the enhancement according to accepted rules of appellate reviewwe view the record in the light most favorable to the prosecution and may not reverse the judgment if any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the [enhancement] beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. carrasco (2006) 137 cal.app.4th 1050, 1057.) in making his claim, combs characterizes the shooting as a separate and distinct objective from the conspiracy. not so. although the overt acts alleged as part of the conspiracy involved keiun, the conspiracy was not limited to 76 keiun as its only target. the defendants initially focused on keiun but were clearly willing to retaliate against another to see their plan to fruition and achieve their overall goal. the decision to target bernardez just another step toward accomplishing the larger objectiveinstilling fear in their rivals, as well as the community at large, and expanding territory. indeed, the shooting sent a powerful message to keiun and his gang that agc was a violent force ready to retaliate against rival gang members in their territory. thus, the initial plan and ultimate shooting served the same purpose.27 o]ne who employs a firearm at any time on the continuum between the initial step of the offense and arrival at a place of temporary safety is subject to the enhancement. (see people v. taylor (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 27 in re brigham (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 318 (brigham) does not change this result. brigham held that the doctrine of transferred intent should not apply if the jury believed the statement of the defendant (a hit man) that he agreed only to kill a man named chuckie; he saw that the intended victim was not chuckie; he urged his accomplice not to shoot; and he tried unsuccessfully to wrestle hands. (id. at pp. 329328.) here, the evidence demonstrated that combs intended to kill keiun and, barring that, the firsbecause doing so sent the same message and effectuated the larger goal. 77 578, 582 [reviewing meaning of personal use of a firearm the commission of a felony as used in section 12022.5].) thus, a firearm is discharged in the commission of a felony within the meaning of section 12022.53[, subdivision] (d), if the underlying felony and the discharge of the firearm are part of one continuous transaction, including flight after the felony to a place of temporary safety. (people v. frausto (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 890, 902.) temporal niceties are not determinative and the discharge of a gun before, during, or after the felonious act may be sufficient if it can fairly be said that is was a part of a continuous transaction (ibid.) here, a reasonable trier of fact could find that the shooting was part of one continuous transaction. the shooting took place shortly after they departed r where the defendants initially believed they would find keiun. the jury could reasonably infer that since keiun was not there, the defendants decided to continue their mission and locate keiun nearby or another member of 87 gangster crips. once the defendants confronted the occupants of the monte carlo, the overarching goal of their mission was satisfied because the shooting would undeniably send a strong message to keiun and his gang. thus, substantial evidence supports the firearm enhancement. viii. s sentencing error combs contends that the sentencing enhancements imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c), must be stricken because the charging document did not specifically allege that he personally used and personally 78 discharged a firearm and, due to faulty jury instructions, the jury only found that a principal used and discharged a firearm instead of finding that combs personally used and discharged a firearm. we agree. count 1 of the amended information listed several overt acts, including the allegation that mcneil and combs however, with respect to the firearm allegations, the information alleged only that a principal used a firearm and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm.28 the allegations did not charge personal use and discharge by combs himself.29 the jury instructions suffered from the same infirmity. nevertheless, during closing argument, the prosecutor informed the jury that the section 12022.53, subdivision (b), 28 as noted by combs, the information used the term principal in all of its 12022.53 allegationsa word that is contained exclusively in subdivision (e) of section 12022.53. combs argues that by using the term principal, the ainly alleging gang-principal use and discharge, not personal use and discharge by [combs] 29 inexplicably, the information did allege personal use of a firearm by allen, under section 12022.5, subdivision (a). thus, when the drafters of the amended information intended to allege personal use or discharge by a particular defendant they knew how to do so. however, no evidence forms never asked the jury to make such a finding. 79 and section 12022.53, subdivision (c), allegations applied only to combs. as the prosecutor stated: (c). those are gun allegations. so (b) and (c). that would apply to mr. combs. and (b) is basically he used the weapon. he did more than that because there were fifteen rounds shot. and (c) is that you indeed, there was no doubt or dispute that combs was the only principal who could have personally used or discharged a firearm during the course of the crimes. the prosecution theory was that mcneil and combs shot at the monte carlo while harris and allen waited inside the suv. although combs argued that the evidence was insufficient in this respect, no one arguedor even raised the possibilitythat it was harris or allen who had actually fired at the monte carlo. thus, was exposed to greater punishment for the personal use and personal discharge of a gun is disingenuous at best. with respect to harris and allen, the prosecutor informed and that basically says that [harris] and [allen] are just equally as if you find the gun allegation true, they are also convicted of 12022.53(b) and (c) obvious in terms of mr. combs, but how they affect mr. harris and mr. allen is that if you find the gang allegation 80 true and you also find that mr. combs fired the gun, then the gun allegation applies to [harris and allen] the verdict forms muddied the issue once again, though. with respect to count 1, none of the verdict forms cited any of the overt acts previously listed in the amended information, including the allegation that mcneil and combs had armed themselves to murder keiun. furthermore, on s, the jury was tasked with determining whether a principal used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), and whether a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). the jury also had to determine whether a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b), and whether a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (c).30 os verdict forms, however, the jury was tasked only with determining whether a principal used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), and whether a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e)(1). in other words, while the jury was asked to find that a 30 subdivisions (b) and (c) of section 12022.53 refer to a person rather than a principal. thus, use of the word principal in this instance is either duplicative or a drafting mistake. 81 principal personally used and personally discharged a gun with respect to combs, the jury was not asked to make such a finding as to harris and allen. nevertheless, the jury was not asked to make an express finding and did not make an express finding that combs personally used or discharged a firearmonly that a principal did so.31 this is a distinction with a difference. as the jury was rightly instructed, a principal means a participant, not necessarily a named defendant himself. as set out in calcrim no. 1402, [a] person is a principal in a crime if he or she directly commits or attempts to commit the crime or if he or she aids and abets someone else who finding as to combs that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm is not equivalent to finding that combs personally used or discharged a firearm. subdivisions (b) and (c) of section 12022.53 without reference to subdivision (e), we agree with combs that is a matter of speculation whether jurors knew what subdivisions (b) or (c) meant or grasped the significance of these subdivisions standing alone, without reference to subdivision (e). there was nothing to alert jurors that subdivisions (b) or (c), 31 although the trial court did instruct the jury on personal use and discharge, it did not specify that this instruction applied to combs alone. indeed, jurors were told that unless the court said otherwise, every instruction applied to each defendant. 82 without reference to subdivision (e), meant personal use or discharge by combs. moreover, as discussed above, the (b) and (c) incorrectly used the term principala term of art on which the jury was specifically instructed. for the penalties in . . . section [12022.53] to apply, the existence of any fact required under subdivision (b), (c), or (d) shall be alleged in the accusatory pleading and either admitted by the defendant in open court or found to be true by the trier of fact. ( 12022.53, subd. (j), italics added.) indeedand prove an enhancement, but also to tender adequate instructions and verdict forms so that a lawful (people v. winslow (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 680, 683.) all too frequently, this responsibility is lost upon the prosecutor who concentrates on the substantive charge or cha (ibid.) here, defective verdict form[s] have come back to haunt the people. this opinion should serve as a reminder that extreme care should be exercised in drafting verdict forms. (in re birdwell (1996) 50 cal.app.4th 926, 928.) because such an error is not subject to harmless error analysis, (see, e.g., people v. botello (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1014, 10281029), the sentencing enhancements imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c), must be stricken. 83 ix. s sentencing error harris contends his sentence should be modified to reflect the oral pronouncement, which imposed a 10-year sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), rather than the 20-year sentence (imposed under section 12022.53, subdivision (c)) as indicated on the abstract of judgment. the people agrees. when sentencing harris on one count 1 pursuant however, the minute order and abstract of judgment reflect the 20-year term under subdivision (c) of section 12022.53. when a nouncement of a sentence conflicts with the minute order or abstract of judgment, the oral pronouncement controls. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185.) thus, the abstract of judgment and minute order should be modified to reflect the trioral pronouncement. harris also contends that his judgment should be modified to reflect an increased number of custody credits. the people states that the issue is now moot because the credit on april 14, 2017, which now reflects that harris was awarded 349 days of custody credits. transcript was certified on march 29, 2016 and thus does not contain any minute orders from 2017. on remand, the parties are directed to confirm that harris has now received the correct amount of custody credits. 84 x. supplemental briefing on october 11, 2017, the governor signed senate bill 620, which amends section 12022.53 to give the trial court the authority to strike in the interests of justice a firearm enhancement allegation found true under that statute. effective january 1, 2018, section 12022.53, subdivision (h), is amended to state: pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur (stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2(h).) in a supplemental brief, harris argues the amendment to section 12022.53 applies to him because his case is not yet final on appeal, citing the rule of in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740. under estrada, courts presume that absent evidence to the contrary, the legislature intends an amendment reducing punishment under a criminal statute to apply retroactively to cases not yet final on appeal. (id. at pp. 747748; people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 324.) the estrada rule has been applied not only to amendments reducing the penalty for a particular offense, but also to amendments giving the court the discretion to impose a lesser penalty. (people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 70, 75.) harris argues that because his case is not yet final, it must be remanded to the trial court for resentencing under the amended version of section 12022.53, subdivision (h), so the 85 trial court can consider whether to strike one or both firearm enhancements. the people agrees that the amendment to section 12022.53 is subject to the estrada rule and should be applied retroactively to cases not final on appeal. but it argues that because the amendment does not become effective until january 1, 2018, the issue is not yet ripe. because this opinion will be handed down after january 1, 2018, the issue is now ripe. the people also argues that we need not remand the case because the trial court would not have exercised its . the people cites people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, in which a different division of this court concluded that remand was unnecessary when the trial court erroneously believed it lacked the discretion to strike a prior conviction under the three strikes law. in that case, however, the trial court stated on the record that it would not have exercised such discretion in any event. (id. at p. 1896.) here, the trial court made no comparable statements as to whether the firearm enhancements should be stricken. thus, although we express no opinion as to how the trial court should exercise its newly granted discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), on remand, we do conclude that the trial court must exercise this discretion in the first instance. disposition with respect to paul demetrius allen, jr., we reverse the judgment on counts 1 and 2 as well as the accompanying 86 gang enhancement allegations. we also hold that the sentencing enhancements imposed in dayvion deandre e pursuant to penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c), must be stricken, and that section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(2), prohibits imposition of the firearm enhancements in addition to the gang enhancement. e and remand the matter for resentencing. on remand, octavia oral pronouncement at sentencing, which imposed a 10-year sentence enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), rather than the 20-year sentence enhancement indicated on the abstract of judgment. the parties must also confirm that harris has now received the correct amount of custody credits. we also remand so that the trial court can exercise its newly ripe discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), and decide whether any of stricken. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. lui, j. 