filed 5/22/18 p. v. macon ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david charles macon, jr., defendant and appellant. b270974 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba419526) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. carlo andreani, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted appellant david charles macon, jr., of second degree robbery for acting as the getaway driver while two of his associates committed an armed robbery of a gas station. he was sentenced to 39 years to life in state prison.1 at the time of the robbery, appellant was wearing a global positioning system (gps) tracking device on his ankle. he contends (1) the trial court erred in admitting the gps records of his whereabouts because the prosecutor failed to lay a proper foundation under evidence code section 1280 and because the gps records were testimonial hearsay; (2) the trial court improperly commented on his right not to testify; (3) the trial court improperly admitted a police lay opinion; (4) his motion for a mistrial should have been granted; and (5) the prosecutor made improper comments during rebuttal argument. we disagree and affirm the judgment. facts prosecution evidence the robbery and getaway on december 16, 2013, at approximately 5:40 p.m., korman redd (redd) and theresa brown (brown) were sitting inside car parked at a shell gas station. redd noticed two men walking along the side of his car towards the entrance of the convenience store. brown, who was seated in the passenger seat, saw one of the men walking by her window. the two men were 1 robbery (pen. code,  211); plus 10 years for two prior serious felonies (pen. code,  667, subd. (a); plus one year for the true finding that a principal was armed with a firearm (pen. code,  12022, subd. (a)(1)); plus three years for three prior prison terms (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)). 3 african-american, wearing black hoodies and gloves, and had covers over their faces. redd saw that one of the men had a gun. redd got out of his car and watched the men through the window of the store. store clerk december miles (miles) finished helping a customer with a transaction, then noticed a man standing by the door near the cigarette area. the man let the customer leave. another man approached miles from the refrigerator area. both men were african-american, wearing black hoodies and black pants. while standing approximately 12 feet from miles, the man from the refrigerator area pointed a gun at her. the gunman came around to miles, grabbed her hair, and told her to and ordered her to open the safe, but she told him the safe was locked. the gunman told miles to get up and open the cash register. the man who was standing by the door jumped over the counter and took the money out of the register. he grabbed with the gunman. miles called 911. video surveillance footage from inside the store captured the robbery and was shown to the jury. redd returned to his car and told brown to call 911. when the robbers came out of the store, they ran northbound, making a left at the end of the building. redd and brown followed in ver a gate. redd testified that the robbers got into a 2004 or 2005 black chevrolet impala (the impala) with tinted windows that had been parked on the street behind the gas station. redd clarified that he did not actually see the robbers get into the impala, 4 license plate number of 5gtm495. the impala had a distinct aftermarket circular emblem with two checkered flags inside attached to the trunk area. redd pulled up next to the impala and saw the two men from the gas station in the backseat. brown called 911 on her cell phone. she and redd gave the operator a description of the getaway car, including its license plate number.2 the impala drove off westbound on 87th street in turn onto saint andrews, and then a right turn onto manchester going eastbound. before the impala reached western avenue, redd pulled over to the left of the impala and saw appellant driving the car. appellant was cap[]pair of silver glasses. redd flagged down a police car on manchester and harvard, and pointed to the getaway car. the officers began chasing the impala going southbound on denker. redd made a u-turn and returned to the gas station. there, he told a police officer -black surveillance video from the bank of america near the shell gas station captured the robbers and the impala and was shown to the jury. 2 redd testified that he could not recall the license plate at trial. the prosecutor showed him the transcript of his preliminary hearing testimony, in which redd testified the -examination, defense counsel played an audio recording of the 911 call and gave the jury a written transcript. the license plate number given to the police operator during the call was 5ks495. 5 appellant the day after the robbery, on december 17, 2013, around 7:30 p.m., los angeles police department (lapd) officer jessie west was on patrol near west 78th street when he saw the impala. officer west stopped the car, which appellant was driving. when appellant stepped out of the car, officer west noticed appellant was wearing a gps bracelet on his left ankle. appellant told officer west the impala was his car but that it was not registered in his name. the investigation in an interview with lapd officer chris chavez, appellant said he purchased the impala from dwayne childs (childs), whom he knew from the neighborhood. when asked where he was on the day of the robbery, appellant said he was at the shell gas station between 11:00 a.m. and 11:30 a.m., then went christmas shopping with his wife in the city of carson from about noon to 5:00 p.m. appellant said he then went to the area of 80th and hoover where he remained until he went home at 6:00 p.m. appellant denied being at the shell gas station at 5:30 p.m. on december 18, 2013, redd was shown a six-pack photographic lineup. he identified appellant as the driver of the on the same day, miles was also shown a six-pack photographic lineup. she identified childs as the person that hopped over the counter and took the money from the cash register and her purse during the robbery. sometime later, miles was shown a second six-pack photographic lineup. she identified deshawn tyler (tyler) as the person with a gun during the robbery. 6 on december 19, 2013, lapd officer jason fong searched the impala. inside the glove compartment, he found a vehicle address. he also found a pair of glasses with a metal frame, a long-sleeve black t-shirt, and a hat. josephina martinez, a latent print criminalist with the lapd, collected 11 fingerprints from the impala. middle finger matched the print found on the outside of the rear passenger door and his left little finger matched the print found on the outside front passenger door frame. right little finger matched the print found on the outside of the front passenger door window. at trial, redd identified the impala as the car he saw near the gas station. the gps data at the time of the robbery, appellant was wearing a gps tracking device on his left ankle placed by his parole agent geofrey carr on november 14, 2013, one month before the robbery. agent carr testified the purpose of the gps device was to monitor a steven reinhart, a regional gps coordinator for the california department of corrections and rehabilitation (cdcr), testified as an expert on gps ankle bracelets. the ankle bracelets used by the cdcr transmit gps location data every minute to software called veritracks. reinhart reviewed the gps location data for the ankle bracelet worn by appellant. on december 16, 2013, at 4:09 p.m., appellant was traveling by car near the area of western and manchester. at 4:18 p.m., appellant was on 79th street. from 5:00 p.m. to 5:23 p.m., appellant remained in the area of 79th street, west of hoover. at 7 5:38 p.m., appellant was on 87th street, west of western avenue. at 5:45 p.m., appellant again returned to the area of 79th street, west of hoover, until 5:50 p.m. at 7:02 p.m., appellant was in the area of cerise and 139th street. according to the gps data, appellant was never in the city of carson on the day of the robbery. defense case on december 16, 2013, lapd officer michael estrada was responding to the robbery call when he was flagged down by redd on manchester avenue. redd described the getaway car and pointed towards denker avenue. officer estrada made a u-turn and gave chase but was unable to catch up to the car. officer estrada went to the shell gas station where he met with redd. redd described the driver of the car as a light-skinned woman in redd also described the getaway car as a black chevy impala with a rear trunk decal displaying t on january 17, 2014, lapd officer gregory sovick participated in the arrest of childs. officer sovick recovered a cell records. the cell phone received a text message at 5:38 p.m., when the two robbers were inside the gas shaudi pishvaie, an lapd latent print criminalist, collected four fingerprints from the shell gas station following the robbery. only two of the lifted fingerprints were usable. they were not a match to appellant, tyler or childs. redd admitted he had previously been charged with possession of a stolen vehicle but the case was later dismissed. a 8 criminal case was read to the jury. during an interview after his arrest, redd told the police officer that he had obtained a 2006 dodge charger after paying $6,000 for it. because he did not have the title to the vehicle, redd decided to steal another ansaction documents from his employer and the dodge vehicle with the falsified title documents. the parties stipulated that on november 6, 2009, brown was convicted of the sale or transportation of marijuana, a violation of health and safety code section 11360, subdivision (a). discussion i. the gps records were properly admitted appellant contends the trial court committed reversible error in admitting the gps records into evidence because (1) the prosecutor failed to lay a proper foundation under the official government records exception to the hearsay rule, and (2) the records are testimonial hearsay whose admission violated a. relevant background at trial, the prosecutor stated that she intended to call the reinhart and its corresponding location data. defense counsel asked for an evidentiary hearing pursuant to evidence code section 402. at the evidentiary hearing, reinhart testified that he was a parole agent with the cdcr assigned as the regional gps and the gps system utilized by them and how they worked. reinhart explained that the gps data originated from satellites owned by the united states department of defense. the 9 satellites send signals to the ankle bracelet that determine its location on earth. the ankle bracelet stores the data, then periodically uploads the data via a cellular modem or cell tower to secure software servers that are operated and maintained by satellite tracking of people (stp). stp is a private company that contracts with the cdcr and sells or leases the ankle bracelets to the cdcr. the data transmitted from the ankle stp stores and maintains the uploaded data on a password-protected software system called veritracks. the data itself, however, is owned by the cdcr. reinhart was personally familiar with the veritracks program because he had used it daily for six years, or . he also received 40 hours of training on the use of the veritracks system, and had taken courses offered by stp and other software companies, as well as reinhart also taught the training course on veritracks in conjunction with stp instructors related to veritracks. he testified that only cdcr personnel who have undergone training have access to the veritracks software. defense counsel as hearsay. the prosecutor argued that reinhart was qualified to testify about the gps records because the data was owned by the cdcr and was generated electronically through the ankle bracelets. the trial court ruled as follows: government, for the department of corrections and through this 10 other company. maintained under contract for the department of corrections. [] he has more than adequate expertise to understand how the system works, to explain how the system works and to access the information. so, the objection is noted for the record. reinhart testified at trial that the cdcr ankle bracelet appellant was wearing at the time of the robbery transmitted gps location data every minute to the veritracks software. veritracks software, and images from the software were shown to the jury. the gps data showed that appellant was near the shell gas station at the time of the robbery. b. applicable law made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the tevidence is the official government records exception to the hearsay rule, embodied in evidence code section 1280, provides: event is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered in any civil or criminal proceeding to prove the act, condition, or event if all of the following applies: [] (a) the writing was made by and within the scope of duty of a public employee. [] (b) the writing was made at or near the time of the act, condition, or event. [] (c) the sources of information and method and time of preparation were such as to i 11 officer, agent, broad discretion in determining whether a party has established these foundational requirements. (people v. martinez (2000) 22 cal.4th 106, 120.) a reviewing court may overturn the (ibid.; people v. lugashi (1988) 205 cal.app.3d 632, 638639.) c. the foundational requirements were met requirements of evidence code section 1280 were met. first, the gps data was made by and within the scope of duty of a public employee. under evidence code section 195, a reinhart testified that the gps data was owned by the cdcr and maintained by stp, a private company contracted to collect and maintain the data on behalf of the cdcr. thus, stp was an agent of the cdcr within the meaning of evidence code sections 195 and 1280. (see e.g., bhatt v. state dept. of health services (2005) 133 cal.app.4th 923, 929930 [patient claim documents prepared by delta dental admissible under evidence code section 1280 because delta dental was an agent of california department of health services under the medi-cal program].) second, the gps data was made at or near the time of the event. reinhart testified that the gps location data received by the ankle bracelet from gps satellites was automatically transmitted every minute from the ankle bracelet to the veritracks software. third, the source of the gps data and method and time of preparation were such as to indicate its trustworthiness. 12 reinhart testified t reinhart also testified that once the gps data is transmitted from the ankle bracelet to the veritracks software, it is accessible only to authorized cdcr personnel with a password. all personnel granted access to the system must also undergo training on the program. for the first time in his reply brief, appellant contends [b]s, method, and time of preparation to indicate trustworthiness, the evidence was erroneously or contentions made for the first time in a reply brief. in any event, this same contention was rejected in people v. rodriguez (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 355, 376377 (rodriguez), and we likewise reject here. in that case, the defendant similarly contended that no adequate foundation had been laid for the report of the gps data location from his ankle monitor because the people failed to call an expert from the company that created the tracking software and managed the servers. (id. at pp. 372373.) the rodriguez court noted that this contention had already been rejected in several cases, and found that testimony by a sergeant from the adequately laid a foundation. (id. at pp. 376377; see people v. lugashi, supra, 205 cal.app.3d at p. 640 [operation and possesses sufficient knowledge and skill to properly use the system and explain the resultant data, even if unable to perform every task from initial design and authentication purposes]; u.s. v. espinal-almeida (1st cir. 2012) 13 699 f.3d 588, 612experienced in analyzing gps devices, was sufficient to gross v. state of maryland (md. app. 2016) 229 md.app. 24, 3536 [expert testimony not necessary to admit records of gps data; as explained in bhatt v. state dept. of health services, supra, 133 cal.app.4th at page 929: the object of this hearsay exception [evid. code,  1280] is to eliminate the calling of each witness involved in preparation of the record and substitute the record of the transaction instead. we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding that reinhart laid a sufficient foundation for the admission of the gps data. d. the gps data was not testimonial appellant also contends the trial court erred in admitting time of the robbery because the testimony constituted case-specific testimonial hearsay and violated his sixth amendment right to confrontation,3 as set forth in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665. once again, this same contention was rejected in rodriguez, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at page 382, and once again we reject it here. rodriguez -generated report of the gps data generated by defendants ankle monitor did not consist of statements of a person as defined by the evidence code, and did not constitute hearsay as statutorily 3 in his reply brief, appellant clarifies that he was denied the organized, retrieved, and gen 14 defined(id. at p. 381.) in reaching this conclusion, rodriguez analyzed other cases, including out-of-state cases, that drew a -stored records, which memorialize the assertions of human declarants, and computer-generated records, which are the result of a process free of human interventionid. at p. 380.) transmitted information to the software server, from which the gps report was retrieved, id. at p. 381.) additionally, rodriguez found the computer-generated report of gps data was not testimonial because the data was originally used to monitor trodriguez, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at p. 382.) thus, the evidence was likewise here, although the gps data was ultimately used by robbery, it was not initially created for the purpose of criminal prosecution. instead, the data was created for the purpose of monitoring the movements of a parolee. records are generally admissible absent confrontation not because they qualify under an exception to the hearsay rules, but becausehaving been created for the administration of an ng or proving some fact at trialmelendez-diaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305, 324.) 15 ii. right not to testify appellant contends the trial court violated his constitutional rights under the fifth and fourteenth amendments by improperly commenting on his right not to testify on his own behalf. a. relevant background at the beginning of jury selection, while reading the preinstructions to prospective jurors, the trial court made several the court explained that just like a computer has an operating system, people also have . . . understand it . . . evaluate that information, and then . . . the court stated . . . the court explained: of providing fair trials. it is the whole goal of this process to make sure that there is fundamental fairness, and if we are going to have that, we have to have you as jurors to be willing to accept this to embrace it. whatever you do at home is fine. personal operating system. but we need you to be willing to say, you know, i can make a distinction between what i do on my own and i can follow these rules and i can do this. the trial court then gave the following example: suppose, you know, you are a parent. you are in your kitchen, and you heard a scuffle in the living room, and something got knocked over and there was some yelling. and you 16 ran into the living room, and there were your two children, and they obviously [have] been in some kind of fight. and you turn to them and you said, okay. what and one of your children looked at you and said, o invoke my right to remain silent. my silence in any way in determining whether i did anything wrong. what do you think he would say? something to the effect right? i know that is what i would say. and that is a perfect example. in your personal operating system, that is, as a parent, that is totally reasonable. no child should have a behavior involved. you know, you are raising kids. you are supposed to be a responsible parent. okay. respect your right to remain silent. anything, then when you come here as a juror, the juror operating hat this is an important part of due process. this is an important part of a fair trial. so, you know, if you go home while you areone night while you are on jury duty and that happens and your kids say, remain silent as your personal huh-uh, i but when you are here, we need you to embrace these rules and accept this juror operating system. (italics added.) the trial court concluded its preinstructions by reminding the embrace it as a juror, in your role as a juror. do whatever you want on your own time, but accept these rules as a juror and 17 help us provide fair trials. presume the defendant to be innocent, hold the people to their burden of proof, proof beyond a reasonable doubt. understand that if [the prosecutor] proves the case to you and she proves it beyond a reasonable doubt, you are supposed to vote guilty. sonable doubt, you are supposed to vote not guilty. accept that. and accept the right to remain silent and respect it and ins during voir dire, prospective juror no. 8 raised his hand when the trial court asked whether anyone had a problem with prospective juror no. 8 the court reminded prospective juror no. 8 of the prior discussion about personal operating system versus juror operating system, and asked instructions and following them. he respo prospective juror no. 8 was subsequently excused for cause. at the conclusion of jury selection, the trial court stated: the burden of proof. the prosecutor does. so he has a right not to say anything. if he sits there and says nothing at all, if guilty unless [the prosecutor] proves the case to you and proves it beyond and again, the trial court stated: 18 that a defendant is presumed to be innocent. he does not have to he does not have to say anything. and been determined, hopefully, by people much wiser than i am as is something we ask all of our jurors to embrace. it. it does not mean if you were making the rules you would include it. t at the conclusion of trial, the jury was instructed with calcrim no. right not to testify. he or she may rely on the state of the evidence and argue that the people have failed to prove the charges beyond a reasonable doubt. do not consider, for any reason at all, the fact that the defendant did not testify. do not discuss that fact during your deliberations or let it influence your b. applicable law it is well established that a defendant cannot be compelled to testify against himself. (u.s. const., 5th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  15.) in griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 (griffin), the united states supreme court ruled the fifth amendment (id. at p. 615.) invocation of this fundamental right, the prosecutor may neither 19 people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 154.) the restrictions have been extended to the trial court. (people v. morris (1988) 46 cal.3d 1, 35.) roper reversal of the judgment unless a reviewing court concludes the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. hardy, supra, at p. 157; people v. vargas (1973) 9 cal.3d 470, 475.) i]ndirect, brief and mild references to a inference of guilt be drawn therefrom, are uniformly held to people v. hovey (1988) 44 cal.3d 543, 572.) c. analysis [t]he trial what he does object to is parent-child example of the right to remain silent, which even assuming appellant did not forfeit the issue by failing to object at trial, any griffin error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. there was nothing in the -child example that directly or indirectly suggested contrary, the court repeatedly emphasized that the jury must accept the right to remain silent and respect it. if anything, the were protected. prospective juror no. 8, the only prospective ify, 20 was ultimately excused for cause and never became part of the final jury panel. the jury was also instructed with calcrim no. must instructions (people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 83), and nothing in the record indicates the jury did not do so. we find no basis for reversal due to comments. iii. was admissible appellant contends the trial court committed reversible error in permitting officer chavez to testify that in his lay opinion the black vehicle depicted in the surveillance video footage was a chevrolet impala. a. relevant background played the bank of america surveillance video footage and asked the officer questions about the images depicted in the video, to see in the officer chavez rosecutor then asked if the officer could tell from the video what was the make or model. officer chavez responded, a passenger vehicle, small vehicle, which looks to me as a chevy defense counsel objected as speculative and nonresponsive. the trial court asked offi 21 overruled the objection, finding the testimony to be within the realm of lay opinion. the prosecutor continued to ask questions about the video counsel objected on lack of foundation and the trial court sustained the objection. opinion, appears to be a chevy i after additional questions about the images depicted on the video, defense the court sustained the objection under evidence code section 352, finding officer was cumulative. b. applicable law lay opinion testimony is admissible if it is both rationally based on the perception of the witness and helpful to a clear understanding of the (evid. code,  800.) the opinion need only be rather than necessaryto (people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1306, fn. 11.) admission of lay opinion testimony on identification is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 128.) c. analysis inadmissible as a lay opinion because he did not personally observe the vehicle at the time of the robbery, the opinion was not helpful to understand his testimony, the subject matter went 22 beyond his common experience, and his opinions were irrelevant. we disagree. in people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 601, our supreme court upheld the admissibility of a the person depicted in surveillance videos was the defendant. although the detective had had no contact with the defendant before the commission of the crimes in question, he since (ibid.) the court concluded that [q]uestions about the extent of [the appearance went to the weight, not the admissibility, of his testimony. [citation.] . . . moreover, because the surveillance video was played for the jury, jurors could make up their own minds about whether the person shown was defendant. was based on his relevant personal knowledge and aided the jury, the court did not abuse (ibid.) the same is true here. officer chavez testified that he personally interviewed appellant after appellant was arrested driving the impala. during the interview, appellant told officer chavez that the impala belonged to him because he had purchased it from childs. officer chavez showed a photograph of the impala to redd, who positively identified it as the getaway vehicle. in his opening brief, appellant asserts that the vehicle thus, matched the vehicle appellant was driving at the time of his arrest was helpful for the jury to fully appreciate the testimony. as in leon, the weight opinion was for the jury to decide. because the video was played 23 for the jury, which also had photographs of the vehicle appellant was driving on the day of his arrest, they could make up their opinion. we find no abuse of discretion in the admission of officer iv. no error in denial of mistrial appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for a mistrial. a. relevant background during the cross-examination of officer chavez, defense counsel asked about subpoenaed cell phone records of childs. officer chavez explained that another officer had obtained the the trial court interjected nor, but in regards to . . .defense counsel asked for a sidebar and moved for a mistrial, stating the bell could not be unrung and that defense counsel was unaware of any murder investigation. the court denied the motion for a right. he just said about the investigation of mr. childs has got absolutely nothing to [do] with [appellant], whether [appellant] [consider thatwhat the purpose of the other officers] . . . consider it in any way, shape, or form, as showing that [appellant] is a bad person, had anything 24 to do with that . . . and do not in any way let it affect your immediately afterward, defense counsel renewed her motion for a mistrial and asked for discovery sanctions against the prosecutor. the trial court denied the motions. later on, defense counsel renewed her motion for a mistrial. the trial sufficient und b. applicable law of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions. (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1068.) motion, we discretion, and such a motion should be granted only when a p chances (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 283; see also people v. williams (2006) 40 cal.4th 287, 323.) c. analysis homicide investigation was isolated and brief. appellant does not point to any further mention of a homicide investigation being made before the jury. after officer chavez mentioned the homicide investigation, the trial court immediately interjected and clarified that the investigation was unrelated to the instant case. the court then promptly admonished the jury that the investigation pertained to childs only, that it had absolutely 25 nothing to do with appellant, that the testimony should not be considered in any wajudgment in this case. the jury presumably followed the instructions. (see people v. coffman and marlow, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 83.) under these circumstances, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in a mistrial. v. there was no prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends comments in rebuttal closing summation that the defense that counsel presented the defense dishonestly and resorted to underhanded methods designed to prevent the truth from coming counsel and to present a defense and fourteenth amendment due process right to a fundamentally fair trial a. relevant background statements in rebuttal that he claims constitutes misconduct. like my job is to present the evidence, ladies and gentlemen, the move your attention away from the evidence, to try to confuse you that are later . . . and the defense attorney then [in the preliminary hearing], just like the defense attorney today, is trying to confuse the issues. trying to confuse 26 happened, on what the evidence shows, on the videos, on the calls, on the people point out that the prosecutor responded to points made by defense counsel during her closing arguments. for example, the prosecutor thing i want to presented you with a document that had some different things. the definition of reasonable doubt . . . is not that it eliminates all here. and as reasonable people, your job is to put everything and the other thing that the defense tries to do is, of course, blame the l.a.p.d. but as we ou to focus on [redd]. he saw what he saw. he told the officer what he saw. he told the officer, light-skinned, female, black. the defense keeps taking that part out. but he did say . . . the person was a black person, was african-american. [] . . . [] . . . the defense is really hung up on the lights and the symbol [of the to you about that. but i want you to remember that the about is that li b. applicable law personal attacks on (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 753.) 27 ertheless, the prosecutor has wide latitude in describing the people v. bemore (2000) 22 cal.4th 809, 846.) defpeople v. kennedy (2005) 36 cal.4th 595, 626, disapproved on other grounds in people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 459), or to remind the (people v. gionis (1995) 9 cal.4th 1196, 1218). based on the denigration of opposing counsel, we view the counsel, and inquire whether the former constitutes a fair people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 978, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) ultimately, we must od that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an people v. ayala, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. we g rather than the least (people v. frye, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 970.) moreover, even if misconduct occurred, reversal is not required unless it is reasonably probable the defendant would have fared better absent the impropriety. (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1133.) c. analysis although not argued by the people, we find that appellant has forfeited the issue of prosecutorial misconduct. 28 general rule, to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, the defense must make a timely objection and request an admonition to cure any harmpeople v. frye, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 969; people v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, 1154, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 421, fn. 22.) appellant does not point to any place in the record showing an objection was made to the complained-of statements or that defense counsel asked for an admonition. in any event, we find no prosecutorial misconduct. viewing defense counsel described the police investigation focused on guilt, and officer chave defense counsel attacked the credibility of the prosecution witnesses, prosecutor asked her to describe the car. she said it was a black impala. i was genuinely surprised because i had sat there and defense counsel also discussed her own versions of reasonable doubt. when it was the prosecutor went on to specifically address each of the defense arguments. she clarified the reasonable doubt instruction, explained that any deficiencies in the police investigation did not affect the state of the physical ed the portions of witness testimony that were damaging to appellantactics and factual 29 account. (see people v. frye, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 978.) there is no reasonable likelihood the jury would have construed the objectionable manner. (see people v. zambrano, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 1154 [no misconduct where prosecutor described closing argument as a people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 759 [no misconduct where prosecutor told the jurors that defense counsel was get you to buy something . . . .people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1303, overruled on other grounds in people v. merritt (2017) 2 cal.5th 819, 831 [no misconduct where prosecutor argued that a lawyer as persuasive as defense counsel be get [a witness] to say disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. __________________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ________________________, p. j. lui _______________________, j. hoffstadt 