filed 5/8/17 p. v. shepherd ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eddis c. shepherd, defendant and appellant. b271310 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba424441) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. maggie shrout, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris and xaiver becerra, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and heather b. arambarri, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 when another motorist did not appropriately yield the right-of-way to him, eddis c. shepherd (defendant) cussed at him, chased after him, bumped him from behind, and ultimately got out of his minivan, stabbed the motorist and went after two others with a knife. on appeal from his convictions for attempted voluntary manslaughter and assault with a deadly weapon, defendant argues that there was insufficient evidence to support one of the two assault with a deadly weapon convictions and that we conclude there was no error, and affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts as defendant was making a right turn in his minivan at an intersection, juan n. (juan) made an unprotected left turn in his work van onto the same street. because juan had not yielded the right-of-way, defendant began cussing at him as juan drove past. defendant gave chase, pulling up alongside juan on the wrong side of the street, rolling down his window and screaming, d ordering juan to pull over. juan reciprocated the taunts, but did not pull over. defendant then dropped back behind jd him from behind. juan sped up to get away from defendant, swerving back and forth to keep defendant from coming up alongside him again; defendant tailgated. juan then drove to a nearby automobile repair shop where he worked part time. as soon as juan stopped his van, defendant pulled at an angle to prevent juan from driving away. both men got out of their vehicles. defendant ran toward juan, all the while slashing a knife with a four or five inch blade. juan pushed defendant back with his 3 hands and started to back away. juan tripped and fell back onto the pavement. defendant then stood over juan, slashing and stabbing with the knife as juan flailed his arms and legs to keep defendant at bay. as he slashed and stabbed, defendant , to defendant landed two attacks, stabbing juan in the calf and the buttocks. three , including alex g. (alex) and ricardo s. (ricardo), heard screeching brakes, and came outside to find defendant standing over juan. when alex approached the melee, defendant stepped away from juan and ran at alex, swiping the knife back and forth and saying something about (which alex did not fully understand because he did not speak english well). one of the swipes came within five or six feet of alex before alex turned and fled into a nearby 99 cent store. when ricardo shouted for defendant to leave juan alone, defendant approached ricardo, slashing with the knife and scream juan and ricardo fled to the auto shop. defendant followed, and then paced entrances, brandishing the knife and screaming in an enraged defendant came at ricardo once again with the knife, screaming that he was going to kill him, and ricardo blocked the blow with a bar he had grabbed to defend himself. juan threw an alternator at defendant, and defendant threw it back. when juan and ricardo refused to come out of the auto shop, defendant walked back to one of cell phone. 4 the police arrived soon thereafter, and took defendant into custody. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with (1) the attempted premeditated murder of juan (pen. code,  187, subd. (a) & 664),1 (2) assaulting alex with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), and (3) assaulting ricardo with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)).2 with respect to the attempted murder count, the people further alleged that defendant personally used a dangerous or deadly weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12202.7, subd. (a)). the people additionally degree burglary conviction and his 1996 juvenile robbery adjudication constituted law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and prior serious felonies ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the matter proceeded to trial. defendant testified. he admitted stabbing juan, but stated that juan had started it and that defendant was acting to protect himself and his wife, who was a passenger in his minivan. the trial court instructed the jury on the crimes of attempted premeditated murder and assault with a deadly weapon. as to the attempted murder charge, the court also instructed on the lesser included offenses of attempted voluntary 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 making criminal threats ( 422), but she is not part of this appeal. 5 manslaughter due to heat of passion and attempted voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. as to all three charged crimes, the court gave a self-defense instruction. the jury convicted defendant of attempted voluntary manslaughter and both counts of assault with a deadly weapon, and found true the enhancements for personal use of a dangerous or deadly weapon and personal infliction of great bodily injury. the trial court imposed a prison sentence of 16 years. after striking the earlier juvenile adjudication as a strike and a prior serious felony, the court imposed a 12-year sentence on the attempted voluntary manslaughter count, calculated as a three-year base sentence (18 months, doubled due to the remaining prior strike), plus one year for personal use of a dangerous or deadly weapon, plus three years for the personal infliction of great bodily injury, plus five years for the prior serious felony. the court then imposed a consecutive two-year sentence for each of the assault with a deadly weapon counts, calculated as one-third the middle term of three years, doubled due to the prior strike. defendant filed this timely appeal. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence underlying the assault on alex defendant argues that there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction of assaulting alex with a deadly weapon because he was five to eight feet away from alex when he slashed at him with the knife. in assessing whether substantial evidence supports a conviction, we ask whether the record contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty 6 beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890.) there was sufficient evidence in this case. the crime of assault with a deadly weapon has two elements: (1) the assault, and (2) the means by which the assault is committed. (people v. smith (1997) 57 cal.app.4th the person of another with a deadly weapon or instrument other than a firearmwith a present ability, to commit a violent injury on the person of present ability to injure[o]nce [he] has attained the means and location to strike immediately. [citation.]people v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, 1174 (chance).) in this context, position[ed] himself to carry out a battery . . ., even if some steps remain to be taken, and even if the victim or the surrounding circumstances thwart the infliction of injurid. at p. 1172.) it does not . . . do everything physically possible to complete a battery short of actually causing physical injury to id. at p. 1175.) accordingly, an assault can occur when a defendant throws a bad punch (people v. wingo (1975) 14 cal.3d 169, 176, superseded on other grounds by  1170), misses when throwing a tranquilizer dart (people v. cook (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 309, 314), or shoots a bullet that goes wide (people v. bradford (1972) 28 cal.app.3d 695, 707). actual, physical contact is not required. (people v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 1028.) under this precedent, there is sufficient evidence that defendant assaulted alex when he came at him swiping the knife, even though defendant did so while still five to eight feet away 7 from alex. the fact that defendant needed to take one or two finding that defendant had equipped and positioned himself to carry out his intended battery. defendant contends that language in other supreme court decisions is to the contrary. specifically, he points to passages [a]n assault . . . must precede the battery, but [must] do[] so immediately. the next movement would, at least to all appearance, complete the battery.people v. colantuono (1994) 7 cal.4th 206, 216, citing perkins on criminal law (2d ed. 1969) ch. 2,  2, pp. 118-119; people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 786 [using same language].) our supreme court has already rejected argumentlanguage. in chance, the court expressly noted that the above-cited language was relevant tointent namely, that the defendant of the facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that a battery would directly, naturally and probably result from his chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 1170-1171, italics added; williams, at p. 788.) the use of this language to describe the intent element of assault, the chance not mention or change the well-established understanding of the assault. (chance, at p. 1171.) eliance on this language is consequently misplaced, ii. adequacy of investigation into juror misconduct a. additional facts during his cross-examination, defendant had several exchanges with the prosecutor in which defendant admitted that 8 not with him. the day after that testimony, and before closing arguments, one of the jurors reported to the trial court that juror no. 4 had engaged in two instances of misconduct: (1) juror no. s on by other jurors not to discuss the case; and (2) juror no. 4, after -examination, tried to start a game of here the word to be guessed was gues in response, the trial court proposed to the parties the following procedure for investigating this claim: the court would question juror no. 4 as to whether this happened and, if so, ask the other jurors whether they were no. defendant agr juror no. 4 was individually questioned by the court, and admitted to both incidents. the court excused juror no. 4 becaushe the court then spoke to the remaining jurors as a group. the court explained that it had excused juror no. 4 for erate[ly] violat[ing] . . the court it was that [juror no. 4] drew up on three jurors responded that they were not aware of anything being on the board, and none of the others indicated that it had . the court next 9 jurors. again, none of the jurors responded that it had.3 the court selected an alternate juror to replace juror no. 4, and the trial resumed. b. analysis juror no. 4; instead, he asserts that the court erred in not conducting a full evidentiary hearing to question each juror individually. we review this claim for an abuse of discretion. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 702 (fuiava).) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in this case. that a juror may have engaged in misconduct, the court has a to make whatever inquiry is reasonably necessary to determine if the juror should be discharged and whether the impartiality of the other ju (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 702, quoting people v. kaurish (1990) 52 cal.3d 648, 694; people v. virgil inquiry uncovers juror misconduct, reviewing courts will presume that the misconduct was prejudicial unless evidence to the contrary appears in the record. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 commencement of deliberations is juror misconduct. (in re hitchings (1993) 6 3 the trial court posed both questions to the jury, it does not indicate how he jurors responded in the affirmative. 10 inquiry of other jurors regarding the effect of juror misconductand the jurors answers that there was no effectcan rebut the presumption of prejudice. (people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1342-1343.) as an initial matter, defendant forfeited any objection to the adequacy of the trial by telling the court he possible misconduct. (people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 460.) moreover, defendant has failed to show that the trial dequate. [n]ot every incident involving a (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 702, quoting people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466, 478), and for good reasoncoercive effect on those deliberations(fuiava, at p. 710). here, the court took a logical, two-step approach to investigating the existence and effect of any misconduct by juror no. 4: it directly asked juror no. 4 what had happened and, upon verifying that misconduct had happened, removed juror no. 4 and asked the remaining jurors whether they were influenced or otherwise affected by this misconduct. the court did not further attempt to ascertain which of the remaining jurors had guessed the word : the end result of such an inquiry would have been the specific juror as to whether he or she could be impartial (which is something the court had already ascertained), and such individual questioning would have further invaded the sanctity of 11 . the court took a reasonable course of action. defendant urges that a more probing and individualized inquiry was required, but relies on cases involving postverdict challenges to deliberations. (e.g., people v. hedgecock (1990) 51 cal.3d 395, 414-415.) those cases are less helpful because, at that point, the deliberations are over and the risk of advertently injecting more error into the deliberations is gone. defendant also argues that the trial court erred in taking the other jurors at their word when they indicated they were not above, courts may ask jurors whether they were affected by they find them to be credible. (people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 281 rediting the that courts may disbelieve jurors accused of misconduct who disclaim their misconduct and may, in some circumstances, disbelieve jurors who indicate they can be impartial. (people v. mcneal (1979) 90 cal.app.3d 830, 838; people v. farris (1977) 66 cal.app.3d 376, 386-387; silverthorne v. united states (9th cir. 1968) 400 f.2d 627, 639.) but these cases do not require a court to disbelieve them. more to the point, defendant provides no basis for us to second-that the jurors in this case were credible when they indicated the that misconduct was fleeting, brief, and quickly squelched by the or she could not set aside the effect of misconduct is inherently unbelievable. 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, acting p. j. chavez _________________________, j.* goodman * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 