filed 1/29/19 p. v. bey ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ravanna mohamed bey, defendant and appellant. b271232 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba419310) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed. marilyn g. burkhardt, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and robert c. schneider, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 ravanna mohamed bey (appellant) was charged with the murder of jason randle (randle). (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)1 it was alleged that appellant used a firearm in the commission of the crime for purposes of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d), respectively. the jury found him guilty of murder in the first degree, and it found the firearm allegations to be true. he was sentenced to state prison as follows: 25 years to life, plus an additional 25 years to life under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), for a total prison sentence of 50 years to life. on appeal, appellant contends the evidence is insufficient to prove he was the perpetrator of the murder; the trial court erred by denying motion for mistrial; the trial court s phone; he received ineffective assistance of counsel; and, due to cumulative errors, he was deprived of a fair trial. we find no error and affirm. facts prosecution case the murder took place during the night of august 7, 2010, at the apartment complex where randle was living with his fiance. randle left his apartment to go the store and was shot minutes later near the apartment no witnesses to the shooting testified, and appellant did not confess. further, there was no evidence appellant knew or had ever met randle. the prosecution presented a case based on inferences arising from the circumstances. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 events of august 7, 2010 in the late evening hours of august 7, 2010, about 20 or 30 minutes before the shooting, appellant and mark brown (brown) approached marcos salazar (salazar) the front of the apartment complex. appellant put a black gun with a laser site to salazars chest, gang, and asked why he was wearing a white sox hat. salazar was afraid for his life. before getting an answer, appellant accused salazar of being from the rollin 60s, a crip affiliated gang. salazar denied affiliation with the rollin 60s but then went on to say that appellant said that wearing a white sox hat means a person is from the rollin 60s. he then said that if someone started shooting based on the belief that salazar was a gang member, appellant and others [were] going to have to brown said he knew salazar and told appellant to leave salazar alone. at some point, brown told appellant to put the gun away because the police might see appellant with it. appellant said he did not about the policethat salazar thought appellant was insane, and that he might end up being killed by appellant. subsequently, salazar heard appellant claim he was from 68th street and the playboys gang, and that he had been in the gang had not according to appellant, he was not getting the respect he deserved. at that point, he statedtonight you will see, i will redeem myself salazar understood this to mean appellant was prepared to kill someone. appellant bragged that 4 he could kill a police officer, get in his car and be home in 45 minutes. he also said that nobody would find out. langston brooks (brooks) lived in the apartment complex. prior to the shooting, he saw appellant in a group of eight or nine men by the back gate. brooks did not know them. he assumed they were all playboy hustler crips because no one else loitered there. three or four minutes before the shooting, brooks saw a group of four or five men with appellant; there was a beam illuminating the ground. then brooks saw appellant hold a black gun with an infrared scope in the air and fire a shot. xavier scott (scott) heard gunshots while walking. upon turning a corner and walking through the back gate, he saw six to eight men, including appellant. scott noticed that appellant was holding a black nine-millimeter gun, and it appeared to scott that appellant was angry. p.m. jeremiah dirks (dirks) saw appellant with five or six men in the parking lot between the apartment s first and second buildings. appellant was holding a black semi-automatic handgun and showing the weapon to others in the group. brooks, scott, and dirks left the area. soon after, they heard the gunshots that killed randle.2 brooks came down the stairs to his apartment and saw randle on the ground. and, according to brooks, he away. 2 scott and dirks testified they went into their apartments and heard shots five to 10 minutes later. brooks estimated that the time lapse between seeing appellant with the gun and the shooting of randle was three to five minutes. the time lapse after he went to his apartment and heard the shots was 30 to 45 seconds. 5 fiance heard the gunshots, she exited their apartment and ran to the front of the apartment complex. she saw three african-american men running westbound on the street. one was light-skinned. then she went to the back gate and saw randle. police officers received a dispatch call at about 10:30 p.m. regarding a shooting. at the scene, they found randle 10 or 12 feet inside the back gate. onlookers informed the police that the suspect had fled westbound from the rear of the complex. detective refugio garza found graffiti on a gate that read playboy hustler crips inside of the gate was another arrow with graffiti and was connected to the playboys. the graffiti according to detective he marking itself looked on the wall inside the gate where randle was killed there ler crip. the cartridge casings found at the crime scene and two bullee-millimeter caliber. the cartridge casings collected from the crime scene were discharged from one gun. the bullets had also been discharged from one gun. further investigation detective garzareasons. he learned from scott that the man with the gun was -money,- detective garza received information that this moniker was associated with the playboy hustler crips. the crime occurred in a complex where 6 the playboy hustler crips hung out, and detective garza thought a rival gang member would never walk into that apartment complex and target a victim without shooting everyone else who was standing there. moreover, appellant mostly matched the description of the suspect provided by witnesses.3 detective garza discovered that appellant used to live in the area, on 68th that the man he spoke to said he used to live on 68th street. appellant did not live in the area, which is what detective garza heard about the suspect. when detective garza interviewed brooks, he identified appellant in a photographic lineup. brooks speculated that a gang leader named hennessy told appellant to shoot randle, and that appellant followed the order. on december 19, 2013, the police chief for the city of grover beach arrested appellant and impounded his vehicle. inside the trunk, the chief found a laser light system and a tactical flashlight, both of which could be mounted on a firearm. later, when detective garza arrested appellant, he confiscated on it, detective garza found two photographs that showed appellant making the sign of a rabbit. detective garza thought these photos were significant because they linked appellant to the playboy hustler crip gang, which had graffiti at the apartment complex where randle was killed. detective garza found text messages between appellant and wes wes, a playboy hustler crip. the text messages were sent on or about the day a playboy hustler crip was murdered. they indicated that appellant and wes wes were discussing a rumor 3 brooks said the man had braids, which did not match appellant. 7 4 and that the police did not suspect the playboy hustler crips. law enforcement examined cell phone records. they showed that on august 7, 2010, awas in the grover beach area in the morning and eventually travelled south to the los angeles area where it continued to the area of the crime scene. after the shootingnorth to downtown los angeles and then back south. west and north of the crime scene and stayed in one area into the early morning hours of august 8, 2010. subsequently, the phone travelled north to camarillo. by 11:24 was back in the grover beach area. the cell phone records established, inter alia, that between 10:36 p.m. and 10:38 respectively with the phones of playboy hustler crip gang members brown and curtis lee (lee). contact with an unknown number ending in 9349 at 10:45 p.m. then, at 10:47 p.m., apptashana prosser (prosser), the ex-girlfriend of lee. between 11:00 p.m. and 11:10 p.m.phone and the phone of latravell washington (washington), a woman who was in the same circle of friends as lee, prosser and appellant. the following morning, there was more contact between the phones of washington and appellant as well as the phones of brown and appellant. contact with three additional numbers that were never identified. 4 the record suggests that the prosecution assumed that hennessy was a subject of the randle murder investigation. 8 when interviewed, washington denied talking to appellant and claimed that she had not seen him since the time they dated in high school. on august 14 and 15, 2010, had call activity near the crime scene. a week after the shooting, there was a memorial service for randle. dirks saw appellant at the memorial. defense case appellant did not testify.5 discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence. appellant contends the evidence does not qualify as substantial evidence that he committed the murder. but as we discuss, the circumstantial evidence and reasonable inferences were sufficient to allow the jury to conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that appellant was the perpetrator. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 811812 [the record must contain substantial evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could find a defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt]; people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 57 [circumstantial evidence and any reasonable inferences drawn from that evidence.) for purposes of this appeal, appellant does not dispute that he was seen at the apartment complex prior to the shooting, and that he had a gun. his argument is that the evidence proved, at most, that he might be the killer or probably was the killer, and 5 the defense called multiple witnesses. their testimony touched upon the issue of whether appellant was the man witnesses saw with a gun on august 7, 2010. his identity as that man is not in dispute on appeal. 9 that his conviction therefore violated the sixth amendment to the united states constitution. (sullivan v. louisiana (1993) 508 u.s. 275.) turning to specifics, appellant notes that other gang members were present before the shooting. next, he posits that his statement that he wanted to redeem himself did not establish that he intended to kill someone. he adverts to dictionary definimeant something virtuous and innocuous. he contends that his presence near the back gate prior to the shooting does not establish that he was there during the shooting. the fact that no one saw another person with a gun, in his mind, does not establish that his companions were unarmed. based on this, he tacitly suggests one of his companions might have been armed, and might have been the shooter. appellant goes on to argue that firing a shot in the air prior to the shooting does not mean he is the killer. though the evidence suggested he had a nine-millimeter gun, the same caliber as the cartridge casings and bullets found at the scene and in randle, respectively, appellant argues that there was no evidence that a nine-millimeter gun was so unusual or unique that he was the only person who could have had one. while the cell phone evidence suggested that appellant fled from the scene, brooks and e saw multiple people fleeing. accordingly, appellant says his decision to alight from the area proved only that he left the area at the same time as his companions. he discounts his threats to salazar to shoot rival gang members and the police as empty because no rival gang members were shooting at salazar and because no police were 10 present. finally, appellant posits that the text messages with wes wes only proved that he was interested in the status of investigation, particularly the fact that the police let hennessy go and were not focusing on the playboy hustler crip gang.6 appellant claims he had nonincriminating reasons to be interested because he belonged to the gang, the 6 we note that after the trial court heard the content of some consciousness of guilt with respect to this case. all it shows, all this is talking about the murder, when the individual tells [appellant] that he wants to keep [appellant] posted; that police officers stopped hennessy, and everybody knew that hennessy . . . was murder. defense counsel stated her belief that detective garza would offer an opinion that the text messages referred to the randle investigation. but then she stated that the text messages made no reference to it. in his opening brief, appellant states, e fact [that] appellant discussed but elsewhere in admitting the text messages. the text messages were irrelevant because there was no substantial evidence that they related to evidence code section 352 because they were confusing, misleading, and their prejudicial impact exceeded their probative it is unclear why appellant takes alternating and inconsistent positions on this matter. it appears his first and third positionthat there was no connectionis correct. 11 murder occurred at a gang hangout, and he was in that location shortly before or at the time of the murder. we view the evidence differently. appellant, a gang respect. twenty or 30 minutes before the shooting, he indicated he would redeem himself that night. also, he talked about killing rival gang members in retaliation if they started shooting because they believed salazar was a gang member. appellant proclaimed that if the police appeared, he would shoot them. he bragged that he could kill a police officer and then get away with it by being on the freeway and home in 45 minutes. brooks saw appellant fire his gun in the air, and all the cartridge casings discovered at the crime scene came from the same weapon. from this evidence, the jury could have reasonably inferred that appellant intended to redeem himself by shooting someone that night and enhancing his gang reputation, that was the murder weapon, and that appellant was the person who shot and murdered randle. example, appellant fled the scene after the shooting, which suggested consciousness of guilt. (people v. price (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 409, 456.) in addition, by the time the police arrived at the murder scene, the playboy hustlers crips had already marked the structures near the scene with graffiti to show the apartment complex was their territory. some of the markings were fresh. this suggested appellant had carried out his intended plan by killing randle, and that the gang acknowledged the murder with graffiti. after the shooting, appellant was in constant contact with gang members or it associates. in conjunction with the other evidence, this constant contact 12 suggested that he had an intense interest in the murder, which suggested his guilt. his intense interest was also suggested by his presence at we conclude the evidence was sufficient to allow a jury to find appellant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. ii. denial of mistrial. appellant contends the trial court erred when it denied fiance. a trial court should grant a mistrial if chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged, i.e., when the prejudice cannot be cured by admonition or instruction. (people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 372; people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 573.) incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions. (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1068.) we find no abuse of discretion. a. relevant proceedings. on thursday, january 14, 2016, the matter was in the middle of trial. while the trial court and counsel were engaged in colloquy, and while the jury was present, e addressed appellant and stated, you ruined my life. you ruined have she know he did. my son, he just had his first basketball game and 13 the trial court addressed the jury, stating: ladies and the jury was excused. the trial resumed on tuesday, january 19, 2016. defense counsel indicated that she wanted to make a record. the trial record to be made later. subsequently, the trial court invited defense counsel to make her record. she move[e] exhibited was very emotional. she was crying loudly in the court[room], accusing [appellant] that . . . this was counsel] were at sid in addition, defense counsel stated that e about [six] feet . . . alongside the jury box, and stopped there and the trial court denied the motion, noting that there was a jury instruction stating that sympathy, passion, and prejudice are not to be considered. b. forfeiture. admonition for alleged spectator misconduct waives the issue for appeal if the objection and admonition would have cured the (people v. hill (people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 368.) the prejudicial effect . . . may be corrected by judicial admonishment; 14 (people v. martin (1983) 150 cal.app.3d 148, 163 [denial of mistrial affirmed in case where the trial court gave the jury an admonition].) to the degree there was any prejudice to appellant, that prejudice would have been cured with an admonition given that the outburst was short in duration and not based on personal knowledge. defense counsel did not ask for an admonition either the day of the outburst or the next day of trial. as a result, the issue was not preserved for appeal. c. no error. as we have indicated, the outburst was brief and not based on personal knowledge. the trial court ruled within the bounds of reason by concluding that the jury instructions would cure any potential prejudice. iii. the text messages. appellant contends admission of a small portion of a text message exchange between himself and a fellow playboy hustler crip gang member named wes wes should have been excluded under evidence code section 352 as unduly prejudicial. as we discuss, there was no abuse of discretion because the defense did not assert a timely objection. (people v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 282.) in any event, even if there was error, we conclude that it was harmless. a. relevant proceedings. in a hearing outside the presence of the jury, the trial court considered a motion in limine by defense counsel objecting to the related, in part, to a person named hennessy. the trial court stated it would admit the evidence if detective garza could 15 made, mr. hennessy was . . . being . . . defense counsemr. the detective garza not that the the trial court repliobjections with respect to that. the [trial] court is satisfied with the evidence was as follows: dirks knew an individual with the nickname hennessy, and had seen him with brown, lee and a person who went by the nickname s-mak. hennessy was a regular visitor at the apartment complex. when detective garza went through between appellant and wes wes, a playboy hustler crip. the text was sent on or about june 1, 2013, which was the day a man named lionel douglas was murdered. playboy hustler crip. the text message indicated that hennessy had been let go, . . . [t]hey are not on playboys detective garza interpreted this last text message to mean the gang had the freedom to do whatever it wanted. at no point did the prosecution or defense ask detective garza or any other law enforcement officer whether hennessy the defense never objected that the prosecution had failed to lay the required foundation. 16 b. forfeiture. at the time the trial court ruled on the objection, it merely stated that the text messages were admissible if detective garza laid a foundation, i.e., established that hennessy was a suspect in erred in this respect. rather, appellant suggests that the trial court erred when it admitted the evidence. but defense counsel failed to interpose a lack of foundation objection, or to otherwise renew the evidence code section 352 objection. as a result, the objection to the text messages was forfeited. (people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 122.) according to appellant, the issue was preserved for review because the trial court indicated it had already ruled when defense counsel pointed out that detective garza did not know whether hennessy was the subject of some other investigation. ruling that detective garza had established a sufficient evidence. we cannot concur. when detective garza stated that he was not aware of hennessy being the subject of any other investigation, it was not in front of the jury and was therefore not offered as evidence. at most, it was an offer of proof. it did not obviate the need for the prosecution to lay a proper foundation for the text messages. moreover, detective garza never stated that hennessy was a subject of the randle murder investigation. though no foundation was laid, appellant did not object at the time the issue was ripe. people v. morris (1991) 53 cal.3d 152, 190 (morris), is cited by appellant for the proposition that a contemporaneous objection at trial is not required if an in limine motion sufficiently 17 preserved an objection for appeal when ground for exclusion is advanced and subsequently raised on appeal; (2) the motion is directed to a particular, identifiable body of evidence; and (3) the motion is made at a time before or during trial when the trial judge can determine the evidentiary question instead of helping appellant, morris establishes why appellant forfeited his objection. at the time the trial court initially ruled on the motion in limine, it stated it would allow the text messages in only if detective garza laid a proper foundation. because he was not testifying during that hearing, the prosecution was not attempting to lay a foundation at that time, and it was not an appropriate context for the trial court to determine whether the text messages should, in fact, be admitted into evidence. the context was appropriate only at the time the prosecution elicited testimony regarding the text messages. then and only then was the trial court in a position to determine if a foundation was laid. c. no prejudice. even if the objection was preserved and we concluded there was error, we would also conclude it is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to appellant would have been reached in the absence of error. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) at most, the evidence highlighted above showed that appellant was a playboy hustler crip and was associating with another gang member. there was ample other evidence to establish that appellant was a gang member and associating with that gang based on witness statements and the cell phone records. as a result, the absence of the text messages 18 would not have materially changed the picture the jury had of appellant as a gang member. appellant suggests there was prejudice because in rebuttal argument to the jury, the prosecutor stated: stopped ried about who is going to getwho they are to the degree the prosecutor suggested the text message was relevant because hennessy was a focus of the randle murder investigation, that was merely an implication without evidentiary support because the text messages did not, in fact, suggest 7 consequently, the argument did not cause prejudice. iv. ineffective assistance of counsel. appellant contends that defense counsel provided ineffective representation because she did not object to and move s police interview to prevent the jury from hearing (1) his hearsay statements, (2) his speculative and irrelevant opinions that appellant shot randle, and that hennessy told appellant to do it, and (3) his 7 appellant po neither party, however, cited evidence that hennessy was had reason to believe, that to be true. it is therefore unclear how this evidence could have caused appellant any prejudice. again, we are confronted with appellant taking inconsistent positions as to whether the text messages were related to the randle murder. here, appellant suggests they were related. elsewhere, he says the opposite. 19 speculation about the reasons why hennessy told appellant to shoot randle. there is a two-prong test for ineffective assistance of below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. if so, a court considers whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391, citing strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694 (strickland).) court need not determine whether counsel's performance was deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies. the object of an ineffectiveness claim is not to grade counsel's performance. if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that course should be followed. courts should strive to ensure that ineffectiveness claims not become so burdensome to defense counsel that the entire criminal justice system suffers as a result. (strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697.) as we discuss below, any inadequacies in representation did not prejudice appellant. a. relevant proceedings. the trial court held a pretrial discussion in chambers. afterwards, defense counsel made the following record: . . . object[ed] to any hearsay and/or rumor evidence coming in as on direct examination at trial, the prosecutor asked brooks a series of questions about his observations shortly before the murder and his identification of appellant in a photographic 20 lineup. brooks said he did not remember. among other things, he testified remember whether he saw someone holding a gun outside the apartment complex before the murder, he did not remember talking to detective garza on november 13, 2013 while in prison, and he did not remember looking at photos on that date, circling photo number 2, picture 2 was the guy i saw in the area the day of the the prosecutor asked the trial court to declare brooks a and to allow her to play an audio recording of his interview with detective garza on november 13, 2013. the court granted both requests. a transcript of the recording was distributed to the jury, and the recording was played. defense counsel did not object to its admission or request that it be redacted. brooks said he hoped the police caught the killer, and that the murder had been on his mind because his kids still lived in the apartment [s]killer might be there right brooks described his experience on the night of the murder. among other things, he said he was outside his apartment, smoking a cigarette, when he saw a group of about nine guys standing outside the back gate. the group contained people he had never seen with the playboys before, including a light-skinned african-american male who had braids and wore a beanie. hennessy was out there. brooks saw the light-skinned african-american male holding a gun with a laser and shoot one round up into the air. after that, brooks went inside his apartment, and a few minutes later heard the gunshots that killed randle. 21 during the interview, brooks identified appellant in a six-pack as the light-skinned african-american man who fired the shot in the air. brooks said he did not see but he thought it was appellant for a variety of reasons. brooks knew that appellant was outside the back gate with a gun, and he did not know whether anyone else out there had a gun. he noted that earlier in the day of the shooting, appellant pulled a gun on salazar a now and be on the freeway and be back at my house in [forty-five] minutes and at another point, brooks referred to on two innocent kids that day and told them he would kill last, brooks, believed the killer had to be someone who did not live there. hennessy probably could not convince one of his they knew him and would brooks said he investigated the murder himself. he could not get anyone to tell him who the gunman was. but, at various points, he did say: ned behind [randle] and hennessy. he got into it with hennessy. [] . . . [] hennessy is one of . . . their main dudes orwell, one of their big homies. [randle]. y told that dude to kill him. what i believe. y killed him. i believe hennessy told . . . [] . . . [] [w]hoever the light-skinned dude still, brooks did not know if hennessy gave appellant such an order. per brooks, that three weeks before the murder, randle and hennessy had 22 an altercation during which randle stood up to hennessy and hennessy. randle purportedly walked away from hennessy and hennessy followed him and waited by the stairs to see which apartment randle went into. later in the interview, brooks stated that he had been he speculated that when randle came back from the store, . . . was walking [into] the gate[,] . . . he probably turned around and said something back. who know gentlemen, [brooks] is corroborated by every other witness, and [] that i saw with [brown], he pointed a gun at that little mexican guy, you know, the chubby g[] who else did we hear that from? [] the hispanic kid himself, as further corroboration, the prosecutor stated, hispannot from here. i can get on the freeway and be home and nobody the jury deliberated over a three-day period, beginning late in the afternoon of january 25, 2016, and ending at about 11:30 a.m. on january 27, 2016. during deliberations, the jury sent the trial court three notes. the first note, which was sent at 10:22 a.m. on january 26, 2016, stated: would like a laptop to listen to the [brooks] interview, and open the nextel/sprint the jury was given a laptop and speakers. the second note, which was sent at 9:30 a.m. on january 27, 2016, asked: 23 number] during the trial? were phone numbers for [brooks] or hennessy[ ] at 11:30 a.m., before the trial court responded to the second note, the jury sent a third note stating: the previously submitted questions were agreed unanimously by the jury [to be] b. no prejudice. during deliberations, the jury asked questions and asked to s interview again. this suggests that the jury did not view the case as open and shut. (people v. pearch (1991) 229 testimony reread are indications the deliberations were close.) moreover, jury deliberations lasted a total of about eight hours. this further suggested the jury wrestled with whether to convict appellant. (people v. woodward (1979) 23 cal.3d 329, 341.) appellant contends that because this was a close case, and because representation was substantially deficient due to the lack of appropriate hearsay, relevance and evidence code section 352 objections, we are required to find prejudice. (see people v. von villas (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 175, 249 [any trial court error of a substantial nature may require a reversal and any doubt as to its prejudicial character should be resolved in favor of the appellant turning to specificss likely appeared to be reasoned, persuasive inferences from facts that were admitted for their truth. moreover, their impact on the jury was not nullified or mitigated by any admonition or instruction, since the [trial court] did not admonish or instruct the jury to continuing on, appellant mas theories 24 bolsterepivotal questions: was appellant the killer? why did he do it? why did he kill randle rather than someone else? appellant s theories bolstefor the additional reason that he said he conducted his own investigation, and his conclusion that appellant was the shooter was the same as the police. s confrontation with salazar hurt appellant because brooks made the incident appear worse. brooks said appellant threatened to kill salazar, and that appellant pulled a gun on two innocent kids and said he would kill them. on top of that, the prosecutor highlighted that version of events in her closing argument the jury was instructed that motive is not an element of consider motive or lack of motive as a circumstance of this case. presence of motive may tend to establish the defendant is guilty. appellant notes that the prosecutor argued that appellant could have targeted other people, and that his only goal was to redeem himself in the eyes of the gang. convincing or more satisfying than appellant thought he would ingratiate himself with the gang by killing a random person who had no apparent quarrel with [this] the prosecutor told the and [brooks] had so much information from that neighborhood. [brooks] can be characterized as the bbc of [the area], because he knew about 25 in her rebuttal, she said, [brooks], like upon quoting these statements, appellant posits: arguments effectively assured the jury that [brooks] was a respected, knowledgeable, reliable source of information and that his opinions were well- furthermore, appellant contends that the jury might have believed brookss opinion because, during the interview, he appeared to be an unbiased witness who was genuinely outraged also, appellant believes that when brooks was recalcitrant at trial, the jury might have believed s interview, suggesting that it establishes the jury considered s viewpoints on the murder important. appellant then the fact[] that the jurnumber was ever identified and said it wanted to open the nextel/spring spreadsheets indicated it wanted to look for evidence of whether appellant spoke to hennessy on the phone on the day of the murder. [citation.] thus, these jury notes showed the jury focused on the . . . statements brooks made during his interview and particularly on his opinion that hennessy ordered we find no prejudice. in the interview, it was apparent brooks did not have any personal knowledge to support his motivation. consequently, we do not find it likely the jury gave s unfounded opinions much weight, and there is 26 insufficient probability that his unfounded opinion swayed the jury. though there were no eyewitnesses to the murder, there was overwhelming evidence that appellant was the man who shot notably, the cartridge casings found at the crime scene came from the same gun. this suggested the gun appellant fired was the same gun that was used to kill randle, and that appellant was the shooter. other evidence implicated appellant, such as his membership in the playboy hustler crips gang, his claimed desire to redeem himself with his gang, his flight from the scene of the crime, and his constant phone contacts with gang members and its associates in the aftermath. given the strength of the circumstantial evidence, we cannot say that confidence in the conviction is undermined by de v. cumulative error. when there is cumulative error, we must examine whether it rendered the trial fundamentally unfair and dictates reversal. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1009.) because there was no trial court error, and there was not more than one alleged instance of ineffective assistance of counsel, cumulative error analysis is unnecessary. 27 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. __________________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ________________________, p. j. lui _______________________, j. chavez 