filed 12/12/17 p. v. wilson ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. randall wilson, defendant and appellant. b271311 los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137185 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, tammy chung ryu, judge. affirmed. ahrony, graham, zucker and bruce alan zucker, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, joseph p. lee, and ilana herscovitz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction defendant randall wilson was convicted of assaulting the mother of his child with a knife without consent. on appeal, he contends the court erred in denying his motion to represent himself at trial and violated his confrontation clause rights by allowing a law enforcement officer to testify that the car owner had reported the car stolen. we affirm. procedural background by information filed november 23, 2015, defendant was charged with one count of attempted murder (pen. code,1  664/187, subd. (a); count 1), one count of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 2), and one count of carjacking ( 215, subd. (a); count 3). as to count 1, the information alleged that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury under circumstances involving domestic violence ( 12022.7, subd. (e)).2 the information also alleged one prison prior ( 667.5, subd. (b)), one serious-felony prior ( 667, subd. (a)), and one strike prior ( 667, subds. (b)(j);  1170.12, subds. (a)(d)). defendant pled not guilty and denied the allegations. after a bifurcated trial at which he testified on his own behalf, the jury convicted defendant of count 2 and its related enhancement. the jury acquitted defendant of count 3 but convicted him of the lesser-related offense of taking or driving a 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 after the jury was instructed and over defense objection, the people amended the information by interlineation to add the enhancement to count 2. 3 10851, subd. (a)). the jury could not reach a verdict on count 1. the court declared a mistrial on that count and later dismissed it under section 1385. defendant admitted the prior-conviction allegations. the court sentenced defendant to an aggregate term of 20 years, four months in state prison. the court selected count 2 ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) as the base term and imposed 13 yearsthe upper term of four years, doubled for the prior strike ( 667, subds. (b)(j);  1170.12, subds. (a)(d)), plus the upper term of five years for the domestic violence enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (e)). the court imposed 16 months for the lesser-related offense (veh. code,  10851) to count 3one-third the mid-term of two years, doubled for the prior striketo run consecutively. finally, the court imposed five years for the serious-felony prior ( 667, subd. (a)) and one year for the prison prior ( 667.5, subd. (b)), to run consecutively. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. factual background car without consent. on may 13, 2015, defendant repeatedly stabbed the mother of his child, causing great bodily injury. as the facts of the we limit our factual discussion to the driving offense. on april 9, 2015, jamin toles called 911 to report that defendant hit hiultima. later that day, toles called 911 again to say he saw defendant driving the car. toles told the 911 operator defendant beat him up and took the car; toles did not loan the car to defendant. toles did not testify at trial. 4 los angeles police department officer daisuke bunden responded to the call and met with toles. bunden then canvassed the area to search for defendant. he noticed a green nissan ultima that matched the description and license plate number toles had provided. defendant was driving. after defendant pulled into a driveway, bunden conducted a high-risk felony stop. defendant and the passenger, arena thompson, got out of the car, and defendant was arrested. bunden later confirmed the car was registered to toles. defendant testified that he had known toles since childhood and considered him an uncle. on april 9, 2015, they defendant thought toles had after they reconciled, defendant defendant borrowed the he denied punching toles in the head before taking the car. although defendant testified that toles allowed him to borrow the nissan to drive thompson to the dmv, defendant admitted that while he was using the car, toles called to ask for it back. defendant was nearly there, however, so he kept driving. he brought thompson to the dmv and waited for her while she got an identification card. toles continued to call defendant to ask for the car back. defendant estimated that he used the car for two or three hours. meanwhile, toles had called the police. discussion defendant contends the court erred in denying his request to represent himself at trial. he also contends the court violated his confrontation clause rights by allowing bunden to testify essence, that jamin toles reported his vehicle stolen and that appellant was later discovered to 5 1. the court properly denied represent himself at trial. the sixth amendment guarantees a criminal defendant two mutually exclusive rights to counsel. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; u.s. const., 14th amend.) a defendant has the right to be represented by counsel at all critical stages of a criminal prosecution. (united states v. wade (1967) 388 u.s. 218, 223227; gideon v. wainwright (1963) 372 u.s. 335, 339345.) at the same time, a defendant has the right without counsel (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, 807 (faretta).) request for self-representation if three conditions are met. first, the defendant must be mentally competent, and must make his request knowingly and intelligently, having been apprised of the dangers of self-representation. [citations.] second, he must make his request unequivocally. [citations.] third, he must make his request within a reasonable time before trial. (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729 (welch), abrogated on another ground by people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 90.) faretta motion may be denied if the defendant courtroom or engages in misconduct outside the courtroom that (people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 721722, abrogated on another ground by people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610.) is obviously critical to the viable functioning of the courtroom. a constantly disruptive defendant who represents himself, and who therefore cannot be removed from the trial proceedings as a 6 sanction against disruption, would have the capacity to bring his (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 734.) the right to self-representation, we examine the entire record de (people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, 218.) we review the denial of a faretta motion predicated on a defendant obstructive conduct for abuse of discretion. (see people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1, 12 (carsondeference to the trial court assessment of the defendant motives and sincerity as well as the nature and context of his misconduct and its impact on the integrity of the trial ... [and the] accord welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735.) defendant contends the court erred by denying his motion to represent himself, made on the fourth day of jury selection. we conclude the court properly denied the motion on the basis of . 1.1. defendant invoked his faretta rights knowingly, intelligently, and unequivocally. relinquishes, as a purely factual matter, many of the traditional benefits associated with the right to counsel. for this reason, in [citations.] although a defendant need not himself have the skill and experience of a lawyer in order competently and intelligently to choose self-representation, he should be made aware of the dangers and disadvantages of self-representation, so that the record will establish that he knows what he is doing and his choice is made with eyes open. (faretta, supra, 422 7 u.s. at p. 835.) for the same reasons, the defendant must also assert the right unequivocally. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 2327 (marshall) [defendant did not unequivocally and sincerely invoke faretta right where motion was made to delay rather than in a sincere effort to secure self-representation].) in evaluating whether a defendant has met these requirements, the court should draw every reasonable inference (marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 23.) here, the court advised defendant that he would not have time to prepare, but defendant responded that he knew his case better than anyone else, was ready to go from right here, and did not need time to review anything. defendant admitted he may have outbursts, but indicated he was intelligent and able to proceed on his own. the court gave him the faretta waiver form and advised him of the risks of self-representation. was knowing and intelligent. though there is some question about whether the motion was unequivocal, the people do not address that question, and we accept their concession. even where the defendant meets these requirements, the trial court may nevertheless deny a faretta motion if the where he or she cannot carry out the basic tasks needed to (people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 530; indiana v. edwards (2008) 554 u.s. 164, 175176, 178.) standard cautiously. a court may not deny self-representation merely because it believes the matter could be tried more efficiently, or even more fairly, with attorne (johnson, at p. 531.) 8 whether defendant could and should represent himself, and the court indicated it might need to appoint a doctor to evaluate his competency to do so. defense counsel noted that in august 2015, competency. after a hearing on october 6, 2015, defendant was found competent. the prosecutor agreed that psychiatric professional rather, on this record, there is insufficient evidence to support the denial of the faretta motion on the basis of incompetence. (people v. johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 530denying self-courts should be cautious about making an incompetence finding without benefit of an expert evaluation 1.2. the court did not abuse its discretion in denying when determining whether to deny or terminate self-representation based on a defendant court must decid[e] whether a defendant is and will remain so disruptive, obstreperous, disobedient, disrespectful or obstructionist in his or her actions or words as to preclude the exercise of the right to self- (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735; mckaskle v. wiggins (1984) 465 u.s. 168, 173 to abide by rules of .) in making this determination, the court should consider a9 defendant has been warned that particular misconduct will result in termination of in propria persona status, (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 910.) generally, a defendant right to self-representation will only be denied or terminated for misconduct if the defendant has engaged in a pattern of obstreperous behavior. for example, in welch, the california supreme court affirmed the trial court decision to deny self-of pretrial proceedings prior to deciding the faretta motion ... reveal[ed] a number of instances in which defendant engaged in disr (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735.) denied awareness of a calendar date that was set in his presence; he turned his back on the trial court when addressing it; he interrupted the trial court several times to argue what the court had declared to be a nonmeritorious point; he accused the court of misleading him; he refused to allow the court to speak and he refused several times to follow the court admonishment of (ibid.) above incidents may have been sufficient by itself to warrant a denial of the right of self-representation, taken together they amount to a reasonable basis for the trial court conclusion that defendant could not or would not conform his conduct to the rules (ibid.) here, as in welch, before the court denied defendant faretta motion, defendant had repeatedly engaged in disruptive courtroom behavior. he frequently interrupted when the court was speaking; he continued to interrupt and curse despite the 10 court many warnings to stop;3 he directed expletives at the court, his attorney, and the investigating officer;4 he yelled at and threatened violence against his attorney; and he accused the court of racism and of conspiring against him with the prosecutor. indeed, defendant against his defense attorney ultimately ] for backup because [it] was seriously concerned about the safety of everybody in lockup because of what [it] the court ] about [defense counsel] well-and safety led it to order defendant to wear a waist restraint (see carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 6, 10 [court may consider out-of-court behavior].) metaphors or otherwise showed disrespect for the court at times during the proceedings is not in and of itself a reason to conclude that he will disrupt the proceedings if he is allowed to represent - and, he contends 3 the first time the court warned defendant not to use profanity, straight up. get that on the 4 for example, the seventh time the court warned defendant not point, the court ordered defendant excused from the 11 of optimal courtroom decor [sic we disagree. given defendant disruptive, disrespectful conduct and his failure to heed the court many warnings to cease interrupting and stop using profanity, it was apparent that defendant was unable or unwilling to abide by the rules of courtroom procedure and protocol.5 (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735.) the trial court, therefore, did not abuse its discretion in denying defendant faretta motion for self-representation. 2. any confrontation clause error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment guarantees the to be (u.s. const., 6th amend.; u.s. const., 14th amend.; melendez-diaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305, 316; see cal. const., art. i,  15.) the supreme court has interpreted this clause as forbidding the who did not appear at trial unless he was unavailable to testify, and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross- (crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 5354.) a statement is testimonial made primarily to memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. nontestimonial statements are those 5 correct, and defendant was ultimately removed from the courtroom for this behavior. for example, defendant would later refer to the court as 12 whose primary purpose is to deal with an ongoing emergency or some other purpose unrelated to preserving facts for later use at (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 689.) defendant asserts that told bunden that he (toles) did not give appellant permission to amendment rights. though counsel does not direct this court to the portion of the record containing the asserted unconstitutional statement, he appears to be referring to bunden testimony that we met with earlier in the the people contend the confrontation clause does not apply because bunden did not testify to an out-of-court statementmuch less testimonial hearsayand in any event, any error was forfeited by below. we need not resolve these issues, however, because the people have also established that any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). under chapman, beyond a reasonable doubt that the error complained of did not contribute to the (ibid (people v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 11651166; people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 698 [confrontation clause errors assessed under chapman].) defendant insists that the way for the jury to know that appellant was in possession of a vehicle that he was defendant is mistaken. 13 first, the jury heard two 911 recordings in which toles reported his car stolen. in the first call, toles told the operator that defendant hit toles in the head nissan in the second call, toles told the operator, reported my car stolen earlier and i see the suspect driving my toles said he had not loaned defendant the car. rather, second, defendant toles revoked any consent he may have initially given.6 [toles] called my cell phone, hey, come back. i need to do something. way. i keep going. we get to the dmv. when we get to the dmv, he call the phone again. man, i already called the police. accordingly, even assuming bunden testified to an out-of-court statement by toles, the testimony was merely cumulative of other evidence presented at trialevidence defendant does not challenge on appeal. (see people v. byron (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 657, 676 [any error in admitting cumulative evidence harmless under chapman].) and, since the other evidence was more persuasive than the asserted hearsay, we conclude any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 6 defendant does not argue, and our review of the record does not reveal, that defendant testified because he felt he needed to explain the erroneously admitted evidence. instead, it appears that defendant had decided to testify before the court made the challenged ruling. 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. stone, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 