filed 5/4/17 p. v. sanchez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. francisco alexander sanchez, jr., defendant and appellant. b271011 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka108793) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed in part and remanded with directions. athena shudde, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kathleen a. kenealy, acting attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, and ilana herscovitz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 francisco alexander sanchez, jr. appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of first degree burglary (pen. code,1  459; count 1), false imprisonment by violence ( 236; count 2), criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a); count 3), and assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); count 4). the jury also found true the personal firearm use allegations as to counts 1, 2, and 4. ( 12022.5, subd. (a).) in bifurcated proceedings, the trial court found true two prior serious felony allegations and one prior prison term allegation, based on appellants. the court granted romero2 motion as to one of the prior serious felony convictions (a 1994 robbery) and sentenced appellant to an aggregate term of 36 years 8 months in state prison.3 appellant contends the criminal threats conviction cannot stand because (1) the complaining witness in this case was not the person against whom the criminal threat was made within the meaning of section 422; (2) the trial court improperly instructed the jury based on an erroneous interpretation of the criminal threats statute; and (3) alternatively, substantial evidence does not support the conviction for criminal threats in count 3. we disagree and affirm the judgment of conviction. appellant also asserts, and the attorney general agrees, that the abstract of judgment should be amended to reflect the -year enhancements under 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 3 the sentence included two five-year enhancements for the two prior serious felony convictions. ( 667, subd. (a)(1).) 3 oral pronouncement of sentence. the matter is therefore remanded to the trial court to correct the minutes and abstract of judgment to pronouncement. the attorney general further contends that an additional one-year enhancement should be imposed pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b) or prison term. the trial court had discretion to impose or strike the one-year enhancement, but did neither. accordingly, on remand the court is ordered to exercise its discretion with regard to the section 667.5, subdivision (b) sentence enhancement. the trial court is further ordered to forward a corrected abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. factual background maria merito lived with her husband, their three children, two nephews, her guadalupe villa, and villagirlfriend alicia parra. as of october 2014, parra and villa had been living in the household for three to four years, and merito referred to parra as her sister-in-law. villa had physically abused parra on many occasions, and on october 19, 2014, villa was arrested after he and parra had an argument. , merito awoke to find appellant outside her front door around 2:00 in the morning. merito had never before seen appellant. appellant unsuccessfully attempted to open the front door and left after he could not get it open. twelve hours later, around 2:30 that afternoon, appellant returned to the house with a male companion and knocked on the front door. the companion went to the side of the house and when merito answered the door, she recognized appellant as the person who had tried to open the 4 front door early that morning. appellant was not wearing a shirt, and merito noticed he had two large tattoos, one of which said, suggesting a gang affiliation to merito. appellant asked for alicia parra. he explained that he was friends with guadalupe villa, who had told appellant that if villa were ever arrested, appellant should kill parra. appellant had learned that villa had recently been arrested. appellant also informed merito that appellant had recently been released after serving an eight-year prison sentence. merito told appellant parra did not live there, but appellant accused her of lying and said he would search the house for parra and would not leave until he had killed her. merito was frightened and believed appellant would carry out his threat to kill parra on behalf of villa because she knew that villa associated with azusa gang membersazusa gang. merito was also frightened for the safety of her children. merito said she had to attend to her children, and she closed and locked the door. ten knocked on the door. they were injured and crying. the nephews told merito that appellant and his companion had hit them. his threat and harm her family. on october 29, around 10:00 in the morning, merito was home with her infant daughter and her two nephews when she saw appellant approaching her house with a gun. merito locked the front door, but one of her nephews let appellant in because appellant had a gun and was knocking hard. appellant demanded that merito unlock one of the bedroom doors. after merito had let appellant into the bedroom, she fled the house 5 with her daughter and reported all three incidents to the police. appellant was arrested a few months later. discussion i. interpretation of section 422 the court instructed the jury that it could convict on the charge of criminal threats against merito on the basis of the threats to harm parra that appellant communicated to merito. appellant contends that section 422 does not apply when the alleged victim of the criminal threat is someone other than the target of the threatened violence. appellant thus maintains that because his threats targeted parra and not merito, he could not be convicted under section 422 for criminal threats against misconstruction of the criminal threats law which would render much of the statutory language superfluous. matters of statutory interpretation are questions of law subject to de novo review. [citation.] in construing a statute, the enactment. [citation.] we look first to the plain meaning of the statutory language, giving the words their usual and ordinary meaning. [citation.] if there is no ambiguity in the statutory language, its plain meaning controls; we presume the legislature meant what it said. [citation.] . . . [citations.] we examine the statutory language in the context in which it appears, and adopt the construction that best harmonizes the statute internally and with (people v. walker (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 872, 876.) section 422, subdivision (a) requires the victim of a or for his or her immediate familyitalics added). immediate family 6 include, among others, . . person who regularly resides in the household, or who, within the prior six months, regularly resided in the household. based on the plain language of the statute, the victim of a criminal threat may be anyone whose immediate family is the target of the threatened violence. if the victim of a criminal merely for her own safety, then it is apparent that the target of the threatened violence may be a family member. as applied to this case, merito could be the victim because the target of the threatened violence was her immediate family member, parra.4 anarrow reading of section 422 simply ignores the immediate family definition of subdivision (b), leaving that portion of the criminal threats statute entirely superfluous. statutory interpretation that renders related provisions nugatory must be avoidedpeople v. shabtay (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 1184, 1190), and we will not interpret section 422 to exclude immediate family members from its explicit protections. the trial court properly interpreted section 422 to apply where, as here, the target of the threatened violence is an immediate family member of the person to whom the threat is communicated, making merito the direct victim of the threat as the person who received it. we therefore conclude that the trial 4 parra plainly falls under the statutory definition of because she had resided in the household for three to four years preceding these events. 7 court properly instructed the jury on the elements of criminal threats under section 422.5 ii. substantial evidence appellant contends that his conviction for criminal threats pursuant to section 422 is unsupported by substantial evidence because the evidence fails to demonstrate the existence of a threat to merito which caused her to be in sustained fear for her own safety. argument misstate the statutory requirements, but we find substantial evidentiary support for conviction on the basis of . in assessing nge, judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the de people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 701; people v. watkins (2012) 55 cal.4th 999, 10191020.) we draw all reasonable inferences in favor of the verdict and presume the existence of every fact the [jury] could reasonably deduce from the evidence that supports its findings. (people v. maciel (2013) 57 cal.4th 482, 515; people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) he testimony of a single witness is sufficient people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 10301031) 5 in light of our conclusion that the trial court properly to request a proper 8 (people v. white (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 305, 319, fn. 14.) in order to prove a violation of section 422, the prosecution must establish all of the following: (1) that the defendant willfully threaten[ed] to commit a crime which will result in death or great b (2) that the defendant made the with the specific intent that the statement . . . is to be taken as a threat . . . (3) that the threat . . . on its face and under the circumstances in which it [was] made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prosp (4) that the threat actually caused the to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or h and (5) that th under the circumstances. (people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227228.) substantial evidence unquestionably satisfies the first three elements, and appellant does not contend otherwise. appellant willfully threatened to kill parra. appellant knew parra lived with merito, and accused merito of lying when she told him otherwise. appellant , threatening to search until he found and killed parra, a member . substantial evidence also satisfies the fourth and fifth elements: the threat actually caused merito to be in sustained reasonable under the circumstances. when appellant first communicated the threat to merito, merito already knew that appellant had tried to enter her house without permission around 9 indicating appellant was affiliated with a gang, making it more likely his threat of violence was genuine. appellant himself told merito that he had recently been released after serving a lengthy prison sentence, indicating to merito that he was capable of carrying out his threat. merito became more frightened as appellappeared to back up his threat: appellant and his companion and then appellant returned to house with a gun. finally, appellant forced merito to allow him access to a bedroom in her home. the nature of threat and his subsequent conduct leave no doubt that merito actually and reasonably feared not only for parra, but also for herself and her children. on this record conviction for making criminal threats against merito finds conviction on count 3. iii. minute orders and abstract of judgment a. the abstract of judgment must reflect the oral pronouncement at sentencing at sentencing, the trial court imposed two five-year enhancements . (see  667, subd. (a)(1).) but the minutes incorrectly reflect the court imposed the two five-year enhancements under section 667.5, subdivision (b), and the abstract of judgment incorrectly indicates the imposition of five one-year enhancements on count 1 and five one-year enhancements on count 3 pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). oral pronouncement of sentence that constitutes the judgment. [citation.] to the extent a minute 10 order diverges from the sentencing proceedings it purports to memorialize, it is presumed to be the product of clerical error. or [citations.] as with other clerical errors, discrepancies between an abstract and the actual judgment as orally pronounced are subject to correction at any time, and should be corrected by a reviewing court when detected on appeal.people v. scott (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 1303, 1324.) because the minutes and abstract of judgment in this case diverge from the , we presume the variance to be the result of clerical error. we therefore remand the matter to the trial court to correct the minute order and abstract of judgment to accurately reflect the oral pronouncement of sentence. b. the trial court must impose or strike the third prior prison term pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b) the attorney general further contends that reference to section 667.5, subdivision (b) suggest the trial court intended to impose a one-year prior prison term enhancement under that section. however, the oral pronouncement did not reflect any disposition with respect to the prison prior, which was not a serious or violent trial court has exercised sentencing discretion, it is appropriate to people v. reeder (1984) 152 cal.app.3d 900, 916.) thus, on remand, the court must exercise its discretion to impose or strike the one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). 11 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the matter is remanded with directions to exercise discretion to strike or impose the penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) term, to correct the minute order and abstract of judgment to reflect the oral pronouncement at sentencing, and to forward the corrected abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 