filed 4/24/17 p. v. hernandez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eric hernandez, defendant and appellant. b271010 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa090789) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathryn a. solorzano, judge. affirmed. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * 2 defendant and appellant eric hernandez, also known as rodney hernandez, was convicted, following a plea of no contest, of one count of attempted unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle. defendant admitted he had suffered a prior conviction within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court sentenced defendant to 30 months in state prison. defendant contends there is insufficient evidence his 2009 assault conviction qualified as a prior strike and he was therefore entitled to a county jail commitment. we affirm. factual and procedural background in october 2015, defendant was charged by information with one count of attempted carjacking. (pen. code,  664, 215, subd. (a).) the information was amended by interlineation to add a second count for the attempted unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle. (pen. code,  664; veh. code,  10851, subd. (a).) it was further alleged defendant had suffered a 2009 conviction that qualified as a serious or violent felony within the meaning of the three strikes law, of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). in january 2016, defendant, pursuant to a plea agreement, pled no contest to count 2 (attempted unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle), and count 1 was dismissed. during the course of the plea colloquy, the court explained that the maximum term is months . . . county imprisonment, but because the defendant has been convicted odepartment of corrections and you will be you will serve your time there rather than cou defendant 3 answered, ythe court further explained that additional year in prison. defendant said he understood. the court inquired of counsel whether the plea agreement called for defendant to admit that his 2009 assault conviction was a strike. defense counsel said no, but noted he had a related issue he wanted to make clear on the record. in relevant part, the following colloquy occurred. defense counseli seen any evidence that that particular 245 (a)(1) is even a strike because in 2009, it was either weapons or were not [sic] force to produce great bodily injury. prosecutor]: i have his packet here. defense counsel]: i reviewed what priors packet there. [] . . . [] want t . . . . the court: yeah, but what i think what the people are . . . . [i]listed in the probation report as an a.d.w., not assault with force likely to commit great bodily injury. after some additional discussion, the court asked to see the priors packet, and the colloquy continued. defense counsel [] again, this, again, is, not to make a big deal out of it, i just want to make sure the . . . . 667.5 the parties continued to discuss 4 that the priors packet referenced an assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm with great bodily injury. defense counsel]: . . . [a]t that time it was still 245 (a)(1), was either/or. . . . [] . . . [] it could just be an abbreviation to try to fit it in there. -- the court [] to the c.d.c. defense counsel]: no, i have no trouble. [] . . . [] the court: . . . believe that he has a strike . . . . [] . . . [] . . . i believe it precludes him from county jail imprisonment. [] are you going to fight that? defense counsel]: no, no, no, no, no. defense counsel then reiterated that he just wanted to make a clear record that defendant was only admitting the penal code section 667.5 allegation the court confirmed defendant was entitled to half-time credit, explaining that no one the court went on to say, to make a clear record that the defense agreed. the court then accepted s and plea. the court imposed the agreed-upon sentence on count 2 of 18 months in state prison, plus one year for the prison prior allegation for an aggregate term of 30 months. defendant was awarded 368 days of custody credits. fire camp was recommended at the request of defendant. defendant obtained a certificate of probable cause and this appeal followed. the priors packet relied upon by the court at 5 sentencing was not included in the record on appeal. on february 3, 2017, we ordered the record augmented, but received a certification from the court clerk that it did not appear in the superior that the priors packet be provided to the superior court for transmission to this court. on march 8, 2017, we received the ript. the priors packet included several documents, two of which reference the nature of of judgment and an administrative form for the department of justice, criminal justice information services division. the abstract of judgment filed in san mateo county superior court on april 22, 2009, (1) pc (f) force/adw not firearm:gbi the probation report, referenced by the parties during the sentencing hearing, provides that defendant was charged in september 2008 with multiple charges, including violations of penal code section 273.5 (inflicting corporal injury), section ) pc (adw),ivision (a)(1) (exhibiting deadly weapon other than a firearm). it then identifies a conviction in san mateo superior court, case no. the parties waived oral argument. discussion the criminal justice realignment act of 2011 (stats. 2011, ch. 15,  1; hereafter the act), amended a number of statutes concerning where a defendant will serve his sentence. subject to 6 specified exceptions, defendants sentenced under the act now serve their time in county jail instead of state prison. penal code section 1170, subdivision (h) provides that where a penal statute specifies that a defendant shall be punished by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of penal code section 1170, that defendant is required to serve his term in county jail. attempted unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle has such a designation. (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a).) however, the act also provides that when a defendant has a prior serious or violent felony conviction, he is disqualified from serving his time in county jail and instead must be sentenced to state prison. (pen. code,  1170, subd. (h)(3).) defendant contends his plea to unlawful taking or driving a vehicle warranted a county jail commitment because the record failed to demonstrate he had suffered a strike that disqualified him from a jail commitment. in 2009, only the first prong of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1), i.e., assault by means of a deadly weapon not a firearm, qualified as a serious or violent felony. the great bodily injury prong of the statute (assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury) only qualified if there was evidence the defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim. (people v. delgado (2008) 43 cal.4th 1059, 1065.) defendant maintains the record is insufficient to demonstrate his 2009 conviction was for an assault with a deadly weapon, which is a disqualifying offense, rather than an assault by means likely to cause great bodily injury, which is not. has already completed his prison term. respondent further argues that defendant expressly consented to serve his term in state prison and has therefore forfeited the argument on appeal, 7 and that in any event, substantial evidence supports the trial . defendant maintains his appeal is not moot because he remains subject to parole supervision in light of having served a state prison sentence; and, that he did not forfeit the issue because a legally unauthorized sentence may be challenged at any time. assuming without deciding the appeal is not moot, we s sentencing choices. the exclusions under penal code section 1170, subdivision (h)(3) are and do not require pleading and proof. (people v. griffis (2013) 212 cal.app.4th 956, 962-965; see also people v. lara (2012) 54 cal.4th 896, 906-907 [finding no pleading and proof requirement for determining presentence to existence of prior conviction].) here, during the plea colloquy, the court concluded 2009 conviction was a strike for sentencing purposes under the act and indicated its intent to impose a state prison sentence. in response, defendant expressly stated he did not imposition of sentence. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 