filed 2/10/17 p. v. figueroa ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. salvador figueroa, defendant and appellant. b271314 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka110871) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mike camacho, jr., judge. affirmed. g. martin velez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant salvador santiago figueroa was convicted by jury in count 1 of second degree burglary of a vehicle (pen. code,  459)1 and in count 4 of possession of burglary tools ( 466.) defendant admitted suffering a prior conviction under the three strikes law (  1170.12, subds. (a)(d) & 667, subds. (b)(i).) he also admitted serving two prior prison terms. ( 667.5, subd. (b).)2 the trial court sentenced defendant to the low term of 16 months for burglary, doubled due to the prior strike conviction, for a total of 32 months. the prior prison term allegations were stricken under section 1385. a concurrent term of six months was imposed for the possession of burglary tools conviction. defendant presents one issue on appeal. he argues that the trial court erred by failing to stay the concurrent six month term for possession of burglary tools pursuant to section 654. we affirm. 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 one of the prior prison terms was based on the same offense constituting a strike prior conviction. 3 facts because of the limited scope of the issue on appeal, the facts are stated in summary form. the victim parked and locked her 2001 honda odyssey van in the carport area of her townhouse in diamond bar on the evening of october 3, 2015. early in the morning on october 4, a resident of the townhouse complex heard noise outside, looked through his bedroom window, and saw defendant and codefendant betzy denise torres-astorga walking among the cars in the carport. the resident saw defendant make a quick motion vehicle. defendant leaned into the car through the window. torres-astorga entered the vehicle she was reaching for stuff. a few minutes later codefendant silvio hernandez drove up in a ford focus. defendant and torres-astorga entered the vehicle, which then drove off. were notified of the vehicle burglary. a short time later the ford focus was stopped . hernandez was driving the vehicle, torres-astorga was in the passenger seat, and defendant was in the rear seat. ford focus. also discovered in the back seat of the ford focus, to the right of where defendant had been sitting, was an open bag of 4 tools, containing gloves, bolt cutters, six screwdrivers, three pliers, and a lighter. deputy sheriff christopher acuna, who had described how tools are used in car burglaries: screwdrivers can , remove the ignition, or start the ignitionand bolt cutters can smash windows or remove locking devices. deputy acuna opined that he would classify the items as burglary tools. discussion defendant presents one issue on appeal. he argues trial court should have stayed the six month sentence on the burglary defendant reasons that there was no evidence defendant possessed the burglary tools for any purpose we disagree. punishment for separate acts penal code section 654 provides in pertinent part as 5 ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punishment falls into two general categories. the first categorynot present herearises when a single act or omission which violates two provisions of the penal code. (see people v. corpening (2016) 2 cal.5th 307, 309 [single act constituting carjacking and robbery may be punished only once under section 654; people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 350, 352 [single act violating various provisions prohibiting possession of a firearm statute bars multiple punishment not only for a single criminal act but for a single indivisible course of conduct in which the defendant had only one criminal intent or objective. (people v. bauer (1969) 1 cal.3d 368, 376; in re ward (1966) 64 cal.2d 672, 675676; neal v. state of california (1960) 55 cal.2d 11, 19.)people v. moseley (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1598, 1603 (moseley).) defendant relies on this latter principle in this appeal. predicate for multiple punishment only in circumstances that involve, or argupeople v. mesa 6 (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 199.) the initial inquiry in any section 654 application is to ascertain the defendants objective and intent. if he entertained multiple criminal objectives which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, he may be punished for independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d 625, 639.) standard of review intent and objective are factual questions for the trial court, which must find evidence to support the existence of a separate intent and objective for each sentenced offense. people v. jackson (2016) we review under the substantial-evidence standard the courts factual finding, implicit or explicit, of whether there was a single criminal act or a course of conduct with a single criminal objective. (people v. coleman (1989) 48 cal.3d 112, 162; people v. ratcliff (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 1401, 1408.) as always, we review the trial courts conclusions of law de novo. (hill v. city of long 7 beach moseley, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at p. 1603.) 3 analysis because no objection under section 654 was made in the trial court, and the court made no express findings, we consider implied findings possession of burglary tools was based on an intent and objective divisible from the vehicle burglary. the trial court could impliedly conclude that defendant possessed burglary tools4 in 3 a contemporaneous objection is not required to preserve the claim that a sentence violates the principles of section 654. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 354, fn. 17.) 4 the offense of unlawful possession of burglary tools is every person having upon him or her in his or her possession a picklock, crow, keybit, crowbar, screwdriver, vise grip pliers, water-pump pliers, slidehammer, slim jim, tension bar, lock pick gun, tubular lock pick, bump key, floor-safe door puller, master key, ceramic or porcelain spark plug chips or pieces, or other instrument or tool with intent feloniously to break or enter into any building, railroad car, aircraft, or vessel, trailer coach, or vehicle as defined in the vehicle code, or who shall knowingly make or alter, or shall attempt to make or alter, any key or other instrument named above so that the same will fit or open the lock of a building, railroad car, aircraft, vessel, trailer coach, or vehicle as defined in the vehicle code, without being requested to do so by some person having the right to open 8 the getaway car for a purpose and use independent of the charged vehicle burglary. there is no evidence defendant used or even had any of the vehicle. there is also no evidence defendant used any of the tools all the record reveals is that it is not and the multitude of tools at his disposal in the getaway car, that defendant possessed the tools with the intent to use them for unlawful breaking or entry independent of the charged offense. finally, wburglarize other vehicles, multiple punishment is barred by section 466 does not require the level of intent suggested by defendant. it is clear from the language of the statute that in order to sustain a conviction for possession of burglary tools in violation of section 466, the prosecution must establish three elements: (1) possession by the defendant; (2) of the same, or who shall make, alter, or repair any instrument or thing, knowing or having reason to believe that it is intended to be used in committing a misdemeanor or felony, is guilty of a misdemeanor. any of the structures mentioned in section 459 shall be deemed to be a building within the meaning of this section. 9 tools within the purview of the statute; (3) with the intent to use the tools for the felonious purposes of breaking or entering. ( 466.)people v. southard (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 1079, 10841085.) defendant cites no authority requiring proof of a contemporaneous intent to commit other vehicle burglaries, and the law is to the contrary. section 466 is a general intent offense an intent to break into a particular building, [t]he offense is complete when tools or other implements are procured with intent to use them for a burglarious purpose. (id. at p. 1088.) not to be published in the official reports disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p.j. kin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 