filed 12/13/16 p. v. leyva ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. monique isabel leyva, defendant and appellant. b271462 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka109156) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george genesta, judge. affirmed in part, remanded in part with directions. lori a. quick, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant monique leyva pled no contest to one count of felony child abuse (pen. code,  273a, subd. (a))1 and admitted the special allegation of personally inflicting great bodily injury on a child under age five in the commission of a felony ( 12022.7, subd. (d)). defendant stipulated to the following pertinent facts, as set forth in s department reports. defendant and her boyfriend, rudy carrillo, were homeless methamphetamine users who did not have money to pay for food or shelter for themselves and their seven-week-old son, r.c. on or about may 19, 2014, defendant noticed an indentation on the head. defendant did not seek treatment for r.c. instead, she left him with her sister, regina, who agreed to care for him for about a week. regina reported that r.c. was discolored, dirty, and smelly and did not have a change of clothes with him. she further reported that he did not eat regularly for a few days, but was eating formula every two to three hours and seemed happy and responsive by the end of his visit. when defendant picked up r.c. on or about may 24, 2014, she noticed that tpronounced. defendant and carrillo both noticed that r.c. was , and continued to do so over the next several days. defendant also noted that r.c. was no one reported any of these concerns to a medical professional or social services agency. defendant, carrillo, and r.c. spent the night of may 26, 2014 in a car in carr driveway. a neighbor 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 when she woke up at 4:30 a.m. on may 27, and heard carrillo yelling at r.c. when the neighbor returned home from work around 10:30 a.m., r.c. was still crying. around 2:00 p.m. or 3:00 p.m., the neighbor went outside and saw r.c. crying and sitting in bright, direct sun. the neighbor suggested to defendant that she move r.c. out of the sun. when she left a short time later, however, the neighbor saw that r.c. was still in the sun. e and asked if she knew of any healers sunken fontanel. another neighbor who happened to be passing by recommended someone a few streets away. none of these observers contacted medical professionals or other authorities. defendant sought assistance from the recommended holistic healer. fontanel by rubbing oil on his head and pulling gently on his hair. when that proved unsuccessful, she tried to press upward on his palate; the healer reported that r.c. was limp during the entire interaction and did not move or react to her, even when she tapped him on the feet and kissed his forehead. the healer told mouth, like kool aid, and noticed that defendant had a baby bottle filled with the same liquid. defendant told police r.c. looked noticeably better after the visit with the healer. 4 jessica allowed defendant to bring r.c. into her house that evening.2 defendant watched television while r.c. sat on the couch in his car seat; he did not have a crib. he was completely wrapped in a blanket, bottle of pedialyte placed atop the when defendant looked over at r.c. about five minutes watching television, she picked up r.c. and noted that he r.c. did not respond when carrillo poked his shoulder. jessica drove r.c., defendant, and carrillo to the hospital. efforts to revive r.c. failed. he was pronounced dead at 9:58 p.m. death to dehydration, malnutrition, and child neglect. his toxicology report was positive for acetaminophen, marijuana, and methamphetamine. at sentencing, defendantdefendant in which she told the court that she took full responsibility for her actions. counsel emphasized successful participation in numerous programs and classes at the jail. he also informed the court that defendant had four other children, ages seven, five, four, and one month, and wanted to have an opportunity to reconnect with them before they became adults.3 counsel asked the court to impose the midterm sentence of four years on the child abuse count and stay any sentence on the enhancement. he argue 2 when police visited house the next day, they did not find any formula, baby food, or diapers. they did find a severe cockroach infestation throughout the home, even within 3 the record indicates that dechildren lived with their father, who had custody of them. 5 the trial court did not question the sincerity of the positive changes defendant had made while in jail, but found light of the tragic circumstances r.c. endured during his life and death. it also found that defendant abused a position of trust and victimized a particularly vulnerable person. the trial court accordingly sentenced defendant to the high term of six years in state prison on the child abuse count, to be followed consecutively by the high term of six years on the special allegation, and assessed various fines and fees. the court awarded defendant 336 days of actual custody credit, plus 50 days of conduct credit. defendant timely appealed, indicating on her notice of appeal that she wished to challenge her sentence or other matters occurring after the plea that did not affect its validity. -appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, asking this court to independently review the record on appeal. (see smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 264-266.) on august 5, 2016, we advised defendant that she had 30 days to file a brief or letter raising any issue she wished this court to consider. we received no response. this court has examined the entire record in accordance with people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at pages 441-442, and people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 118-119. we are satisfied s attorney has fully complied with the responsibilities of counsel and that no arguable issues exist. although our review of the record revealed no arguable bases for reversal, it did reveal an error in the abstract of judgment. 6 conviction; it does not control if different from the trial courts oral judgment and may not add to or modify the judgment it (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185.) errors at any time, and appellate courts (including this one) that ibid.), may order correction of clerical errors in an abstract of judgment (id. at pp. 185188). (see also people v. scott (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 1303, 1324.) the abstract of judgment in this case inaccurately states that defendantsection 12022.7, subdivision (h) rather than section 12022.7, subdivision (d). we therefore direct the court to correct the abstract of judgment and forward a copy of the corrected abstract to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. 7 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the matter is remanded to the trial court with directions to prepare an amended abstract of judgment reflecting an enhancement under penal code section 12022.7, subdivision (d), rather than penal code section 12022.7 subdivision (h), and to forward a certified copy of the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j manella, j. 