filed 7/31/17 p. v. bruner ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tritisse lajune bruner, defendant and appellant. b271231 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya092734) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, judge. affirmed. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 a jury convicted appellant tritisse bruner of assault with a deadly weapon, and found true that she personally inflicted great bodily injury (gbi) in the commission of the offense. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1); 12022.7, subd. (a).) the trial court sentenced bruner to a total term of five years as follows: the low term of two-years for the substantive offense, plus three years for the gbi enhancement. the court awarded bruner presentence credits and appointed counsel on appeal filed an opening brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). we affirm the judgment. facts viewed in accord with the usual standard of review on appeal (see, e.g., people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357), the evidence at trial showed that bruner accosted larissa avila at a gas station on march 24, 2015. she then initiated a fist-fighting and wrestling-style struggle with avila which ended with bruner stabbing avila with a knife in her upper back, near her shoulder blade area. the weapon was left back without her realizing it. when avila went to the gas station bathroom to clean knife in your back. you have a knife in you back.on hearing that she had been stabbed, avila went back outside to try stopping bruner before she left the gas station, but bruner drove from the scene. avila called 911 and including the license plate number. avila was treated at the ucla trauma unit for a puncture wound; the wound took two months to heal. city of inglewood police department detective jean waters arrested bruner in early may 2015. 3 the people filed an information charging bruner with assault with a deadly weapon on avila, and alleged great bodily injury had been inflicted. the case was tried to a jury, at which time the prosecution presented evidence establishing the facts summarized above. avila and two witnesses who had been with her in her car at the time of the assault, stacy avila and avil myla jacobs, testified for the prosecution. as noted above, the prosecution evidence established that bruner was the aggressor in the incident at the gas station. bruner testified in her own defense, supported by the testimony of a bystander, tyra swan. the defense version of events painted avila as the aggressor, with bruner, in the words of swan, being during her testimony, bruner while the two were struggling on the ground. bruner said she carried the knife for her work as a caterer. bruner claimed that she did not been arrested. the case was submitted to the jury with instructions on self-defense and accident. the jury asked a question about the three elements of self-defense set forth in calcrim no. 3470, specifically, did all three elements have the three is in question, does it invalidate self-1 after 1 calcrim no. 3470, as read by the trial court, instructed not guilty of [assault] if she used force against the other person in lawful self-defense. the defendant acted in lawful self-defense if: [] 1. the defendant reasonably believed that she was in imminent danger of suffering bodily injury or was in imminent danger of being touched unlaw-fully; [] 2. the defendant reasonably believed that the immediate use of force was necessary to defend against that 4 conferring with the lawyers, the court instructed the jury that all [self-defense] to the jury returned a verdict finding bruner guilty as charged, and the trial court sentenced bruner as noted at the outset of this opinion. discussion we appointed counsel to bruner on appeal. appointed counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, asking our court to review the record independently for any arguable issues. we notified bruner by letter that she could submit any arguments or issues that she wanted our court to review. bruner has not responded to our letter. disposition we have independently reviewed the record on appeal, and find that appointed counsel has fulfilled her duty, and that no arguable issues exist. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106.) the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. danger; and [] 3. the defendant used no more force than was reasonably necessary to defend against that danger. 