filed 7/11/17 p. v. ramos ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. luis alberto ramos, defendant and appellant. b271918 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa081141) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. hilleri g. merritt, judge. modified and affirmed with directions. doris m. leroy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, and yun k. lee, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 luis ramos appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of forcible oral copulation (pen. code,1  288a, subd. (c)(2)(a); count 1), and forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2); count 3). the jury found appellant not guilty of the charge of sexual penetration by a foreign object (289, subd. (a)(1)(a); count 2). the trial court sentenced appellant to 12 years in state prison and, as to count 1, imposed a $40 court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $30 court construction fee (gov. code,  70373, subd. (a)). appellant contends: (1) the trial court abused its discretion in excluding twith someone at the party on the night in question; (2) the prosecutor committed misconduct in argument by mischaracterizing the evidence; and (3) the prosecutor committed misconduct by asking the jury to consider the lack of evidence of consent, by misstating the law on the burden of proof, and by making statements that amounted to griffin2 error. appellant further contends that the cumulative effects erroneous evidentiary ruling and the prosecutorial misconduct deprived him of a fair trial. we disagree and affirm the judgment of conviction.3 respondent asserts that the sentence was unauthorized and must be corrected to impose a mandatory court security fee 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 (griffin). 3 claim that cumulative error denied him a fair trial. 3 ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a mandatory court construction fee (gov. code,  70373, subd. (a)) as to count 3. we agree and modify the judgment accordingly. factual background in june 2014, ana c., her husband, edson, her 11-year-old daughter, ana s., and two of her sons, boris and christopher, attended the quinceanera . ana s. and amy had been on drill team together. ana c. wife, karla, were close friends, and ana c. was also friends with , but ana c. hardly knew appellant at all. ana c. and her family arrived at the quinceanera about 11:00 p.m. ana c. drank and socialized at the party. she had two to four shots of tequila,4 and was intoxicated by the time she left the quinceanera. at one point she tried to talk with appellant, but he did not seem to pay attention to her. three times ana c. approached appellant and tried to get him to dance with her. at some point, edson left the party by taxi while ana c. and her children remained at the party. edson was angry because he wanted the rest of the family to leave with him, and ana c. was drinking shots with karla. the quinceanera ended about 1:00 a.m. karla invited ana c. and her kids to her house to spend the night because ana c. had had too much to drink to drive home. ana c. bedroom. she did not have anything to drink while she was 4 according to another guest at the quinceanera, mayra prieto, ana c. was drinking tequila, long island iced teas, and vodka, and had six or seven drinks. 4 there.5 ana c. borrowed pajamas from karla, and about 3:00 or 3:30 a.m. went to sleep on a mattress on the floor in anext to her daughter. after ana c. had fallen asleep, ana s. saw appellant enter the room. ana s. was afraid and rolled over to face the wall, pretending to sleep. she felt the mattress move as appellant got on it. as ana s. lay frozen on the mattress, she heard her mother ana s. knew that appellant was touching her mother because she felt ana c. move after a while, ana s. heard her mother crying and turned over to see appellant leaving the room. ana c. awoke to find appellant on top of her and her hands pinned over her head. initially, she thought she was dreaming. mindful of her daughter on the mattress next to her, ana c. froze next to her. at some point appellant put his mouth on ana vaginal area, and she pushed his head away. he then penetrated her vagina with his penis. afterwards, appellant got up, adjusted his pants, and left the room. 5 according to amy, however, ana c. seemed to be drunk and made numerous trips to the kitchen for beer. 5 ana c. felt dirty. crying, she turned and hugged her daughter. ana s. said ana c. said she was sorry ana s. had to see that. ana s. began to cry. she ran out of the room and told her brothers their mother had been raped. shortly thereafter, as ana c. was leaving the house, she saw appellant reclining on the sofa. his eyes were closed and he appeared to be sleeping. ana c. and ana s. were taken to a rape treatment clinic. there, lonelyss lewis, a forensic nurse examiner and nurse practitioner, conducted a sexual assault examination and interviewed ana c. and ana s. separately. ana c. was crying and upset throughout the interview. she told the nurse she had had consensual sex with her husband the morning of the quinceanera. she related the details of the sexual assault, explaining that when she awoke to find appellant on top of her, she thought she might be dreaming because she was drunk. lewis understood that ana thought she had made up being raped. he had taken ana c. to the police to see if her story was true. ana c. told the nurse she was afraid her husband was going to try to take the children because he was mad at her and had accused her of consenting to have sex with appellant. ana s. also described the sexual assault to nurse lewis and said what appellant had done was unforgivable. a criminalist with the forensic science division of the los angeles police department testified to the results of a dna analysis of the forensic evidence collected in this case. male dna (spermatozoa) was detected on the vaginal, cervical, anal, and external genital swabs, as well as the vaginal lavage. the sperm dna profile. 6 from a population of unrelated individuals was approximately one in 4 quintillion. the same match was obtained from the swab taken from the cervix and the vaginal lavage. the samples obtained from the anal and external genital swabs contained both sperm and epithelial6 cell fractions, which were mixtures of the dna profiles of appellant and edson. ana c., edson and appellant were determined to be possible contributors to the epithelial cell fraction from the anal swab. the oral and neck swabs contained mixtures of epithelial cell fractions from at least three individuals, including appellant. appellant was included as a possible contributor to the epithelial cell fraction obtained from the external genital swab. the probability of matching appellantpopulation of unrelated individuals was one in 2 million. the criminalist explained that while it is not possible to determine whether the epithelial cell fraction came from saliva, if saliva was present, it would be found in the epithelial cell fraction. discussion i. the trial court properly excluded evidence of statement. a. procedural background before trial, the prosecutor moved to exclude a statement ana c. made to prieto that she was planning to have sex with someone at the party that night. according to the prosecutor, ana c. told prieto s 6 epithelial cells include both skin and saliva cells. 7 security guard or the valet [or the bartender], but she was going defense counsel argued that the statement was trial court indicated that the statement was irrelevant if the defense was that nothing happened, and deferred its ruling until ana c. had testified. during the cross-examination of ana c., defense counsel the court . during an in-chambers conference, defense counsel argued that followed by random people ,was probative of motive and consent since the prosecutor maintained that ana statement was irrelevant. the trial court concluded that expressed an not appellant, and thus had little probative value on the issue of ana hand, the court found the statement ,and thus inadmissible under evidence code section 352. appellant twice renewed the request to admit the evidence of ana s statement, arguing that the statement should be interpreted broadly to mean someone did not matter that she identified specific people other than appellant. counsel maintained that, in combination with the evidence that ana c. repeatedly tried to get appellant to dance with her, the statement was highly relevant to her mental state, 8 and its probative value consent outweighed any prejudice. while the court agreed that evidence of ana was highly relevant and admissible, it reaffirmed its prior ruling that her statement about wanting to get laid by someone else was inadmissible under evidence code section 352 because she had not specifically referred to appellant. b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion. understood to include appellant as a possible intended sexual partner that night. so interpreted, appellant maintains ana statement was relevant and admissible pursuant to evidence sexual conduct with appellant. we disagree. disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the he road discretion in determining the relevance of evidence [citations] but people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 11661167; people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 913.) evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 743.) under that deferential ruling capricious, or patently absurd and the ruling resulted in a 9 people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 469; people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 910.) we find no abuse of discretion in the trial court conclusion that evidence that ana c. contemplated sex with someone other than appellant had no tendency in reason to prove that she consented to sex with appellant hours later at an entirely different location. under evidence code section 1103, subdivision (c)(3). evidence code section 1103, subdivision (c)(1) mandates the exclusion of opinion evidence, reputation evidence, and evidence of specific . . . in order contains an exception to this broad rule of exclusion, providing with the defendantsion (c)(1). (italics added.) ment nevertheless qualified as s]exual conduct in this context. (see people v. franklin . . . encompasses any behavior that reflects the e complaining , however, did not relate to any previous sexual conduct, but to her future intent. evidence code section 1103, subdivision (c) thus has no application here. (see people v. chandler (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 703, 707 [evid. code  1103, subd. (c) excludes 10 xceptions].) moreover, e statement as evidence of a specific instance of sexual conduct, the statement as a whole quite plainly did not refer to appellant at all. to the contrary, ana c. specifically identified three people with whom she would consider he bartender, the security guard, or the ; appellant was not mentioned. because the statement did section 1103, subdivision (c)(3) did not make it relevant or otherwise permit its admission. the fact that ana c. made no reference to appellant in her statement undermines reliance on people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067 (guerra), disapproved on another ground in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151, and people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555 (geier). in guerra, our supreme court upheld admission of the under the state-of-mind exception to the hearsay rule under evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a)(2). (guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 11131114.) noting the relevance of any evidence prosecution for forcible rape (people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 11231124), ment that she was afraid of the defendant clearly probative of her lack of consent to sexual intercourse in the attempted rape. (guerra, at p. 1114; see also people v. thompson (1988) 45 cal.3d 86, 103.) iguerra, which had directly referred to the defendant, ana c. did not mention 11 appellant at all in stating her intent to have sex with someone that night, instead identifying three other men as possible sexual partners. to sexual relations with appellant. geier is also inapposite. there, our supreme court upheld -as sexual partners to show the victim would not have consented to sexual relations with the defendant, who was white. (geier, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 586587.) nothing in geier supports the inference that because ana c. indicated she would consent to sex with the bartender, the security guard, or the valet, she likely consented to having sex with appellant. indeed, the reasoning in geier actually of three service employees as potential sexual partners would tend to show she would not have consented to sexual relations with appellant, who was not a service emplhusband. the trial court also did not abuse its discretion in excluding statement on the ground that its admission would create 352.) under evidence code section 352, evidence should be excluded jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant, but to reward or ch a circumstance, the evidence is unduly prejudicial because of the substantial likelihood the jury will use it for an illegitimate people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 10911092.) 12 here, ana c. casual declaration that she intended to , the sort of minimally relevant evidence that tends to inflame the emotions of the jury, creating a substantial likelihood that the evidence will be put to an illegitimate purpose. (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 439.) the trial court properly exercised its discretion in excluding the statement. ii. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct. a. argument concerning the dna evidence as to count 1 on direct examination, the criminalist testified that there were two contributors to the epithelial cell fraction obtained from the external vaginal swabdna profile, while appellant was included as a possible contributor excluded as a possible contributor. the expert testified that the probability of matching the profile of a contributor to this mixture to a person chosen at random from a population of unrelated individuals was approximately one in 2 million. the prosecutor concluded the direct examination by asking, can you do the specifically what came from saliva, but if saliva was to have been present, it would typically be found in during opening [the criminalist] talked to you about epithelial cells, saliva and skin. epithelial. on the external part of her vagina, there was epithelial cells, saliva of the defendant. one in two million. not 13 her husband. the defendant. [] this is corroboration. this corroborates that the crime of forcible oral copulation happened interposed no objection, requested no admonition, and failed to argue a contrary view of the evidence. on that the epithelial cells on the external genital swab confirmed the mischaracterization of the evidence. not only did the criminalist never testify that the source of the epithelial cells on the vaginal swab was saliva, but he expressly stated it was not possible to determine what portion of the epithelial cell fraction, if any, came on the external genitalia was the only physical corroboration for the charge of forcible oral copulation, appellant argues the constituted prosecutorial misconduct requiring reversal of defense to ineffective assistance of counsel. aforfeited the issue for appeal. as a general rule, a defendant may not complain on appeal of prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundthe defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 894; people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841.) we further reject prosecutor commits misconduct when his or her conduct either 14 infects the trial with such unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial of due process, or involves deceptive or (people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1219, quoting people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 711.) latitude to vigorously argue his or her case and to make fair comment upon the evidence, including reasonable inferences or people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 726; people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819. people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1061.) nevertheless, [w]whatever conclusions counsel believes can properly be drawn (people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 181.) here, the prosecutor drew permissible inferences without crossing the line into mischaracterization of the evidence. ana c. testified that appellant licked her neck and her vagina. she also reported forcible oral copulation to both the police and nurse lewis. appellant was identified as a possible contributor to the epithelial cell mixture from both the neck and external vaginal swabs. the probability that appellant could be included in this mixture profile was one in 2 million. while the criminalist explained that saliva could not be separately identified in the epithelial cell fraction, if saliva was present, it would be included in the epithelial cell fraction. on the strength of this evidence, it was certainly reasonable to infer that the epithelial cell fraction from the external genital swab contained saliva. such an 15 inference was reinforced by the epithelial cell fraction attributable to appellant where she described appellant licking her. was misleading, however, the comment did not amount to misconduct. that in the context of the whole argument and the instructions applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous people v. rangel, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1219, quoting people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 667.) [t]he prosecutor has a wide-ranging right to discuss the case in closing argument. [s]he has the right to fully state [her] views as to what the evidence shows and to urge whatever conclusions [s]he deems proper. opposing counsel may not complain on appeal if the reasoning is faulty or the deductions are illogical because these are matters for the jury to determine. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1043.) here, the jury itself could have reasonably drawn the same inference from the evidence, and was properly instructed that it alone was to determine the facts based on the evidence. moreover, the court instructed that nothing the attorneys might say is evidence. absent any indication to the contrary, we presume the jury followed the trial instructions. (people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 852.)7 7 constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. 16 b. rgument on the lack of any evidence of consent appellant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by arguing there was no evidence that ana c. consented to sexual relations with appellant when such evidence was available but holding in part i, ante, that the trial court properly excluded evidence of ana statement, we conclude that argument constituted a fair comment on the state of the evidence. (see people v. ledesma, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 726.) there was no prosecutorial misconduct. c. claimed griffin error was properly excluded, the prosecution committed griffin error by arguing the absence of any evidence of consent. we disagree. griffin, it is error for a prosecutor to state that certain evidence is uncontradicted or unrefuted when that evidence could not be contradicted or refuted by anyone other than the defendant testi (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 371.) our supreme court has further declared absence of es testimony could (id. at p. 372.) griffins prohibition against direct or indirect comment upon the failure of the defendant to take the witness stand, does not extend to comments on the state of the evidence or on the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call lo (people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 257; people v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 945.) 17 griffin error, we must determine whether it is reasonably likely (people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1234, 1275; people v. roybal (1998) 19 cal.4th 481, 514; see also people v. carr (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 475, 484.) however, [a]rguments by the prosecutor that otherwise might be deemed improper do not constitute misconduct if they fall within the proper limits of rebuttal to the arguments of people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1026.) here, the prosecuargument that ana c. had consensual sex with appellant sometime earlier that night and lied about a sexual assault. in rebuttal, the prosecutor argued that the defense claim of consent required the jury to speculate that ana c. agreed to have sex with appellant, without any evidence to support such a scenario. prosecutor urged the jury to consider what the evidence showed m. the prosecutor also pointed out the absence of any evidence to support the defense theory of a tryst between appellant and ana c. earlier in the evening. the argument, which neither directly nor indirectly referred to , plainly constituted permissible the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call logical witnesses. (people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1304 ve contradicted [the 18 es not s observations into a veiled comment ]; people v. brady (2010) 50 cal.4th 547, 566.) finally, appellant has suggested no reason to conclude the jury disregarded the instruction absence of any indication to the contrary, we must presume the jury understood and applied the instruction, and did not draw an improper inference of guilt based on testify. (people v. brady, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 566, fn. 9; people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 632.) d. claimed prosecutorial misconduct based on burden shifting appellant contends the prosecutor sought to lower the burden of proof when she stated the following in her rebuttal argumentidence, and there has been no evidence to say that it was consensual, and, you have the evidence. you have what we have both submitted. both of us could have submitted anything to you that was argument was improper because it told the jury appellant had the burden to provide evidence of consent rather than only raise a reasonable doubt. we disagree. comment that a defendant has not produced any evidence, and on the other hand an improper statement that a defendant has a duty or burden to produce evidence, or a duty or burden to prove people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1340.) on the quality or lack of 19 evidence presented by defense neither exceeded the bounds of proper rebuttal argument nor shifted the burden of proof. (see people v. ledesma, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 726.) there was no misconduct. e. misstatement of the law appellant contends the prosecutor misstated the law when asserts that because he was not charged with rape of an intoxicated person under section 261, subdivision (a)(3), the question of whether ana her from giving consent was not properly before the jury. the law on the crime of rape of an intoxicated person. people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 435), reversal is required only if, when viewed in the context of the a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. (people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 337; people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522 [the reviewing court must view the statements of a prosecutor claimed to be misconduct in the context of the argument as a whole, not in isolation].) however, n cdo not lightly infer that the jury drew the most damaging rather than the least damaging meaning from the s statements. people v. covarrubias, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 894.) viewing the arguments as a whole, and taking into account 20 defense counsel responded by reminding the jury that the charge was forcible rape, not rape by intoxication. has been instructed on the law, and they will follow the law given thethe elements of the offenses, including the requirement that the jury find accomplished [each of the charged acts] by force, violence, duress, in order to convict. the court specifically instructed the jury that statements and closing arguments, the attorneys discuss the instructed the jury to follow the law as explained by the court, we presume the jury understood and followed these instructions. (people v. sanchez, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 852.) 21 iii. mandatory fees as to count 3 the minute order from the sentencing proceedings in this case indicates the trial court ordered appellant to pay one $40 court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and one $30 court construction fee (gov. code,  70373, subd. (a)) as to count 1 only. the abstract of judgment also shows the imposition of but a single court security fee and court construction fee. section 1465.8, subdivision (a)(1) requires the imposition of a $40 court security fee on each count of conviction. (people v. roa (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 1175, 1181.) similarly, government code section 70373, subdivision (a) mandates the imposition of a $30 court construction fee on every count of conviction. (people v. lopez (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 474, 480.) here, the court security and court construction fees were mandatory as to count 3. we therefore modify the judgment to reflect the imposition of these fees. (people v. woods (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 269, 272274.) 22 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect imposition of a $40 court security fee (pen. code,  1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $30 court construction fee (gov. code,  70373, subd. (a)) as to count 3. the trial court is ordered to correct the minute order and to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment to reflect these modifications. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. 