filed 10/23/17 p. v. talian ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steven talian, defendant and appellant. b271653 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba407892) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed. john lanahan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted steven talian of second degree murder after the body of richard michael ramirez was found where talian had placed it in a garbage container outside the apartment building where he lived. talian argues the trial court erred by refusing to instruct the jury on self-defense theories, and the prosecutor committed misconduct in her closing arguments. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. who lived in the apartment building where the crime occurred gregoria martinez lived on the first floor of an apartment building at 1006 north mariposa avenue. talian lived on the second floor. carolina lopez also lived on the second floor across the hall from talian, and she was the building manager. lopez thought talian was a good tenant. the only problem she ever had with him was that he used too much water bathing his pedro hernandez was the manager of the building next apartment building or to talian. martinez saw ramirez a number of times near the apartment building, and she saw talian and ramirez standing and talking in the building and in 3 building mbuilding supervisor, said she also saw ramirez in or near the apartment building and occasionally spoke with him. at some point, ramirez was banned from the building. lopez had two conversations with talian about not letting ramirez into the building, and she told talian ramirez was a bad person and had a gun. talian said ramirez had been at his apartment but left. lopez often called the police about ramirez. b. what the neighbors found in the trash container one day in february 2013, after talian had been living in the apartment for five months, martinez saw talian in the wewalked outside with the garbage bag to a rolling, city-provided trash container. lyons was outside a nearby building and saw talian, who nd was a tenant. hernandez was also outside and saw talian struggling with the trash container. hernandez approached talian and noticed he had a cut and blood on his finger. lopez walked up and asked talian what he was doing and what he had talian did not respond, but he asked her what time the trash 4 collectors came to pick up the trash. lopez also saw talian had blood on his hand. lopez went with talian upstairs to the front door of lopez asked talian to open the door, and talian said he did not have the keys, although lopez could hear the sound of keys in his pocket. lopez opened the door with her key, walked into the living room of the apartment, and saw it was in disarray. she and lyons saw a mattress on the floor and had broken into the apartment, although she said she was just guessing about that. talian looked nervous. lyons, who had experience with individuals who were under the influence of drugs (including her son) and could recognize the symptoms, believed talian was under the influence of drugs because of the size of his pupils and the way he was acting. lyons told lopez to leave and told talian to call the police. talian walked toward the kitchen, picked up a gun from the counter, put it in his pocket, and walked quickly out of the apartment. lyons called the police after talian left. meanwhile, hernandez went to check the back of the building, where there was a door with a screen that opened to stairs that lead to the back doors of the apartments of talian and his next door neighbor. hernandez testified that, while there was no damage to the screen door, there was a tear in the screen. hernandez explained there was a hole in the screen door that lopez went downstairs and approached the trash container, where hernandez and lyons joined her. hernandez 5 looked into the trash container, moved some plastic out of the body inside. lopez did not believe him, so she looked inside and also saw the two feet. ramir c. how talian was apprehended the police received a call about a murder at the mariposa apartment building and eventually found talian running on a nearby street. officers caught up with talian, who put his hands up, slowly went down to his knees, and then lay on his stomach. d. what the investigation found in the trash container. a field training officer and a coroner criminalist arrived on the scene, and they discussed how best to remove the body. they decided to turn the trash container on its and comforter, so that when the investigators lifted the material a purple and gold jersey of a los angeles professional basketball team. apartment and observed bloodstains throughout the unit, including on the front door, the living room wall, the kitchen, the interior door to the bedroom, the bathroom, the living room 6 carpet, a couch, a mattress, a pair of shorts, a shirt, and a piece of ns on underneath the cushion on the the cushion and a significant pool of what appeared to be blood on they also found a portion of a broken lamp (police found the other part of the lamp outside, next to the trash container), feathers, and 10-pound exercise weights from a well-known commercial gym. the dna profile obtained from the bloodstains on the couch cushion profile obtained from the bloodstains on the door and the floor there was also evidence of one of the detectives checked the back door and found it locked. he found no damage to the doors, the door locks, or windows of the apartment. the detective was looking for signs of a break-in but did not find any. the forensic pathologist who performed the autopsy conclulamp, or other hard instrument. he found four lacerations on the left side of the head and six on the back of the head, ranging from some had adjacent abrasions where the skin had been scraped or slincluding the bone underneath the laceration and fracturing of 7 -there were also tears in the membrane surrounding the brain and evidence of hemorrhaging within the skull. the autopsy revealed no defensive wounds. forensic pathologist estimated ramirez had died up to one to two days before he was discovered. the pathologist testified ramirez ate definitively if ramirez was alive when talian put him in the trash container. the still alive when he was put in the trash can, then being placed facedown, having his head bent in some way to obstruct his breathing, possibly releasing fluids from his mouth or blood from the wound and inhaling it, . . ram e. what the jury found the people charged talian with the murder of ramirez. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)1 at the conclusion of the trial, at which talian did not testify, the jury found him guilty. the trial court sentenced talian to a prison term of 15 years to life. 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 8 discussion a. request for an instruction on justifiable homicide in defense of home or on imperfect self-defense at trial, counsel for talian asked the court to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 506, justifiable homicide: defending against harm to person within home or on property, and calcrim no. 571, voluntary manslaughter: imperfect self-defense or imperfect defense of another. the court refused, ruling there was no substantial evidence to support giving the instructions. the court stated there was no evidence talian who tried to commit a forcible and atrocious crime, who tried to enter the home intending to commit an act of violence. . . . even if you could somehow say this damage to the back door screen downstairs shows that mr. ramirez broke ina pretty big leapcommit a forcible and atrocious crime as opposed to coming in was no evidence of a break-in, a struggle, or provocation by ramirez to support an instruction on voluntary manslaughter. talian argues the trial court erred in refusing to give instructions -defense of his person in his apartment while mr. talian was p the trial court must instruct on perfect self-defense or defense of habitation, which is a complete defense to murder (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 550; people v. humphrey 9 (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082; people v. sotelo-urena (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 732, 744), or imperfect self-defense, which reduces mwhen a defendant acts in the actual but unreasonable belief that he is in imminent danger of death or great bodily injurypeople v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 561-562; see people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 132), only if there is substantial evidence to support giving such an instruction. (people v. lam thanh nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1049; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) substantial evidence is evidence sufficient to deserve consideration by the jury, that is, evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. simon, at p. 132.) it is not speculation. (see people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 735 [speculat]; people v. mccloud (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 788, 807 nor is it whenever any evidence is presented, no matter how weak.(people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 331; accord, people v. simon, at p. 132; people v. larsen (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 810, 823.) calcrim no. 506 is based on section 197, which provides hen committed in defense of habitation, property, or person, against one who manifestly intends or endeavors, by violence or surprise, to commit a felony, or against one who manifestly intends and endeavors, in a violent, riotous, or tumultuous manner, to enter the habitation of another for the purpose of offering violence to any person thereinfelony, the supreme court in people v. ceballos (1974) 12 cal.3d 10 endangers human life, like murder, mayhem, rape, or robbery (but not burglary). (id. at pp. 477-479; see people v. jones (1961) 191 cal.app.2d 478, 481.) calcrim no. 571 states the law of imperfect self-defense. (people v. lopez (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 1297, 1305-1306, 1307.) substantial evidence did not support giving either instruction because there was no evidence talian acted, reasonably or unreasonably, to defend his home or himself from relationship and interaction was that they knew each other, were seen together in and around the apartment building, and appeared to be on friendly terms. and there was no evidence about damage to the door leading to the back stairs, but even if an intruder were to get past that door, he or she would still have apartment, and the detective found that door locked and undamaged. indeed, the detective found no damage to any of the doors, windows, or locks of the apartment, or any other sign of a break-in.2 moreover, even if there were evidence ramirez broke into endeavored to commit an atrocious crime by force, as required by section 197. (see people v. ceballos, supra, 12 cal.3d at p. 483 2 dy broke apartment; she was not making a statement about an actual break-in. 11 was no evidence ramirez tried to rob or murder talian, or that he had a weapon when he was in the apartment. lopez told talian that ramirez was a bad person and owned a gun, but there was day ramirez was killed. (cf. people v. vezerian (1948) 85 cal.app.2d 708, 720-721 [defendant was entitled to an instruction stating he had a right to protect himself, his family, take the life of the intruderultiple witnesses saw the intruders fighting with the defendant and his brother and heard one of the intruders say he had a gun].) stairway that [led] to the back door of mr. evidenced by the damage to the lock and screen of the entrance to ramirez was dead, mr. talian, who just had killed a man, locked might have happened that way. but there was no evidence it did. by definition, substantial evidence requires evidence and not mere speculation. in any given case, one may speculate about any number of scenarios that may have occurred. . . . a reasonable inference, however, may not be based on suspicion alone, or on imagination, speculation, supposition, surmise, conjecture, or guess work.people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1133; accord, people v. wallace (2017) 15 cal.app.5th 82, 93; see people v. wilson (1992) 3 cal.4th 926, 940 [trial court properly refused 12 an he evidence did not support the factual scenarios now advanced by defendantonly bare speculation, not substantial evidence, to support the theory presently advanced by defendant citing section presumed to have held a reasonable fear of imminent peril of death or great had unlawfully entered or forcibly entered, and mr. talian knew talian contends this presumption applied and he had to use force against ramirezwho had unlawfully entered or forcibly section 198.5, enacted as the home protection bill of rights (people v. hardin (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 625, 633), any person using force intended or likely to cause death or great bodily injury within his or her residence shall be presumed to have held a reasonable fear of imminent peril of death or great bodily injury to self, family, or a member of the household when that force is used against another person, not a member of the family or household, who unlawfully and forcibly enters or has unlawfully and forcibly entered the residence and the person using the force knew or had reason to believe that an unlawful and forcible entry occurred.3 for section 198.5 to 3 was intended to give residential occupants additional protection in situations where they are confronted in their own homes by unlawful intruders such as burglars.(people v. grays (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 679, 686; see people v. owen (1991) 226 cal.app.3d 996, 1005 he legislative history 13 apply, four elements must be met. there must be an unlawful and forcible entry into a residence; the entry must be by someone who is not a member of the family or the household; the residdeadly force (as defined in  198.5) against the victim within the residence; and, finally, the residential occupant must have had knowledge of the unlawful and forcible entry. (people v. hardin, at p. 633, fn. 5; see people v. brown (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 1489, 1494-1495.) the presumption of section 198.5 did not apply because the first element was not present. as noted, there was no substantial apartment. (cf. people v. brown, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at p. 1495 is undisputed there was evidence showi entry onto the porch was unlawful and forcible4 of section 198.5 indicates the statute was enacted to permit residential occupants to defend themselves from intruders without fear othe benefit of the doubt in such cases to the resident, establishing a presumption that the very act of forcible entry entails a threat to the life and limb of the homeowner].) 4 the court in brown concluded, however, that section 198.5 (people v. brown, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at p. 1497.) 14 b. the prosecutor did not engage in prejudicial misconduct in her closing argument, counsel for talian argued her client acted in self-defense after ramirez broke into the apartment, high on methamphetamine and carrying a gun, and . . . talian contends it was improper for the prosecutor to respond in rebuttal by arguing there was no evidence talian acted in self-defense, the court had not instructed the jury on self-defense, and the jury could not consider self-nature of the case, . . . the only way there could have been direct evidence of self[-upon his exe under the fifth amendment of the federal constitution, a prosecutor is prohibited from commenting directly or indirectly (people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 184; see griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609, 615 . . . forbids . . . comment by the prosecution on the accuseds .) s comments mir inference constitute griffin (people v. denard (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1012, 1020.) the griffin rule extend to bar prosecution comments based upon the state of the evidence or upon the failure of the defense to introduce material (people v. thomas 15 (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 945; see people v. carr (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 475, 483.) evaluate claims of griffin error by people v. sanchez (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 1517, 1523; see people v. caldwell griffin error, reasonable likelihood that the jurors misconstrued or misapplied here is what the prosecutor said in her rebuttal argument: [the prosecutor]: ladies and gentlemen of the jury, the defense gave you this long argument about self-defense. the judge had read jury instructions to you about what law applies in this case. those juror instructions come out of a book called calcrim, california jury instructions. this is volume one. t the ones that are for this case. -defense is a great thing becauseit goes back to what i said earlier. we value human life. we understand that sometimes a life has to be taken in order to save another life. to justify that act, it must be excusesomebody threatens your life or the life of another, to defend yourself. we justify that. we justify that as a justifiable homicide. 16 -defense for your home and yourself. there are instructions when self-defense applies, when evidence has supported that. es and gentlemen of the jury? you do not have a self-defense instruction. they exist. when evidence supports a finding of ]: objection. the court: overruled. ]: when evidence supports a finding of self-defense, you are given that instruction so that you can consider it and evaluate it and determine, was this a justifiable was no evidence. there was no evidence presented in this trial at all of self-defense, that anybody feared for their life. ] the court: the objection is overruled. [the prosecutor]: there was no evidence presented in this case, ladies and gentlemen of the jury. none. the defense got up here and argued and told you that you must consider self- there is no reasonable likelihood the jurors understood the exercise of his constitutional right not to testify. the prosecutor acted in self-defense and arguing there was no evidence supporting or jury instruction authorizing the jury to consider it. (see people v. carter griffin 17 howextend to comments on the state of the evidence or on the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call logical people v. medina can only be seen as a fair comment on the state of the evidence, comment falling outside the purview of griffin].) indeed, it is hard to see how the -defense argument without mentioning there was no evidence to support it, and it is very unlikely the jury would have understood where the defendant was the only person who could have possibly provided evidence of self--defense theory, talian could have introduced evidence, if there were any, of the condition of the interior and exterior of the apartment and its entry points, the nature of the injuries and wounds to ramirez, or observations of witnesses who had seen talian and ramirez argue in the past or had knowledge of a dispute between them. (see people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1340 [no griffin the lack of refutation or denial by the sole remaining witness, defendant, but rather to the lack of evidence, which might have been presented in the form of physical evidence or testimony other than that of people v. sanchez, supra, 228 cal.app.4th at p. 1526 griffin error if the could have been produced to refute the uncontraaccord, people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1196.) 18 talian also argues the prosecutor engaged in misconduct by inexpli offend anyone, but this is the elephant in the room. the victim in you, once mr. ramirez magically gets into this locked apartment, struggling, and the defendant has to pick up a weapon and strike fact. the fact is this individual is naked from the waist down. he is full monty. because not only is the victim naked, how is the defendant walking around? his business is showing. when did this happen? when did they decide to unclothe? . . . i mean, one can only logically assume that he got naked before he died because, if the defendant killed him and then took off his how that goes to self-defense at all. individual to get undressed in front of them? i mean . . . the next we know. that is what the evidence shows. 19 -defense? how do you account for that? he broke in and he have in my pants? only assume, felt comfortable getting naked in that apartment, in front of that individual, and considering how we saw the defendant, we can only assume he felt comfortable letting his business be seen. later, the prosecutor, referring to taliat. the jurors heard all of the evidence. they will decide what evidence has been shown by the trial court counsel for talian made was correct. the prosecutor did not argue talian sexually assaulted ramirez before -defense argument (for which there was no substantial evidence and on which the trial court properly did not instruct the jury) factually implausible. (see people v. winbush (has wide latitude in describing the deficiencies in opposing people v. hillhouse (2002) 20 defense case and argument if that attack is based on the it was improper for the prosecutor to suggest there was a consensual sexual encounter between talian and ramirez eevidence in the record to support either statement. (see people v. thomas assume or state facts not in evidence [citation] or mischaracterize people v. benson prosecutor may not go beyond the evidence in his argument to the counsel for talian, however, did not object on that ground. counsel for talian objected only on the ground there was no evidence of sexual assault. talian does correctly point out that the prosecutor committed misconduct in her closing argument by misstating the law regarding the element of malice for murder. the prosecutor committed by the defendant and nothing further is shown, the presumption applies that it was malicious and an act of murder. . . . human life is valuable. we value it. it is the most precious thing. and because it holds such a value, the way the law determines it is, if someone takes the life of another individual and you know nothing else except that that person took the life of another individual, we start at second degree murder. that is where we start. because we presume, in taking that life, that it was malicious and an act of murder. that is what we presume because of the value that human life has. in other words, ladies 21 law requires the people to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant killed with malice. ( 187, subd. (a); see people v. cravens (2012) 53 cal.4th 500, 507 second degree murder . . . is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought but without the additional elements, such as willfulness, premeditation, and deliberation, that would support a conviction of first degree murder]; people v. batchelor (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 1102, 1112 conviction of second degree murder requires a finding of malice aforethoughtpeople v. martinez (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 314, 332 second degree murder [is] a crime that to the contrary was misconduct. (see people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 253is misconduct to misstate the law during argumentpeople v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 435 t is misconduct for the prosecutor to misstate the applicable people v. otero (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 865, 870-871 is misconduct for a prosecutor to misstate the law during argumentwhen [the] misstatement at absolve the prosecution from its prima facie obligation to overcome reasonable doubt on all elements as talian acknowledges, however, his trial counsel did not object to this argument or ask the trial court to admonish the forfeited the argument on appeal. (see people v. williams (2016) 1 cal.5th 1166, 1188 defendant forfeits prosecutorial misconduct claims by failing to object and request an admonitionpeople v. clark 22 defense must make a timely objection at trial and request an ; people v. omalley (2016) 62 cal.4th 944, 1010 efendant failed to object to any of the statements he now asserts were misconduct, thus forfeiting each claim on appealand talian does not argue his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object to these misstatements of law by the prosecutor. (see people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674 prosecutorial misconduct cs s constitutional right to the ; see, e.g., people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 347 s failure ts statements at trial forfeited any claim of prosecutorial misconduct on appeal, [the defendant] argues that the failure to object constituted ineffective assistance of counsel5 where, as here, a defendant believes the prosecutor has made remarks constituting misconduct during argument, he or she is obliged to call them to the court 5 rather than objecting, counsel for talian decided to address the issue in her closing argument. she argued to the s second degree [murder], not true. not anywhere in this jury instruction, 520, that talks about the . . . what it says is that if you caused the death of another person with the state of mind called intended to kill mr. ramirez, then that would be murder. you . 23 attention by a timely objection. otherwise no claim is preserved for appeal.people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 43-44.)6 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. menetrez, j.* 6 only one survivor of the struggle between mr. talian and based upon his exercise of his fifth amendment right to remain silent . . . but if you ever go to disneyland and you go to the pirates of the of the pirates says something that applies to this case. he says, talian, however, did not object to this comment, and again talian does not argue on appeal his trial counsel was ineffective for not objecting. *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 