filed 6/16/17 p. v. mathieu ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. victor mathieu, defendant and appellant. b271177 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va127423) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john a. torribio, judge. affirmed. heather l. beugen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and scott a. taryle and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 victor mathieu appeals from his judgment of conviction of assault with a semiautomatic firearm (pen. code,1  245, subd. (b)) and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)), with true findings on a great bodily injury enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) and a firearm enhancement ( 12022.5). on appeal, mathieu argues that the trial court prejudicially erred when it excluded evidence of an out-of-court statement made by in which she admitted that she, and not mathieu, committed the shooting at issue in this case. we affirm. factual background and procedural history i. the charges the los angeles county district attorney charged mathieu with one count of assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)) and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). as to the assault count, it was alleged that mathieu personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim ( 12022.7, subd. (a)), and personally used a firearm during the commission of the offense ( 12022.5). it also was alleged that mathieu had served four prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b), and had two prior serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), section 1170, subdivision (h)(3), and/or the -(i), 1170.12, subd. (a)-(d)). mathieu pleaded not guilty to each count and denied the enhancement allegations. 1 unless otherwise stated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ii. the prosecution evidence on october 30, 2012, at approximately 11:00 a.m., darryl glover, the victim in this case, went to the roadway inn motel in artesia, california. glover planned to meet heather brownridge, an acquaintance he had known for two months and occasionally paid for sex. brownridge had called glover earlier that day and asked him for a ride home. when glover arrived at the motel, he parked his white jeep in the parking lot directly in front of room 113, where brownridge was waiting for him. the motel room was registered to mathieu, but brownridge was the only one present in the room when glover arrived. at 11:23 a.m., mathieu drove up in a grey audi, parked his vehicle in the motel parking lot, and then joined brownridge and glover in room 113. a minute later, kiesha patterson arrived in a black suv, parked her vehicle, and also went inside the room. glover did not know mathieu or patterson, but he had seen mathieu on one prior occasion at a house where glover dropped off brownridge. once inside the room, mathieu asked glover if he had brought money for a car. glover was aware that brownridge was in the process of buying a car and wanted his help to pay for it, but he did not know that she was buying the car from mathieu or that she expected glover to pay mathieu for the car at that time. when mathieu asked for payment, glover answered that he did not have any money. glover also told mathieu, t even know who you are. i ainduring the conversation, mathieu became agitated, and at one point, he said to mathieu then closed the door of the motel room, which made glover uneasy. 4 glover decided to leave and headed toward the door. as glover was reaching for the door handle, mathieu pulled out a gray semiautomatic handgun. mathieu was standing about 12 feet away from glover when he displayed the gun. at that time, brownridge was standing behind a bed and patterson was sitting on a bed. mathieu was the only person in the room that glover saw with a gun. upon seeing the gun, glover opened the door and ran out of the room. as glover was running away, he heard a single gunshot from the direction where mathieu was standing. the shot struck glover in the back. after glover was shot, he continued running to a del taco restaurant across the street. he hid behind a car in the drive-thru and asked the driver to call 911. as glover was waiting for black suv leave the motel parking lot. mathieu was inside the suv and looked directly at glover as the vehicle drove away. the first officer to respond to the scene. as the paramedics were treating glover on the ground, sergeant chavez questioned him about the shooting. glover told sergeant chavez that he had been in room 113 at the roadway inn with an unnamed man and 2 glover also told sergeant chavez that he and the man got into an argument, that the man pulled out a gun and shot him, and that the man then drove away in a black suv. antoyo accompanied glover in an ambulance as he was being transported to the hospital. glover 2 at trial, glover testified that he knew brownridge by the 5 told deputy santoyo that his frieand asked him to pick her up from room 113 at the roadway inn. when glover entered the room, sexy h. was with her friend, keisha. sexy h. telephoned an unknown man, and a short time later, a man arrived at the motel. glover and the man began to argue about sexy h. and whose girlfriend she was. as the argument continued, the man reached behind his back, pulled out a silver-colored handgun, pointed it at glover, and fired a shot. glover ran out of the room and across the street, stopping at a del taco restaurant to hide. glover saw the shooter leave the motel in a black suv. glover had seen the shooter before with sexy h., but did not know his name. officer on the case, arrived at the scene at around 12:30 p.m. he observed a bullet strike on the door of room 113, and a nine-millimeter shell casing on the carpet inside the room. the location of the shell casing was inconsistent with the gun being fired from the bathroom or the area where the beds were. brownridge was present at the scene and was searched for s station for questioning. no firearms were found on her person. the officers who responded to the scene also jeep during ,740 in cash in the center console. at trial, glover admitted that he had prior convictions for transporting marijuana and possessing marijuana for sale. he also admitted that he had $1,740 in cash and less than a gram of cocaine inside his jeep when he went to the motel to pick up brownridge, and that he brought the money with him in case he 6 decided to help brownridge buy a car. glover denied, however, that he ever told brownridge or mathieu about the money that he had in his vehicle. glover also denied that, during the time he was in the motel room, he ever threatened mathieu or engaged in a physical altercation with him. glover underwent multiple surgeries for his gunshot wound and was hospitalized for a month. while in the hospital, glover was shown six-pack photographic line-ups that included mathieu and patterson. glover identified mathieu as the person who shot him, and patterson as the person who arrived at the motel in the black suv. detective mcnichols and his team obtained a conducted surveillance of his past known addresses, but were unable to locate him. two years after the shooting, mathieu was arrested by the riverside county . iii. defense evidence mathieu testified on his own behalf. according to his testimony, mathieu was married to patterson and was friends with brownridge. he was registered at the roadway inn on the day of the shooting. earlier that day, he brought brownridge to room 113 in his silver audi. brownridge was in the process of buying the audi from mathieu through installment payments. mathieu told brownridge that she could not keep the car unless she paid him the balance of about $1,500 that she owed. mathieu left brownridge at the motel and went to meet patterson for breakfast. later that morning, brownridge called mathieu to tell him that a friend had agreed to help her pay for the car. mathieu drove back to the motel in the audi and asked patterson to follow him in her black kia suv in case the sale was completed. 7 when mathieu returned to the roadway inn, he saw glover standing outside room 113. mathieu did not know glover and had never seen him before. glover followed mathieu into the motel room where brownridge was waiting. patterson arrived a few minutes later and sat down on one of the two beds in the room. mathieu noticed that glover was wearing gloves and when mathieu asked glover if he was going to help brownridge pay for the car, glover became hostile and told mathieu that he did not have any money. brownridge reminded glover that he had said he would help her. glover responded that all he had was a bottle of prescription drugs, which he poured onto a counter to show mathieu. glover also told mathieu that the drugs were worth triple the value of the audi. mathieu refused to accept the drugs as payment for the car because he did not want to go back to jail. brownridge became angry that glover was refusing to help mathieu tried to ignore glover and told brownridge she could pay him for the car later. the argument continued to escalate, and mathieu became afraid of glover. at that point, mathieu, glover, and brownridge were standing near a refrigerator in the room, and patterson was sitting on one of the beds. mathieu walked toward the door, opened it, and told brownridge and glover to leave. glover went to close the door and mathieu saw glover fiddle with the front pockets of his sweater and then pull out a gun. as soon as mathieu saw the gun, he rushed toward glover. the two men got into a physical fight by the door. during the fight, mathieu saw brownridge run to the bathroom, but did not notice where patterson was inside the room. mathieu also saw 8 mathieu ended up on his back by the front of the door with glover leaning over him. mathieu then heard a gunshot and saw smoke. glover stepped over mathieu and ran out of the room. as glover was running, he screamed, mathieu got up, closed the door, and tried to calm the women down. brownridge began collecting the pills that glover had poured onto the counter while mathieu and patterson left suv. mathieu did not know what happened to the gun, but believed it may have been thrown away. mathieu never called 911 to report the shooting or made any attempt to talk to the police. he was arrested two years later in perris, california. at trial, mathieu denied that he fired the shot or had a gun with him in the motel room. he also denied that brownridge shot glover. when asked if patterson shot glover, mathieu refused to answer. he also refused to answer whether he saw patterson holding the gun when the shot was fired. mathieu admitted that he had prior felony convictions for crimes involving dishonesty in 1991, 1997, and 2003. iv. verdict and sentencing the jury found mathieu guilty as charged of assault with a semiautomatic firearm and possession of a firearm by a felon. the jury also found true the great bodily injury enhancement and the firearm enhancement. the trial court sentenced mathieu to state prison for a term of 25 years to life, plus a consecutive term of 18 years. 9 discussion on appeal, mathieu argues that the trial court erred when it excluded evidence of an out-of-court statement made by patterson in which she allegedly admitted to shooting glover. mathieu asserts that statement was admissible under evidence code 1230 as a declaration against penal interest, and that the t the statement constitutional right to due process and to present a defense. i. relevant background prior to trial, the court conducted an evidence code section 402 hearing concerning the admissibility of a statement made by patterson to a defense investigator in which she allegedly admitted to being the shooter. defense counsel explained that patterson originally was charged in this matter as an accessory after the fact, and that her case was resolved following the preliminary hearing. defense counsel proffered that, if called as a witness, patterson would testify that she was present in room 113 at the roadway inn during a violent confrontation between glover and mathieu, that she saw glover retrieve a firearm from his waistband, that the firearm fell to the ground as glover and mathieu struggled for it, and that she grabbed the firearm and fired a single shot in defense of mathieu and herself. defense counsel also offered into evidence a written statement prepared by the investigator that documented her march 2015 interview that she was the person who shot glover. when called to testify at the evidentiary hearing and asked about the events surrounding the shooting, 10 however, patterson asserted her fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination and was excused by the trial court. defense counsel thereafter requested that the trial court allow his investigastatement that she was the shooter, arguing that the statement was admissible as a declaration against penal interest. the prosecutor objected to the admission of the statement on the grounds that it was not inculpatory because patterson claimed that she had acted in self-defense, and was not reliable because patterson made the statement to a defense investigator rather than to the police. with respect to the inculpatory nature of the statement, defense counsel argued that patterson would not have had knowledge of the law on self-defense or defense of others, and that the evidence showing that glover was shot in the back could contradict her claimed defense. with respect to the reliability of the statement, defense counsel asserted that other witnesses would corroborate account that she was present in the motel room and in close proximity to the fight between glover and mathieu, and that the physical evidence found inside the room would further support her admission that she was the shooter. defense counsel also claimed refusal to speak to the police when she was arrested gave her statement to the defense investigator such a statement to police officers about shooting another defense counsel contended was so exonerating that its exclusion would violate mathieu constitutional right to a fair trial, and would force mathieu to testify that patterson was the shooter. after hearing the argument of counsel, the trial court excluded the -of-court statement. the 11 court concluded that the wife of the defendant coming ii. relevant law evidence code section 1230 sets forth an exception to the hearsay rule for a declaration against penal interest. it provides, in relevant part, [e]vidence of a statement by a declarant having sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made, was so far contrary s pecuniary or proprietary interest, or so far subjected him to the risk of civil or criminal liability, . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unto demonstrate that an out-of-court declaration is admissible as a [t]he proponent of such evidence must show that the declarant is unavailable, that the declaration the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission (people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 711.) the hearsay rule is the basic trustworthiness of the declaration. [citations.] in determining whether a statement is truly against interest within the meaning of evidence code section 1230, and hence is sufficiently trustworthy to be admissible, the court may take into account not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of the declarant, [citation.] 12 (people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 584 (geier) [overruled on other grounds by melendez-diaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305].[i]n this conterequires the court to apply to the peculiar facts of the individual case a broad and deep acquaintance with the ways human beings actually conduct themselves in the circumstances material under the exception. [citatiibid.) on admissibility under evidence code section 1230 for an abuse of discretion. (people v. grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 711s decision to admit or exclude evidence is a matter committed to its discretion and will not be disturbed except on a showing the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of (people v. masters (2016) 62 cal.4th 1019, 1056.) iii. the trial court did not err in excluding evidence out-of-court statement based on the totality of the circumstances presented, we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determthat she shot glover was not sufficiently reliable to qualify for admission as a declaration against penal interest. and the circumstances surrounding her statement to the defense investigator reasonably could support a finding that her statement was not trustworthy. patterson had been married to mathieu for over 20 years, had helped him flee the scene immediately after the shooting, and had a motive to minimize his participation in the crime once he was arrested and charged. given mathieuprior serious felony convictions that could 13 subject him to an enhanced sentence if he were convicted, patterson had a strong incentive to fabricate a defense that exculpated mathieu from any criminal liability. as our supreme court has explainedsometimes a declarant who makes an inculpatory statement may have a substantial incentive to trial court in that situation may e to protect [the defendant] renders the exculpatory portions of the statement inadmissiblepeople v. grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 716.) further supported a finding that it lacked sufficient indicia of trustworthiness to be admissible. according to defense counsel, patterson originally was arrested and charged as an accessory after the fact, and her case was resolved following a preliminary hearing. the first time that patterson claimed any responsibility for the shooting was in an interview with the trial counsel in this case. that interview took place two and a criminal case had been resolved. cant passage of time is a relevant circumstance to be considered when determining a (people v. masters, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1057 his involvement in planning the murder of a prison guard were properly excluded as unreliable where declarant waited for over a year to make the statements to prison authorities]; see also people v. smith (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 297, 304 [trial court did not err in excluding the statement of the to a defense investigator that exculpated the defendant in a driving under the influence case where the girlfriend never came forward to police and only made the statement . . . nearly nine months after the accident 14 as the trial court noted in ruling not sufficiently reliable to warrant admission, the circumstances wife of the defendant coming in belatedly saying were -inculpatory to the extent that she admitted to being the shooter rather than a mere accessory after the fact, her statement as a whole reflected that she was claiming the shooting was justified because she was acting in self-defense or in defense of mathieu. according to the written summary prepared by the defense investigator, patterson disclosed the following about her state of mind when she shot gun before but when grabbed the gun. . . . as she was picking the gun up, she noticed glover had gotten away from struggling with mathieu by pushing him to the floor and was coming toward her. she was afraid glover would get the gun from her after he had overpowered aware the gun had fired until she heard the shot. she was afraid. ent to the investigator therefore demonstrated that, rather than accept responsibility for the shooting, she attempted to shift the blame onto the victim by stating that glover was the aggressor in the physical confrontation with mathieu, that she saw glover that she fired the gun at glover as our supreme court has observed,hearsay statement runs s penal interest . . ., the statement may, in light of circumstances, lack 15 sufficient indicia of trustworthi(geier, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 584.) in geier, for instance, a wife made three inconsistent statements to the police about her involvement in . (id. at p. 583.) the trial court excluded evidence of her third statement in which she confessed to killing her husband, but claimed she had done so because they had just quarreled and he had hurt their daughter. (id. at p. 584.) the supreme court held that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling that the statement failed to meet the threshold requirement of trustworthiness to qualify as a declaration against interest. (id. at p. 585.) the court reasoned that with her prior statements in which she denied any involvement in the crime, that she may have believed that [her] explanation minimized her culpability or excused her conduct altogetherthat she may have been attempting to protect her lover and his ibid.; see also people v. butler (2009) 46 cal.4th 847, 852, 866 [trial court did not abuse the victim in self-defense and the defendant was not involved mathieu argues that, unlike the declarant in geier, patterson did not make inconsistent statements about her involvement in the shooting. rather, patterson made a single statement to the defense investigator in which she admitted she was the shooterwas consistent with the eyewitness testimony that placed her in 16 the motel room at the time of the shooting and with the physical evidence that showed only one shot was fired. however, there at the scene of the shooting or the number of shots that were fired. rather, the factual issue the jury had to resolve was whether mathieu fired the single shot that struck glover, and if so, whether he acted with the requisite criminal intent. of the four individuals who were indisputably present in the motel room during the shooting, only glover and mathieu testified at trial. while mathieu denied that he shot glover, he refused to answer any questions about whether patterson was the shooter. glover, on the other hand, testified that he saw mathieu pull out a gun while patterson was sitting on a bed, that he ran out of the room as soon as he saw the gun, and that he heard a single gunshot from the direction where mathieu was standing. the physical evidence corroborated he last saw mathieu standing with the gun, rather than the area where he saw patterson sitting on a bed. accordingly, the mere fact that patterson was present in the motel room when the shooting occurred and offered a different version of events two years later did not preclude the trial court from finding that her statement lacked sufficient reliability to qualify for admission. mathieu also contends that the exclusion of statement violated his federal constitutional right to due process and to present a defense. however, as the california supreme court has recognized, except the ordinary rules of evidence do not impermissibly infringe on the s [constitutional] right to present a defense. courts retain . . . a traditional and intrinsic power to exercise discretion to control the admission of evidence in the interests of orderly 17 procedure (people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 155.) in this case, the totality of the circumstances, inclu mathieu, her long delay in admitting her alleged involvement in the shooting, and her attempt to shift blame for the shooting onto the conclusion did not satisfy the threshold requirements for admission as a declaration against interest. under these circumstances, the trial court did not abuse its discretion or in excluding the proffered evidence. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. 