filed 9/11/17 p. v. jones ca2/4 to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles edward jones, defendant and appellant. b271239 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba427152) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura f. priver, judge. affirmed. carlo andreani, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 defendant charles edward jones appeals from the judgment following a court trial in which he was convicted of attempted first-degree murder (count 1) and child abuse (count 2). (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a), 189, 273a, subd. (a).)1 he raises issues of improper impeachment, prejudicial legal error, discovery violation, and ineffective assistance of counsel. finding no error, we affirm. factual and procedural summary defendant and s.r., the victim in count 1, were married in 2009. they have a son, c.j., who was 10 months old when the events in this case occurred. s.r. also has a son, c.r., from another relationship. c.r. is the victim in count 2, and was nine years old at the time of trial. on july 13, 2014, defendant was living with s.r. and both boys in a two-bedroom apartment in the city of los angeles. the couple argued. then, in the presence of both children, defendant shot s.r., gathered his belongings, and left the apartment. on july 23, 2014, he was arrested in chicago. defendant was charged in count 1 with attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of s.r. ( 664, 187, subd. (a), 189). count 1 included several related firearm allegations. ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d)). in count 2, defendant was charged with child abuse of c.r., who had witnessed the shooting. ( 273a, subd (a).) both counts included allegations of prior serious and violent felony convictions ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) and prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 defendant waived his right to a jury trial and the case was tried to the court. because defendant does not dispute that he shot s.r., our discussion focuses on evidence relevant to his state of mind on the night in question. s.r. testified that at about 8 p.m. on july 13, 2014, she had an argument with defendant about her plans to go out that night. when defendant said that he wanted s.r. to stay home, she told him that she was going out anyway. the argument did not last long. defendant left the apartment for about 25 minutes and came back. when he returned, he seemed without speaking, defendant walked up to s.r. and shot her twice, once in the hand and once in the stomach. after she had been shot, s.r. began . happened and took the younger child to another room. s.r. called 911. defendant went to the bedroom, got his things, and left without saying a word. s.r. was taken to the hospital where she underwent surgery. defendant was arrested ten days later in chicago. s.r. described nd a man,who was good to c.r. even before their child, c.j., was born. s.r. harbored no ill will toward defendant and forgave him for shooting her. she did not want defendant to go to jail; she wanted him to be part of her life and the lives of both children. over defense objection, the prosecutor impeached s.r. with her preliminary hearing testimony on three points which she could not recall at trial. when defendant returned to the apartment, he walked directly over to her and said, get this shit over with. defendant then pulled out the gun, 4 removed his hat and glasses, and shot her. after the shooting, defendant said as he left the apartment on cross-examination, s.r. testified they had a good relationship before and after they were married. s.r. had her own car and was free to come and go. but on the night of the shooting, their baby was only 10 months old, and defendant was the morning. they had been arguing about this issue on other occasions prior to the shooting. on the night of the shooting, s.r. was very angry because defendant was telling her what to do. when s.r. told defendant that she was going out regardless of what he thought, he left the apartment for 25 minutes. as he left, she told him not to come back. she said this to him even though it was he who paid the rent. s.r. continued the argument by texting him twice, saying when defendant returned, she s she did not want him in the house and wanted him to leave. defendant replied that he lived there and had a right to be in his own house. about 30 seconds or a minute later, defendant came up to her while she was sitting on the sofa. she raised her foot defensively . he pulled out a gun. she raised her hands in the air and he fired the gun. the bullet hit her left hand. she was cursing him when he fired again. defendant had a shocked look on his face when the gun went off. as defendant went to get his belongings, he told the older boy, the older boy took the baby into another room. 5 on re-direct, s.r. testified that the gun was about three feet away from her when she was shot. s.r. recalled telling the responding police officers that when defendant entered the apartment, he walked directly over to her. however, s.r. did not recall saying that defendant had stood in front of her, pointed the gun at her fpossibly a .357 caliber firearm. in response to further cross-examination, s.r. testified that o defendant on the night of the shooting. they both were very angry. in her concluding testimony, s.r. said that she loved defendant and forgave him. the responding officer, judith romo, testified that she spoke with s.r. after the shooting, before s.r. was taken to the hospital. romo related several statements made by s.r.: when d over with now that point [defendant] removed his glasses. he removed a revolver possibly .357 silver . . . from his waistband defendant repeated his statement, i need to get this over with right now s.r. did not understand defen s.r. pushed the gun away from her face just as it fired. one shot hit her left hand and the other hit her abdomen. when the shooting occurred, both children were present in the living room watching television. romo testified that upon arriving at the apartment, she 6 the older child, who was about seven or eight years old, was crying. the child said that his mother and the person that shot her were fighting, and after the shooting, the child ran and hid in his room. detective jorge cruz interviewed s.r. in the hospital. detective cruz testified that when he showed s.r. a photograph of defendant, she identified defendant as the person who had shot her. s.r. related the following information: upon returning to the apartment, defendant twice stated that [w]e might as well defendant then sais.r. asked defendantdefendant responded by shooting her. after the shooting, defendant went to gather his belongings. as defendant left the apartment defense evidence before defendant took the stand, the prosecution indicated that it intended to impeach him with two prior felony convictions of assault with a deadly weapon, one from 1994 and the other from 1999.2 defense counsel objected, arguing that the convictions were too remote credibility. the court overruled the objection. 2 both prior convictions were alleged in the information along with three other convictions: a 1997 violation of health and safety code section 11359 (possession of marijuana for sale); a 2003 violation of section 12021, subdivision (a) (possession of a firearm by a felon); and a 2009 violation of health and safety code section 11351 (possession or purchase of a controlled substance for the purpose of sale). 7 defendant testified that on july 13, 2014, he was out drinking with friends when s.r. called to ask him to come home. she called again about 40 minutes later and said that she wanted to go out. he told her that she should stay home with the children. this was typical of the arguments they had been having. s.r. often stayed out until 3 a.m. or even 6 a.m., and would arrive home as defendant was helping her older son to get ready for school. defendant wanted s.r. to stay home more because their baby was still young. defendant was caring for the children 65 percent of the time. when defendant came home on the night of the shooting, and you know threatening she would take the kids and leave and go find her another boyfriend and so and so and so so and so then called me blah blah this blah blah this all in all i just went in the need to get off my ass and take care of my kids more. i said, said,] defendant testified that they frequently had these arguments. defendant was doing the best he could, but was not sure how s.r. felt about him. after defendant went to the bedroom to change his clothes, he went to the kitchen to eat dinner. he then went to the living room and tried to play with the baby. s.r. cursed at him and said, d defendant went back to the kitchen and ate some more food. he returned to the living room and tried to play with the baby. he 8 . defendant was angry because s.r. was after defendant retrieved a loaded handgun from their bedroom, he went outside because he did not want to argue with s.r. defendant kept incessantly cursing out and talking crazy to me. i was getting angry so i went outside to sit down. i was downstairs in front of while he was outside smoking a cigarette, s.r. texted him the text messages made him angrier, and after about 30 or 35 minutes he went back inside. as defendant entered the apartment, s.r. immediately said this upset defendant. he testified that he e when he did this, hbecause s.r. names, threatening to take the children away, find another man, and put him out of his own house. defendant was not sure if he defendant testified that he was only trying to threaten and scare s.r. with the gun, so that she would leave him alone, stop when he walked up to s.r. with the gun, s.r. tried to kick him and threw up her hands. 9 he testified that he did not intend to discharge the gun. he stated that the gun lood. [] i turned around and started walking toward my bedroom and [c.r.] came out of his and he turned to run back in his room. i heard his mom call to him to come get the baby. while i was while i was putting defendant testified that he loved s.r. both then and now, that he did not intend to kill her. he did not want to hurt her. on cross-examination, defendant when he came back inside and s.r. said, he went straight to her. he pulled out the gun, which he knew was loaded, and stood close to her. as defendant gestured with his hands, the prosecutor described his movements . . has with his left hand cupped underneath and pointed straight from know exactly on her but it was pointed down and i still closer. aised her hand you know and raised her hand she scooted back and i when asked 10 whether he knew that he had fired at least one shot, defendant he said that he had taken the gun with him because he wanted to when he got on particular destination in mind. he did not recall saying, he did not say anything when he left after the shooting. defendant testified the shooti was to go in. i was going to the room, grab some clothes and leave. as soon as i came through the door she started at me [m]y intention was to scare her, to threaten her so she would quit talking crazy to me . . . defendant testified that he had been convicted of assault with a deadly weapon in 1994 and 1999. closing arguments before closing argument, defendant sought permission to argue the crime of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245), a lesser related offense of attempted murder. the trial court granted the motion. the prosecution argued he was gone for a period of time. immediately upon entering the house again he had the gun. it was loaded. we know virtually 11 without dispute that [s.r.] was sitting on the couch with the two threat of any physical force or violence towards the defendant, that without provocation the defendant pulled the gun, pointed it at her causing her to assume a defensive position where she raised her hand to block her face and that notwithstanding her efforts to defend herself the defendant not once not away from her but struck her twice with the bullets, one in the hand and one in the side. we know after not check on her well-being. didnas to what he had done but merely fled, not just the city, not just the state, but the entire jurisdiction taking the gun with him. this is not a case of an imperfect self- provocation argument there is nothing about the facts that a reasonably prudent person would act rashly and not use judgment in th[ese] had a cooling off period of time and it demonstrates the willful defendant was free to leave, but the prosecution argued that nothing indicated s.r. had a grudge or bias against defendant. rather than attempt to make his culpability. however, the shooting was not accidental. before he fired the gun, defendant removed his hat and glasses and said, there was no struggle for the gun. 12 defendant deliberately pulled the trigger from a distance of three feet. defendant denied that c.r. was present during the shooting, but s.r. testified that c.r. was on the couch. even attempted willful, premeditated and deliberate murder, and that he committed this crime in front of a young child who will live with what he witnessed for the rest of his life. defense argument defense counsel argued the shooting was accidental. defendant did not intend to shoot the gun, but only to scare s.r. even s.r. testified that defendant had a shocked look on his face when the gun went off. because defendant did not intend to kill, he was guilty of the lesser related offense of assault with a deadly weapon. alternatively, even if there were an intent to kill, defendant did not harbor malice, and, therefore, he should be acquitted of attempted murder and convicted of attempted voluntary manslaughter. malice was negated by heat of passion, which in this case was by a provocation sufficient to cause a person of ordinary and average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection of staying out until early morning, leaving their small baby at home. defendant was upset by being told to leave, and threatened with calls to the police. he was constantly of being falsely accused of a crime. s.r. routinely taunted him about finding another man. while he was sitting outside that night, s.r. texted him and called him names. 13 was such pressure that he just wanted threats that caused him to act under the heat of passion. the as to count 2, defense counsel cited that c.r. was not in the room during the shooting. counsel argued that because c.r. was not present, defendant was not guilty of child abuse. decision the trial court found defendant guilty of attempted first degree murder. the court stated that the evidence failed to support defendathe fact that defendant armed himself with a loaded handgun before he went outside indicated that he had the weapon with him during the cooling off period. when defendant went back inside, he walked directly over and shot relatively quickly is the way they both described it. [] i understand mr. jones testified gry and shot her two times. [] so i have to digest all of that testimony and the victim said it was a fairly quick thing. he walked up to her. she put her hands up and tried to kick at him but then was shot. she was actually shot. i mean first it hit her wrist of her left hand, which she had up in a defensive manner 14 from the circumstantial evidence he was. [] so based upon all the testimony as to count 1 the court does find [appellant] guilty. i do find that [appellant] willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation acted and so i find that the premeditation element as to count 2, the court found defendant guilty based on his because child animosity was not directed at his children would not exonerate him because the act was so dangerous that it constitutes a violation of the statute. at a separate proceeding, the prosecution produced convictions. the court found that in 1999, defendant was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon, a knife, which constituted a strike felony. as to the 1994 conviction, the court found that the evidence was insufficient to show that it was a strike felony. under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero), the court imposed sentence. on count 1, defendant received 7 years to life, which was doubled to 14 years to life because of the prior strike. he received a consecutive term of 25 years to life under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), plus an additional five-year consecutive term under section 667, subdivision (a). all other sentences were stayed under section 654. defendant filed a timely appeal from the judgment. 15 discussion i before he took the stand, defendant sought to bar impeachment with his 1994 and 1999 convictions of assault with a deadly weapon. ( 245, subd. (a)(1).) in denying the motion, the court pointed out that in a bench trial, the risk of confusing the jury (one of the factors in evidence code section 352, subdivision (b)) does not apply, and the court, which already was aware of the prior convictions because they were alleged in the information, would not be confused or misled by impeachment evidence. we find no error. the law is well-settled that any felony involving moral turpitude is relevant for impeachment purposes (people v. clark assault with a deadly weapon is a crime of moral turpitude. people v. elwell (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 171, 175.) othetical commentif this were a jury trial [then] i may well agree with you that [the prior convictions are] highly prejudicial and they are very remote in time. he argues that this remark constituted a judicial very remote and highly prejudicial. as discussed, the hypothetical statement was merely a reference to the fact that there was no danger of misleading a jury. because there was no such finding, defendant has failed to show that the admission of the impeachment evidence was erroneous. (denham v. superior court (1970) 2 cal.3d 557, 564 intendments and presumptions are indulged to support [the judgment] on matters as to which the record is silent defendant cites people v. rollo (1977) 20 cal.3d 109, 118, for the proposition that cts of violence . . . generally have 16 little or no direct bearing on honesty and veracity. 3 however, crimes of moral turpitude are not limited to those offenses in which dishonesty is an element of the crime. moral turpitude also exists in crimes that involve a general readiness to do evil. (people v. chavez (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 25, 28.) assault with a deadly weapon falls within that category. (people v. elwell, supra, 206 cal.app.3d at p. 175.) defendant contends his prior convictions are too remote to be probative of his credibility. we do not agree. crimes that are remote in time are not automatically inadmissible for impeachment purposes. even a fairly remote prior conviction is admissible if the defendant has not led a legally blameless life people v. mendoza (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 918, 925926.) following his 1999 conviction of assault with a deadly weapon, defendant sustained numerous convictions: in 2003, he was convicted of two drug related charges and a firearm possession offense, resulting in a 10-year prison sentence. six years later, in 2009, defendant received a four-year prison term for another drug related conviction. in 2012, he earned another 3 rollo was superseded by proposition 8, which amended prior felony conviction . . . shall subsequently be used without limitation for purposes of impeachment . . . in any criminal people v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d 301, 305discretion under evidence code section 352, proposition 8 conviction which necessarily involves moral turpitude, even if the immoral trait is one other people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 723724.) 17 felony drug conviction which resulted in a formal probation sentence. two years later, defendant committed the present offenses. prior convictions are not too remote in time to be probative of his credibility. (see people v. green (1995) 34 cal.app.4th 165, 183 [20-year-old prior conviction, followed by additional convictions in 1978, 1985, 1987, 1988, and 1989, created a pattern relevant to ) defendant argues that the similarity of the prior convictions to the charged offenses renders them unduly prejudicial. however, similarity is but one factor to be considered by the trial court in its exercise of discretion. (see people v. clark, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 932.) where multiple convictions of various kinds can be shown, strong reasons arise for excluding those which are for the same crime because of the inevitable pressure on lay jurors to believe if he did it before he probably did so this time. as a general guide, those convictions which are witness including a defendant who elects to testify in his own people v. muldrow (1988) 202 cal.app.3d 636, 646.) the decision whether to admit identical or similar priors rests within the discretion of the trial court. (see people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 412, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in people v. hinks (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1157, 1161-1165.) notably, when the trial court listed the critical facts in this case, it did not mention dthe court that he did not intend to harm or to shoot s.r., against his testimony that he was angry and shot 18 s.r. two times. the court found that defendant intended to shoot s.r. based on the latter testimony. the record contains substantial evidence to support willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder. there was undisputed evidence that after he argued with s.r., defendant armed himself with a loaded pistol, went outside, thought things over, went back inside, and quickly fired the gun at s.r. given these facts, it is not reasonably probable that exclusion of the prior convictions would have led to a more favorable result. (evid. code,  353, people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.)4 ii defendant contends the trial court applied the wrong legal standard in rejecting his theory of heat of passion. we do not agree. a. general legal principles first degree murder is the unlawful, premeditated, and deliberate killing of a human being with malice. (people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1181.) attspecific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. [citation.] attempted murder requires express malice, that is, th, or knows to a people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 177178.) 4 in light of our determination that the prior convictions were properly admitted, we need not discuss the due process violation claim. (see people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439 (partida).) 19 attempted voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of attempted murder. (people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 813.) voluntary manslaughter is an unlawful killing order to negate malice and reduce a murder to manslaughter, a finding that, at the time of the killing, defendants reason was (1) actually obscured as a result of a strong passion; (2) the passion was provoked by the victims conduct; and (3) the provocation was sufficient to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, and from this passion rather than from due deliberation or reflection. people v. wright (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1461, 1481 (wright).) he california test for sufficient provocation, properly understood, has never been whether the victims provocation would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to kill. (people v. beltran [(2013) 56 cal.4th 935,] 942.) adopting a standard requiring such provocation that the ordinary person of average disposition would be moved to kill focuses on the wrong thing. the proper focus is placed on the defendants state of mind, not on his particular act. to be adequate, the provocation must be one that would cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection. . . . [t]he anger or other passion must be so strong that the defendants reaction bypassed his thought process to such an extent that judgment could not and did not intervene. framed another way, provocation is not evaluated by whether the average person would act in a certain way: to kill. instead, the question is whether the average person would react in a certain way: with 20 his reason and judgment obscured. (id., at p. 949.) [p]rovocation is sufficient [when] . . . it eclipses reflection. a person in this state simply reacts from emotion due to the provocation, without due deliberation or judgment. if an ordinary person of average disposition, under the same circumstances, would also react in this manner, the provocation is adequate . . . . (id. at p. 950; italics added.)wright, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at p. 1482.) average, sober person would be so inflamed that he or she would lose reapeople v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 60.) b. he trial court stated that it had relied on testimony that he was angry and i think understandably so, given the argument that had been [an] ongoing problem in the relationship. however, it was not appropriate behavior of the defendant as a result of that argument. i think those are critical facts, the fact that he got the gun out of the bedroom before he went outside for the cooling off period then he went back inside and when he went back inside he walked directlyhe walked directly into the door and pointed the gun at the victim and shot relatively quickly is the way they both described i whether ongoing arguments with s.r. concerning her desire to stay out late and her disparaging and threatening remarks to find a new boyfriend and report him to police would have caused an ordinary person to simply react without reflection presented an issue of fact. however, defendant is not claiming the evidence was insufficient to support the verdict. instead, he argues the trial court applied the wrong legal 21 standard by focusing on whether the average person, faced with the same circumstances, would have tried to kill s.r. (see people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 949 requiring such provocation that the ordinary person of average disposition would be moved to kill focuses on the wrong thing. the proper focus is placed on the defendants state of mind, not defendant contends that a violation of this legal standard at the shooting was not appropriate behavior of the defendant as a result of that (italics added.) he argues the trial court violated the however, the law permits a trier of tion was sufficient to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, and from this passion rather than wright, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at p. 1481 (italics added).) defense counsel argued the correct legal standard at trialand that he acted under the heat of passionand the trial court was simply responding to that argument. because all persons are presumed to know the law (see people ex rel. mosk v. lynam (1967) 253 cal.app.2d 959, 967968), and because a lower court judgment is presumed correct (denham v. superior court, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 564), we find no error.5 5 in light of our determination that the trial court did not err, we need not discuss the due process violation claim. (see partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 439.) 22 iii defendant contends the prosecution committed a brady6 discovery violation by withholding favorable evidence material to punishment. respondent contends the brady claim was forfeited because it was not raised at trial. (people v. morrison (2004) 34 cal.4th 698, 714.) we agree the claim was forfeited, but we claim that his trial counsel was ineffective. romero motion was denied, the prosecution stated that s.r., who was not present, wanted to infochild, that she had wanted to try to get him to come home. she forgives him for this incident and she still wants to have contact with mr. jones. in addition, they have a child in common and smr. jones be home to be a father to the young child. she also wanted the court to know mr. jones made it a point of not maybe drawing the process out causing trauma to [c.r. by] forcing him to testify. he was concerned about her interests that he always wanted to take an early admission as to following this statementwhich defendant refers to as brady materialthe trial court imposed sentence under the three strikes law. in brady, the unsuppression by the prosecution of evidence favorable to an accused upon request violates due process where the evidence is material either to guilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or bad faith of the prosecutonbrady, supra, 373 u.s. at 87.) in united states v. agurs (1976) 427 u.s. 97, 107, the 6 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83. 23 supreme court extended the duty to disclose such evidence even where the accused makes no such request. a true brady violation consists of three elements: either willfully people v. salazar (2005) 35 cal.4th 1031, 1043, quoting strickler v. greene (1999) 527 u.s. 263, 281282.) defendant argues that as a result of the suppression of the brady material, the court was unable to consider his entire background before it ruled on his romero motion. defendant overlooks the fact that s.r. had testified at trial to the alleged brady material. in her testimony, she stated that she still cared for defendant, forgave him, did not want him to go to jail, and wanted him to be a part of her . in addition, s.r. testified that defendant cared for the family, paid the rent for their apartment, treated her son c.r. as his own son, and was a great man. suppressed, regardless of whether or not it had previously been disclosed during discovery. [citations.]people v. morrison (2004) 34 cal.4th 698, 715.) because the trial court already was othing suggests the trial court would have exercised its discretion differently if the prosecutor had brought her statement to the romero motion was decided. accordingly, appellant has failed to show that he was prejudiced by the purported brady violation. because we find no brady violationof due process and ineffective assistance of trial counsel. 24 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. manella, j. 