filed 12/20/17 p. v. menjivar ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose german menjivar, defendant and appellant. b271774 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va139096) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lori ann fournier, judge. affirmed. linda l. gordon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and stephanie brenan and abtin amir, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 jose german menjivar appeals from his judgment of conviction of two counts of second degree robbery (pen. code,1  212.5, subd. (c)). on appeal, menjivar challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting each robbery conviction. he also contends that the trial court erred in denying his motions for a new trial based on juror misconduct and to disclose personal juror identification information. we affirm. factual background and procedural history i. the charges in a june 10, 2015 information, the los angeles county district attorney charged menjivar with the second degree robbery of oscar alvarez (count 1), and the second degree robbery of sohel khan (count 2). after menjivar pleaded not guilty to the charges, the case was tried in december 2015. ii. the evidence at trial a. the prosecution case on may 8, 2015, oscar alvarez was working as a cashier at a 7-eleven store in los angeles when menjivar entered the store. when alvarez first saw him in the store that day, menjivar was holding an open can of beer in his hand, but did not appear to be drunk. alvarez told menjivar to leave because he had caused a disturbance in the store the week before. in response, menjivar coming verbally aggressive and 1 unless otherwise stated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 threatening to beat up alvarez. when alvarez refused to sell anything to menjivar, he slammed the beer can on the counter and left. sohel khan, the manager of the 7-eleven store, was in the back office when menjivar first entered the store that day. khan came out of the office when he heard loud screaming, and saw menjivar drinking a 24-ounce can of beer near the cash register. kahn told menjivar that he was not allowed to drink beer inside the store. menjivar continued drinking while he screamed and cursed at alvarez and another store employee. khan believed that menjivar was drunk at that time. according to khan, menjivar eventually threw the empty can of beer behind the cash register and then left the store. about 30 minutes to an hour later, menjivar again entered the store and walked to the back near the cooler section. alvarez alerted khan, who went to confront menjivar. khan saw menjivar grab a bottle of milk and some pastries and start to consume them inside the store. menjivar smelled of alcohol and appeared to be drunk. when khan told menjivar that he could not eat the merchandise without paying for it, menjivar began arguing with him. menjivar then pushed khan into a wall with his forearm. khan, who had difficulty walking that day due to a medical issue, slowly made his way to the back office to call the police. meanwhile, menjivar grabbed another pastry and bottle of milk and started to walk out of the store. alvarez, who was at the cash register, saw menjivar leaving the store and demanded payment for the merchandise. menjivar walked past alvarez with the items in his hand and left without paying for them. as soon as menjivar left the store, alvarez went outside through an emergency exit door to confront menjivar and demand 4 payment. in a parking lot outside the store, alvarez told menjivar that he had to pay for the items he had taken. in s out in front of him to stop menjivar, but did not touch him. menjivar then menjivar poked alvarez once in the eye and punched him repeatedly with a closed fist. after menjivar punched him four to five times, alvarez began punching menjivar back. the other items that menjivar had been holding fell to the ground when the fighting started. at some point, menjivar grabbed alvarez by his hair and pulled him to the ground. two bystanders tried to get menjivar to let go of alvarez, but could not do so. the altercation and escape into the store. khan was standing outside the store during the altercation between menjivar and alvarez. according to khan, at some point during the altercation, khan called for the other store clerk to intervene and stop the fight. in response, menjivar hit the side of en hand. douglas kramer, a regular customer at the store, also witnessed the altercation between menjivar and alvarez in the parking lot. according to kramer, he was walking toward the exited the store with some items in his hand, which alvarez tried to retrieve from him. in response, menjivar threw the items to the ground and immediately began swinging at alvarez. at first, alvarez backed away, but menjivar continued swinging and struck alvarez repeatedly in the head and face. alvarez then 5 began swinging back and hit menjivar several times, knocking minutes and ended when alvarez, appearing exhausted, stumbled back into the store. another store clerk and some of the customers held the doors shut to prevent menjivar from getting in. menjivar then fled the scene on foot, leaving behind the items he had taken. b. defense case menjivar testified on his own behalf. according to his testimony, when menjivar first went to the 7-eleven store on may 8, 2015, he had already consumed a half pint of cognac, but was not feeling the effects of the alcohol. once inside the store, menjivar grabbed a 24-ounce can of beer and waited in line to pay. he became impatient when another customer cut in front of him, so he opened the can of beer and took a small sip. the clerk at the cash register called over alvarez, who was very aggressive. alvarez grabbed tthe trash. khan came over and told alvarez to leave menjivar alone, but alvarez cursed at menjivar and then went outside to fight him. once outside the store, alvarez struck menjivar in the face three times and knocked him down. menjivar left the store, but returned a short time later after drinking another 24-ounce can of beer. menjivar grabbed milk, a chocolate milk shake, and some bread, and began consuming these items while inside the store because he was hungry. he then placed a $10 bill on the counter to pay for the items, but alvarez became angry and began cursing at him. menjivar left the store without the merchandise and saw alvarez waiting outside. menjivar tried to walk past alvarez, but alvarez 6 immediately attacked him. alvarez repeatedly hit menjivar in the face and head and threw him to the ground. the fight ended when someone separated the men and menjivar walked away. later that day, menjivar was arrested by the police and taken to the hospital where he was treated for his injuries. menjivar denied that he ever struck or pushed khan, or that he had any contact with khan the second time he was in the store. iii. verdict and sentencing at the conclusion of the trial, the jury found menjivar guilty as charged of the second degree robbery of alvarez and the second degree robbery of khan. following the denial of to a total term of three years in state prison. discussion i. sufficiency of evidence on the robbery convictions on appeal, menjivar challenges the sufficiency of evidence supporting each of his convictions for second degree robbery. menjivar contends that the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that, while inside the store, he had a specific intent to take the items from khan by means of force or used the amount of force required for robbery. menjivar also claims that the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that, during the altercation outside the store, he acted with a specific intent to use force against alvarez or khan to retain the items he had taken. 7 a. relevant law robbery is possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by ( 211.) the california supreme court has described the crime of larceny with the the property is taken from the person or presence of anis accomplished by the use of force or by putting the victim in (people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994.) robbery is complete without regard to the value of the property (people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 170.) he crime of robbery is a continuing offense that begins from the time of the original taking [and does not end] until the robber reaches a plac (people v. anderson, supraa defendant who does not use force or fear in the initial taking of the property may nonetheless be guilty of robbery if he uses force or fear to retain it or carry is presence. people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 686; see also people v. gomez if one who has stolen property from the person of another uses force or fear in removing, or attempting to remove, the property from the immediate presence, . . . the crime of robbery has been committed f a defendant does not harbor the s property at the time the force or fear is applied, the taking is a tpeople v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 851.) 8 in assessing a claim of insufficient evidence in a criminal whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to i.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence t(people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) b. substantial evidence supported the conviction for the robbery of alvarez (count 1) menjivar was convicted in count 1 of the second degree robbery of alvarez. he argues on appeal that the evidence was insufficient to support this conviction because the record showed that he had relinquished the items he had taken from the store 9 prior to his physical altercation with alvarez; he claims this demonstrates he did not have a specific intent to retain the goods at the time he used force against alvarez in the parking lot. menjivar also asserts that the evidence established that, given their history of hostile exchanges, the altercation with alvarez occurred for a reason unrelated to an intent to steal. we conclude that the conviction in count 1 was supported by substantial evidence. as our supreme court has observed, [a] robbery is not completed at the moment the robber obtains possession of the stolen property. the crime of robbery includes the element of s escape with the loot being considered as important in the commission of the crime as gaining possession of the property. . . . [a] robbery occurs when defendant uses force or fear in resisting attempts to regain the property or in attempting s immediate presence regardless of the means by which defendant originally acquired the (people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 686-687, quoting people v. estes (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 23, 27-28 (estes); see also people v. gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 258 the aggravating factors are in play at any time during the period from caption through asportation, the defendant has engaged in conduct that elevates the crime from simple larceny to robberypeople v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 1158, 1165, fn. 8 [theft becomes robbery if the perpetrator, having gained possession of the property without use of force or fear, resorts to force or fe in estes, a security guard at a store saw the defendant remove clothing from a rack, put it on, and leave the store without paying. the guard followed the defendant outside to the 10 parking lot. about five feet from the door, the guard identified himself and confronted the defendant about the items he had taken. the defendant refused to return to the store and began walking away. when the guard tried to detain him, the defendant pulled out a knife, swung it at the guard, and threatened to kill him. (estes, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 26.) court rejected his argument that robbery requires that the use of force be contemporaneous with the taking of the property. the the crime of robbery is a continuing offense that begins from the time of the original taking until the robber reaches a place of relative safety. it is sufficient to support the conviction that [the defendant] used force to prevent the guard from retaking the property and to facilitate his escape. . . . the events constituting the crime of robbery, although they may extend over large distances and take some time to complete, are linked by a single-mindedness of purpose. [citation.] whether [the] defendant used force to gain original possession of the property or to resist attempts to retake the stolen property, force was applied against the guard in furtherance of the robbery and can properly be used to sustain the conviction.id. at p. 28.) in this case, the evidence was sufficient to support a finding that menjivar used force against alvarez in the parking lot to prevent alvarez from retaking the items he had stolen and to facilitate his escape. at trial, alvarez testified that, as soon as menjivar walked out of the store with the stolen merchandise, alvarez went outside to confront him and to demand payment. when alvarez tried to detain menjivar in the parking lot of the store, menjivar threw the bottle of milk he had taken at alvarez and then immediately began hitting him. alvarez further 11 hands . . . when [thcustomer, testified that, when alvarez tried to detain menjivar in hand, . . . threw them down and immediately began swinging at lso testified that, as menjivar was striking not establish that he relinquished or abandoned the goods prior to the physical altercation with alvarez. rather, the jury reasonably could infer that menjivar threw the bottle of milk at either dropped or threw the other items to the ground so that his hands would be free to hit alvarez as part of his effort to escape. people v. hodges (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 531 (hodges) is misplaced. in hodges, the evidence at trial showed that the defendant entered a grocery store, placed several items in a bag, and left without paying for them. when a security guard followed the defendant to his car and asked him to return to the store, the defendant offered to give back the goods. when the guard refused the offer and tried to detain him, the defendant threw the goods at another guard, got back into his car, and began to drive away. as he was driving away, the defendant hit one of the guards with his car. (id. at pp. 535-536.) during its deliberations, the jury asked the trial court whether the defendant could be found guilty of robbery if the force/fear was subsequent to the act, in the parking lot, after the defendant had surrendered the goods (throwing them at [the guard]).(id. at p. 538.) in response, the trial court told 12 the jury that the theft is deemed to be continuing until the defendant has reached a point in which he is no longer being confronted by the security guardsrce (ibid.) robbery, the appellate court concluded that this response failed to address the crux of the jurys inquirythe timing of and was misleading because it allowed the jury to conclude defendant was guilty of robbery without regard to whether defendant intended to permanently deprive the owner of the property at the time the force or resistance occurred. (id. at p. 543.) here, menjivar contends that the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that, at the time he used force against alvarez, he did so with the intent to maintain possession of the items he had taken from the store. in reviewing a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence, however, we must view the presume the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. (people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 357.) the jury heard the evidence about the sequence of events in the store and the parking lot, including by alvarez outside the store. from this evidence, the jury reasonably could have concluded that menjivar had not to prevent from retaking the propertpeople v. estes, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 28; see people v. pham (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 61, there was sufficient 13 evidence for the jury to conclude that defendant forcibly asported or carried away the victims property when he physically resisted their attempts to regain itthe robbery of alvarez was supported by substantial evidence. c. substantial evidence supported the conviction for the robbery of khan (count 2) menjivar was convicted in count 2 of the second degree robbery of khan. on appeal, menjivar contends that there was insufficient evidence to support this conviction because the record showed that he did not have the specific intent to take the goods from khan by means of force, and did not use the amount of force required for robbery when he made physical contact with khan inside the store. viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict, we conclude that the evidence was sufficient to support me to the store, he saw menjivar take a bottle of milk and a pastry and begin consuming the items without paying for them. when khan approached menjivar and told him that he had to pay for the goods before eating them, menjivar responded by pushing khan into the wall. as demonstrated by khan at trial, menjivar pushed khan by using his forearm with a closed fist to shove khan in his chest. after pushing khan, menjivar took another bottle of milk and pastry, and then walked out of the store without paying. khan further testified that, at some point during the physical altercation between menjivar and alvarez in the th an open hand when khan called for the other store clerk to help stop the fight. 14 menjivar argues that his physical contact with khan inside st khan with the perpetrator exert some quantum of force in excess of that necessary to accomplish the mere seizing of the (people v. anderson, supra[a]ll the force that is required to make the offense a robbery is such force as is actually suresistance.people v. burns (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1251, 1259.) therefore, in people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th 610, not engage in sufficient force to constitute robbery, concluding of the way in his effort to escape the cafeteria with the [property] completed a id. at pp. 687-688; see also people v. garcia (1996) 45 cal.app.4th 1242, 1246, disapproved on other grounds in people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 365, fn. 2 did not simply brush against the cashier intentionally pushed against her to move her out of the waypeople v. mungia (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1703, 1709 [substantial evidence supported robbery conviction where victim testified that defendant shoved her shoulder and then snatched her purse].) evidence at trial did not establish that he merely brushed past khan in body as he was leaving the store. rather, khan testified that menjivar pushed him into a wall with his forearm when khan 15 confronted menjivar inside the store and warned him that he had to pay for the goods he had taken. based on such testimony, the intentionally pushing khan inside the store as he was stealing and thus, to constitute a robbery. (people v. burns, supra, 172 robbery of khan was supported by substantial evidence.2 ii. motions for a new trial based on juror misconduct menjivar next contends that the trial court committed reversible error when it denied his motions for a new trial based on alleged juror misconduct. the specific misconduct claimed by menjivar consisted of a juror allegedly failing to follow the law as instructed by the court and rendering a verdict based on improper bias rather than the evidence presented at trial. 2 menjivar also asserts that the force used against khan outside the store cannot support his conviction for the robbery of khan because such force occurred after menjivar had already abandoned or relinquished the goods. for the reasons discussed above, however, the jury reasonably could have concluded that menjivar had not abandoned or relinquished the goods prior to the physical altercation in the parking lot, and only did so when the fight ended and menjivar fled the scene on foot. in any event, pushing khan inside the store as he was taking the goods was sufficient, in and of itself, to support his conviction in count 2. 16 a. relevant background on december 23, 2015, the trial court held a hearing involving juror no. 1. the court indicated that the juror had contacted the court on december 10, 2014, four days after the the charge was too harsh for the when defense counsel asked juror no. 1 if she had followed the law as instructed by the or the vote was, the outcodeliberations that [she] felt was inappropriate, or some kind of response, juror no. 1 stated: misconduct, but i do feel that, yes, there was . . . someone in there that was very swayed one way only that kind of led one person in particular who was very biased and referring to the defendant in a kind of defense counsel then asked juror no. 1 if she based her guilty 17 asked to quantify how much of her vote was based on the facts versus the vote of the other juror the prosecutor asked juror no. 1 to clarify what she meant these things occurwas part of the crime; it was . . . because of something else that i felt like one of those elements happened because of something else, and . . . it had nothing to do with the actual crime as far as the intention. it was the result of -- little the prosecutor, juror no. 1 denied that she had any contact with menjivar, his family, or his counsel following the verdict, or had prosecutor asked juror no. 1 to clarify if she was saying that she you said initially that you looked at the facts and the elements 18 the elements and the law, but it was even hard to put the two happened and what constitutes petty theft versus robbery, i think that is what i really questioned, and i questioned in there, after dismissing juror no. 1 from the courtroom, the trial court asked defense counsel how he wanted to proceed. defense counsel stated that he would like to move for a new trial based on juror misconduct becaufixated on the elements, that she followed those elements and convicted the dasserted that it was not misconduct for jurors to discuss their view of the facts during the deliberations and to change their vote based on the those discussions prior to reaching a final verdict. after hearing the argument of counsel, the trial court think, based on the fact that [juror no. 1] deliberated, a verdict was entered. we polled the jurors. she said that was her verdict. and the first thing she said is she started questioning it after she menjivar subsequently retained new counsel to represent him in the post-verdict proceedings. on february 29, 2016, 19 information was necessary to determine whether any prejudicial jury misconduct occurred at trial. at a hearing on the motion, defense counsel acknowledged that juror no. 1 previously had testified in a posttrial proceeding, but asserted that she would like prosecutor argued that the motion should be denied because the parties and the court previously had an opportunity to question juror no. 1, and her testimony revealed that there was no juror court noted that juror no. 1 had been questioned by the court, the prosecution, and the defense at the prior proceeding, and that ther no. 1] mentioned about any contact with any of the jurors, any en motion for a new trial based on the same juror misconduct alleged in the prior motion. at the hearing on the motion, the prosecutor trial court had decided the issue when it denied menjivamotion for a new trial. the trial court agreed that it had already new trial motion. 20 b. relevant law when a defendant moves for a new trial based on jury misconduct, the trial court undertakes a three-part inquiry. first, the court must determine whether the evidence presented for its consideration is admissible. . . . [] once the court finds the evidence is admissible, it must then consider whether the facts establish misconduct. . . . [] finally, if misconduct is found to have occurred, the court must determine whether the people v. vigil (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1474, 1483.) lly people v. danks evidentiary showing that prejudice does not exist or by a whether there is a reasonable probability of actual harm to the (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1208.) n appeal, the determination whether jury misconduct was prejudicial presents a mixed question of law and fact [s factual findings and credibility determinations if supported by substantial evidence. people v. tafoya, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 192.) c. the motions for a new trial based on juror misconduct were properly denied menjivar argues that the trial court erred in denying his motions for a new trial based on juror misconduct. in particular, -verdict 21 proceeding showed that she committed misconduct by failing to follow the law as instructed by the trial court, and by allowing her vote to be improperly influenced by the bias of another juror. based on the totality of the record, however, we conclude that the trial court did not err in denying the new trial motions. in support of his argument that juror no. 1 failed to follow the law, menjivahad an issue with the element of intent, and that she believed that partreasons that such testimony showed that juror no. 1 did not apply the law to the facts of the case as instructed by the court, and did not base her verdict on a finding that each element of the crime was proven beyond a reasonable doubt. the record reflects that juror no. 1 was often equivocal in her testimony and that she made a number of vague and conflicting statements about the manner in which she reached her guilty verdict. for instance, when juror no. 1 was first asked if she followed the law as instructed by the court, she but there was a followed the law in reaching her verdict, despite her concern about the severity of a robbery charge. juror no. 1 explained 22 harsh for what the facts and the elements and . . . followed the record thus demonstrated that, while juror no. 1 had some remorse about the verdict because she believed the crime of robbery was too followed the law and applied the law to the facts in finding menjivar guilty of that crime. menjivar also contends that juror no. 1 committed misconduct because she did not base her verdict solely on the evidence presented at trial, but rather was influenced by the improper bias of another juror. in support of this claim, menjivar particular who was very biased and referring to the defendant in influenced her decision making. menjivar also relies on juror it is well-established that ]here a verdict is attacked for juror taint, the focus is on whether there is any overt event or circumstance . . . which suggests a likelihood that one or more members of the jury were influenced by improper bias. (people 23 v. tafoya, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 192.) although juror no. 1 and referred to thduring deliberations. however, there was no indication that the allegedly biased juror prejudged the case, relied on any information from outside sources, or exerted an improper influence on the other jurors when toward a guilty verdict. as the trial court noted, it is not improper for a juror to try to persuade fellow jurors to accept his or her viewpoint during deliberations, and there may be times when one particularly persuasive juror is able to convince other jurors to change their vote prior to reaching a final verdict. attempts to persuade disagreeing fellow jurors, even if done vehemently, do not establish improper bias or misconduct. (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 508 [jurors can be expected to disagree, even vehemently, and to attempt to persuade disagreeing fellow jurors by strenuous and sometimes heated meanspeople v. engelman (2002) 28 cal.4th 436, 446 without committing misconduct, may disagree during deliberations and ma menjivar further claims that juror no. 1 was coerced into nreflected an improper bias by the juror. moreover, juror no. 1 never asserted in her testimony that she felt threatened or coerced into voting a certain way by another juror. although 24 that she considered the facts and followed the law in reaching her verdict. because there was substantial evidence to support the iii. motion for disclosure of personal juror information in a related argument, menjivar asserts that the trial court personal identification information for purposes of investigating potential juror misconduct. we conclude, however, that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the motion. a. relevant law following a verdict, a records necessary for the defendant to communicate with jurors for the purpose of developing a motion for new trial or any other shall be supported by a declaration that includes facts sufficient to establish good cause for the release of the jidentifying information. the court shall set the matter for hearing if the petition and supporting declaration establish a requested information. (code civ. proc.,  237, subd. (b).) to demonstrate good cause, the party seeking disclosure belief that jury misconduct occurred, that diligent efforts were 25 made to contact the jurors through other means, and that further investigation is necessary to provide the court with adequate people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 990.) good cause does not exist where the allegations of juror misconduct are speculative, conclusory, vague, or unsupported. people v. cook (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 341, 346.) identification information for an abuse of discretion. (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 317; people v. cook, supra, at p. 346; people v. carrasco, supra, at p. 991.) b. the motion for disclosure of personal juror information was properly denied menjivar argues that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for disclosure of personal juror information because he made a sufficient showing of good cause. menjivar good cause for the disclosure because it showed that another juror harbored an actual bias against menjivar and improperly coerced other jurors into reaching a guilty verdict. testimony about the allegedly biased juror does not support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred. according to erations. apart from these ambiguous statements, juror no. 1 did not describe what this juror said or did to persuade the rest of the jury to reach a 26 guilty verdict, nor did she identify what purportedly derogatory reference this juror made about menjivartestimony about the alleged bias of another juror was simply too vague and speculative to demonstrate good cause for the the mere fact that this other juror appeared to have a strong opinion about his guilt was sufficient to show that he or she or there is no indication in the record that this juror concealed any relevant information in voir dire, or failed to base his or her verdict on the evidence presented at trial. we likewise identification information was necessary to investigate whether their verdicts were improperly influenced by the allegedly biased juror. without any basis for concluding there had been misconduct, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in failing to re disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. bensinger, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 