filed 12/2/16 p. v. maradiaga ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. german rene maradiaga, defendant and appellant. b271506 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba195779) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. law office of eduardo paredes and eduardo a. paredes for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior 2 assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, theresa a. patterson, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ defendant and appellant german rene maradiaga entered a plea of guilty in 2000 to possession of cocaine base for the purpose of sale, in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5. in 2016 defendant filed a motion to vacate and set aside his conviction, arguing he had not been fully advised of the immigration consequences of his plea, as required by penal code section 1016.5.1 defendant appeals from the denial of the motion to vacate. we affirm. defendant appeared in court on february 22, 2000, represented by private counsel and assisted by a spanish language interpreter. the prosecutor advised the trial court that defendant would plead guilty, with an agreed disposition that defendant be placed on probation for three years, conditioned on service of six months in county jail. defense counsel stated he explained the case disposition to defendant. defendant told the court he understood the agreement. the court verified that no other promises had been made to defendant and he had not been threatened in 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 any way to force him to enter the plea against his will. the court carefully explained the potential maximum period of confinement on the charge, the consequences of a probation or parole violation, and required fines and fees. defendant was advised on the immigration consequences of the plea by the trial court. the court conviction could lead to your deportation, denial of naturalization, denial of a legal right to re-enter the united after completion of advisement of the consequences of the plea, the court advised defendant of his constitutional rights. defendant indicated he understood and waived the rights. defendant told the court he possessed cocaine base that he planned to sell, and entered a plea of guilty. the motion to vacate and set aside the conviction on of the immigration consequences of the guilty plea did not comport with section 1016.5, subdivision (a). according to the motion, admission the admonition fell short of the statutory requirement that states because the trial court [advisement] implied that if 4 [defendant] were to depart the country, then his re-entry would be denied. in contrast, the [advisement seems] to imply that if [defendant] did not depart the united states, then his re-tion o the united states in either . . . an immigrant or non- defendant declared he was born in honduras and came to tarrested in 1999 and retained counsel to help him on his case. on february 22, 2000, defendant went to court ney told him to plead guilty was deported to honduras after serving time in jail.2 defendant did not understand what the judge said in taking his plea: , knew the rights that i was waiving at the time of my plea, i would n 2 the record does not reflect when defendant returned to the united states. he appeared in court with counsel at the hearing on his motion. 5 ruling of the trial court the trial court denied the motion on two grounds. first, the court concluded there was substantial compliance with section 1016.5, finding no significant difference in the statute. second, the court ruled that defendant made no showing in his written motion of prejudice, such as any reason to believe defendant might have obtained a different disposition, exoneration of the charge, or a plea to a different charge. discussion standard of review withstand appellate review unless the record shows a clear abuse of discretion. (people v. superior court (zamudio) (2000) 23 cal.4th 183, 192 [(zamudio)], citing people v. shaw (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 492, 495496; see also  1016.5, capricious, or patently absurd manner that results in a manifest miscarriage of justice constitutes an abuse of discretion. (shaw, supra, people v. limon (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 1514, 1517disregard [an] implied finding that is supported by substantial evidence. (see zamudio, supra, 23 cal.4th at 6 p. 210 [factual issues presented on a motion to vacate plea people v. gutierrez (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 169, 176 (gutierrez).) section 1016.5 a trial court ruling on a motion under section 1016.5 engages in a three-part analysis. the trial court determines was prejudiced by the courts having provided incomplete advisements. (zamudio, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 199200.) accepting a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any criminal offense, the trial court must advise the defendant that if he or she is not a united states citizen, conviction of the offense may result in deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united states. (pen. code,  1016.5, subd. (a).) [fn. omitted.] if the advisement was not given, and the defendant shows that conviction of the offense to which he or she pleaded guilty or nolo contendere may result in adverse s motion, is required to vacate the judgment and permit the defendant to withdraw his or her plea and enter a plea of not guilty. (id., subd. (b).) relief will be granted, however, only 7 if the defendant establishes prejudice. ([zamudio, supra,] 23 cal.4th [at p.] 210.) as we explained in zamudio, prejudice is shown if the defendant establishes it was reasonably probable he or she would not have pleaded guilty if properly advised. (ibid.) (people v. martinez (2013) 57 cal.4th 555, 558559 (martinez).) what the defendant would have done, relief should be granted if the court, after considering evidence offered by the parties relevant to that question, determines the defendant would have chosen not to plead guilty or nolo contendere, even if the court also finds it not reasonably probable the defendant (id. at p. 559.) analysis defendant has not established error in the trial court rulings that there was substantial compliance with section 1016.5 and that defendant failed to establish prejudice. section 1016.5 requires the court to advise a defendant that n . . . exclusion from admission to the language, the trial court here advised defendant that his -enter the in this contex-webster online dict. 8 (2016) <http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/may> [as of oct. 25, 2016]; accord, cambridge dicts. online (2016) <http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/may> [as could is used uncertain possibility (cambridge dicts. online, supra, <http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/could> [as of oct. 25, 2016]; accord, oxford dict. (2016) <https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/could> [as of oct. 26, 2016] [could is the past defendant is factually correct that the oral advisement of immigration consequences did not precisely mirror the (gutierrez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at p. 173.) in gutierrez, admission to the united states, the prosecutor used the -ibid.) in finding substantial compliance with section 1016.5, the gutierrez court held, consequences of his conviction was that he would be denied reentry into the united states; in other words, under the statute, he would be excluded from the united states; . . . . the trial court, thus, substantially complied with the statute, and, hence, committed no error in the manner in id. at p. 174.) denial of a legal right to re-enter the u 9 explained in gutierrez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at page 174, that his plea may result in exclusion from admission to the united states. the court substantially complied with section 1016.5. defendant failed to establish prejudice was not an abuse of discretion. the trial court was free to reject the credibility of entered the plea had he known its immigration may reject an assertion that is not supported by an explanation or other corroborating circumsta(martinez, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 565.) corroboration, it undercuts his claim that he would have gone to trial despite the risks because defendant admits his the best outcome consequence of deportationhe states he would not have from the but he does not make a similar assertion regarding exclusion from admission or denial of reentry into the country. under these circumstances, we cannot say the trial court abused its discretion in finding 10 that defendant failed to establish prejudice as defined in our disposition the order denying the motion to vacate and set aside the conviction is affirmed. kriegler, acting p.j. we concur: baker, j. kumar, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 