filed 2/10/17 p. v. ortega ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gilbert ortega, defendant and appellant. b271433 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba430090) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, norman j. shapiro, judge. affirmed. daniel milchiker, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and torres. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, colleen m. tiedmann and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 a jury convicted gilbert ortega of second degree robbery in violation of section 211 of the penal code,1 and the trial court found ortega had suffered various prior convictions, including a prior strike conviction ( 667, subds. (b)-(j)) and a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)). the court sentenced ortega to an aggregate term of 11 years in state prison comprised of the mid-term of three years for the robbery, doubled to six years for the strike, plus five years for a prior serious felony. ortega argues he was denied the right to testify in his own defense, and that the trial court erred in denying his marsden2 and faretta3 motions, and his motion to suppress evidence. we affirm. facts on september 21, 2014, juan abarca and his girlfriend, brigitte yosenia, decided to get something to eat at a taco truck. abarca parked his car, and he and yosenia walked and purchased food to eat. , abarca and yosenia found ortega inside the vehicle. for a short instance, abarca and yosenia thought they had approached the wrong vehicle, and continued on. they quickly realized different, abarca asked ortega what he was doing. stepped backward, ortega ran away. abarca then discovered 1 all further undesignated section references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 3 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 3 that a number of personal items were missing from his car, including an iphone and a credit card. on september 2, 2015, almost one year after abarca had been robbed, los angeles police department (lapd) officers miguel herrera and jose bonilla searched ortega after they found him e morning. during this search, and a credit card after finding the officers contacted him. shortly thereafter, abarca and yosenia were shown a six-pack line-up of photographs, and as the robber. at trial, abarca identified ortega as the person who had been in yosenia had seen car, but his hairstyle was different. in november 2014, the people filed an information charging ortega with the second degree robbery of abarca. ( 211.) further, the information alleged that ortega suffered a robbery conviction in 2004 that qualified as a strike and as a prior serious felony. ( 667, subds. (b)-(j)); 667, subd. (a).) the information alleged two prior convictions with a prison term. ( 667.5, subd. (b).) the charges were tried to a jury in june 2015, at which time the prosecution presented evidence establishing the facts summarized above. ortega did not present any evidence; his trial counsel urged the jurors to view the eyewitness testimony of abarca and yosenia as not sufficiently credible to sustain a guilty verdict. the jury returned a verdict finding ortega guilty as charged. the trial court thereafter s, that he suffered the prior 4 convictions alleged in the information. the court later sentenced ortega as noted at the outset of this opinion. discussion i. the right to testify claim ortega contends his robbery conviction must be reversed because the trial court violated his constitutional right to testify in his own defense. we disagree. the governing law the right to testify on ones own behalf at a criminal trial has sources in several provisions of the constitution. it is one of the rights that are essential to due process of law in a fair adversary process.the necessary ingredients of the fourteenth amendments guarantee that no one shall be deprived of liberty without due process of law include a right to be heard and to offer testimonyrock v. arkansas (1987) 483 u.s. 44, 51.) the right to testify belongs wholly to the defendant, and, thus, he or she may exercise the right even over the objection of, and contrary to the advice of, defense counsel. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1332.) at the same conditions. specifically, the defenpeople v. alcala (1992) 4 cal.4th 742, 805 (alcala).) on appeal, a reviewing court in examining whether a violation of the right to testify occurred will apply the abuse of discretion standard demand to testify. (people v. earley (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 542, 546-547.) 5 where a reviewing court determines that a violation of the right to testify did occur, the violation is subject to harmless error analysis under the federal constitutional standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). (cf. people v. allen (2008) 44 cal.4th 843, 871-872 (allen) [right to testify reviewed under constitutional harmless analysis in the context of a sexual predator proceeding].) the trial setting record indicated that the defense had advised the court that they would not be calling any witnesses, including ortega. a short discussion followed on the issue of whether the people would be allowed to reopen their case to have ortega show tattoos on his body. shortly thereafter, in the presence of the jury, the court asked how the defense would like to proceed, and counsel announced that the defense was resting. the court then asked the prosecutor whether she had a request, and the prosecutor asked to reopen for the purpose of having ortega show his tattoos. the court granted the request. during this process, the prosecutor asked if ortega could pull his shirt sleeve a little bit open to show a tattoo, at which point the following exchange took place: rtega]: i might as well. [] can i say for the record, i was willing to testify, sir? he court: sir, only if your attorney asks you to give evidence. [] all. right. mr. ortega is more stomach, at least most of the stomach area. [] all 6 [] ladies and gentlemen, does everybody have a chance to --- all right. . . . all right. miss [prosecutor], anything else at this time? he prosecutor]: nothing, your honor. the people rest. he court: all right. the people rest. [] anything further by the defense? efense counsel]: no, your honor. chance to get comfortable. [] ladies and gentlemen, you. . . . at no point during the remainder of the criminal proceedings did ortega make any comment about testifying. analysis the parties agree that the only issue on appeal is the issue testify in his own defense. we find that ortega did not make an adequate demand to testify. further, even were we to accept that there was error, we would find the people have met their burden of showing that the error did not adversely a beyond a reasonable doubt under chapman. (see people v. jackson (2014) 58 cal.4th 724, 793 [in examining a claim of constitutional error under the chapman standard, the burden is on the state to demonstrate to the reviewing court that the error did not cause prejudice to the defendant].) neither ortega in his opening brief nor the people in their quantum of clarity required for a defendant to make an 7 his said, we simply do not see that ortega made such a request. at best, ortega made an off-the-cuff remark as he was showing his tattooswas willing to testify. he did not tell the trial court at that instant, or at any time, that he actually did want to testify, nor did he actually ask, request, or demand to be allowed to testify. to avoid the conclusion that he did not make an adequate demand to testify, ortega argues on appeal that the trial court shoul. he contends the trial court should have conducted an inquiry about the comment to determine whether ortega actually did want to testify despite indications to the court that ortega would not be testifying. ortega cites people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213 (dent) in support of his argument. in dent, comments about representing himself effectively consider self-representation an available option. (dent, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 221.) there, the trial court twice unequivocally stated that it would not let the defendant proceed as a self-represented litigant in a death penalty murder trial. the california supreme court found that the trial court had deterred the defendant from being able to develop and makunequivocal request for self-representation that is required under faretta. assuming that the law regarding farettafor self-representation before a trial court may allow a defendant to forego his or her legal counsel (see, generally people v. wright 8 (1990) 52 cal.3d 367, 409) should be the same as the law regarding the requirement that a defendant must make an alcala, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 805), dent is readily distinguishable. not only is it different because it -representation, and not a timely and adequate demand to testify, but also because the trial court here did not unequivocally shut down the possibility of ortega testifying.4 in sum, the dent case is not helpful to ortega. in any event, we would find any error to be harmless under chapman. terror under a chapman analysis when the facts to which he or she would have testified would not have affected the verdict. (allen, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 872.) here, ortega argues on appeal that he indicated during two marsden hearings that he would have testified that he was not in possession of the stolen itemsthe reasons he 5 and (3) he was we find any error harmless under chapman because testimony of the nature as stated by ortega, assuming that it would have been given as stated, would have been futile and would not have affected the verdict. 4 we do, however, caution the trial court to be more careful in its statements to a defendant in such circumstances. 5 at a motion to suppress hearing which we discuss below, a police officer testified that ortega stated at the time he was found in the van that he was homeless and was looking for a place to sleep. 9 first, the reason that ortega was in the white van was irrelevant to any issue involved in his robbery trial; the reason ortega was in the van a year after the robbery had nothing to do with whether ortega robbed abarca a year earlier. second, testimony that ortega did not have card when he was searched would simply have been rejected as defying the physical evidence. we do not believe jurors would find officers herrera and bonilla were carrying around property when they encountered ortega. we can think of no other scenario for why iphone and credit card became , in fact, those items had not been in at the time he was searched. in summary, iven implausibly wrong testimony. case may have been different if only he gave testimony that he the abarca robbery. this testimony, of course, would have been given with a backdrop that he had prior convictions for robbery ( 211) and taking a vehicle without the veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)). it also would have been given against the identification of abarca and yosenia, in short, the evidence overwhelmingly supported conviction, and any testimony on his part would not have changed the result of his trial. ii. the first marsden motion claim ortega contends his robbery conviction must be reversed because the trial court erred in denying his marsden motion. we disagree. 10 the trial setting at a pre-trial hearing on january 16, 2015, about six months before his trial, ortega filled out a faretta waiver form after defense counsel indicated to the trial court (hon. laura f. priver) that ortega wanted to represent himself. after receiving the waiver, the court began discussing the right to self-representation with ortega, including the risks. during the course of these exchanges, ortega made statements indicating his dissatisfaction with his appointed counsel, including the following comment: conscious decision help me better fight this case and at this time the so i i would really much rather have an attorney and request maybe possibly getting an attorney that i can come to terms with as far as on the court decided that it should treat his request for self-representation as a request for a marsden hearing. during an ensuing hearing outside the presence of the prosecounsel, public defender susanne blossom, told the court that it was true that she had not done certain things that ortega wanted her to do, and then explained what ortega wanted her to do, and why she had not done what he wanted. according to blossom, ortega wanted his case transfer court.when the court commented that judge rubin was retired, and that it was blossom stated, 11 . further, the court stated for its part that a party is not allowed to select a specific courtroom for a case in any event. blossom also informed the court that ortega wanted blossom to give the court some letters that he wrote to the court. blossom stated that she had declined to do so because her case involve[d] not permitting [a] client to speak until the time they choose finally, blossom stated that ortega wanted blossom to file doi agreed. blossom added that prior robbery conviction the information alleged was unaffected by proposition 47. at the end of the marsden hearing, the court indicated that it keep [faretta waiver form] in the file without acting on themabout wanting self-representation and wanted the court to act on his request for self-representation, thethat 6 6 given the totality of the exchanges during the hearing on january 16, 2015, we find the trial court impliedly found that of ortega was not deficient, and that there was no irreparable breakdown in the attorney-the assistance of counsel. marsden motion was denied. 12 analysis includes the right of an indigent defendant to have appointed counsel replaced when the failure to do so would substantially impair or deny the right to assistance of counsel. (marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 123.) at the same time, however, a defendant's right to appointed counsel does not include the right to demand the serial appointment of different lawyers until he or she finds a lawyer to his or her liking. (people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 980, fn. 1.) when a defendant seeks to discharge his or her appointed lawyer and substitute a new lawyer, marsden dictates that the trial court must permit the defendant to explain the basis of his or her dissatisfaction. a defendant is entitled to relief when he or she shows that appointed counsel is not providing effective representation, or that there is an irreconcilable conflict in the relationship between the defendant and counsel such that ineffective representation is likely to result. (people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 230.) a defendant is not entitled to relief merely because he or she disagrees with counsel over reasonable tactical decisions. (people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 858.) when credibility questions arise between a defendants assertions, and appointed counsels explanations regarding the representation, it is within the trial court-determining role to accept counsels explanations. (people v. smith (1993) 6 cal.4th 684, 696.) the court's ultimate task is to determine factually and legally whether appointed counsels legal representation is constitutionally ineffective, or whether an irreconcilable conflict exists. 13 a trial courts decision to deny a marsden motion is reviewed under the abuse of discretion standard. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 876.) a reviewing court will not find an abuse of discretion unless the defendant has shown that a failure to replace the appointed counsel actually resulted in a substantial impairment or denial of his or her right to assistance of counsel. (people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 603.) marsden hearing in light of the above-stated rules, we simply do not accept hearing, and listened to what was going on. public defender his case to unfold in a manner that was not proper, and or that he had other ideas about the tactics which should have been being employed. we see no support for a conclusion that public defender blossom was providing inadequate representation. neither do we see any support for a conclusion that there was an irreconcilable breakdown in the relationship between ortega and public defender blossom. s case, but we see no support for such an assertion in the record. we add one final note on a matter that is not developed in marsden motion in january 2015, he was, as noted above, represented by public defender blossom. however, by no later than may 2015, ortega was represented by new appointed counsel, namely, public defender saewon yang. public defender yang continued to represent ortega through the time of his motion to suppress 14 (filed in may 2015 and heard in june 2015), and the time of his trial (in june 2015). we do not see how any complaints about case where new and different appointed counsel took over for the bulk of the case. iii. the second marsden motion claim ortega made another marsden verdict, on the day calendared for the hearing on the alleged priors and for his sentencing. ortega contends his robbery conviction must be reversed because the trial court erred in denying his post-verdict marsden motion. he argues that our trial court to substitute counsel to prepare a new trial motion . . . we find no ground for reversal. we have set for the applicable law above. on the merits of -verdict marsden error, we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the motion. the transcript of the marsden hearing shows that the court gave ortega an opportunity to state his concerns regarding his . ortega asserted that his motion to yang. also, yang had not issued a subpoena for the clothes that ortega had been wearing when he was searched. ortega asserted that his clothes would show that he did not have an iphone in his pockets, because, according to ortega, the shorts he would have finally, ortega to suppress claim and clothes claim. 15 e court indicated that ortega was attempting to relitigate the motion to motion should have been granted. after listening to ortega, the court m about his clothes. yang explained that she had considered the probative value of the clothes that he had been wearing when identification of ortega as the robber. when the court asked whether the defense was considering filing a motion for new trial, yang said, no, that she did not believe a new trial motion would be successful. ortega further claimed that he asked his counsel file a romero motion to dismiss his prior strike (see people v. superior court (romero) 13 cal.4th 497), but counsel had not done so. indicated that she was going to file such a motion at the sentencing hearing.7 at the conclusion of the marsden hearing, the court denied motion, expressly finding that his counsel had not failed to present a defense or litigate the case adequately. w-verdict marsden motion. first, with regard to the rule that a trial court must conduct a hearing into a court here did not do so. second, with regard to the requirement that a defendant demonstrate that his her counsel provided inadequate representation, we see no deficiency. the record 7 in february 2015, public defender yang filed a romero motion. the court denied the motion at the sentencing hearing. 16 suppress should have been a winner. similarly, the assertion that a new trial motion should have been filed does not support a conclusion that ortega suffered the results of deficient legal presentation. the record does not include material showing that a motion for new trial had a reasonable possibility of success. ortegaromero motion was premature. from the hearing on -conviction marsden motion and reject his contention that the trial court did not give him a fair hearing because thwe acknowledge that the court made several comments to the effect that ortega did not seem to understand the purpose of a marsden hearing. all this considered, we do not see hostility to the motion, only rulings against the motion. the record does not support a claim that the court failed to afford a fair hearing on the motion. iv. the faretta claim ortega next contends his robbery conviction must be reversed because the trial court erred in denying his request for self-representation under faretta. we disagree. the governing legal principles a criminal defendant has a federal constitutional right to represent himself provided that he or she voluntarily and intelligently elects to do so. (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 836; and see, e.g., people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 124 (windham ).) but to invoke the right of self-representation, a defendant must assert the right unequivocally 17 (windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128.) should draw every reasonable inference against waiver of the right to counsel,the s conduct or words reflecting ambivalence about self-representation may support the cours decision to deny the defendants motion. a motion for self-representation made in passing anger or frustration, an ambivalent motion, or one made for the purpose of delay or to frustrate the orderly administration (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 23 (marshall); see also people v. tena (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 598, 607.) a reviewing court must examine the entire record de novo to determine whether a defendant actually made an unequivocal request for self-representation. (marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 23; people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269, 295.) analysis we find ortega did not make an unequivocal request for self-representation as contemplated under faretta. as summarized above, the record shows that, when the trial court began to discuss self-representation, ortega responded as follows: . . . [asking my counsel to do things] else to do. i would really much rather have an attorney and request maybe possibly getting an attorney that i can come to terms with as far as to show that he truly wanted a marsden hearing. 18 asonably be construed as an unequivocal request for self-representation because he explicitly that [he could] come to terms witdesired to represent himself. (people v. tena, supra, 156 cal.app.4th at p. 607.) even assuming ortega made an unequivocal request to represent himself by refaretta waiver form, the record shows he abandoned his request for self-representation. the faretta right, once asserted, may be . . . people v. dunkle (2005) 36 cal.4th 861, 909, citing people v. skaggs (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 1, 8 (skaggs) with approval.) in skaggs, the court of appeal found a defendant abandoned his faretta request where the court did not rule on an equivocal request for self-representation, and the defendant never mentioned the request again. (skaggs, at pp. 7-8.) the reason for finding abandonment in such circumstances is to discing a defendant who realizes that his faretta request has not been addressed from faretta ace to play triumphantly on id. at p. 8, quoting people v. kenner (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 56, 62.) we have an even stronger showing of abandonment in for self-representation, and, in response, the court actually did act on the request it treated the request as a request for a marsden hearing. at the conclusion of the hearing, the court expressly told ortega that the court would keep his faretta 19 renew his request later in the case for self-representation. ortega never did so. finding abandonment of a faretta request is appropriate in such circumstances. (skaggs, supra, 44 cal.app.4th at p. 8.) v. the motion to suppress claim ortega next contends his robbery conviction must be reversed because the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress the items herrera and bonilla found searched him immediately outside the van in which the officers found him. ortega asserts harvey-madden error,8 arguing that the radio report that the officers received regarding a possible vehicle burglary was not corroborated, and, thus, the prosecution failed to establish the source of probable cause rendering [his] detention and search illegal under the fourth we find no error. the evidence officers herrera and bonilla testified at the hearing on consistent, and when vias we must (people v. glaser (1995) 11 cal.4th 354, 362) established the following historical facts. on september 2, 2015, officers herrera and bonilla were on patrol when they received a radio report between approximately 3:00 to 4:00 a.m. regarding a burglary from a motor vehicle. the report indicated that two male hispanics were trying to break into a white van at the corner of 81st and broadway. upon arriving in the area, the officers saw ortega in the front seat of a white van. at about the 8 see people v. harvey (1958) 156 cal.app.2d 516 (harvey); people v. madden (1970) 2 cal.3d 1017 (madden). 20 same instant, ortega looked in the direction and then crouched down. the officers also saw a broken rear passenger van. the officers pulled their patrol car in front of the van, got out of the patrol car, and ordered ortega out. while exiting on the passenger side of the van, ortega tossed a screwdriver inside of the van on the floorboard. immediately after ortega got out of the van, the officers handcuffed him and patted him down . during a officers discovered a cell phone, credit cards, and fake identification. as noted above, further inquiry revealed that that the iphone belonged to one of the credit cards. analysis the harvey-madden line of cases establishes the authority to arrest [or detain] has been transmitted to the people v. collins (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 988, 993.) harvey-madden is irrelevant in officers herrera and bonilla is wholly unnecessary to consider in examining whether the officers lawfully searched ortega. the radio report is needed for nothing more, if needed for anything at all, than to set a background context for why the officers drove to the area of 81st and broadway at between 3:00 to 4:00 a.m. on september 2, 2016. the officers, with or without a radio report were entitled to drive their patrol vehicle to any public street area in the city that they wanted. the critical examination in this case is limited to whether, when the officers arrived in the 21 area of 81st and broadway, they acted lawfully. the answer to that question is an easy yes. when officers herrera and bonilla arrived in the area of 81st and broadway at between three to four in the morning, they saw a parked van with a broken window and glass on the ground, indicating the window had been broken fairly recently. they also saw ortega in the van. at about the same time, ortega saw the reasonable crime, the officers acted properly. (see generally terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1).) it is not correct, as ortega says in his nformation they received through a radio the officers were acting on what they personally observed at the scene. in investigating the situation, officers herrera and bonilla were not, for safety reasons, prohibited from ordering ortega to get out of the van. (cf. people v. lomax (2010) 49 cal.4th 530, 564 [once a vehicle has been detained in a valid traffic stop, police officers may order the driver and passengers out of the car pending completion of the traffic stop without violating the fourth amendment].) ortega offers no authority to dispute such a conclusion; he focuses his argument solely on the reliability of the facts relayed to the officers in the information, which, as we noted above, are irrelevant. as ortega was getting out of the van, the officers saw him throw a screwdriver onto the floorboard of the vehicle. at this point, the officers likely had probable cause to arrest him for vehicular burglary, but, even short of probable cause, they had articulable reason for conducting a pat-down search of his body for their own safety. again, ortega offers no legal authority to 22 dispute such a conclusion in that he focuses his argument only to the issue of the reliability of the facts relayed to the officers in the radio report, which, as we noted above, are irrelevant. because the officers lawfully investigated the situation of ortega in a vehicle with a broken window, and lawfully conducted a search for their own safety, ortega has failed to demonstrate that the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress the items found during the search. disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. 