filed 8/4/17 p. v. gleason ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. stanley gleason, defendant and appellant. b271088 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba439863) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. _______________ stephanie l. gunther, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________ 2 following a bench trial, the court convicted stanley gleason of one count each of assault with a deadly weapon, carrying a dirk or dagger, and criminal threats, and found true an enhancement allegation that gleason inflicted great bodily injury in committing the assault. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1), 422, subd. (a), 12022.7, 21310.) the court sentenced gleason to six years in prison. gleason contends that the trial court improperly induced him to waive his right to a jury trial, rendering his waiver invalid. we disagree and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural summary on september 7, 2015, israel f. was sitting near a bus stop playing a portable keyboard. gleason approached israel from behind, shouting f you, three times. israel ran to his wife, michaela b., who was standing across the street. michaela called 911. police apprehended gleason at the scene and ocket, one of which appeared to have fresh blood on it. on september 11, 2015, gleason approached michaela at a bus stop across from where the stabbing occurred, pointed to her i should have taken care of you then when i did him[,] and gonna do you next. michaela fled on the bus and called the police. at a pretrial hearing on febr informed the court that gleason wished to represent himself. gleason filled out the requisite faretta1 waiver form and the court when gleason next appeared in court on february 24, 2016, the following exchange occurred: 1 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806. 3 cthe bailiff has found some clothes that might fit [gleason] court: these are different clothes. okay? so, i guess, the question is, now, if you proceed pro[.] per[.] with tgoing to have to address your questions [gleason]i have a basici never had a case of this magnitude pro[.] per[.], your honor. court: yeah. [gleason]: and my only concern is my stroke that[]that i blah, blah. court: right. [gleason]it is what it is. court: okay. [gleason]: but i have an understanding of picking a jury. cif youyou could just address me from there -blown jury trial. [gleason]: if you would ask my opinion, given that i like you a very serious issue and as a professional, the magnitude. and i thoughti gave it some thought prior to me becoming pro[.] per. i would prefer, under the circumstances, after i havesince i have time to answer your question, i 4 actually need this for what i see and blah, blah, blah. but to i am confident that your honor would use, as a professional, give me a cleari like that. court: okay. all right. so mr. gleason would be willing to waive jury if the people are. prosecutor]: you know, i did notis that what he said, that he wanted to waive the jury? he said i need ced a jury. prosecutor]: i would have to get authorization from a supervisor to waive jury. if the court would give me ten minutes to[if] the court would give me ten minutes. court: if the people are willing to do that, it would be a lot easier. then you could have your witnesses here this let you know if the people are also willing to waive jury. it would make things a lot easier. [gleason]: yeah, it would. court: a lot cleaner. [] . . . [] . . . court: on the record on people v. gleason. okay mr. gleason. the people have also agreed to waive jury and submit the case to a court trial. so before we begin, i just want to make are prepared to bring down the jury panel, but my understanding is that both mr. gleason and the people are willing to waive jury and have the case tried before me. is that correct, mr. gleason? [gleason] (capitalization omitted and italics added.) 5 after a bench trial, the court found gleason guilty on all counts and sentenced him to six years in state prison. gleason timely appealed. discussion gleason contends that his wa induced by the trial court promising that waiving a jury would we disagree. the right to trial by jury in criminal cases is guaranteed by the sixth amendment of the united states constitution and article i, section 16 of the california constitution. (duncan v. louisiana (1968) 391 u.s. 145, 149; people v. ernst (1994) 8 cal.4th 441, 445.) to the american scheme of justice (duncan v. louisiana, supra, 391 u.s. at p. 149), and the denial of the right is a structural error that requires the judgment be set aside. (people v. ernst, supra, 8 cal.4th at pp. 448-449; people v. cahill (1993) 5 cal.4th 478, 501.) a defendant can expressly waive his or her right to trial by jury. (cal. const., art. i,  16; see people v. sivongxxay (2017) 3 cal.5th 151, 166; people v. holmes (1960) 54 cal.2d 442, 443-444.) to be valid, the waiver must be knowing and intelligent, that is, made with a full awareness both of the nature of the right being abandoned and the consequences of the decision to abandon it, as well as voluntary in the sense that it was the product of a free and deliberate choice rather than intimidation, coercion, or deception. (people v. collins (2001) 26 cal.4th 297, 305 (collins).) whether a waiver is valid depends upon the totality of the circumstances. (people v. sivongxxay, supra, 3 cal.5th at pp. 166-167; see also adams v. u.s. ex rel. mccann (1942) 317 u.s. 269, 278 .) 6 a waiver of the right to a jury trial is not voluntary if it was induced by a threat of punishment for exercising the right, or by the promise of a benefit, such as leniency in sentencing, in exchange for waiving the right. (collins, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 306; people v. dixon (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 985, 990 (dixon).) the trial court risks such inducements when it injects itself into the dedecision-making process, and may unintentionally coerce a defendant who is people v. orin (1975) 13 cal.3d 937, 943; accord, collins, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 309.) the court, however, is not prohibited from giving information or advice to the defendant as justice . (people v. williams (1969) 269 cal.app.2d 879, 885.) in collins, supra, 26 cal.4th 297, our supreme court held that a trid. at p. 312.) in that case, the defendant communicated to the trial court that he wished to waive his right to a jury trial. (id. at p. 301.) the court asked whether he understood that it was not promising [him] anything just to get [him] to waive jury. id. at p. 302.) collins replied that he thought there would be some type of benefit. ibid.) the court then stated, i didnt specify and is any particular benefit, but that by waiving jury, you are getting some benefitthat yet. ibid.) this promise of an unspecified benefit, the supreme court explained, id. at p. 309.) the trial court had, in effect, offered a reward to the defendant in exchange for his waiver of the right to trial by jury and thereby violated his right to due process. (ibid.) 7 be situations in which we would not find that the benefit noted rendered the waiver invalid. for example, if a defendant asked the court what benefit there would be in a court trial over a jury trial, kely we s statement rendered the subsequent jury trial waiver not knowing, intelligent, or voluntary, particularly if the defendant rejoined that collins, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 315 (conc. opn. of brown, j.).) here, gleason asserts that the trial court improperly induced him to waive a jury trial, pointing a . we disagree. unlike in collins, the court here did not offer a benefit to the defendant in exchange for his waiver of the right to a jury trial. the court did not promise leniency in sentencing if gleason waived the right or imply that it would impose a harsher punishment if gleason demanded a jury trial. instead, the court made commonsense observations that a court trial would take less time and could be less formal than a jury trial. such observations, court trials tend to proceed more quickly than jury trials are merely descriptive of the choice facing the defendant, not a coercive inducement to waive the right to a jury trial. (see collins, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 315 (conc. opn. of brown, j.).) dixon, supra, 153 cal.app.4th 985 is instructive. in dixon, the trial court initially made improper comments promising leniency in sentencing if the defendant, dixon, and his co-defendant waived their right to a jury trial. (id. at p. 993.) the defendants, however, declined to waive a jury trial and requested that the jury 8 panel be summoned. (id. at pp. 991-992.) a discussion among counsel and the court about various evidentiary issues followed, during which the prosecutor explained to the defendants that they ime testifying in front of a jury because they (id. at p. 992.) comment was absolutely correct. (ibid.) after a break and an off-the- your honor, mr. dixon at this time would waive his right to a jury, and if i might just for the record . . . i think mr. dixon is doing that becaus in his own best interest and it iss been my advice to him that i thought that he would havethat we would have[been] freer to present his case in front of you than we would in front of a jury. dixon, supra, 153 cal.app.4th at pp. 992-993, fn. omitted.) the court of appeal interpreted counthe prosecutor was correct when he said there were evidentiary benefits (id. at pp. 992-993, fn. 2.) in light of this interpretation, the court held that waiver was valid for several reasons, including: (1) thow a court trial would benefit dixon, and there was no mention of any senten[t]he reasons given by counsel and confirmed by dixon are that dixon wanted to waive his right to a jury trial because he felt freer to present his case to a (id. at p. 994.)2 2 decision to waive his right to counsel does not affect the jury waiver analysis. a self-represented defendant is his people v. kranhouse (1968) 265 cal.app.2d 440, 449.) 9 similarly, the court in the instant case informed gleason of procedural and evidentiary advantages of a court trial over a jury trial. in noting that a court trial would be than a jury trial, the court did not promise him a more lenient sentence or suggest that a jury would be more likely to find him guilty. instead, the court was alluding to the fact that communicating clearly with one individual would be easier than communicating with twelve, and that the court could be less se the court could simply choose not to consider it. gleason also asserts that the court initially raised the possibility of a bench trial, which he contends was intimidating. even if this is a fact that might imply judicial intimidation in some situations, that possibility is unlikely here because, as gleason informed the co to having the court try the case. judicial intimidation, he contends, is also e to the court. gleason points to and gleason offers no citation for the proposition that speaking respectfully to the court is evidence of intimidation, and we decline to so hold. moreover, the record in this case and deference to the court was due to any feeling of intimidation. apparently, he had had previous experience with trial courts to help him evaluate his choices. additional evidence suggests thhis right to a jury trial was knowing, intelligent and voluntary based on the totality of the circumstances. prior the court about waiving a jury trial, the court was ready to proceed with jury selection; it was only after learning of difficulties that it suggested a court trial. thus, the record does 10 not suggestion that the trial court wa rather, the court provided information to gleason about some aspects of a court trial based demonstrated concerns. lastly, appellant suggests this case is analogous to people v. burgener (2009) 46 cal.4th 231. in burgener, the california supreme court found that the trial court improperly induced of counsel by suggesting that defendant was the only person who had full knowledge of his case and would thus diminish his chances of success if represented by counsel. (id. at p. 242.) burgener is distinguishable from this case. although the court informed gleason of some positive attributes of a court trial, it did not suggest that a jury would disadvantage gleason or be more likely than the court to convict him. reliance on burgener. for all the foregoing reasons, we conclude that gleasonwaiver of his right to trial by jury was valid. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 