filed 5/18/18 p. v. howard ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james howard, defendant and appellant. b271373 los angeles county super. ct. no. la070782 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, joseph a. brandolino, judge. affirmed. melanie k. dorian, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, and yun k. lee, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction defendant james howard appeals from the judgment after a jury trial in which he was convicted of the premeditated murder of his live-in girlfriend, sharilit matthews. discovered eight days after the murder, lying on the bed in her apartment with her throat slit. during the time between the murder and the discovery of the body, defendant visited with friends, contacted other women to arrange sexual liaisons, smoked a lot of marijuana, attended at least one party, and visited the apartment on several occasions (apparently to gather ions in order to pawn them. primarily, defendant argues no substantial evidence and deliberation. although defendant admitted killing matthews, he asserted he did so in a fit of rage after matthews, who defendant believed was pregnant with his baby, purportedly told him she had an abortion. he therefore urged the jury to convict him of the lesser offense of voluntary manslaughter. we conclude the evidence, particularly the nature of the killing and conduct afterward, adequately supports the first degree murder conviction. defendant also contends the court erred by admitting an exhibit containing all text messages sent from and received by his cell phone around the time of the murder. defendant identifies specific messages containing explicit sexual content, as well as other messages relating to his frequent search for marijuana and generally idle lifestyle, and contends these messages should have been excluded. because the objected-to messages were not read to the jury, and the most explicit content was redacted, we conclude 3 any error in the admission of the evidence was not prejudicial. admitting limited evidence regarding finally, defendant raises two constitutional challenges to invitation to apply eighth amendment jurisprudence concerning juvenile offender sentencing here because defendant was 21 years old at the time of the murder. we also conclude penal code section 3051,1 which provides most youth offenders with a mandatory parole hearing during their incarceration but excludes recidivist offenders (including defendant), does not violate the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. procedural background by information, defendant was charged with one count of murder. ( 187, subd. (a).) the information further alleged defendant used a deadly weapon in the commission of the crime. ( 12022, subd. (b)(1).) in addition, the information alleged defendant suffered a previous robbery conviction ( 211), which was further alleged as a strike prior ( 1170.12), a serious-felony prior ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and a prison prior ( 667.5, subd. (b)). defendant entered a plea of not guilty and the cause proceeded to a jury trial. the first trial took place in 2013 and resulted in reversed that conviction and remanded for a new trial, based on 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4 the cumulative prejudicial effect of prosecutorial misconduct and the erroneous admission of highly prejudicial evidence. (people v. howard (feb. 2, 2015, b253031) [nonpub. opn.].) the second trial took place over the course of eleven days in 2015. as in the first trial, defendant testified and admitted to killing matthews. he claimed, however, that he killed her in a fit of rage after she informed him that she aborted their unborn fetus. defense counsel urged the jury to convict defendant on the lesser offense of voluntary manslaughter. after just over four hours of deliberation, the jury found defendant guilty of first degree murder and found the deadly weapon allegation true. defendant subsequently waived trial on the prior conviction allegations and admitted them. the court sentenced defendant to a term of 25 years to life, doubled ( 1170.12), plus one year for the dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and an additional five years for the serious-felony prior ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), totaling 56 years to life. defendant timely appeals. factual background defendant and matthews met in late 2010 at a thanksgiving day celebration held in the apartment complex sister was living. defendant was 19 years old and matthews was about 40. matthews kept in touch with defendant during his subsequent incarceration on a robbery charge and upon his release in august 2011, defendant moved in with matthews. the relationship started to sour a few months later. in late 2011 and early 2012, neighbors frequently heard loud arguments between a man and a woman emanating apartment. the fights occurred three to four times a week and 5 mand at times, neighbors heard thumping and crashing noises that caused them to suspect objects were being thrown or that the fight was becoming physical. defendant admitted arguments became physical sometimes, but claimed it was because matthews would attempt to hit or push him and she would end up falling. one neighbor, however, heard the woman say during the argumentsarguments, the couple fought over money and matthews repeatedly asked defendant to leave. on two occasions, the neighbors in the unit directly below the police. although matthews apparently denied abuse, one of the officers observed she was crying, nervous and had scratches on her cheek surrounded by redness. bruises covered by thick makeup and found her explanation for the bruises implausible. at one point, a friend saw matthews with marks on her cheeks and a large scratch running from her temple down her cheek. during this time, family and friends observed changes in and became withdrawn. one close friend stayed with matthews and defendant in late 2011. she observed defendant calling matthews home from work and was tired. defendant greeted her by telling d defendant behaving aggressively toward matthews, grabbing her and pushing her even when she 6 told him to stop. this friend according to this friend, defendant told her he keeps the get out of line he can grab her by her neck and make her sit the fuck d even though she had a black eye, she denied that defendant hit her. as it turned out, defendant was also seeing several other women. but in january 2012, matthews told two family members she was reportedly happy, but nervous due to prior miscarriages. defendant continued to contact other women about sex. on the evening of february 2, 2012, matthews returned home from work sometime after 5:00 p.m. according to defendant, he was standing at the sink washing dishes when matthews confronted him about another woman who had been at the apartment that day. defendant became frustrated and decided to leave the apartmentor perhaps the relationship. he went into the bedroom, grabbed a duffle bag, and started to pack clothing and other items from his dresser drawers. matthews followed and approached him, closing his dresser drawer with her leg. when defendant said he was leaving, she responded that he about to go defendant turned to face matthews and realized she had a knife in her hand. as they continued to argue, defendant grabbed the knife from matthews and she slumped backwards, sitting on the corner of the bed. he then she ... [i] got an abortion, [and] killed the he professed 7 not to remember any of the other details of the killing but did recall he took the knife to the sink, rinsed it, resumed packing his things, and then left the apartment. thought about killing matthews prior to the argument and that d to kill her. according to the medical examiner, the wound on in length. the cut extended from one side of the neck to the other and penetrated the trachea, larynx and neck muscles. the force required to inflict the wound was similar to the force required to cut through the cartilage that separates a chicken thigh and drumstick. further, due to the force required, some support of the head from behind was necessary, making it likely the wound was inflicted by someone standing behind matthews. swabs taken from under the wound would have caused blood and other fluids to , eventually causing her to suffocate. although the medical examiner concluded matthews was alive when the wound was inflicted, he was unable to say how long it took her to expire, due to the degree of decomposition of the body. she could have died immediately or the process could have taken several hours. matthews was not pregnant at the time of her death, and the medical examiner found no evidence of a recent miscarriage or abortion. 8 just after 8:00 p.m., defendant (who was still in the apartment complex) began texting friends. he first texted r.r., with whom he had a sexual relationship. he exchanged the following series of text messages with r.r. over approximately 20 minutes: d: whats good ma??? r.r.: hey daddy i miss u so much boo d: fosho maybe like in 2 days??? ;) r.r.: i will be very happy daddy d: [how] long u want me to stay out there wit u ma??? r.r.: forever daddy d: cause im willing to make that move right now [] ... [] r.r.: yeah daddy i would want that but i want to have a place of my own. then it will become our place daddy. d: i feel that ma...want to be wit u asap r.r.: i want us asap aw well boo. i will be on u like kids on candy daddy d: i like that r.r.: i knew u would boo boo after concluding that series of messages, defendant started looking for more immediate accommodations. he contacted long-9 time friend joshua d. defendant told joshua d. and another friend, christopher b., and needed a place to stay. eventually, defendant drove to joshua d.[ed], played a arijuana. defendant spent the night at joshua d. christopher b. said defendant arrived, he had a duffle bag and a backpack. although he left joshua d.two bags behind. police later confiscated the bags, which contained shoes, a fake louis vuitton valise, and . 3 with christopher b. and took laptop computer and a home theater system (which was still in the box). he pawned the items later that day. that evening, he went to a party and reconnected with an old friend, k.r., who he called lady slim. defendant met her for lunch on february 5 and slept at her place defendant and christopher b. went back to the apartment a few days later on february 6, 2012, television, which defendant later exchanged for an ounce of marijuana. at some point during these ventures, defendant told christopher b. and k.r. he caught matthews having sex with another man in their apartment, so he had broken up with her. defendant also reportedly left. a cousin spoke with matthews on february 1, 2012. after trying unsuccessfully to reach her for several days, the cousin asked where her cousin was. he hung up on her and then texted 10 messages went unanswered. february 10, 2012, in response to calls for a welfare check from victor j. was on the bed, partially covered by a comforter. officers observed no signs of a struggle and nothing seemed out of place in the bedroom. the dresser drawers on the right side were the drawers on the left were empty. a serrated knife was found in the kitchen sink. discussion defendant contends: (1) no substantial evidence supports and deliberation; (2) the court erred in admitting minimally redacted phone company records documenting his incoming and outgoing text messages; (3) the court further erred in admitting his sentence of 56-years-to-prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment; and (5) section 3051, subdivision (h), violates the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment because it excludes youth offenders sentenced under the three strikes law from the mandatory parole hearing requirement of the statute. we consider, and reject, each argument in turn. 11 1. the first degree murder conviction is supported by substantial evidence. 1.1. standard of review in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence, we review the entire record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable ibid.) in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) the same standard applies where the conviction rests primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 113.) we may not reweigh the evidence or resolve evidentiary conflicts. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) and we may not reverse for insufficient evidence unless it substantial evidence to support [the conv (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) 1.2. analysis as noted, defendant admitted killing matthews. he mens rea required for murder in the first degree. accordingly, we focus our discussion on that element of the offense. 12 malice aforethought. [citation.] malice may be either express or implied. express malice exists when there is a deliberate intention unlawfully to take away the life of a fellow creature. [citation.] it is implied when no considerable provocation appears or when the circumstances attending the killing show an people v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253, 1263 (boatman).) a murder whiis murder of the first degree. ( limitation of the character of killings falling within murder of the first degree the legislature apparently emphasized its intention to require as an element of such crime substantially more reflection than may be involved in the mere formation of a specific boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1264.) revolve in the mind, beforehand; to contrive and design ibid not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the ibid.) in considering whether circumstantial evidence is sufficient to support a finding of premeditation and deliberation, courts consider three factors first set forth in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15 (anderson). these factors are: (1) planning activity; (2) motive; and (3) manner of killing. traditionally, courts uphold findings of first degree murder when there is evidence of all three types, or extremely strong evidence of type (1), or evidence of (2) 13 combined with (1) or (3). (people v. sanchez (1995) 12 cal.4th 1, 32, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) however, the anderson factors simply set forth guidelines for analysis; this is not a strict test. (ibid.) if the anderson factors are not present, a finding of premeditation and deliberation can still be upheld based on substantial evidence from which rational jurors could have found that the killing was the result of preexisting thought and the careful weighing of considerations. (boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1270.) we begin by considering the anderson factors. there is the greatest amount of evidence of the third factor: the manner of killing. the manner of killing can constitute evidence of and exacting execution of [a] helpless victim[ ]people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 868.) here, the medical examiner neck required her head to be supported from behind. in his opinion, matthews was most likely killed by someone standing behind her, supporting her head. the scratches left hand and knuckles were consistent with this scenario: if defendant grabbed matthews from behind with his left hand so that he could use the knife with his dominant right hand, she could have scratched his left hand during the (apparently brief) struggle. defendant had the remnants of a scratch on his left hand at the time of his arrest and his dna was found under alternatively, given the position of the jury may have concluded defendant killed matthews while she was lying on the bed, relaxing, after coming home from work. she had removed her shoes but was still wearing her work uniform. under this theory, defendant would 14 most likely exposing her neck to him, in order to exert the force necessary to cut through her trachea. in either case, matthews would have had little chance to avoid the single, fatal wound. and matthews lay on the bed, would have required some consideration in advance. there is also some evidence of motive, the second anderson factor. during an earlier fight, a neighbor heard matthews and defendant fighting about money and heard matthews tell defendant, over and over, to leave. and defendant told police matthews had kicked him out of her apartment. if the jury believed this evidence, it could reasonably have concluded that defendant killed matthews because she would no longer provide for him. moreover, other evidence may support a finding of premeditation, even when the anderson factors have not been established. for exas conduct after the killing may constitute evidence of premeditation. specifically, we may people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1128.) here, defendant failed to obtain assistance for matthews while she lay on the bed gasping for air. instead, he packed up his belongings and then spent 20 minutes exchanging text messages with a woman with whom he had a sexual relationship, arranging to see her in the coming days. he stayed with friends that night, behaving normally (i.e., playing video games and smoking marijuana), and went to a party the following night. he also returned to the apartment twice during the following week, retrieving 15 . that conduct, and the fact that defendant was evidently undisturbed his visits to the apartment, does not suggest defendant acted rashly and impulsively. considering the evidence of two anderson factors, as well s behavior after the crime, we conclude s finding of first degree premeditated murder. 2. text messages relating to infidelity was not erroneous; any error in admitting other text messages was not prejudicial. defendant complains the court erred in admitting phone company records setting forth all incoming and outgoing text messages on his cell phone during the period before and after the murder. specifically, he contends certain messages containing sexual content or overtones, references to smoking marijuana and socializing, and threats of violence should have been redacted or excluded under evidence code section 352. to the extent defense counsel failed to specifically object to the admission of these messages, defendant argues counsel rendered ineffective assistance. 2.1. standard of review discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or uely tends to 16 or cause on the basis of extraneous factors people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1331.) discretion. (people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 547; people v. avitia (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 185, 193.) the erroneous admission of evidence requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result had the evidence been excluded. (evid. code,  353, subd. (b); people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 878; people v. watson (1956) 46 sion of evidence does not offend due process unless it is so prejudicial as (people v. covarrubias (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 1, 20.) 2.2. prior opinion in the appeal after first trial, we held the wholesale admission of text messages was erroneous because many of the messages were sexually explicit, crude and/or offensive, and had little or nothing to do with the disputed issues relationship with matthews and his state of mind at the time of the murder. we provided some detail about the messages in order to illustrate their shock value and focused particularly on text messages regarding contemplated sex acts with a transgender woman. we concluded: defendant was unfaithful with multiple women was undisputed. that he planned to be unfaithful with [regina,] a man that identified as transsexual added nothing. the particular details of planned mutual fellatio, the possible involvement of a third person, s thoughts on the relative merits of 17 giving and receiving anal penetration are relevant to no issues in this case. moreover, the evidence is clearly prejudicial and likely to evoke an emotional bias against defendant. at a minimum, the cumulas graphic sexual exploits or desires took ths focus away from the question of what abused its discretion in admitting the details of the text messages with rpeople v. howard, supra, b253031, fn. omitted.) 2.3. proceedings below before the second trial, defendant brought a motion to exclude all evidence of his infidelity on the ground that motive, planning or deliberation concerning the events which occurred on february 2, 2012 but instead proves that the defendant is a lazy, loathsome and despicable ex-convict of low focusing on text messages, the court stated it belis around the time of the killing were relevant to undermine his claim that he killed matthews in a heat of passion. he messages, which reflect that defendant was unfaithful with multiple partners and even sought to arrange a sexual liaison immediately after killing matthews, cast serious doubt on . the court agreed that, consistent with our prior opinion, references to sexual liaisons with a man or a transgender woman as well as should be redacted. the prosecution stated those redactions had already been made. the court indicated to defense counsel that it would be willing to redact additional content from the text messages as irrelevant, explicit, or offensive, and invited counsel to review the prosecution18 requests for exclusion or redaction under evidence code section 352. the next day, prior to jury selection, the court asked whether defense counsel wanted to discuss the text messages. his argument that the issue of infidelity was irrelevant. the court noted some of the text messages used and asked counsel to confer about whether that term should be redacted. the court also asked counsel to confer at a break and indicated it would consider other specific requests for redaction from defense counsel. prior to trial, counsel advised the court they had agreed to defendant. defense counsel indicated he had no other requests concerning the messages. ultimately, the prosecution offered two exhibits containing version of the exhibit offered during the first trial, and contained text messages sent and received by defendant between january 22, 2012 and february 12, 2012. the second, exhibit 115, contained the same information but over a longer period of time, december 1, 2011 to february 12, 2012. the exhibits were 51 pages and 105 pages in length, respectively, and each page contains 50 or more text messages in a very small typeface, along with the date and time the message was sent, and the telephone numbers of the sending and receiving phones. both exhibits contained redactions, but the specific redactions were not identical between the two exhibits. the court admitted both exhibits into evidence in their entirety. 19 2.4. analysis defendant has combed through exhibit 115 and identified text messages that contain sexually explicit language, including references to suggestions of particular sex acts. the messages he identifies were exchanged both before and after the murder, and involved multiple potential or actual sexual partners. defendant argues the prosecution manner that would have met its objective of highlighting exposing every single detail about his sex life, none of which messages contained homosexual overtones which had no relevance to any issue in the case. notably, the court gave defense counsel the opportunity to request additional redaction or exclusion of the text messages. but counsel declined to do so, instead standing on his overarching objection that dinfidelity was not relevant. arguably, therefore, defendant has forfeited the issue.2 (evid. code,  353, subd. (b).) in any event, the prosecution did redact almost all of the sexually explicit content identified in our prior opinion. and although a close reading of selected text messages identified by defendant reveals some crude and possibly offensive sexual 2 ineffective assistance of counsel. we reject this claim based on our conclusion, post, that any error in admitting the text messages was not prejudicial. (see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697 [claim of ineffective assistance of counsel may be resolved solely by prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the 20 content, the messages he identifies were never read to the jury. this point is relevant because even if the court erred in failing to redact some particularly offensive language failure to request that it do so), defendant fails to establish any error was prejudicial. (people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836 [state law error does not warrant reversal unless defendant more favorable to [him] would have been reached in the absence of the error in analyzing whether the erroneous admission of evidence is prejudicial, we consider whether it is reasonably probable that, but for the error, defendant would have obtained a better result at trial. we conclude here that it is extremely unlikely the identified text messages, which were buried amongst more than 5,000 text messages in an exhibit 105 pages in length, and which were never read to the jury, affected the verdict in this case. although exhibits 17 and 115 contained thousands of text messages, the prosecution used a limited number of those messages during trial. mainly, the prosecution used the text messages tin many was not read to the jury. for example, the prosecution as a witness. she testified she and defendant had been friends when they were younger, lost touch, but then started seeing each first saw defendant again but recalled it was at a gathering of 21 friends. k.r. remembered giving defendant her phone number3 at the party and also recalled getting together with him the next day. the prosecutor then showed exhibit 17 to k.r., who began communicating with defendant via text message on february 4, 2012, which was the day after the party. this february 3, 2012, the day after the murder. the prosecution used the exhibits in this manner with multiple witnesses. the prosecution did introduce the content of text messages in selected instances. for example, as discussed ante, a witness read to the jury a series of sexually oriented text messages between defendant and a sexual partner exchanged immediately after the murder. but this evidence, and specifically the sexual claim that he was in a loving relationship with matthews and killed her in a fit of rage after she told him she had an abortion. further, the text messages indicate defenimmediately after the murder was entirely consistent with his usual behavior. defendant complains that the prosecutor, during her closing argument, invited the jury to review exhibits 17 and 115 in detail during their deliberations. she also referenced, at several points, the fact that the records show defendant was sexually interested in many other people (but, apparently, not matthews) and generally spent his days hanging out, smoking pot, and pursuing sexual opportunities. 3 which k.r. was using at that time. 22 we have two responses on this point. first, it is unlikely the jury combed through exhibit 17 or 115 line by line during its deliberations, as they deliberated less than five hours. the messages defendant focuses on, as we have said, were not read to the jury but were buried in a lengthy exhibit, exhibit 115, containing more than 5,000 text messages. second, although it may be true, as defendant argues, that some of the text messages tend to paint him as lazy, loathsome and despicable ex-convict of low moral character spent his days at home, smoking marijuana, entertaining friends and engaging in sexual relations, instead, we consider whether this evidence was unduly prejudicial, such that its negative impact substantially outweighs its probative value. lated by [evidence code] section 352 is not so sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds inconvenient. evidence is not prejudicial, as that term is used in a section 352 context, merely because it s position or shores up that of the proponent. the ability to do so is what makes evidence relevant. the code speaks in terms of undue prejudice. unless the dangers of undue prejudice, confusion, or time consumption evidence, a section 352 objection should fail. [citation.] prejudice or damage to a defense that naturally flows from relevant, highly probative evidence.rather, the statute uses the word in its etymologprejudging a person or cause on the basis of extraneous factors. [citation.] [citation.]citation (people v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at 23 pp. 438439, second and final brackets added.) text messages were relevant to show his state of mind immediately after the killing, as well as his state of mind as it concerned his relationship with matthews before the killing. his extensive efforts to have sexual relations with people other than matthews is relevant on that point and is not outweighed by the prejudicial impact of the crude manner in which he made such efforts. 3. the court did not err by admitting limited testimony child. defendant next argues the court erred in allowing testimony that matthews had a close relationship with victor j. and his son, and admitting into evidence a photograph depicting matthews with the child. he asserts this evidence inappropriately generated sympathy for matthews and tended to encourage the jury to decide the case on the basis of emotion rather than fact. as noted, we review the admission of evidence under evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. brown, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 547; people v. avitia, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 193.) the testimony at issue was extremely brief. victor j. testified that he had a 12-year-old son, d.j. victor j. and matthews were romantically involved from 1995 to 2000, and then resumed their relationship in 2003. by that time, d.j. had been born. at this point in victor j.objected to the prosecutionwith victor j.sympathy for matthews. the court overruled the objection stating the general relationship was relevant to explain why victor j. 24 called the police after he was unable to reach matthews, but victor j. about victor j. said she was his victor j. then briefly explained that in february 2012, he and matthews had arranged to buy shoes for d.j. and attend his basketball game. he became concerned when matthews did not meet him as arranged either to purchase the shoes or to attend the game. victor j. tried to contact matthews eventually, victor j. contacted law enforcement. during his testimony, victor j. identified a photograph of nightstand, which had a framed photo of d.j. on it. it appears the prosecutor displayed the photograph of matthews and d.j. briefly during closing argument as she explained that friends and family members were unable to locate matthews during the days after the murder. evidence was relevant, as it provided context for victor involvement in the limited nature of the evidence itself and the restrained manner in which it was used by the prosecution make it extremely unlikely that the evidence had a significant impact on the jury. 25 4. -years-to-life does not violate prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment. 4.1. background legal principles over the last twenty years or so, the united states supreme court and the california supreme court have explored the juveniles tried as adults. specifically, these courts considered the degree to which the prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment found in the eighth amendment to the united states constitution requires states to provide juvenile offenders (youths under the age of 18 at the time of the commission of the offense) a meaningful opportunity to rejoin society after serving a prison term, particularly in light of the increasing awareness that there are fundamental differences between juvenile and adult minds which may in some sense, and in some instances, render juveniles less culpable of the crimes they commit. in roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, the united states supreme court held the imposition of the death penalty on a juvenile offender constitutes cruel and unusual punishment, prohibited by the eighth amendment. (id. at pp. 568575.) on the same grounds, the high court subsequently invalidated a sentence of life without the possibility of parole (lwop) for a juvenile offender convicted of a nonhomicide offense. (graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, 82.) the court later extended graham, holding that a mandatory lwop sentence on a juvenile offender convicted of murder also violated the eighth amendment. (miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. 460.) relying on these cases, the california supreme court, in people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262 (caballero), 26 invalidated, on eighth amendment grounds, a de facto lwop sentence for a juvenile offender in a nonhomicide casei.e., a determinate sentence so long that the term falls outside the the court observed: murderboth because of his crime and because of his undeveloped moral sense. (graham, supra, 560 u.s. at p[p. 6970].) the court relied on studies showing that ience continue to show fundamental differences between juvenile and adult minds. for example, parts of the brain involved in behavior control continue to mature through late adolescence. [citations.] juveniles are [also] more capable of change than are adults, and their actions are less likely id. at p. [68], quoting roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, 570.) no legitimate penological interest, the court concluded, justifies a life without parole sentence for juvenile nonhomicide offenders. (graham, at p[p. 7475].) guarantee eventual freedom to a juvenile convicted of a nonhomicide offense, graham holds that the eighth amendment requires the state to afford the juvenile 27 juvenile offender a chance to demonstrate growth and graham, supra, 560 u.s. at p. [73].) the court observed that a life without parole sentence is particularly more years and a greater percentage of his life in prison id. at p. [70].) graham likened a life without parole sentence for nonhomicide offenders to the death penalty itself, given their youth and the prospect that, as the years progress, juveniles can reform their deficiencies and become contributing members of society. (ibid (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 266.) most recently, the california supreme court extended the reasoning of graham and miller to de facto lwop sentences in hat just as graham applies to caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 268), so too does miller apply to such functionally equivalent sentences. as we noted in caballero, miller xtended graham graham] said about childrenabout their distinctive (and transitory) mental traits and environmental vulnerabilitiesis crime- (caballero, at p. 267, quoting miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. 473.) because sentences that are the functional equivalent of lwop implicate grahamcaballero, at p. 268), and because graham-without-parole sentence for a homicide or nonhomicide offense (id. at p. 267, quoting miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. 473), a sentence that is the functional equivalent of lwop under caballero is subject to the strictures of miller just as it is subject 28 to the rule of graham. in short, a juvenile may not be sentenced to the functional equivalent of lwop for a homicide offense without the protections outlined in millerpeople v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261, 276 (franklin).) franklin also recognized that many of the concerns at issue in these recent cases were addressed by the legislature when it enacted senate bill no. 260 (stats. 2013, ch. 312,  4), which added sections 3051, 3046, subdivision (c), and 4801, subdivision (c), to the penal code. according to the legislature, t]he purpose of this act is to establish a parole eligibility mechanism that provides a person serving a sentence for crimes that he or she committed as a juvenile the opportunity to obtain release when he or she has shown that he or she has been rehabilitated and gained maturity, in accordance with the decision of the california supreme court in people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262 and the decisions of the united states supreme court in graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, and miller v. alabama [(2012) 567 u.s. 460] ... . it is the intent of the legislature to create a process by which growth and maturity of youthful offenders can be assessed and a meaningful opportunity for release established. (franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 277, quoting stats. 2013, ch. 312,  1.) senate bill no. 260 requires the board of parole hearings youth offender parole hearing subd. (b).) the date of the hearing enhancement for which any sentencing court imposed the longest id., subd. (a)(2)(b).) although the statute initially applied only to offenders under the age of 18, the 29 legislature subsequently amended the statute and associated penal code provisions so they now apply to offenders sentenced to state prison for crimes committed when they were under 26 years of age. (stats. 2015, ch. 471,  1 [amended to apply to offenders under 23 years of age]; stats. 2017, ch. 675,  1 [26 years of age].) as pertinent here, however, the statute excludes several categories of juvenile offenders from eligibility for a youth offender parole hearing, including those who are sentenced under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12). ( 3051, subd. (h).) 4.2. -years-to-life does not against cruel and unusual punishment. defendant was 21 years old at the time of the murder. nevertheless, he contends his 56-years-to-life sentence violates punishment. defendant cites caballero and asserts his sentence is a de facto lwop sentence. he then [t]here is no sound reason not to apply the rationale of caballeroother words, defendant asks us to extend the reach of the juvenile offender jurisprudence summarized above to persons under the age of 22 (as opposed to 18) at the time of the offense. as defendant concedes, his counsel did not raise this issue below. in any event, the united states supreme court has approved the classification of juveniles as those offenders under the age of 18 years: of age is subject, of course, to the objections always raised against categorical rules. the qualities that distinguish juveniles from adults do not disappear when an individual turns 18. by the 30 same token, some under 18 have already attained a level of maturity some adults will never reach. for the reasons we have discussed, however, a line must be drawn. the plurality opinion in thompson drew the line at 16. in the intervening years the thompson that offenders under 16 may not be executed has not been challenged. the logic of thompson extends to those who are under 18. the age of 18 is the point where society draws the line for many purposes between childhood and adulthood. it is, we conclude, the age at which the line for death elig (roper v. simmons, supra, 543 u.s. at p. 574.) afforded to juvenile offenders under the eighth amendment here. 4.3. section 3051, subdivision (h), does not violate the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment. (and very brief4) argument is based on the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment, which guarantees to all persons equal protection under the law. as noted, section 3051 now provides most youth offenders who were under the age of 26 at the time they committed their criminal offense with a parole eligibility hearing after a maximum of 25 years of incarceration. ( 3051, subd. (b).) but the legislature 4 a mere four pages to this broad constitutional challenge. 31 mandatory parole hearing provision including offenders who, like defendant, are sentenced under the three strikes law. ( 3051, subd. (h).) defendant argues this exclusion violates the equal protection clause because it treats differently persons he contends are similarly situatedyouthful offenders convicted of the same underlying offensebased on the presence or absence of a prior strike conviction. in order to succeed on his equal protection claim, defendant must first show that the state has adopted a classification that affects two or more similarly situated groups in an unequal manner. (people v. wilkinson (2004) 33 cal.4th 821, 836; people v. bell (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 865, 876, review granted jan. 11, 2017, see cal. rules of court rules 8.1105(e)(1)(b) and 8.1115(e) [212 cal.rptr.3d 134] (bell).) the people assert defendant fails to meet that threshold burden here, inasmuch as a youth offender with a prior strike conviction is, by definition, not similarly situated to a youth offender with no prior conviction(s). in support of that argument, the people cite people v. jacobs (1984) 157 cal.app.3d 797 (jacobs), in which the court of appeal concluded recidivist offenders are not similarly situated to first-time offenders. but there, the court considered a constitutional challenge to section 667a statute designed to protect public jacobs, at p. 803) thus, with respect to the stated purpose of that statute, the two classes were not similarly situated. here, by contrast, defendant challenges a statute designed to provide youth offenders with an opportunity to demonstrate whether they should rejoin society after an extended term of imprisonment. with reference to that purpose, it would appear all youth offenders (recidivist or not) are 32 similarly situated. we therefore conclude defendant met his threshold burden. we disagree with defendant, however, concerning the appropriate standard of review to be applied. relying on people v. olivas (1976) 17 cal.3d 236, defendant contends we must apply the highest level of scrutinystrict scrutinywhich requires a showing that the classification bears a close relationship to a and is narrowly drawn to reach that goal by the least restrictive means possible. (see bell, supra, 3 cal.app.5th at pp. 876877.) but as our colleagues in division eight of this court explained, the deferential rational basis test is applicable to legislative sentencing choices. (ibid., citing johnson v. department of justice (2015) 60 cal.4th 871, 881 (johnson) [applying rational basis test where defendant challenged statute requiring mandatory rather than discretionary sex offender registration for his offense].) we must accept any gross generalizations and rough accommodations that the legislature seems to have made. [citation.] a classification is not arbitrary or irratioimperfect fit between means and ends, , or to some extent both underinclusive and overinclusive. (johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 887at bottom, the legislature is afforded considerable latitude in defining and setting the consequences of criminal offenses. (ibid.)bell, supra, 3 cal.app.5th at p. 878.) although defendant half-differently than first-time youth offenders, he concedes 33 compelling state interests that may serve as a basis for the infliction of disparate penalties on similarly situated groups of offenders. (e.g., people v. leng (1999) 71 cal.app.4twell-recognized purpose of the three strikes law is to provide increased punishment for current offenders who have previously committed violent or serious crimes and have therefore not been rehabilitated or deterred from further criminal activity as a in bell, the court of appeal rejected an equal protection challenge to the exclusion of recidivism gives rise to a rational basis decision to exclude one s(bell, supra, 3 cal.app.5th at p. 879.) the court also surmised the excludes three strikes offenders. (ibid.) we agree with our colleagues and conclude defendant has not demonstrated that his disparate treatment runs afoul of the equal protection clause. fundamental principles underlying section 3051the recognition that offenders who are not yet neurologically developed at the time they commit a criminal offense should have a reasonable opportunity to demonstrate rehabilitation after an extended period of incarcerationsit in some tension with the unavailability of that opportunity for a recidivist youth offender. the characteristics of youth that counsel in favor of providing a mandatory parole hearing would be present whether the offender commits oneor more than oneoffense during his or her youth. the legislature could reasonably consider whether the opportunity for a hearing (at which the circumstances of the prior convictions would be considered) might be appropriate in all 34 youth offender cases. but as we have often noted, that is a disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j. 