filed 7/11/17 p. v. wagner ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. orlando wagner, defendant and appellant. b271252 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba424631) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed as modified. gail harper, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and yun k. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 in an amended information filed by the los angeles county district attorney office, defendant and appellant orlando wagner was charged with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), count 1),1 assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4), count 2), false imprisonment by violence ( 236, count 3), and dissuading a witness by force or threat ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1), count 4). as to count 2, it was further alleged that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. o sever counts 2, 3, and 4. trial was by jury. the jury found defendant not guilty of first degree murder, but guilty of second degree murder in count 1. it found defendant guilty of counts 2 and 3, and found the great bodily injury allegation to be true. the jury found defendant not guilty of count 4. the trial court denied probation and sentenced defendant to 22 years to life in state prison. it ordered defendant to pay various fines and assessments, including a $30 criminal conviction assessment. (gov. code,  70373.) defendant timely filed a notice of appeal. on appeal, he argues: (n to sever resulted in an unfair trial and a denial of his constitutional rights; (2) the offenses as evidence that defendant committed the other charged offenses violated his constitutional rights; and (3) because 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 regarding his alleged schizophrenia and use of phencyclidine (pcp) on the day of one of the crimes, and failed to request that the jury be instructed with calcrim no. 3428, he was deprived of the right to effective assistance of counsel. the people oppose all arguments raised by defendant, but ask that we modify the judgment, correcting the criminal conviction assessment imposed against defendant from $30 total to $30 for each criminal conviction ($90 total). we agree with the people and modify the abstract accordingly. in all other respects, we affirm. factual background i. prosecution evidence the madison hotel (madison), located near skid row in los angeles, rents rooms to tenants by the month. the hotel has small rooms and shared bathrooms for men and women in the hallways. le, including drug addicts. people with obvious mental illness or who openly use drugs are not permitted to rent rooms there. at the relevant time period, about 80 percent of the hotel tenants were men. some tenants at the hotel exchanged sex for drugs or money or both. a tenant could be evicted for using drugs, having fights, or having the police called. as of may 2014, defendant had lived at the madison for about a year. the hotel has surveillance cameras on every floor. , occupied by defendant. a wocated across from room 316. a. defendant assaults diane s. (diane) in march 2014 on march 5, 2014, diane lived at the madison, room 426, with juan r. (juan). diane knew defendant because she had 4 purchased cigarettes from him before. sometimes, juan invited defendant to their room. at around 12:05 a.m., diane went to the bathroom; she found defendant sitting on her bed when she returned. defendant locked the door. when diane tried to escape, defendant choked and beat her. when diane tried to scream for help, defendant choked her. she lost consciousness twice. defendant smoked cocaine and told diane to smoke it as well. he put the pipe to her mouth, but she did not inhale it. diane tapped on the wall to alert her neighbor, who then called the front desk. at around the same time, charles brown (brown), a desk clerk at the madison, received a report that a cry for help was coming from dianeknocked on the door and asked if everything was okay, he heard some movement behind the door and a woman, later identified as dianediane , later identified as defendant, said, all the police, diane turned to go down and call the police. juan then exited the bathroom and brown asked him if he had his key. when juan opened the door to the room, diane, who was beaten up, went out and fell into his arms. she was wearing a dress. juan and defendant, who was barefoot and wearing only his underwear, began exchanging words, and brown left to call the police. as brown waited for the police, defendant asked him for the keys to his room, stating that he had to leave because the police were coming. brown tried to stall, but gave defendant the 5 keys. the police arrived in about five to 10 minutes, after defendant left the hotel. diane did not date defendant and did not arrange to have sex with him in exchange for something. defendant told diane that he was going to kill her, that he had to kill her because she would talk. diane sustained injuries to her face and neck. she also suffered facial fractures, which caused headaches and blurred vision. in 2007, diane had been convicted of solicitation for prostitution. b. defendant kills sheri bickman (bickman) in may 2014 on may 9, 2014, vera akopdjanian (akopdjanian), who lived on the third floor of the madison, was in her room when she heard a knocking on a door, a male voice, and the female voice again. akopdjanian initially believed that the voices came from the bathroom, but then realized that they were coming from room 316. akopdjanian walked towards room 316 and then went downstairs to ask someone at the front desk to call the police. at around the same time, thomas foster (foster), the night clerk at the madison, received a call regarding a disturbance on the third floor; he went upstairs to investigate. after finding caroline francis (francis) talking loudly to herself er returned to his desk. eturned to the third floor. foster knocked on the room door. when there was no response, foster said that he was calling the police. as foster headed 6 back, defendclosed the door. foster returned to the office and called 911. at around 10:30 p.m., los angeles police officer francisco martinez arrived at the madison after receiving a call about a screaming woman in room 316. he was with his partner officer officer martinez knocked on room 316, but did not hear anything. officer martinez tried to open the door using the hotel master key, but each time he turned the lock to the open position, the key returned to the locked position. after a couple of minutes, officer martinez ordered the person inside, later identified as defendant, to open the door. defendant responded that he was getting dressed and asked them to wait. when the door remained closed, officer martinez again tried to open it with the he had taken some pcp and was going to kill himself. the officeventually, the officers kicked in the door. a woman, later identified as bickman, lay dead on she had smoked $100 worth of his drugs. a surveillance video from the madison was played to the jury, confirming the aforementioned story of events. c. bickman died of strangulation; dianecaused by strangulation dr. ogbonna chinwah of the los angeles county department of coroner conducted the autopsy of bickman. she had contusions around the left eye and on her left cheek, right cheek, back of the hands, chest, and head. a hemorrhage 7 suffered in the neck area indicated compression. dr. chinwah opined that bickman died of strangulation based on her neck injuries. looking at a photograph of diane, dr. chinwah opined that the bruising under the cheek extending towards the neck was consistent with strangulation. d. os angeles police detective brian putnam detective putnam, who was assigned to investigate the homicide at the madison, interviewed defendant. the interview was videotaped. at the beginning of the interview, defendant after detective putnam gave defendant some granola bars and water to calm him down, they diane. he did not express regret for his actions. during the interview, defendant asked the detective for more granola bars and stated that he had not eaten. he also stated that he was a diabetic. an edited version of the videotaped interview was played for the jury. initially, defendant said that he met bickman tbrought her to his room. later, he said that jr. earlier that day and that they cooutside and bickman began screaming. defendant told her to be hurt. defendant then choked her. defendant tried to keep 8 efore he went blind. when the police began [he] might as [well] bickman to keep her quiet. he did not know how he got a cut on his right thumb. bickman lied to defendant when she said that she did not have sex with anyone as defendant had heard her having sex with sonny in room 416. about six months before the bickman incident, defendant choked another woman, diane, at the madison. defendant had seen diane on the street by the midnight mission and asked her diane told defendant that she was not a prostitute. later, defendant and diane were in dianeroom when diane said that she would orally copulate him if he woulgo buy another something.and diane tussled over the drug and diane fell on the table. diane kept yelling that defendant was trying to hurt her, and someone knocked on the door. he told diane to keep quiet and not disturb the neighbors because he did not want to lose his diane and knocked her down. she according to defendant, the tenants at the madison were either drug addicts or prostitutes. there were not many women at the hotel, but they were all prostitutes. previously, defendant, who has advanced/aggressive glaucoma, had decided that he was going to kill someone before he completely lost his eyesight. defendant knew that he was going to prison for life for killing bickman, but he did not care because he was going blind and had no family support. he was 9 going to throw bickman out of his window and then jump out himself, but there were ambulances on the street and he did not defendant was an alcoholic and drank six to cigarettes and drug paraphernalia. after speaking with defendant, detective putnam went to inges consistent with his claim that he was a diabetic. he also found a crack pipe. ii. defense evidence john treuting (treuting), a toxicologist, testified that cocaine is absorbed more quickly into the blood system when smoked. effects of cocaine, which include feeling euphoric, stimulated, and invincible, last less than an hour. cocaine is a include sleep deprivation, appetite suppression, dry mouth, dilated pupils, elevated heart rate, and somatomotor activation, which are caused by elevated core body temperature. taking cocaine for a longer period of time could result in irritability, confusion, agitation, paranoia, hallucinations, delusions, and erratic behavior, including violence. when cocaine is taken with alcohol, the side effects become more pronounced. a person who person who uses cocaine increases the problems associated with having low blood sugar. symptoms related to appetite or sleep could be caused by something other than alcohol or drugs. using of cocaine would be aware of the specific effects of cocaine to him or her. 10 putnam and on his own interview with defendant, treuting endant told treuting that he used pcp the night or two before the incident. based on the video interview, whether defendant was on pcp was difficult to determine. pcp, cocaine, and methamphetamine could cause a person to experience lingering effects of tchemicals have be discussion i. motion to sever defendant contends that the trial court erred in denying his motion to sever the bickman murder charge (count 1) from the charges relating to diane (counts 2, 3, & 4). under section 954, an accusatory pleading may charge two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses under separate counts. here, the statutory requirement for consolidation was satisfied as murder (count 1), assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (count 2), and false imprisonment by violence (count 3) were all assaultive crimes of the same class. (see people v. poggi (1988) 45 cal.3d 306, 320.) thus, it became incumbent upon defendant, as the party moving to sever, to make a clear showing of potential prejudice if the crimes were tried together. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th ily promotes efficiency, . . . joinder is proper under section 954 . . . show error in allowing a joint trial of the charged offenses and relief will obtain only on a clear showing of prejudice to establish people v. lucas 11 (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 214, disapproved in part on other grounds in people v. romero and self (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 5354, fn. 19.) to establish that the denial of a motion to sever properly joined counts amounted to a prejudicial abuse of discretion, the exceeded the bounds of reason. (people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 848.) the four criteria used to determine whether the burden has would the evidence of the crimes be cross-admissible in separate trials; (2) are some of the charges unusually likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (3) has a weak case been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the total evidence on the joined charges may alter the outcome of some or all of the charged offenses; and (4) is any one of the charges a death penalty offense, or does joinder of the charges convert the matter into a capital case. [cit(people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 2728.) defendant established none of these factors. first, the evidence regarding the bickman count and the diane counts was cross-admissible2 to show motive and common scheme or plan. plan, the common feature must indicate the existence of a plan rather than a series of similar spontaneous acts, but the plan thus revealed people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4tsly committed a similar crime can be circumstantial evidence tending to prove his . . . people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 705.) here, the crimes against bickman and diane 2 as the parties agree, the absence of cross-admissibility may not be dispositive of the issue. 12 both occurred at the madison within a two-month period. both victims were women, both instances involved drug use and sex, and both women were strangled after they began causing a disturbance. defendant even told detective putnam that he tried to keep both women quiet because he did not want to lose his these common features were admissible to prove defendant acted pursuant to a common scheme or plan and his motive. defendant contends that the evidence is not cross-admissible because he did not kill diane and did not have sex (or attempt to have sex) with her. the fact that diane was not murdered does not minimize the brutality of the crimes. and while defendant claims that he did not have sex with diane, or attempt to have sex with her, he told detective putnam that he and diane had made an arrangement of oral copulation in exchange for drugs. second, neither incident was unusually likely to inflame the jury against defendant. extreme disparity between inflammatory and noninflammatory offenses is required in order tcase to another. (people v. mason (1991) 52 cal.3d 909, 934.) here, the charges stem from assaultive, violent attacks against (people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 780.) the fact that defendant killed bickman does not make the beating against diane any less brutal. both incidents arose out of defendant being alone in a room with a woman, there was drug use and sex (whether actual sex or talk of sex), and defendant choked the woman when she began making noise. the difference in charges 13 case (defendant killed bickman before the police opened the door and diane was able to escape when juan opened the door); this difference does not render the crimes meaningfully different. third, dianeto the case involving bickman. diane testified about how defendant repeatedly choked her in her room when she tried to escape or scream for help. brown went to dianethat a cry for help was heard. diane sought help while defendant told brown that all was well. when dianeopened, brown saw that diane was beaten up. she sustained injuries to her face and neck. had purportedly treated dianedid not testify at trial compels a different result because trial counsel could dianebeing chinwah testified that she was choked. photographs showed the injuries to dianedefendant admitted his crimes against diane. in light of all of that evidence, the jury could weigh the evidence and decide whether diane, with her history of prostitution, was a credible witness. fourth, the joinder did not convert the matter into a capital case. unfairpeople v. soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 783.) the evidence regarding both people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771each count degree murder (convicting instead of second degree murder). 14 thus, we conclude that there was no prejudice to render ii. jury instruction relying heavily upon the dissenting opinion in people v. villatoro (2012) 54 cal.4th 1152 (villatoro), defendant contends that his constitutional rights were violated when the trial court instructed the jury with a modified version of calcrim no. 375. more specifically, defendant claims that the jury should not have been instructed that it could consider evidence relating to the offenses against diane when deciding whether he acted with bickman or whether he had a motive to murder bickman based we are not convinced. as set forth above, the crimes against diane and bickman occurred at the same place within a two-month period. both victims were women, both instances were preceded by drug use and sex (either talk of sex or the actual act), and both women were strangled after they yelled. defendant told detective putnam that he tried to keep both diane was able to escape before defendant could kill her, that does not alter our conclusion. the bottom line is that the diane offenses tended to show that defendant harbored the same intent and motive as in the bickman offense when he choked diane in her room. (see people v. roldan, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 705.) in villatoro is misplaced. villatoro concerned the question of whether charged sexual offenses could be used to prove a er sexual offense charged 15 in the same case pursuant to evidence code section 1108. (villatoro, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 11661167.) evidence code section 1108 is not at issue here. to the extent villatoro is on point, we are bound by the majority opinion. (people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 528.) and the instruction given in this case, like the one approved in that case, told the jurors that they needed to find that defendant committed the diane offenses beyond a reasonable doubt before they could consider the n the murder of bickman. moreover, as in villatoro, the jury was instructed with calcrim no. the jury followed these instructions. (people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 775.) it follows that we find no instructional error. iii. effective assistance of counsel defendant contends that his trial counsel was ineffective by failing to present evidence that his mental state was affected by his schizophrenia and his use of pcp on the day he killed bickman and by failing to request calcrim no. 3428. the sixth amendment right to assistance of counsel includes the right to the effective assistance of counsel. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686694; see also cal. const., art. i,  reversed based on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel unless the defendant establishes both of the following: (1) that reasonableness; and (2) that there is a reasonable probability more favorable to defendant would have resulted. [citations.] if 16 the defendant makes an insufficient showing on either one of people v. rodrigues was deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a ibid.; see also strickland v. washington, supra, at pp. 688, 694.) s no information or explanation as to why defense counsel did not present evidence on his mental state and use of pcp or request calcrim no. 3428.3 (people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, d for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there contrary to reason for his decisions. he may have determined that there was insufficient evidence that defendant was suffering from schizophrenia or the lingering effects of pcp when he killed bickman. although defendant told officers that he had taken 3 heard evidence that the defendant may have suffered from a mental disease. you may consider this evidence only for the limited purpose of deciding whether, at the time of the charged crime, the defendant acted with the intent or mental state required for that crime. [] the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant acted with the required intent or mental sta 17 some pcp and told treuting that he had used pcp the night or two before he killed bickman, nothing in the record shows that defendant exhibited symptoms or behaviors consistent with pcp use or schizophrenia when he committed the murder. trial counsel may have therefore decided that presenting that evidence would have made defendant less credible. have presented expert testimony on schizophrenia. aside from a encing memorandum, defendant presents no declaration setting forth the substance of any mental health unsubstantiated speculation.people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 334.) iv. court operations assessment an unauthorized sentence may be corrected at any time. (people v. dotson (1997) 16 cal.4th 547, 554, fn. 6.) under construction fee. one fee of $30 should be imposed for each conviction. (people v. lopez (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 474, 480.) here, the trial court only ordered a $30 criminal conviction assessment fee. because a $30 fee should have been imposed for each conviction, the abstract of judgment should be corrected to reflect a $90 assessment. 18 disposition the abstract of judgment is modified to reflect a court operations assessment of $90. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. __________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst we concur: __________________________, j. hoffstadt ___________________________, j.* goodman * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 