 filed 5/30/17 p. v. ware ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james ware, defendant and appellant. b271291 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa083082) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lloyd m. nash and david b. gelfound, judges. reversed and remanded. joy a. maulitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, colleen m. tiedemann and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant james ware, jr. (defendant) talked himself into a sentence of 35 years to life in prison. during phone calls with his brother rick ware (rick), defendant repeatedly threatened to set fire to the house occupied by their mother, rick, was not welcome in the house. rick recorded the calls without played the recordings for the police, who arrested defendant and charged him with attempted arson and making criminal threats. defendant initially secured a very favorable plea deal, but when he exhibited reticence about following through on his end of the bargain, the trial court withdrew its approval of the deal and set the case for trial. a jury found defendant guilty on the criminal threats charge, and we are asked to decide (1) whether the trial court abused its discretion when it set aside the plea deal, (2) whether the court correctly ruled the phone call recordings were admissible, (3) (4) whether reversal is required because the court did not instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats. i. background a. the recorded calls early in the morning on february 26, 2015, mother called 911 to report defendant was causing a disturbance at her house and refusing to leave the property. defendant left the scene before the responding police officers arrived. later that same morning, rick spoke to defendant by phone and recorded the call without telling defendant he was 3 doing so. rick placed the call on speakerphone so their mother, who was also in the house, could listen in. defendant said he wanted to come over to the house so he could eat, take his diabetes medication, and shower before going to school.1 rick refused to give defendant permission to enter the house, explaining it was not his house (it was and reminding defendant he came over. defendant then began arguing with rick, and rick repeatedly told defendant he should get counseling or enter a treatment program to address his substance abuse and mental health issues.2 defendant eventually hung up on rick. when defendant called rick back, rick again surreptitiously recorded their conversation. defendant told rick really want[ed] that house to burn down.defendant elaborated, using even more vivid language: andand ii got a great big old 40-ounce bottle full of gas, and rick responded by ]e want you defendant, however, was far from done. over the next ten-plus minutes, he repeatedly threatened rick and the other occupants of the house, stating at one point: 1 defendant was homeless at the time. 2 underwear and socks. rick responded by telling defendant to 4 that i could really trap with you [sic] motherfuckers in there right now and burn that house down. right now. you know what i mean? but you want to talk to me about a fucking [counseling] program? [] . . . [] the next time i go to jail, i just want you motherfuckers to know, yeah, i deserve that. so whatever life sentence i get or whoever die[s], whatever happen[s], man, you allyou all brought this shit on yourself, man, you know? [] . . . [] going to kill you motherfuckers . . . . motherfuckers what real hate is, you know. [] . . . throughout this portio, rick did not should enroll in a counseling program and to extol the virtues of such a program, e.g., that a residential program would provide defendant with food and an opportunity for bible study.3 the phone conversation continued. defendant told rick he was standing on the roof of the house and defendant asked rick and followed up with, program is going to be tell ricin fact, . 3 we have listened to the audio recording of the call and most exasperated or dejected) throughout. 5 defendant asked to speak to his mother, and she told defendant he should go to school and go to counseling. after defendant continued to protest being kept out of the house and , this are and told rick maybe he (defendant) could eat in jail; rick responded that he thought the conversation ended when rick indicated he was going to get off the phone and would see fendant replied, sometime after the call between defendant and rick ended (the exact interval of time is not apparent from the record), rick called 911. rick told the 911 operator his mother asked him to call because defendant had come to the house and damaged a door while trying to break in. the 911 operator during the call, explained defendant broke the in ns, rick said defendant was still trying to get in the house and believed to be on drugs. at the end of the call, the operator told rick and his mother to call back if anything else happened, mother saying, rick called 911 again approximately ten minutes later. he told the operator he thought defendant over, [and] the operator rick [eah], we have a tape of the thing. and he did it. rick then said, it really smells like gas, or something in here. [h]nd forth across 6 . . . felons.the 911 operator told rick that the police were being sent to his location and the fire department was also being notified. b. police response and investigation police officers quickly arrived at the house occupied by rick and his mother. the house had two entrances, a front door and a side door. rick told the officers that defendant broke the side door and tried to get in the house. one of the officers examined found the jamb had been cracked in a way consistent with someone hitting or kicking the door. in addition, rick told one of the officers he had a tape recording of the call with defendant and rick played a portion of the recording for the officer. according to the officer, rick appeared during their inspection of the property, the officers saw no gasoline or incendiary devices, but they could smell gasoline when standing in the area of the two doorways. a piece of carpet in front of one of the doorways was not wet or stained, but it later tested positive for the presence of gasoline. rick gave the responding officers a description of defendant, and they found defendant at the home of one of his friends located a few houses down the street. the officers took defendant into custody, and during a search of his person, found a bic lighter in his front pocket. defendant did not smell like gasoline, however, and none of his clothing later tested positive for any flammable liquid. the day after the police arrested defendant, detective molly beall interviewed rick. rick told detective beall he had been on the phone with defendant, defendant made threats to 7 burn down the house and tried to break down the door, rick then rick played the recorded phone calls with defendant for detective beall, and when she asked him to email her a copy of the recording, he did detective beall, rick said he had been afraid of defendant during call the police. c. testimony at the preliminary hearing and at trial defendant represented himself at the preliminary hearing held to determine whether he would be held to answer on charges of making criminal threats (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)) and attempted arson (pen. code,  455). the prosecution called rick as a witness,4 him to feel fear for his own safety and the safety of his family. rick acknowledged he had previously argued with defendant [the most recent] situation different [was] the part where athe trial court found there was sufficient cause to believe defendant committed both offenses and ordered him held to answer. pre-trial court proceedings ensued, and the people offered defendant a plea deal at a hearing on april 17, 2015. under the terms of the proposed deal, the prosecution would recommend a 4 the preliminary hearing or at trial. 8 six-year prison sentence if defendant pled guilty or no contest to the criminal threats charge. as we later explain in greater detail, defendant rejected that deal but thereafter agreed to an even more favorable agreement, which the trial court initially approved, that would result in a probationary sentence (by striking both of his prior convictions for serious or violent felonies under the three strikes law). however, after defendant began to express some reticence about fulfilling the expected terms and conditions of probation, the trial court withdrew its approval of the plea agreement and set the case for trial instead. during the pre-trial period of the case, defendant placed several phone calls from jail to his mother and rick. defendant repeatedly asked rick to refuse to show up as a witness at trial and to tell the district attorney to drop the case. in one of the to give me life!prosecution) were just trying to get defendant to go to treatment. defendant told rick he was wrong and explained the prosecution -defendant urged rick to come to an upcoming hearing in court so when trial later commenced, the prosecution called rick as a witness and elements of his testimony varied in significant respects from what he testified to at the preliminary hearing. rick explained he and his mother refused to let defendant in the house on the day he was arrested because they were practicing and wanted treatment for his psychological and drug issues. rick also 9 unprecedented; defendant had acted the same way, and made threats similar to those he made on times, especially when he had not eaten or taken his medication. like a rick testified defendant had never hurt him or followed through on any of his threats. when asked directly whether the recorded phone calls provoked any fear, rick repeatedly testified he had never been afraid of defendant, not during the calls on february 26 nor at any other time. rick acknowledged he testified to the contrary during the preliminary hearing, but he said his prior testimony was untruthful. rick explained he falsely claimed to have been in fear because he believed that was what he needed to say to get the prosecution to compel defendant to participate in treatment for his drug and mental health problems.5 5 rick also said he falsely claimed, during the preliminary -examination (defendant represented himself at the hearing). rick additionally asserted threats but to a man named louie jimenez. jimenez was with jimenez a couple days before the recorded phone calls and believed jimenez was going to try to have him (rick) killed. 10 d. the defense argument to the jury was two-fold: (1) in an impaired cognitive state and unable to form the specific intent required to find him guilty of the charged offenses, and (2) as to the criminal threats offense in particular, there was no threats, which is an element the prosecution needed to prove to obtain a conviction. naturally, the prosecution contested both points. as to the disputed element of sustained fear necessary for a criminal threats conviction, the prosecution argued rick the stand and he lied. . . . prosecution further argued and his refusal to go outside and talk to defendant when defendant tried to break in the house were circumstahis despite testimony to the contrary. during deliberations, the jury asked to again hear the calls 911 calls. the jury also asked and [defendant] occur[redthe calls in open court and instructed the jury, with respect to its heard all the evidence in this the jury thereafter returned verdicts of guilty on the criminal threat charge and not guilty on the attempted arson charge. the jurors were also asked to determine the truth of allegations that defendant suffered three prior serious or violent felony convictions in 1992, one for voluntary manslaughter and two for assault with a deadly weapon (both of which were 11 sustained in the same criminal proceeding). the jury found the allegations true. the trial court sentenced defendant to a prison term of 35 years to life, composed as follows: 25 years to life for the criminal threats conviction, pursuant to the three strikes law (penal code sections 667, subdivisions (b)-(i) and 1170.12);6 plus two consecutive five-year terms under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) for the qualifying prior serious felony convictions. ii. discussion defendant contends the trial judgeset aside the plea agreement it initially accepted was an abuse of discretion. defendant also argues the trial court erred in admitting the phone calls with defendant notwithstanding section 632, which renders inadmissible any evidence obtained as a result of recording a confidential communication without the consent of all parties to the communication. ( 632, subds. (a), (d).) defendant further contends there is no substantial evidence supporting his criminal threats convictionspecifically as to elements of that offense that require the threats convey a gravity of purpose and cause the listener to be in sustained fear. (people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227-228 (toledo); calcrim no. 1300.) for reasons we will explain, each of these arguments is unpersuasive. we reach the opposite conclusion, however, with respect to , namely, that the trial court should have sua sponte instructed the jury on the lesser included 6 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 12 offense of attempted criminal threats. unlike a challenge to the sufficiency of the challenge to the absence of a lesser included offense instruction requires us to examine the evidence in the light most favorable to the defendant and decide whether it could persuade a reasonable jury that the defendant committed the lesser but not the greater offense. (people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 132 (simon).) applying that standard of review, we are persuaded that the trial court should have instructed the jury on the lesser offense of attempted criminal threats and that there is a reasonable possibility defendant would have been convicted of only that offense had the instruction been given. under the circumstances, we give the people the option to retry the case or to accept a reduction of the conviction to attempted criminal threats. a. the court did not abuse its discretion in setting aside the initial plea deal 1. procedural history on the day trial was originally set to begin in may 2015, the trial court asked defendant, who was still representing himself at that moment, whether he had any the people had earlier offered defendant a plea deal requiring him to serve six years in prisbut defendant also told the court [t]court ordered standby counsel to take over defendantrepresentation, and the court took a recess to allow defendant 13 and his appointed attorney to discuss whether he should accept when the court session resumed, counsel for defendant informed the court the trial court transferred the matter to judge lloyd nash for settlement discussions before trial was to begin. those further discussions resulted in an open plea agreementaccepted by judge nash objectionto resolve the case. pursuant to that agreement, defendant pled no contest to both of the charges against him and admitted he had previously sustained two serious or violent felony convictions. judge nash agreed he would strike both prior conviction allegations at the time of sentencing and sentence defendant to four years of formal felony probation, with execution of an 11-year and four-month sentence suspended. judge nash participation in a one-year, live-in 7 judge nash informed defendant that defendant not violate his probation. roughly one month after entering his no contest pleas, but before sentencing, defendant asked judge nash to modify the told 7 defendant asked the judge to allow him to use medical marijuana while participating in the program. the court medication, unless the program says that medical marijuana is 14 the judge that defendant wanted (1) his four-year probation period to instead end after roughly one year (on april 21, 2016, the date his existing parole term on a previous case would end) and (2) to have the ability to cut short his agreed-upon participation in the live-in dual diagnosis program if he received a clean, drug-free report in three or four months. defendant told judge nash he wanted these changes so he could register for classes at california state university los angeles and move into a dorm. the following exchange between judge nash and defendant immediately ensued: [the court:] negotiating anything. i gave you a deal that i was not totally for me to set aside the plea and send you back across the hall and have a jury trial . . . . [] you have two choices: either do what we your pleawhen you were first here, you wanted a suspended sentence and probation. [] the defendant: actually, your honor, i asked you [for] something that would not send me to prison. [] the court: wei was going to strike your strikes. i was making you a great is fine. [] the defendant: no. because the dude from the program after this exchange, judge nash ultimately agreed to have another in a dual diagnosis program that might allow him to attend school while participating in the program. judge nash explained 15 to do the best for the benefit of the community and you [defendant], and i have to walk a fine line . . . later during the same hearing, questions arose concerning he prosecutor remarked that defendant and defendant protested arrests for drugs, other than a 14-year-ago misdemeanor, judge nash responded by reading aloud from which recounted statements by rick that defendant needed drug treatment because he was using cocaine and methamphetamine. defendant protested againleave, which is why i was trying to get the probation to end with the parole so that i can get back and never be on the lam and a month later, in july 2015, the parties returned to court for another hearing. defendant still had yet to be sentenced, and he had obtained a letter showing he had been conditionally accepted into the los angeles transition center residential treatment program. after reading the letter, judge nash told [the letter] mentioned your addiction severity, and addiction severity or a judge nash said he that he does not have an addiction. [] i was under the impressionor had the impression that he did have an addiction, defendant responded by telling the court 16 defense counsel then interjected to say offer was judge nash decided, however, to son his own motion and order defendant to stand trial. judge nash where [it had] been this uncomfortable about an open plea . . . and a disposition that [the court] agreed upon . . . the judge explained he was setting aside the plea deal addiction . . . defendant thereafter filed a motion for reconsideration of the decision to set aside his plea. he argued that in contrast to -treatment, he had since acknowledged his need to enter a reconsideration. judge nash denied the motion for reconsideration. he instead set aside the plea. judge nash further treatment, and now, of coursedo i believe him now or do i 17 2. analysis section 1192.5 gives a trial judge discretion to withdraw its approval of a guilty or no contest plea that specifies the punishment to be imposed. the statute, in relevant part, f the court approves of [a] plea, it shall inform the defendant prior to the making of the plea that (1) its approval is not binding, (2) it may, at the time set for the hearing on the application for probation or pronouncement of judgment, withdraw its approval in the light of further consideration of the matter, and (3) in that case, the defendant shall be permitted to withdraw his or her plea if he or she desires to do so. ( 1192.5.) mplicit in the language of section 1192.5 is the premise that the court, upon sentencing, has broad discretion to withdraw its prior approval of a people v. johnson (1974) 10 cal.3d 868, 873 [ ].) such withdrawal is permitted, for example, in those instances where the court becomes more fully informed about the case [citation], or where, after further consideration, the court concludes that the bargain is not in the best interests of society. [citation.]people v. superior court (gifford) (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 1333, 1338; see also people v. stringham (1988) 206 with these legal standards in mind, judge nash did not abuse his discretion in setting aside the record discloses two related reasons for decision, both of which serve as a proper basis for the discretionary determination he made. (compare people v. loya (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 932, 936 [abuse of discretion for court to reject plea barg 18 first, it is apparent judge nash, even at the time he approved harbored reservations that the deal for a probationary sentence was extraordinarily lenient in light of the 25-years-to-life sentence the three strikes law would call for if defendant were convicted at trial. judge nash recognized he had to consider whether the open plea agreement with defendant would benefit the community, and upon further reflection, came to believe the deal he was uncomfortable with the proposed disposition he had entered into. second, and relatedly, judge nash was obviously concerned defendant had begun to exhibit reticence about living up to his end of the extraordinarily favorable bargain. if judge nash initially believed a non-custodial sentence coupled with intensive drug and mental health treatment would suffice to address the problems that might have been criminal behavior, the judge statements in court as exhibiting, at a minimum, a failure to acknowledge the full depth of those problems and a worrisome lack of commitment to work on overcoming them.8 under these 8 defendant argues tthat [he] denied that he had an addiction to drugs, that he was suggested we see the record. when the prosecutor said in open court that only one prior arrest for a drug offense. when judge nash read report, defendant responded manipulating that entire situationprobation term to which he previously agreed. even if we accept the proposition that defendant made no false statements about 19 circumstances, judge nash could reasonably exercise the authority conferred by section 1192.5 in favor of setting aside his plea. (see people v. simmons (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1458, 1467-1468 [court did not in withdrawing approval of a plea agreement when the defendants expressed doubts about their pleas after entering ].) b. the trial court did not err in admitting the recorded phone calls 1. legal background and procedural history section 632, subdivision (a) makes it unlawful to intentionally record a confidential communication without the consent of all participants. reasonably indicate that any party to the communication desires it to be confined to the parties thereto, but excludes a communication . . . in which the parties . . . may reasonably expect that the communication may ( 632, subd. (c).) such recordings generally may not be used as evidence in a judicial proceeding. ( 632, subd (d).) prior to trial, defendant moved to exclude the phone calls rick recorded without opposed the motion, providing an offer of proof that the conversations were not confidential because defendant his prior drug use, these statements and others by defendant were reasonably understood as minimizing the extent of his drug abuse. 20 participated in the phone calls and because defendant made the calls on a cell phone in a public area where anyone could hear his end of the conversation. the prosecutor further argued the calls were independently admissible under section 633.5, which states: ng in section [632 and other specified statues] prohibits one party to a confidential communication from recording the communication for the purpose of obtaining evidence reasonably believed to relate to the commission by another party to the communication of . . . any felony involving violence against the person . . . . sections [632 and others] do not render any evidence so obtained inadmissible in a prosecution for . . . any felony involving violence against the person . . . .9 the trial court denied the in limine motion to exclude the recorded phone calls between rick and defendant. the court found the converased on the offer of proof the defendant was outside yelling on the phone to the phone where [rosa] was lifurther found that even if the calls were considered confidential communications, later at trial, during a sidebar conference right before testimony commenced, defense counsel renewed his motion to exclude presentation of the phone call recordings. the prosecutor again argued the recordings were admissible under section 633.5. the prosecutor explained that even if rick wanted when testifying, his conductmentioning the 9 section 633.5 was recently amended, but the changes have no bearing on the result in this case. 21 911 call and playing the recordings for the responding officers and detective bealldemonstrated rick recorded the calls to turn over to the police for faevidence.10 2. standard of review and analysis a trial cevidentiary rulings in limine are generally reviewed under an abuse of discretion standard. (people v. williams (2006) 40 cal.4th 287, 317; people v. sarpas (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 1539, 1555; people v. nakai (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 499, 516 (nakai).) appellate courts reviewing evidentiary rulings made pursuant to section 632, however, have applied the standard of review applicable to motions to suppress where the motion to suppress procedure, as opposed to an exercise of discretion. (nakai, supra, at pp. 516-517 [trial court did not exercise discretion but rather 10 during his testimony, rick did assert he recorded the phone calls for a purpose other than obtaining evidence for a prosecution. rick testified he recorded defendant only so he he could die.rick said he had recorded a conversation with defendant a week threats to kill rick and other family members. when rick then played the earlier recording back for defendant, defendant star 22 matter of law, that defendant did not have a reasonable the communication at issue]; see also people v. nazary (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 727, 746-747, disapproved on another ground by people v. vidana (2016) 1 cal.5th 632 (nazary).) we follow the nazary and nakai approach here, which means we review the trial coufindings for substantial evidence and its application of the law to the facts so found de novo. (nakai, supra, at p. 516.) we agree with the trial court that the recorded phone calls were admissible under section 633.5.11 there is substantial factual finding that rick mentioned the existence of the recordings (without prompting) when he spoke to the 911 operator. there is also substantial evidence that supports immediately provided the recordings to the police who investigated in response to the 911 call (or played the recordings so the police could listen to them). in our independent judgment, these facts demonstrate rick recorded the calls for the purpose of obtaining evidence reasonably believed to relate to the commission by [defendant] of . . . any felony involving violence against the person . . . or a violation of section 653mevery person who, with intent to annoy, telephones . . . another and addresses to or about the other person any obscene language or addresses to the other person any threat to inflict injury to the person or property of the person addressed or any member of his 11 because we hold the trial court correctly admitted the recorded calls pursuant to section 633.5, we need not address whether the calls were also admissible because they were not 23 or her family, is guilty of a mpeople v. suite (1980) 101 cal.app.3d 680, 688-689 [bomb threat would be admissible under section 633.5 as involving the potential for violence against the person].) c. must establish all of the following: (1) that the defendant defendanstatement . . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent which may be communicatiocircumstances in which it [was] made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of 4) that the threat actually caused the circumstances. (see generally people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 337-toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 227-228.) defendant contends there was insufficient evidence for the jury to convict him of making criminal threats because the only alleged victim, rick, was never in sustained fear and threats did not convey to rick a gravity of purpose. under the applicable standard of reviewwhich is key for reasons we will 24 discuss in the next section of our opinionthe contention is meritless. when assessing the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1281.) if the evidence reasonably justifies the te simply because the evidence might reasonably be found to support a contrary finding as well. (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1215; people v. riley (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1152, 1165-if our review of the record shows that there is substantial evidence to support the judgment, we must affirm, even if there is also substantial evidence to support a contrary conclusion and the jury might have reached a different result if it had believed other evidence the evidence at trial entitled the jury to find threats communicated to rick a gravity of purpose and caused him to be in sustained fear the contrary during trial. (in re ricky t. (2001) 87 cal.app.4th ; people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at pp. 339-340 [threat must convey gravity of purpose and immediate prospect of execution to the victim].) as to the gravity of purpose element, 25 the recordings themselves demonstwere clear and specific so as to convey an immediate prospect of their execution. the element that requires proof of sustained fear was more hotly disputed, but t preliminary hearing testimony, which was corroborated to some degree by the 911 calls and the testimony of one of the responding police officers. when asked by the prosecutor at the preliminary hearing, rick agreed rick fear for his and his . rick acknowledged he had argued with defendant in the past without feeling threatened, but rick testified during the recorded calls on february 26 were different because defendant steps,. the jury could credit this prior testimony rather than testimony at trial. (people v. wilson (2008) 43 cal.4th 1, 20-21 [where there is evidence witness made prior inconsistent statement, jucredit the prior statement]; evid. code,  1235; calcrim no. 318.) in addition, rick told the 911 operator that defendant was to burn the house downand not] go out because [defendant was] out there . . . coming back and forth across the street felons lived. this too was some evidence of sustained fear, as was the testimony of one of the officers who responded to the 911 call. he sin light of this evidence and the governing standard of reviewcontention the evidence was insufficient 26 conveyed a gravity of purpose and caused rick to experience more than fleeting fear. d. the absence of a lesser included offense instruction on attempted criminal threats requires reversal defendant next argues that it was error for the trial court to fail to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats. on this issue, the standard of review is effectively reversedfavoring the defense rather than the prosecutionand that makes all the difference. sponte duty to instruct the jury on a lesser included uncharged offense if there is substantial evidence that would absolve the defendant from guilt of the greater, but not the lesser, offense. [citation.] substantial evidence is evidence from which a jury could conclude beyond a (simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 132; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162 [lesser included offense instruction must be given whenever evidence the defendant is guilty of only the lesser conclude the lesser but not the greater offense was committed].) our review is again de novo, and we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the defendantprecisely the opposite manner in which we consider the evidence when evaluating whether a conviction is supported by substantial evidence. (people v. brothers we review the trial courts failure to instruct on a lesser included offense de novo . . . [,] considering the evidence in the light most favorable to the defendant; people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 27 1137 [same]; people v. turk (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1361, 1368, fn. 5 [evidence construed in light most favorable to the defendant]; see also simon, supra, at p. 133 [de novo review].) criminal threat whenever, acting with the specific intent to commit the offense of criminal threat, the defendant performs an act that goes beyond mere preparation and indicates that he or she is putting a plan into action. . . . [a] defendant acts with the specific intent to commit the offense of criminal threat only if he or she specifically intends to threaten to commit a crime resulting in death or great bodily injury with the further intent that the threat be taken as a threat, under circumstances sufficient to convey to the person threatened a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution so as to reasonably cause the person to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 230-231.) a defendant commits an attempted criminal threat, as opposed to requisite intent, makes a sufficient threat that is received and understood by the threatened person, but, for whatever reason, the threat does not actually cause the threatened person to be in sustained fear for his or her safety even though, under the circumstances, that person reasonably could have been placed in such fear . . . (id. at p. 231; accord, people v. chandler (2014) 60 cal.4th 508, 515-516 [quoting this passage from toledo].) here, a reasonable jury could find defendant committed only the offense of attempted criminal threats. while there was substantial evidence rick suffered sustained fear as a result of notmost prominently, rickown trial testimony. rick 28 explained at trial that repeatedly emphasized in response to questions from both sides of my brother, including on the day of the recorded calls. was that rick , but rick had an explanation for his changed testimony the jury could have found plausible. rick explained he previously, and falsely, claimed to have been in fear partly because he wanted to force his brother to get help and believed he had to admit he was in fear to ensure the prosecution would be able to compel defendant to take a deal involving a treatment program. rick testified that once he came to believe any such deal was not going to happen, he abandoned his prior testimony and admitted the sort of threats defendant made were common in their often relationship and did not cause him to be in any sustained fear.12 considering, as we must, the evidence in the light most favorable to defendant, the evidence that rick was not in sustained fear was sufficient to warrant jury consideration of the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats. indeed, the 12 point. in one of the calls, defendant told rick the prosecution reed, telling defendant and get treatment. defendant told rick he was wrong, explaining the prosecution was not offering treatment but had filed papers to seek a 25 to life prison sentence, which rick would understand if he came to court and heard it for himself. rick agreed he would come to court, his testimony about whether he was in fear appears to have changed sometime after that. 29 evidence here is comparable with the facts at issue in toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th 221. in that case, our supreme court observed a jury could have found ]you know, death is going to become you tonight. i am going to was made with the requisite intent and was the type of threat that satisfied the provisions of section 422 and reasonably could have caused [the wife] to be in sustained fear for id. at p. 235; see also id. at p. 225 [in addition to the verbal threats, the defendant threw a telephone into a closet door, punched a hole through a bedroom door, and plunged a pair of scissors toward his wiher skin].) but the toledo court also observed it was not improper for the jury to find the defendant guilty of only attempted criminal threats, not the completed offense, because sonable doubtin view of [the wife [and conduct consistent with that trial testimony]as to whether the threat actually caused [the wife] to ibid.) although we have determined substantial evidence required an instruction on attempted criminal threats, that is not enough to warrant reversal. as our supreme court has explainedincluded offense is subject to harmless error analysis under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 837 [ ], and . . . evidence sufficient to warrant an instruction on a lesser included offense does not necessarily amount to evidence sufficient to create a reasonable probability of a different outcome had the instruction (people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1161, disapproved on another point in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 30 363, 391, fn. 3.) when assessing prejudice under the people v. watson not on what a reasonable jury could do, but what such a jury is likely to have doneconsider, among other things, whether the evidence supporting the existing judgment is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, that there is no reasonable probability the error of which the defendant complains affected the result.breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 177.) a reasonable probability in this context does not mean more likely than not; it means a reasonable chance and not merely a theorpeople v. woods (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 461, 474; see also, e.g., people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 426.) for much the same reasons we have already discussed, defendant has established there is a reasonable chance the jury would have convicted him only of attempted criminal threats if instructed on that offense. the evidence that would support a finding that rick was not in sustained fear is strong enough to bridge the incremental analytical gap between what a jury could do and what a jury is reasonably likely to have done if given an appropriate instruction. (see people v. ngo (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 126, 158-159 [finding prejudice in the failure to give contradictory statements provided the only evidence regarding whether crime was completed or attempted].) in addition, the not guilty verdict on the attempted arson charge is some indication it may have viewed the case as close. (see, e.g., people v. perry (1985) 166 acquittal on some counts, in addition to lengthy deliberations and reliance on circumstantial evidence, to conclude 31 .) and perhaps it goes without saying, but the fact that the jury found defendant guilty of the greater charge is of no moment. (people v. brown (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 140, 156 [in assessing prejudice for failure to instruct on a lesser included offense, matter that the jury chose to convict the defendant of the greater offense over acquittal or that the defendant was convicted of the otherwise would undermine the very purpose of the sua sponte rule]; see also people v. majors (1998) 18 cal.4th 385, 410 [ lesser included to eliminate the distortion of the factfinding process that is created when the jury is forced into an all-or-nothing choice be].) to sum up, we have held under the governing standard of review that it was error not to give an instruction on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats and that the error was prejudicial. but we have also held substantial evidence finding of guilt on the criminal threats s other assertions of error. the upshot of these holdings is that there was necessarily a proper evidentiary basis on which the jury could have convicted defendant of the lesser included attempted criminal threats offense. thus, we have here the scenario described in people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495: reversed, but a lesser included offense could be affirmed, we give the prosecutor the option of retrying the greater offense, or (id. at p. 528.) those will be our remand directions. 32 disposition the judgment is reversed, and the matter is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. if, after issuance of the remittitur, the people do not elect to retry defendant within the time limit set forth in section 1382, subdivision (a)(2), the trial court shall proceed as though the remittitur constitutes a modification of the judgment to reflect a conviction of only the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats in violation of sections 664 and 422. if the people opt against retrying the case, it will be necessary to resentence defendant regardless of whether the sentence to be imposed is likely to be materially different. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. kin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 