filed 9/11/17 p. v. trejo ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. manuel trejo, defendant and appellant. b271528 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba420112) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frederick n. wapner, judge. affirmed. susan morrow maxwell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant manuel trejo pleaded guilty to, among other things, second degree robbery. he was sentenced as a second striker. on appeal, trejo contends that the trial court misunderstood the scope of its discretion when denying his romero1 motion. we disagree, and therefore we affirm the judgment. background2 ana cisneros worked at the family dollar store. at approximately 6:15 p.m. on december 15, 2013, trejo, wearing a scarf over his mouth and nose, was in the store. it being cold outside, cisneros initially thought nothing of attire. but, as cisneros walked toward the cash registers, trejo told cisneros to he showed cisneros something wrapped in a black stocking. although cisneros could see only a metal handle, it appeared to be a gun. another witness, however, saw trejo lift his shirt to reveal a gun. trejo took $108 from a cash register. when cisneros told trejo she could not open another cash register without . trejo took a handful of beef jerky before leaving. almost two hours later, deputy sheriff eva robles saw trejo driving a car that had been connected to a domestic violence investigation. and sirens, but trejo did not yield. instead, continued through intersections and stop signs at approximately 40 miles per hour. 1 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 2 the facts underlypreliminary hearing. 3 continued on, eventually stopping. robles found ef s based on these events, an information was filed alleging that trejo committed count 1, second degree robbery (pen. code,  211)3 with a gun ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and count 2, evading an officer, willful disregard (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)). the information alleged that trejo had two prior second degree robbery convictions, the first from 1996 and the second from 2005, within the meaning of the three strikes law; three prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)); and two prior convictions of a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). on may 19, 2015, defendant pleaded guilty to the charges and admitted the allegations, including that he was convicted of two prior strikes. at the april 11, 2016 sentencing hearing, defense counsel asked the trial court to strike one or both priors. counsel argued night blew 4 the trial court noted that had done exceptionally well on parole. the court said it follow the law which says that i have to look at the nature and circumstances of the present offense, the nature and circumstances of the strikes, and his background, character, and 3 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4 when trejo was arrested on these current charges, he had a methamphetamine pipe. 4 prospects and make a determination as to whether he falls partially or wholly outside the scope of the three-strikes law. [] a the court noted that although the age of the first strike (20 years) mitigated in favor of striking it, the circumstances of it (a codefendanta gun, a shootout and a wounded victim) mitigated against striking it. during the second robbery, trejo wore a mask and simulated using a gun, which caused the victim to stab trejo. the court observed that are the kinds of things that happen when people walk around trejo went to prison for that robbery, and, within 10 and a half months of his release, he committed the current crimes. the court acknowledged that trejo had a history of mental illness and although medication controlled itth gun and people can get really, really hurt. [] and so i cannot, with a straight face, say that he falls even partially outside the scope of the three-strikes law. the court said it could not take its personal view of what might be enough and substitute it for e scope of the three strikes law. the trial court therefore sentenced trejo, on count 1, to 25 years to life plus 10 years for the gun enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) plus two 5-year terms ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). on count 2, the court sentenced trejo to a consecutive term of eight months doubled to 16 months. the court, however, struck a one-year 5 prior and stayed two 1-year priors ( 667.5, subd. (b)). total sentence was 46 years four months.5 discussion trejo contends that the trial court erred in believing its discretion was limited to factors in people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148 it could consider sentence when ruling on the romero motion. we disagree that the court misunderstood the scope of its discretion. in the furtherance of justice, a trial court may strike or dismiss a prior conviction allegation. ( 1385, subd. (a); romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 504.) we review a romero motion under the deferential abuse of discretion standard; that is, the defendant must show that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 375, 378.) it is not enough to show that reasonable people might disagree about whether to strike a prior conviction. (id. establishes a sentencing norm, it carefully circumscribes the trial . [t]he law creates a strong presumption that any sentence that conforms to these (ibid.) only extraordinary circumstances justify finding that a career criminal 5 at the end of the sentencing hearing, defense counsel asked for clarification of the sentence on count 2. the court clarified after that count 2 is not a serious or violent felony and therefore the defendant cannot be sentenced to a third strike sentence as to that count. accordingly, the order striking the strike as to count 6 is outside the three strikes law. (ibid.circumstances where no reasonable people could disagree that the criminal falls outside the spirit of the three strikes scheme mus (ibid.) when considering whether to strike prior conviction the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious andpeople v. williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 161.) a court also has the discretion to dismiss a prior conviction allegation with respect to fewer than all counts. (people v. johnson (2015) 61 cal.4th 674, 689; people v. garcia (1999) 20 cal.4th 490.) where the record affirmatively discloses that the sentencing court misunderstood the scope of its discretion, remand is required. (people v. fuhrman (1997) 16 cal.4th 930, 944.) no such misunderstanding affirmatively appears on this record. instead, in an attempt to show that the trial court did not , trejo isolates comments the court made. the court said, for example, and suggested that a but when these comments are considered in the context of the entire sentencing hearing, it is clear the court properly understood the scope of its discretion. the court, for example, also view judgment 7 the three strikes law. (italics added.) thus, placing all comments in context shows that the court was merely expressing sympathy for trejo. however, we decline to equate that expression of sympathy with a misunderstanding of the scope of should not be guided by personal sentiment shows a perfect understanding of the scope of its discretion. (see, e.g., romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 531 [court may not strike sentencing allegation based solely on personal antipathy for effect the three strikes law would have on a defendant while ignoring williams factors].) the trial court showed that it understood the scope of its discretion when it explained why it was finding trejo outside the scope of the three strikes use of a gun and injury to a victim, and he simulated the use of a gun during his second robbery, which caused the victim to use a knife to defend himself. trejo committed the current offense about 10 and a half months after release from prison on the second strike. during the current robbery, trejo used a gun. to be a career criminal within the scope of the three strikes law. 8 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports bachner, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 