filed 8/14/17 p. v. saucedo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. armando saucedo, defendant and appellant. b271364 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka109528) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas c. falls, judge. remanded and affirmed. robert l.s. angres, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, shawn mcgahey webb and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant armando saucedo of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),1 and found true allegations that he intentionally discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), & (d)) and that the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)). he was sentenced to state prison for 40 years to life. he appeals from the judgment, contending: (1) the trial court erred in precluding his trial counsel from cross-examining a jail informant about compensation he received in other cases, and (2) that under people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261 (franklin), the case must be remanded for defendant to make a record for a later youthful parole suitability hearing. we disagree with the first contention, and agree with the second. therefore, we remand the matter for a franklin hearing, but otherwise affirm the judgment. background a. prosecution evidence 1. the killing of jimmie adams around 4:45 a.m. on april 16, 2011, shon bell was walking his bicycle with his friend, jimmie adams, on holt avenue in pomona when a silver or gray car stopped near them. two hispanic men got out and approached as the car left. one of the men asked bell and adams, who were black, bell, a former gang member construed the question 1 all undesignated section references are to the penal code. 3 as a gang challenge, because there was a rivalry between hispanic and african-american gangs in pomona. adams told bell that they should leave. bell began running alongside his bicycle. adams started to run, but within a few steps was struck by bullets and collapsed. at that point, bell noticed that one of the two hispanic men was holding a gun. bell went over to adams. he was still breathing but unable to speak. the two hispanic men ran off. bell went to a nearby was unable to find her. he told 911. amanda sanchez witnessed the shooting sitting in a parked car near holt and palomares. she saw two caucasian or hispanic men wearing white t-shirts approach an african-american male walking eastbound on holt. seconds later she heard gunshots. the african-american man fell to the ground, and the other two men ran away. sanchez called 911. pomona police officer edward escobar responded to the scene of the shooting and observed adams on the sidewalk on holt avenue. officer escobar checked for vital signs, but adams was deceased. an autopsy later revealed that adams had suffered two gunshot wounds to the chest, each of which was fatal. a couple of days after the shooting, pomona detective andrew bebon showed bell a photographic lineup. bell selected photograph and identified him as the shooter. preliminary hearing, bell also identified defendant as the shooter. however, at trial, when asked if he recognized anyone in the courtroom as the gunman, bell testified that he did not remember. he 4 acknowledged being threatened after the preliminary hearing, and admitted he was afraid to testify at trial. 2. nformant in 2011, defendant was charged with the adams killing, but after the preliminary hearing, the prosecution dismissed the case and defendant was released. however, in december 2013, defendant was in county jail on an unrelated parole violation. coincidentally, also in custody was a confidential informant (ci), who had been arrested for receiving stolen property or theft, and who had a prior working relationship as an informant with sergeant kevin lloyd of the los . sergeant lloyd arranged for the ci to be placed in the same two-person cell as defendant. the ci was he was given a recording device and recorded portions of their conversations. an edited cd of the recorded conversations was played for the jury and a transcript was provided. before the ci was given a recording device, defendant told him that he was known pmr,which stands for the pomona michoacan rifa street gang. he said that he had gotten away with a murder he committed in 2011. he had been charged with it, but the charges were dropped. at one point, after the ci was given the recording device, defendant was removed from the cell and interviewed by pomona police detective greg freeman, who was investigating a rash of killings involving hispanic and african-american gangs. he questioned 5 defendant about one such murder, which had occurred on october 23, 2013 at a donut shop. defendant denied involvement. when defendant returned to the cell, the ci recorded their conversation. defendant told the ci that the police had questioned him about a murder at a donut shop, and that he had denied any involvement. the ci then asked if the police had questioned him about his involvement in the 2011 killing he had earlier mentioned. defendant said there were no questions about that case, as the police the ci asked appellant if he had gotten rid of the gun he used. defendant said he had burned it with a torch, melting it into a puddle. defendant described the gun as a snub-nose .38 millimeter revolver. when the ci asked defendant about the details of the 2011 murder, defendant on holt the main street. defendant said that the only rom the trey five seven gang. defendant referred to him sicdefendant. the ci asked where bell was located when he saw defendant approaching. well they were crossing the street on this side and they were going like that way. and his homie he had seen me [unintelligible]. they were both freaked out. i seen his homie just telling him[unintelligible] gun. 6 dog. [unintelligible] fucking fools [unintelligible] and i just got out of defendant said that bell was lucky he did not get shot as well. defendant tried to shoot both the victim and bell because he did not want to leave any witnesses. he said he shot the victim once in the chest and once in the head from close range. he fired a total of four shots, and no casings were found at the scene, because he used a revolver. the defendant -americans were being targeted even if they were not affiliated with gangs. the ci asked defendant if he ever felt bad about killing the man in 2011. defendant said that he did not. 3. gang evidence according to detective bebon he listed his moni he also had many gang-related photographs and depictions of graffiti. based on the myspace account, as well as listening to recorded conversations with the ci, detective bebon opined that defendant was a member of ghetto side pomona (a tagging crew), and that he also affiliated with members of various criminal street gangs in pomona, including pomona michoacan rifa (pmr), pomona 12th street, and ghetto fame or ghetto family. according to detective bebon, hispanic sureo gangs must be approved by the mexican mafia. to gain approval, typically must earn money for the mexican mafia. in contrast, a 7 tagging crew like ghetto side pomona lacks mexican mafia approval as a gang. rather, it serbaseball other gangs. members of a tagging crew who show a members of gangs. in pomona, there have been racial tensions between african-american gangs and hispanic gangs dating back to 1985. many non-gang members also have been harmed by gang members due to these racial tensions. gang members instill fear in the community by committing crimes. a gang with a reputation for killing people may cause reluctance to cooperate with the police or testify in court. when presented with a set of hypothetical facts based on the evidence in this case, detective bebon opined that the shooting was committed for the benefit of hispanic gangs in the city of pomona that operated under the umbrella of the mexican mafia. committing such a crime allowed hispanic gangs to operate through fear and intimidation, and made people less willing to report crimes. b. defense evidence defendant testified on his own behalf. he denied any involvement in the shooting. he spent the evening of friday, april 15, 2011, hanging out with his friends, salvador, victor, and jovany. they first went to a birthday party, but after police arrived they left (defendant was on parole at the time and did not want to go back to jail). they then went to house where they played video games and 8 smoked marijuana. defendant sunday, and never went to palomares and holt. defendant was 19 years old on the date of the shooting. when he was in middle school, he joined a tagging crew known as ghetto side pomona. the crew was not violent and its activities were limited to tagging. he knew about gang activity and racial problems in pomona. after his release from prison in 2011, he no longer participated in any gang-related activities. he had never shot anyone or been present when anyone was shot. a few days after adams was killed, defendant was interviewed by the police. he said he was not involved and gave a detective the names of the three men he was with on the evening of the murder (a recording of the interview was played for the jury). while in jail on the parole violation, defendant was placed in a cell with the ci. he testified at trial that, in order to boost his standing in jail and appear hardened, he told the ci that he was involved in the 2011 shooting of adams. he knew details about the crime because he had previously had been charged with the offense and there had been a preliminary hearing. but his claim of involvement to the ci was a lie. defendant the jail by members of the mexican mafia, he wrote down that he was a member of the pmr gang. he did so even though he realized it was dangerous to falsely claim membership in a gang. jovany barba, salvador infante, and victor reyna all testified in . 9 c. rebuttal evidence when detective bebon interviewed defendant about this case, defendant said he was at his friemurder. defendant . defendant gave detective bebon the name and phone number of his detective bebon tried to contact infante and left a message for him, but infante never called him back. detective bebon used police department resources to determine that donna rojas, with a date of birth of april 21, 1991, lived in pomona, about a half mile away from jaycee park. just before midnight on april 16, 2011 (a saturday night), the police received a noise complaint concerning when defense investigator richard beeson interviewed reyna, barba, and infante, they each said that the party they attended with defendant was on the evening of saturday, april 16, 2011. discussion i. cross-examination of the ci defendant contends that the trial court violated his sixth amendment right to confrontation by precluding his attorney from cross-examining the ci about payments he received from law enforcement in the past. we disagree. 10 a. proceedings on direct examination by the prosecutor, the ci testified that at the time of his arrest for receiving stolen property or theft, for which he ion, he was on probation for multiple cases and had received suspended prison sentences. because of that, the new receiving stolen property case would likely result in prison time. he agreed to record his conversations with defendant because he was hoping for leniency in his own pending cases, although he had not been given any promises. ultimately, he pleaded guilty to his new charge and was granted probation with a suspended prison sentence of 11 years. he avoided a prison sentence because the los angand the pomona police department wrote letters on his behalf, asking for leniency in light of his cooperation in this and other cases. in his cross-testimony that in 2008, the ci pled guilty in two separate cases to burglary (for which he was granted formal probation) and receiving stolen property (for which he received probation and a 4-year suspended sentence). in 2009, he was convicted of robbery and sent to state prison. in 2012, he was convicted of car theft. that year, he began working for sergeant lloyd as an informant. later, he received another suspended sentence for the car theft conviction (his fourth felony conviction). when he recorded his conversations with defendant, the ci was in custody on an arrest for receiving stolen property, which the ci characterized as theft of cargo from an 18-wheeler. he had already 11 acted as an informant for sergeant lloyd on more than five cases. he would receive a lenient sentence on his own pending open and probation caseson the suspended sentences alone, he was facing at least seven, and perhaps up to 17 years in prison. he had not received any promises. ultimately, in 2014 (after he recorded defendant in dec. 2013), the ci pled guilty to the pending receiving stolen property case. at that point, the court adjourned for the day. the next morning, outside the presence of the jury, the prosecution moved to preclude defense counsel from questioning the ci regarding money he had been paid in the past. the prosecutor confirmed for the court that the ci had been paid in the past not by state or local authorities, but by federal law enforcement. defense counsel conceded that the ci had not been paid sum , regardless where it came from as long as it was law enforcement, and on what cases. under evidence code section 352, the trial court ruled that because the ci had not been paid with respect to the instant case, and had admitted his motive in cooperating against defendant was to receive a lenient sentence on his pending cases, any evidence that he received payments in the past was following the ruling, defense counsel resumed his cross-examination. he elicited testimony that the ci acted as an informant because 12 lenient sentence. after he pled guilty in 2014, the ci was released from custody and placed on informal probation. b. analysis in ruling on the question whether evidence is substantially more prejudicial than probative, the trial court enjoys broad discretion. [t]he latitude [evidence code] section 352 allows for exclusion of impeachment evidence in individual cases is broad. the statute empowers courts to prevent criminal trials from degenerating into nitpicking wars of attrition over collateral credibility issues.[citation.] (people v. ayala (2000) 24 cal.4th 243, 282.) here, the ci had not been paid any money to act as an informant . rather, he had been paid in the past by federal law enforcement for unrelated cases. when he recorded his conversations with defendant, he was facing a substantial prison sentence on his own pending cases, and readily admitted that he did so in the hope that he would receive lenient treatment. further, he admitted that he later received no custody time and informal probation. given the strength of this evidence of bias, and the absence of any payments in the instant case, it was well within the discretion of the trial court to conclude that the probative value of the proposed cross-examinationquestioning about payments made in the past by federal law enforcement, and about the particular unrelated cases was substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.,  352.) 13 in any event, any error was harmless. asserts the standdoubt standard prescribed in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24, we have held the application of ordinary rules of evidence like evidence code section 352 does not implicate the federal constitution, and thus we review allegations of error under the reasonable probability standard of [people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson)]. (people v. marks (2003) 31 cal.4th 197, 226-227.) here, d and played for the jury. thus, most, collateral, because it had little or no relationship to the incriminating value of that evidence. indeed, in his testimony, defendant did not deny that he confessed to the ci; rather, he sought to explain away the import of his confession, testifying that it was false and motivated so as to make him appear hardened while in custody. issue, the jury had a firm basis to evaluate his potential bias: the ci admitted that he cooperated in the hope of obtaining leniency on his own cases and avoiding a potential lengthy prison sentence, a result that he ultimately achieved. evidence that he had been paid in unrelated past cases by federal law enforcement (and any resulting inference that he might have had an additional bias in the hope of being his credibility. thus, had such evidence been admitted, it is not 14 reasonably probable that a different result would have been reached. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818.)2 ii. remand under franklin defendant was 19 years old when he committed the murder in this case. under franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at page 284, he contends that his case must be remanded to the trial court so that he can make a record of information relevant to his eventual youthful offender parole hearing, as contemplated by sections 3051 and 4801. we agree. a. proceedings at the sentencing hearing on march 24, 2016, the court noted that defendant had been convicted of second degree murder, with true findings on a firearm enhancement and a gang enhancement. the court stated that appellant had requested a speedy sentencing, and that all parties agreed that the sentence mandated by law was the only sentence that could be given in this case. the prosecutor and defense counsel confirmed their agreement. the court the court added that it had received and read the tencing memorandum. defense counsel did not submit a sentencing memorandum. after the court denied the defense motion for a new trial, the court asked if there was any legal cause why sentence should not be imposed, 2 on the same reasoning, even were chapman the appropriate standard, we would conclude that any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 15 and defense counsel replied there was none. the court stated that the sentence was determined by law, and imposed a term of 15 years to life for murder, plus 25 years to life for the gun enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the court further stated that unless state law were to change, defendant would get a parole hearing in 25 years. at that because it is a five-year-old case that he was 19 years old at the time of he was under the age of 23. he there was no response from defense counsel. the prosecutor replyour h the court: i will note the victim died because he was black. he was walking down the street. this was clearly gang related. no question about it. the defendant in his confession in the cell flat out problems in the city of pomona, that is hispanic versus black. and as you pointed out very well, [defense counsel], black versus hispanic as well. it is not just a one-way street. but two black men were walking down the street, early morning hours, and one man was gunned down simply because of that fact. this was a car parked down the street. defendant and his compatriot got out of the car, according to the independent witness, ran to the victims, confronted the victims, and then gunned them down in cold blood. this was an adult crime, adult motives. there was nothingthere was no hallmarks of the crime being either motivated for or influenced by any youthful reasoning 16 whatsoever. but in spite of that, the state legislature in their wisdom, a term i use loosely, has determined at this point at least the defendant will be entitled to a parole hearing at age 25 [sic]. however, for our purposes, it is 40 to life. after discussing various matters including, inter alia, custody credits, fines, and restitution, the court asked if either attorney had any further comment concerning the sentence. the prosecutor and defense counsel both replied in the negative. b. analysis in franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 261, the defendant received a mandatory sentence of 50 years to life for offenses committed at age 16. (id. at p. 268.) the supreme court rejected the argument that the sentence constituted cruel and unusual punishment; that argument was made moot by new provisions in sections 3051 and 4801, effective in 2014, that provided for the possibility of parole after 25 years. (id. at pp. 276277;  3051, subd. (b)(3); 4801, subd. (c).) although no resentencing was required, franklin concluded that a remand was in order to determine whether the defendant received that sections 3051 and 4801 deem relevant at a youth offender parole -cognitive ability, character, and social and family background at the franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 269, 277, 284; accord,  3051, subd. (f)(1), (f)(2), 4801, subd. (c).) if, on remand, the 17 trial court determines the defendant was denied a sufficient testimony (subject to cross-examination) that may be relevant at his eventual youth offender parole hearing, and the prosecution likewise may put on the record any evidence that demonstrates [his] culpability or cognitive maturity, or otherwise bears on the influence of youth-related factoid. at p. 284; see people v. jones (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 787, 819820 (jonesopportunity for the parties to make an accurate record of the juvenile the time of the offense so that the board, years later, may properly discharge its obligation to -related factors ( 4801, subd. (c)) in committed a serifranklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284.) here, it appears that defense counsel recognized the significance on tyouthful parole hearing. because the sentencing hearing predated franklin (although it was after the relevant amendments to  3051 and 4801), it is unlikely that counsel fully appreciated the need to make an adequate record for the youth parole hearing defendant would receive after 25 years in prison. a very similar issue arose in jones, supra, 7 cal.app.5th 787, in franklin, . . . there was no clear 18 mechanism for creating the record of information required for a youth offender parole hearing 25 years in the future. franklin made clear that the sentencing hearing has newfound import in providing the juvenile with an opportunity to place on the record the kinds of jones, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at p. 819, citing franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 287.) as in jonesthe opportunity to develop the type of record contemplated by franklinjones, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at p. 820.) accordingly, we remand the matter to the trial court to conduct a hearing to conduct a hearing at which the parties may address and submit evidence bearing on relevant youthle hearing. (franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 284, 286287.) 19 disposition the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of providing the parties the opportunity to make a record of characteristics and circumstances at the time of the offenses as set forth in franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 261. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 