filed 8/9/17 p. v. knight ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffrey lee knight, defendant and appellant. b271846 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137771) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, john t. doyle, judge. affirmed. jolene larimore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general and analee j. brodie, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 the trial court ordered jeffrey lee knight to pay $2,162.45 in restitution to khristy s. for damage to her car. knight contends that the court abused its discretion by arbitrarily rejecting his alternate restitution plan and relying on a written repair estimate to fix the restitution amount. because the restitution order was reasonably calculated to compensate the victim for her economic loss, we affirm. factual and procedural background knight pled no contest to making criminal threats against jason s. (pen. code,1  422, subd. (a)), stalking khristy s. ( 646.9, subd. (a)), and vandalis 594, subd. (a)). knight was sentenced to three years and eight months in prison. subsequently, the court held a restitution hearing to determine the amount knight owed to khristy s. for his vandalism of her car. at the hearing, khristy s. provided a receipt for $220 to replace estimate from olympic auto center totaling the cost of body repairs to be $1,560.45. khristy s. had not had the body repairs done yet because she could not afford the cost. khristy s. also testified to $382 in lost wages from her time spent in court. knight contested the olympic auto center estimate. he testified that he had a friend who owned a body shop who would repair khristy s.released from jail. , the court ordered restitution in the amount of $2,162.45the sum of the olympic 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 auto center estimate, the amount khristy s. had paid to replace her window, and her lost wages. discussion victim restitution awards are governed by section 1202.4, which provides in relevant part: (f) . . . [i]n every case in which a conduct, the court shall require that the defendant make restitution to the victim or victims in an amount established by court order, based on the amount of loss claimed by the victim . . . or any other showing to the court. [] . . . [] (3) to the extent possible, the restitution order . . . shall be of a dollar amount that is sufficient to fully reimburse the victim or victims for every determined econcriminal conduct, including, but not limited to, all of the following: [] (a) full or partial payment for the value of stolen or damaged property. the value of stolen or damaged property shall be the replacement cost of like property, or the actual cost of repairing the property when repair is possible. construed. (people v. millard victim restitution hearing, a prima facie case for restitution is other claim or statement of, the amount of his or her economic ibidburden shifts to the defendant to demonstrate that the amount of ibid.) we review restitution orders for an abuse of discretion. (in re travis j. (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 187, 202.) the trial court may use any rational method to fix the amount of restitution as 4 long as it is reasonably calculated to make the victim whole and is people v. akins (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 1376, 1382.) a reviewing court will not find an abuse of discretion so long ain re travis j., at p. . . . it is irrelevant that there may be other reasonable ways of calculatinga restitution amount, so long as the chosen method is also reasonable. (akins, at p. 1389.) on appeal, knight contests only the cost of body repairs for knight contends that the written estimate is not proof of the actual cost to repair because estimates can vary across different body shops. he also contends that the court abused its discretion by arbitrarily rejecting alternative proposal to have his friend repair khristy s.car on credit.2 the trial court did not abuse its discretion by relying on the written repair estimate to measure restitution. the written estimate demonstrates that repair of khrisas a result, the actual cost of repair. ( 1202.4, subd. (f)(3)(a).) olympic auto center prepared the estimate with the express purpose of calculating how much it would charge khristy s. to repair her car. as such, the estimate is prima facie evidence of actual cost of repair. (see, e.g., people v. stanley (2012) 54 cal.4th 734, 738-739 2 knight makes several arguments in both his opening and reply briefs suggesting prejudicial misconduct by the court, but there is nothing in the record to suggest knight was denied a fair hearing by an impartial judge. 5 [affirming a restitution order based on a written car repair estimate].) estimates from other body shops is irrelevant. the trial court had broad discretion to use any rational method to determine the restitution amount as long as it was reasonably calculated to make the victim whole. (people v. hove (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 1266, 1274.) knight relies on in re travis j., supra, 222 cal.app.4th 187, where the court of appeal reversed a restitution of the cost of a new tire. (id. at p. 203-204.) the victim had provided no receipts or estimates. (ibid.) knightrestitution order, in contrast, is based on evidence submitted to the court, not the here, (id. at p. 202.) knight presented no evidence to the trial court showing the written estimate was inaccurate or unreliable. absent such evidence, the court did not abuse its discretion in relying upon the estimate to calculate restitution. this is unlike people v. chappelone (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1159, on which knight also s restitution order awarded a retailer the last retail price of stolen merchandise. (id. at p. 1173.) both parties agreed the merchandise was in fact worth much less because it was damaged before the defendants stole it. (ibid.) this undisputed discrepancy between the stolen s actual value and the value at which it had been measured to set restitution provided the retailer with a windfall gain; the court of appeal reversed. (ibid.) here, in contrast, there are no facts in the record to prove that the written estimate does not reflect khri 6 in fact, this case is much less extreme than people v. stanley, supra, 54 cal.4th 734, in which our supreme court affirmed a restitution award based on a written estimate for repair costs over three times as much as the victim originally paid for her car. (id. at p. 739.) the supreme court agreed with the it was before the defendant vandalized it . . . comports with the section 1202.4. (ibid.) under this precedent, the trial reliance upon the written estimate was a reasonable discretionary effort to fix a restitution amount that would compensate khristy s. for her repair costs. the court did not abuse its discretion in choosing not to chosen method of determining economic loss was not arbitrary or people v. akins, supra, 128 cal.app.4th at p. 1382.) adopt proposal was not arbitrary because the court could rationally decide it would be unreasonable to order khristy s. to conduct business with friends of the man convicted of stalking her and vandalizing her car. however, even if native proposal were considered reasonable, it is not an abuse of discretion to choose one reasonable way to calculate restitution over another. (id. at p. 1389.) the written estimate was a reasonable method by which to fix restitution and the court did not abuse its discretion 7 disposition the restitution order is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. menetrez, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 