 filed 11/21/17 p. v. ramirez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. narciso ramirez, defendant and appellant. b271540 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137658) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, allen joseph webster, jr., judge. affirmed. carlos ramirez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael c. keller, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant narciso ramirez raises an evidentiary issue following his conviction of attempted voluntary manslaughter with firearm use and great bodily injury findings. for the reasons discussed below, the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. sugey archuleta sugey archuleta and defendant have two children together. archuleta had been living with defendant and his family, narciso ramirez sr. (ramirez sr.), for about five years. archuleta testified that defendant used drugs and, beginning in may or june of 2015, became increasingly distrustful of archuleta. he came to believe she was cheating on him with both his father and some of their neighbors. defendant even believed archuleta had conceived his youngest son with ramirez sr. on july 5, 2015, defendant took archuleta and the children to a hotel to celebrate the fourth of july holiday. defendant, who was using crystal methamphetamine, became paranoid, searched cell phone, and accused her of cheating on him. defendant also believed he was being followed or that archuleta was going to do something to him. while having dinner at a restaurant the next night, july 6, defendant asked archuleta if she had been involved with his father. after archuleta denied that anything had happened between them, defendant got up, made a telephone call, and then 3 told archuleta they were leaving. defendant smoked some crystal methamphetamine and said he was going to confront his father about having an affair with archuleta. defendant drove the family away from the restaurant, then parked and told archuleta to get out of the car. defendant and archuleta walked to a nearby intersection where they saw ramirez sr. walking toward them, talking on a cell phone. ramirez sr. turned the phone off and defendant greeted him. asked ramirez sr. if he was having an affair with archuleta. defendant then took a gun from his waistband and shot his father several times in the chest from a few feet away. archuleta te after being shot, hijo (son), hijo. archuleta testified that right after shooting ramirez sr., defendant drove off with her and the children. defendant said t have a soul anymore because of what he [had] the family did not return to the hotel where they had been staying, but drove north on highway 5. defendant said he was stopped at a new motel. archuleta believed defendant took more drugs in the motel bathroom. the following morning, defendant told archuleta to take the car and drive back to los angeles. she returned to the motel room and begged defendant and continued driving. at some point, the family stopped in tehachapi, where defendant was arrested. 4 b. narciso ramirez sr. ramirez sr. testified that in the month before the shooting, defendant had on several occasions accused him of having an affair with archuleta. ramirez sr. testified the accusation was untrue. on july 6, 2015, ramirez sr. was having dinner with a friend when he received a call from defendant, who said he needed to see him. ramirez sr. left the restaurant and walked to the meeting place. he described what happened as he approached defendant and archuleta at the designated intersection: a. [defendant] started to make allegations as to whether or not i had been with his wife. q. did you answer him back? a. yes. it made me angry because there had already been several occasions where he was making those allegations. q. what did you say? a. i told him i was already tired of him making the defendant grabbed the cell phone out of ramirez hand. defendant said his mother told him that archuleta and ramirez sr. had been together at a hotel a day earlier. defendant then pulled a gun from his waistband and shot ramirez sr. in the upper right chest and under his arm. a third bullet apparently missed ramirez sr. entirely. ramirez sr. fell to the ground. when ramirez sr. c. detective jason bates on july 8, 2015, detectives jason bates and antonio garcia interviewed defendant. bates testified that he asked whether defendant had 5 shot his father, and defendant admitted that he did. defendant said he did it because he believed ramirez sr. was involved in a sexual relationship with archuleta. defendant said he asked his father to meet him on the corner of barlow and martin luther asked whether ramirez sr. had a relationship with archuleta. according to defendant, ramirez his father took one step off the sidewalk, [defendant] removed a black handgun from his waistband, pointed it at his father and shot him one time. his father fell to the ground. [defendant] shot two additional shots ramirez sr. collapsed, and defendant said to archuleta, ar and drove north. defendant said he had purchased the gun he used defendant told the officers that he and his father sold drugs, and that his father was known to carry guns. defendant said he had not meant to kill his father, but only to hurt him. 2. defense evidence. the defendant did not testify or present any evidence on his behalf. 3. trial outcome. the jury convicted defendant, who had been charged with attempted murder, of the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter. the jury also found true firearm use and great bodily injury enhancement allegations. the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for 18 years 6 months. 6 discussion defendant contends the trial court prejudicially erred by refusing to allow him to impeach ramirez sr. with a prior conviction for possession of a concealed weapon in a vehicle. for the reasons that follow, we disagree and affirm. 1. proceedings below. just after ramirez sr. took the stand and began testifying, the trial court heard argument on a defense motion to impeach him with a 1999 misdemeanor conviction for possessing a concealed weapon in a vehicle.1 the trial court remarked on the remoteness of the prior conviction, saying, and expressed doubt that it even qualified as a crime of moral turpitude. the prosecutor pointed out that the prior conviction was a misdemeanor, not a felony. after further discussion, the court denied the motion, explaining its ruling as follows: occurred in 1999, at which time [defendant] was 10 [years old]. so then, with respect to violence, threats and intimidation by [a parent] against [his child]. and it [is] a misdemeanor. and there [does not] seem to be an issue with respect to any sort of self-defense, nothing here that suggests that mr. ramirez sr. was in possession of any sort of weapon. he walked outside, talked to 1 ramirez for a violation of penal code former section 12025, subdivision effective january 1, 2012, former section 12025, subdivision (a)(1) was recodified, without substantive change, as section 25400, subdivision (a)(1). people v. aguilar (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 1010, 1012, fn. 1.) 7 his son, and then according to at least the evidence so far, he was shot not once but three times. and he said hijo [son], hijo . . . and that was about it. nothing that would suggest that there was any threats, danger or harm or self-defense or that mr. ramirez, sr., had [a] proclivity to carry a weapon and would use it against his son. so there is nothing. , the a[n] impeachable prior. and two, that there was anything out of the ordinary with respect to mr. of aggressive behavior t 2. any error in excluding the prior conviction evidence was harmless. we assume solely for the sake of argument that ramirez and therefore bore on his credibility as a prosecution witness. we further assume that the trial court therefore erred in excluding evidence of the conviction. nevertheless, as we now discuss, any error was harmless. ramirez sr. testified in relevant part that defendant initiated the meeting with ramirez sr. and shot him three times after asking if he was involved sexually with archuleta. we believe it -year-old misdemeanor conviction for possession of a gun would have caused the jury to doubt the truth of ramirez sr.. but even if the jury had it is not reasonably probable defendant would have obtained a more favorable result because testimony was corroborated by other evidence, and there was no evidence to the 8 contrary. as relevant here, archuleta testified that defendant set up the meeting with ramirez sr., asked ramirez sr. if he was having an affair with archuleta, shot ramirez sr., fled immediately after the shooting, and expressed remorse for what he had done. he testified that defendant admitted shooting ramirez sr., did not testify or present any evidence on his own behalf. under these circumstances, even if the jury had given no weight to ramirez defendant would have achieved a better result. (cf. people v. collins (1986) 42 cal.3d 378, 391, fn. omitted [prejudicial error determined by the defendant would . . . have been reached in the absence of the . . d people v. marquez (1986) 188 cal.app.3d 363, 369 [error in admitting or excluding is tested by the watson2 test, i.e., appellant must show it is result more favorable to appellant would have resulted in the absence of].) to carry concealed of self-defense. as the attorney general properly notes, there conviction, and thus the conviction could have had no bearing on 2 people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. 9 regarding shot ramirez sr. (e.g., people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 726 debt collection practices were not relevant to s state of mind at the time he killed [the victim] unless defendant knew of those practicesno evidence to support a finding that defendant believed, reasonably or unreasonably, that ramirez sr. presented a physical threat to him at the time of the shooting. to the contrary, all of the evidence showed that defendant shot ramirez sr. because he believed ramirez sr. had a sexual relationship with archuleta. on this record, therefore, it is not reasonably probable that defendant would have achieved a better result had the jury learned that ramirez sr. had been convicted for possession of a concealed weapon in a vehicle 17 years earlier. 3. defendant is not entitled to remand pursuant to senate bill 620 on october 11, 2017, the governor signed senate bill 620. as relevant here, senate bill 620 provides that effective january 1, 2018, section 12022.5, subdivision (c) is amended to permit the trial court to strike a firearm enhancement, the court may, in the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur pursuant to any other law. in supplemental briefing, defendant urges that because his case is not yet final, it must be remanded to the trial court for resentencing under the amended section 12022.5, subdivision (c). we do not agree. even if the amended section applies 10 retroactively to this casean issue we do not reachremand would not be appropriate because the sentencing court clearly indicated that it would not, in any event, have exercised its discretion to strike the allegations.people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896 [remand not required where trial cou.) in the present case, after finding that the circumstances in aggravation outweighed those in mitigation, the trial court selected (1) the upper term of five years and six months attempted voluntary manslaughter conviction, and (2) the upper term of 10 years upper term on both the substantive charge and the firearm enhancement, there is no reasonable probability that it would strike the firearm enhancement if given the opportunity on nder the circumstances, no purpose would be served in remanding for reconsideration.(ibid.) 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: lavin, j. stone, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 