filed 8/24/17 p. v. rangel ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose gerardo rangel, defendant and appellant. b271735 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na100277) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james d. otto, judge. affirmed in part, reversed and remanded in part. theresa o. stevenson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent.2 defendant jose gerardo rangel was convicted of perpetrating a lewd act upon a child (pen. code,  288, subd. (a), count 1)1 based on an incident involving a nine-year-old foster child. he also was convicted of both orally copulating a person under 14 who was more than 10 years younger than he ( 288a, subd. (c)(1), count 2), and orally copulating a child 10 years of age or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b), count 3) in connection with a second incident involving a different foster child. the trial court, sitting as trier of fact, also found the multiple victim enhancement true as to counts 1 and 2. ( 667.61, subds. (b) & (e).) the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate sentence of 30 years to life, staying the sentence on count 3 pursuant to section 654. on appeal, defendant contends that the convictions were not supported by substantial evidence. he further contends that he cannot properly be convicted on both counts 2 and 3 for a single act, that the multiple victim enhancement is not applicable to the offenses of conviction, that the trial court misunderstood the scope of its sentencing discretion, and that his current sentence of 30 years to life is unconstitutionally cruel and unusual. the attorney general concedes the multiple victim enhancement is not applicable and that defendant therefore should be resentenced. we agree that the multiple victim enhancement is not applicable. were otherwise proper and properly supported by the evidence. the multiple victim enhancement is stricken and the matter is remanded for resentencing in accordance with this opinion. the 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 convictions are otherwise affirmed. procedural history defendant was charged by information with perpetrating a lewd act upon a child, g.r., with the intent of arousing, appealing to, and gratifying the lust, passions, and sexual desires of g.r. or himself ( 288, subd. (a), count 1); orally copulating v.s., a person under 14 years of age who also was more than 10 years younger than he ( 288a, subd. (c)(1), count 2); and orally copulating v.s., a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b), count 3). counts 2 and 3 arose out of a single incident with v.s., who was nine years old. the information alleged a multiple victim enhancement as to all three counts. ( 667.61, subds. (b) & (e).) defendant proceeded to a bench trial, at which the prosecution dismissed the multiple victim allegation as to count 3. the trial court found defendant guilty of all three counts and found true the remaining multiple victim allegations. the minute order documenting the verdict states that he was found guilty on that count. defendant does not challenge the conviction on count 3 on the basis of the discrepancy. invoking section 667.61, subdivision (b), the trial court sentenced defendant to 15 years to life on each of counts 1 and 2. the court stated that it had no choice but to run those sentences consecutively, for a total sentence of 30 years to life. the court imposed and stayed a sentence of 15 years to life on count 3, pursuant to section 654. it also imposed various fines and fees, and issued a protective order barring defendant from contacting g.r. and v.s. defendant filed a notice of appeal challenging his convictions and sentence. 4 factual background i. prosecution evidence a. v.s. victim v.s. was 14 years old at the time of trial. she testified that, in 2009, when she was nine or 10, she and her younger siblings were in foster care. they were placed in home in long beach, where v.s. shared a room with , c.r. one night, v.s. was watching a movie with her siblings, c.r., and defendant. younger brother was asleep on the floor. defendant received a other, who told defendant to put the kids to bed. defendant began tickling v.s. on her stomach, underneath her pajama top. v.s. laughed. defendant told her to stop laughing, but she could not. defendant then removed her pajama pants defendant then he did not say anything, and neither did v.s., who was defendant did not lick v.s. for very long. v.s. approaching. v.s. did not tell anyone about the incident; she did not know why. she was reunited with her biological family after living with defendant. one evening, she was watching the movie precious v.s. ran out of the room and told her cousin about the incident with defendant. told her mother as well. v.s. also talked to the police about the 5 incident. on cross-examination, v.s. testified that defendwas not home at the time of the incident. v.s. knew wife was not home because v.s. told her good-bye before she left. children from warming baby bottles. v.s. was familiar with an adult named maria sesma. sesma visited the house, and v.s. walked to the park with her. v.s. had conversations with sesma but did not tell her about the incident. the first person v.s. told about the incident was her cousin. los angeles county department of children and family services (dcfs) social worker marllin grajeda testified that v.s. was in foster care from july 2009 until november 2009. she was placed with defendant and his wife in long beach. grajeda 2010, after v.s. had been reunified with her biological mother. b. g.r. victim g.r. was 14 years old at the time of trial. she in 2009, when she was nine years old. the home was occupied by defendant, his wife, their two children, and g.r. and her younger brother, s. c.r. he was next to her, with defendant touched her she did not say anything to him or indicate that she was awake, because she 6 the next morning, def several years later, in 2013, g.r. told her biological mother about the incident. g.r. subsequently talked to the police and some social workers. on cross-was not home on the night of the incident. she recalled that defendant. g.r. did not see c.r. in their shared bedroom during s to talk to her or hug her. g.r. did not tell anyone about the incident until later, when she was 13. she testified thaand was skipping school a lot around the time she confided in her mother. dcfs social worker sara canto testified that g.r. was in foster care from january 1, 2009 through june 24, 2009. g.r. me in long beach. canto received information about the alleged touching incident on november 12, 2013. ii. defense evidence defendant called his 14-year-old daughter, c.r. she testified that v.s. was her foster sister in 2009 and they shared a bedroom. while v.s. was living with the family, the nightly 7 the only television in the home was in h occasionally the family would watch movies, and all of the children and both defendant and his wife would be present. defendant often entertained the children by tickling them. c.r. saw v.s. laugh when defendant tickled her der the defendant tickled the children. indeed, c.r. agreed with defense counsel that her mother was never absent the entire time v.s. lived with the family. c.r. never prepared a bottle for anyone when v.s. lived with the family. defendant also called his wife, cecilia rangel. she testified that she had been married to defendant for 25 years, and the two of them were foster parents from 1996 until 2009. rangel recalled that v.s. lived with the family for approximately six to eight months. rangel testified that she never left the city during that time. when g.r. lived with the family. neither v.s. nor g.r. was ever left alone with defendant. rangel saw v.s. and g.r. every day when they lived with the family, and nobody ever told her that on cross-examination, rangel clarified that v.s. and g.r. did not live with the family at the same time. however, rangel testified, theand she was sure that g.r. came back to visit when v.s. was living in the house. she brother while v.s. and her siblings were in foster care. rangel 8 could not remember when that visit happened. rangel also testified that she did not work outside the home while v.s. and g.r. lived with her. she conceded, however, that she would leave th rangel normally ran her errands once a week, in the mornings. she did not remember any particular occasion on which she had to leave the house at night. she explained that she never left the foster children alone: had to go out, it would be my family, my husband; my sons. we she testified for 14 years and left in 2009. she continued to visit defendant and his family after she was reunited with her biological family; she sesma met v.s. when v.s. was placed in the home. on some of ll me v.s. never told sesma sesma also knew g.r. sesma still had a relationship with or v.s. beyond home. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends that his convictions were not supported by substantial evidence. he first contends that the 9 needed additional corroboration to constitute substantial evidence against him. he also argues that the prosecution did not present sufficient evidence that he acted with the requisite intent of arousing himself or g.r. during the g.r. incident. neither contention is persuasive. s sufficiency, we review the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] a reversal for upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evides verdict. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support (people v. 10 young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) he contends, however, that the testimony of both v.s. and g.r. was inherently improbable cal or other physical evidence as well as ember precise details about when the incidents occurred and their delay in reporting them. the theme of these assertions is that v.s.g.r.testimony was not credible. it is the exclusive province of the fact finder to determine the credibility of a witness; we may not substits credibility for that of the fact finder. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) question from whether it was inherently improbable. inherently improbable standard addresses the basic content of the testimony itselfi.e., could that have happened?rather than the apparent credibility of the person testifying. hence, the requirement inherent, and the without resorti [citation.] in other words, the challenged evidence must be [citations], and thus we do not compare it to other evidence (except, perhaps, certain universally accepted and judicially noticeable facts). the only question is: does it seem possible that what the witness claimed to have happened (people v. ennis (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 721, 729.) here, the events described by v.s. and g.r. are not facially improbable. v.s. testified that defendant tickled her and then, when her foster sister left the room, pulled down her pants and 11 licked her genitals. nothing about that scenario is inherently improbable. sister do not render the scenario improbable. about the family never leaving the home, and delay in reporting bear on which we do not reweigh at this juncture. was sufficient to establish the elements of the crimes charged in counts 2 and 3. count 2 charged defendant with orally copulating a person under the age of 14 and more than 10 years younger than himself. ( 288a, subd. (c)(1).) v.s. testified that she was under 14 and that defendant licked her genitals, which meets the definition of oral copulation set forth in section 288a, subdivision (a). there is no dispute that defendant, who was in his fifties, was more than 10 years older than she was at the time. count 3 charged defendant with orally copulating a child under the age of 10. ( 288.7, of this crime as well. g.r. described an incident in which defendant fondled her during the night. face, and pretended to be asleep while defendant touched her beneath her underwear. her inability to recall whether defendant was standing or sitting, and lack of knowledge of whether her foster sister was in the next bed, goes to her credibility, not the inherent possibility that the event could have happened. incident and the resultant lack of corroborating medical evidence. key elements of the crime described in section 288, subdivision (a)(1): that defendant committed a lewd or lascivious act upon 12 the body of g.r., a child who was under the age of 14. support the final element of section 288, subdivision (a), that he we disagree. section 288 may be violated by any touching of a child; the trier of fact must consider all of the circumstances to determine whether the touch was performed with the required specific intent. (people v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 445, 452.) relevant circumstances include the nature of the alleged touch, other acts of lewd conduct charged or admitted in the case, the cooperation or to avoid detection. (id. at p. 445.) a touching which might appear sexual in context because of the identity of the perpetrator, the nature of the touching, or the absence of an innocent explanation, is more likely to produce a finding that the act was indeed committed for a sexual purpose and constituted a (id. at p. 452.) here, g.r. testified that she awoke during the night to such touching of a cover of darkness, is avoid detection, here by another child possibly sleeping in the same room. innocently, and merely touched rather than rubbed g.r., g.r. testified that she was 13 (people v. martinez, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 452.) defendant urges us to analogize this case to people v. lang (1974) 11 cal.3d 134 (lang.) we find lang inapposite and factually distinguishable. in lang, the defendant was adjudged a mentally disordered sex offender (mdso) after being found guilty of two counts of committing lewd and lascivious acts, namely touching two nine-year-old girls. (lang, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 136.) approximately 14 adults and seven children had gathered at (id. at p. 136.) the living room during the events in question, in full view of various party- (id. at p. 137.) the two alleged victims, nine-year-old twins, both testified to virtually identical events. they claimed they were playing in a bedroom and separately soda from the kitchen. as each of them was walking back, them, picked them up, placed them on his five minutes, with (ibid.) the twins returned to the bedroom and continued to play with the other children. they did not report the alleged incidents to anyone; their mother overheard them conversing several weeks later and reported their story to police. (ibid.) several adult attendees of the party testified that they never saw either twin on dlap; one witness, who testified that she was sober during the party, testified that only one child, her own, entered the living room during the event. (ibid.) 14 ted solely to the propriety of (lang, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 138.) appellate counsel further stated that lang and that the testimony of the two victims was so incredible that the finding of guilt must be reversed as impossible . . . [citation]. [] while i am not in agreement with this contention, i must confess that there have been times when the appellate courts have held that i am not infallible, and for this reason, as well as for the reason that it is my belief that appellant should be entitled to have his contentions heard, i am attaching an appendix to this brief ibid.) the supreme court observed that the appendix consisted of ibid.) (ibid.) appellate counsel rendered ineffective assistance. the court (lang, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 142.) argument . . . might well have led the court of appeal to conclude that the alleged assaults were physically impossible, and that the (id. at p. 139.) the supreme court remanded the matter to the court of appeal, with instructions to appoint new appellate counsel for lang and to reconsider his appeal. (id. at p. 142.) 15 the lang inherently improbable or impossible; instead, it found the issue to be an arguable one. even if it had made such a holding, the testimony in this case was nothing like that in lang. victims v.s. and g.r. did not testify that defendant separately penetrated them for five minutes each in full view of a roomful of adults, none of whom recalled seeing the girls in the room. instead, they testified that defendant touched or licked them in bed in the presence of only sleeping or very young children. both victims testified that the other adult in the household, rangel, was not present. these allegations of sexual abuse were not inherently unlikely. though defendant accurately points out that there was no medical evidence or corroborating testimony in either incident, the lang s observations about the potential strength of his appeal turned not on the absence of such evidence but rather the inherent unlikelihood that the alleged abuse could have occurred as described. the testimony here was not inherently improbable, and there was sufficient evidence from which the trier of fact could infer that defendant acted with a lewd intent when he touched g.r. we accordingly conclude that all three convictions were supported by substantial evidence. ii. duplicate convictions defendant next contends that his convictions on counts 2 and 3, relating to his single act of orally copulating v.s., should separate convictions, with the sentence stayed under section there we disagree. 16 convicted of, although not punished for, more than one crime arising out of the same act or (people v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224, 1226 (reed).) this principle is enshrined in sections 954 and 654. section 954 provides in relevant part pleading may charge two or more different offenses connected together in their commission, or different statements of the same offense under two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses, under separate counts . . . . [t]he defendant may be convicted of any number of the offenses charged . . . . an acquittal of one or more counts shall not be deemed an acquittal that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. an acquittal or conviction and sentence under any one bars a prosecution for the same act or omis ( 654, subd. (a).) but section 654 prohibits multiple punishment, the trial court must stay execution of sentence on the convictions for which multiple punishment (reed, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 1227.) the trial court did that here: it stayed execution of however, the question defendant presents is whether he properly could have been convicted of both counts 2 and 3 in the first place. (reed, supra, 17 38 cal.4th at p. 1227.) one offense necessarily includes another if it cannot be committed without also committing the lesser offense. (ibid.) california courts use two tests to determine whether one offense is necessarily included in another. (ibid.) all the legal elements of a lesser crime are included in the definition of a greater crime, such that the greater cannot be committed without also committing the lesser. (people v. moon (2005) 37 cal.4th 1, 25.) ot to official definitions but rather examines whether the accusatory language such that the offender, if guilty, must necessarily have (id. at pp. 25-26.) defendant argues that the crime charged in count 2, oral copulation of a child under 14 years of age by a person more than included lesser offense of the crime charged in count 3, oral copulation of a child under 10 years of age ( 288.7, subd.(b)), under the accusatory pleading test. therefore, he asserts, his the supreme court foreclosed this argument in reed, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 1231, a case on which defendant relies. consider the statutory elements and accusatory pleading in deciding whether a defendant received notice and therefore may be convicted, of an uncharged crime, but only the statutory elements in deciding whether a defendant may be convicted of multiple charged (reed, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 1231.) defendant was charged with violating both 288a, subdivision (c)(1) and section 288.7, subdivision (b). 18 reed, then, only the elements test may be used to determine whether one charged offense is necessarily included in the other. (ibid.) defendant mentions only the accusatory pleading test; he does not contend that the elements test establishes that count 2 is a lesser included offense of count 3. he therefore forfeited any argument based on the elements test. even if he had not forfeited the elements test, that test does not demonstrate that section 288a, subdivision (c)(1) is a necessarily included lesser offense of section 288.7, subdivision (b). an 18-year-old who orally copulates a nine-year-old would violate section 288.7, subdivision (b), but would not simultaneously violate section 288a, subdivision (c)(1), which requires the perpetrator to be more than 10 years older than the victim. argument were viable, his conviction on the alleged greater offense would not be stricken. ndant is convicted of a greater and a lesser included offense, reversal of the conviction for the lesser (people v. dowdell (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1388, 1416 (emphasis added).) indeed, section 654, subdivision (a) provides that a defendant facing here, that is count 3. it appears the trial court stayed dsentence on count 3 rather than the sentence on count 2 because it concluded that defendant was subject to the same sentence under count 2 and count 3. as we discuss below, however, the court erred in calculating the sentence on count 2 because it applied an inapplicable enhancement. 19 iii. multiple victim enhancement the information alleged, and the trier of fact found true, a multiple victim enhancement as to counts 1 and 2 pursuant to section 667.61, subdivisions (b) and (e). defendant contends the enhancement was not applicable to his case as a matter of law. the attorney general agrees. we concur with the parties. the accordance with it must be reversed. section 667.61, subdivision (b) provides, with exceptions not relevant here, thspecified in [section 667.61,] subdivision (c) under one of the circumstances specified in [section 667.61,] subdivision (e) shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 15 years to the circumstances listed in section 667.61, defendant has been convicted in the present case or cases of committing an offense specified in subdivision (c) against more ( 667.61, subd. (e)(4).) the offenses specified in section 667.61, subdivision (c) include commission of a lewd or lascivious act in violation of section 288, subdivision (a), the basis the other offenses of which defendant was convicted, violations of sections 288a, subdivision (c)(1) and 288.7, subdivision (b), are not listed in section 667.61, subdivision (c). (see  667.61, subd. (c)(1)-(9).) defendant thus was convicted of only one offense specified in section 667.61, subdivision (c), against only one victim, g.r. the multiple victim enhancement accordingly was inapplicable as a matter of law and must be reversed. 20 the punishment for violating section 288, subdivision (a) (count 1) or section 288a, subdivision (c)(1) (count 2) is imprisonment in state prison for three, six, or eight years. ( 288, subd. (a), 288a, subd. (c)(1).) the punishment for violating section 288.7, subdivision (b) (count 3) is imprisonment in state prison for 15 years to life. ( 288.7, subd. (b).) the matter is remanded for resentencing in accordance with these and other applicable constitutional and statutory provisions, namely section 654, subdivision (a).2 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the multiple victim enhancement pursuant to section 667.61, subdivisions (b) and (e) is stricken, and the sentence is reversed. the matter is remanded for resentencing consistent with this opinion. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 2 defendant also contends that the trial court failed to appreciate the scope of its sentencing discretion when it sentenced him consecutively on counts 1 and 2 due to the multiple victim enhancement, and that his current sentence of 30 years to life is unconstitutionally cruel and unusual. we need not address these arguments in light of our determination that defendant must be resentenced due to the erroneous application of section 667.61. the court may exercise its discretion as appropriate when it resentences defendant on remand. 