filed 10/26/17 p. v. renteria ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael renteria, defendant and appellant. b272041 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta136346) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. laura r. walton, judge. affirmed. kevin d. sheehy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant michael renteria (defendant) appeals from his conviction of two counts of attempted murder. he contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for new trial resulting in a denial of his right to due process. as we find no denial of due process, we affirm the judgment. background in a five-count information, defendant was charged with two counts of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder in violation of penal code sections 187, subdivision (a), and 6641 (counts 1 and 2); two counts of possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (counts 3 and 4); and possession of an assault weapon in violation of section 30605, subdivision (a) (count 5). the information alleged as to counts 1 and 2 that defendant personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm in the commission of the offenses, causing great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d). pursuant to 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), it was alleged as to all counts that the crimes were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. the information further alleged that defendant suffered two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). a jury found defendant guilty as charged and found true the firearm and gang allegations. defendant waived a jury trial on the prior prison term allegations, and in a bifurcated court trial, the court found one to be true. on june 30, 2015, defendant filed a motion for new trial based on a claim of abuse of discretion in allowing victim juan 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 newly discovered evidence. after hearing the testimony of five witness and the argument of counsel, the trial court denied defe, and on may 5, 2016, sentenced defendant to a total prison term of 80 years to life. defendant was ordered to pay mandatory fines and fees, and given combined presentence custody credit of 934 days. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. prosecution evidence the shooting jose madrigal (jose)2 was a member of the lynwood area whitmore street gang. on the afternoon of august 23, 2013, jose was on virginia avenue in lynwood with his brother juan and three friends. gang. a pickup truck approached the group neighborhood by replying that they were from fba. the driver immediately began shooting toward them with a semiautomatic handgun while yelling a lynwood gang. frightened, all but one of the friends ran away. a bullet struck jose in the leg, and juan was struck by two bullets, one in the head and one in the ankle. though juan was called to testify, after a series of inaudible responses, the trial court ruled that juan was not competent to testify, and his preliminary hearing testimony was instead read to the jury. he testified that the driver of a truck 2 as the two victims in this case are brothers with the same surname, we refer to them and other members of their family by their first names to avoid confusion. 4 issued a gang related challenge he then heard gunshots . witnesses identify defendant and his truck at the preliminary hearing juan identified defendant in court as the driver of the truck that day. at first juan claimed that he went blind before seeing the driver, and that his identification was based on descriptions given to him by others. when pressed, juan admitted he was looking right at the driver when the driver said, he also admitted that his in-court identification was based upon his observation of the driver at the time. jose tchevy silverado truck that sat high, with 24-inch shiny rims, two large front doors, and two small back doors. jose maintained that the truck was gray, although he had told police officers after the shooting that the truck was tan. he identified the (exh. 16) as the same truck driven by the shooter. he described the shooter as hispanic, male, mid--shirt. although he had told officers that he would recognize the shooter if he saw him again, he made no identification and testified that he did not recognize defendant. jose acknowledged that if he were to identify the shooter his life would be in danger from other gang members. jose, who had been sentenced to prison for carjacking, was in protective housing. deputy sheriff grant roth testified that he interviewed witnesses at the crime scene shortly after the shooting. jose ilverado pickup with an extended cab. deputy alexander perez who also interviewed witnesses at the scene, testified that jose told him he would be able to identify the shooter, and described him as and 5 black shirt, driving a tan, four-door silverado. deputy perez observed that it is often difficult to obtain cooperation from victims who are gang members, because they fear possible retaliation if labeled alicia carlos (carlos) testified that she was looking out her window on virginia avenue at about 3:30 p.m. on the day of the shooting when she saw the truck stop in the middle of the street about two houses down from her. she then saw the driver fire about eight shots out the window. initially she testified that there were no bars on the windows and no obstructions between her and the truck, which was about 27 feet away. when she was shown photographs of the house, however, she testified that all the windows in the house had bars, that she could not remember whether the curtains were open or closed, and that the truck was further away than 27 feet. carlos described the truck as raised, beige, tan, or brownish, with two doors. she told an officer she thought it had four doors, but may have been mistaken about that, as well as thinking the truck was raised. it was a normal truck. carlos shown the photograph at trial. however, she also testified that a few months after the shooting, when the investigating detective showed her the same photograph, she identified the truck as the one she saw at the scene. carlos explained that she meant to say that it was similar, but not the same truck, but she was nervous. carlos testified that although tthe way down, she saw only the side half of from about 45 feet away. she described the shooter as short, with black hair, a flat nose, and a large body type, weighing maybe 200 pounds. she remembered telling detectives that he was male, hispanic, in his mid-t. she in a photographic lineup, and 6 she identified defendant in court at trial as the person depicted in the photo array. at the preliminary hearing, carlos testified that she was 100 percent certain that the photograph depicted the shooter, saying when deputy perez spoke to carlos soon after the shooting, she told him she had been standing in her front yard when she witnessed the shooting, and described the shooter as male, hispanic, mid--skinned, with a mustache, and wearing a black shirt. she also said she would be able to identify the shooter. she never said she saw only half his face. carlos did not know the make or model of the truck, but said that it was a tan, four-door truck with stock rims. juliana bravo (bravo), testified that she was on the virginia avenue sidewalk when she heard shooting, turned, and saw a newer-looking brownish or greenish silverado truck and a man on the ground bleeding. she called for an ambulance. she thought the truck depicted in exhibit 16 looked like the truck she saw, but it was not the same color. at the preliminary hearing bravo testified that the truck was a brownish-greenish king cab truck, meaning that it had a front and back seat, but she did not know whether it had four doors. deputy perez had also spoken to bravo the day of the shooting when she told him that she was in her front yard when she witnessed the shooting, and described the truck as a tan or brownish four-door chevy silverado. deputy jason puga testified that he had been called to the scene of the shooting, learned that the shooter was thought to be a member of the compitas gang, and obtained a description of the shooter and his truck. in january 2014, deputy puga observed such a truck in the driveway of house on redwood avenue. he explained that he stopped near the house to speak with a couple in a car which had its hazard lights on. defendant came out of his house into the yard, telling deputy puga that 7 they were his parents, to leave them alone, while also shouting profanities at the deputy. after the parents said they were okay, deputy puga left and contacted detective grant roth, to whom deputy puga registration information for further investigation. detective roth was able to find a photograph of defendant and of his truck. gang evidence evidence established that defendant, an active member of the compitas gang, had been convicted of a gang related offense with other gang members in 2011. in may 2008, defendant admitted to deputy juan quezada that he was a member of the compitas gang, with the moniker deputy quezada testified that it was common for gang members to commit crimes with other gang members. during a traffic stop in february 2009, defendant admitted to deputy chad sessman that he was a member of the compitas gang, and that his moniker was fat boy. in june 2010 sergeant oscar veloz five feet, his weight as 220 pounds, and his date of birth as october 15, 1987, when defendant admitted his membership in the gang to the sergeant. in response to a hypothetical question mirroring the facts , gave her opinion that the crime was committed for benefit of the compitas gang. defense evidence , testified that he was a heavy equipment operator for bali construction at the time of the shooting. defendant had come to workplace on august 23, 2013, to have lunch, and afterward, they went together to the so defendant could fill out an employment application and undergo a drug test. vicente jr. testified that they arrived about 2:30 8 p.m., defendant filled out the paperwork, and they went together for the drug test. he claimed that defendant arrived at the workplace in his second car, an impala, as the silverado truck had been in the body shop since august 17 for repair of the damage caused when someone hit it on the side. vicente jr. claimed that the truck had always been silver. he also claimed that the truck remained in the body shop for about two weeks, because the entire truck had been painted, including the bed liner. vicente jr. testified that the entire truck was first sprayed black, and then painted silver, the same color it had been. defendant paid $1,200 cash for the repairs and repainting. vicente jr. claimed defendant was with him at 3:00 p.m. on august 23, 2013, and that it was not truck was on the streets at that time. vicente jr. admittedly never told law enforcement about this alibi evidence, and gave his first statement on the topic three days prior to his testimony. vicente jr. denied that defendant was, or had ever been a gang member. , testified that as a favor to his son, he had taken on august 17, 2013, because his wife had scratched it on the right side. defendant retrieved his truck on august 27. miguel jiminez, the owner of a south gate body shop, testified that exhibit h was an invoice from his shop, which showed 2013, and was picked up august 27, 2013. the invoice also contained license plate number (75328gl), make, model, and color -- silver, and that the rear bumper was repaired and the truck painted, for $1,200, paid in cash. the defendant also presented two expert witnesses: dr. mitchell eisen, an expert on eyewitness memory and suggestibility; and martin flores, a gang expert. flores testified 9 that the compitas gang had only 20 members, of which only about eight were active gang members. he testified that the compitas gang was subject to mexican mafia gang rules, including one prohibiting drive-by shootings, and mandating that any shooting must be done as a -u any drive-by shooter c consisting of either a tax or physical assault. flores was of the opinion that defendant was no longer an active member of the gang, based ory and the absence of interaction with law enforcement for a time, as well as the absence of recent photographs, gang indicia, or any gang tattoos. rebuttal deputy samuel paul explained the citywide surveillance , including a feature which automatically recognizes, captures, and stores license plate data. detective brandon patin entered the license plate number 75328gl to search for photographs of vehicles with that number in the system. his search resulted in exhibit 36, which includes a photograph of the license plate taken on august 19, 2013. in addition to a time stamp, the document contains the closest address corresponding to the location of the camera which captured the image: the photograph was taken just after midnight on alameda street in compton, and contains a partial view of the vehicle, which appears to be a pickup truck. other photographs captured the license during the daytime on august 28 and september 10, 2013. they show a silver truck resembling three weeks after the verdicts, on the day set for the bifurcated trial on defendantprior conviction, defense counsel 10 informed the court that new evidence had come to light regarding third-party culpability, and asked the court to appoint an investigator.3 defendant filed his motion for new trial the following month, and the trial court heard the testimony of five witnesses over two days in october 2015, and march 2016. evidence in support of motion abril hernandez (hernandez) testified about her sister having been in a two year relationship with joey alvarado (alvarado) until september 8, 2015, when he stabbed and nearly killed her. alvarado fled and has not been found. in an april or may 2015, conversation between alvarado and hernandez, alvarado said a detective had been looking for him and had left a card with his mother, but he was afraid to call because he shot someone in 2013. he added, -- he named defendant as the friend. alvarado spoke about the shooting at least three more times. hernandez testified that alvarado was a member of the compitas gang and had gang related tattoos. also, though he formerly owned a chevy silverado, alvarado was afraid that the detectives could find him, so he got rid of it. was a metallic brown color that sometimes looked gray, and had shiny 26-inch rims, which he sold before letting go of the truck. hernandez first told in september (when alvarado stabbed her sister) even though she had an opportunity to do so when her sister left him, after police were called due to his violence. alvarado was then hospitalized with a mental health hold. hernandez did not know how the defense investigator learned about her, as she had only told her 3 the defense also requested contact information for the the court appointed an investigator, but the discovery motion was denied. 11 mother and husband hernandez provided a statement to the defense investigator about alvaradocomments after detective giles expressed more interest in this . eric loza (loza) testified that defendant, vicente jr., and alvarado were his friends. loza and defendant were close and had known each other since fifth grade. they had known alvarado since 2000, when they were in middle school. alvarado was a member of the little compitas gang, and would bring his fellow gang members around, but loza denied that he and defendant were gang members. loza did not know that defendant had been charged in the present case until sometime in 2015. he had last spoken to alvarado in may 2015, when alvarado admitted having committed the shooting on august 23, 2013.4 loza admitted that he had already learned about alvarado , olivia, about six weeks before their may 2015 encounter. olivia had told him that alvarado was the actual shooter, though before that, loza had heard rumors that alvarado was the perpetrator. loza explained he did not go to the police because he was afraid of alvarado, afraid for his life. 4 the may meeting occurred when loza saw alvarado driving his gray silverado with the big chrome rims. they pulled over and spoke. alvarado asked whether loza had heard about on virginia street in lynwood. on cross-examination, loza testified that alvarado did not tell him the date of the shooting, only the place. he then admitted that alvarado did not mention the street or place of the shooting, and did not mention defendant. 12 loza did not instigate contact with , rather they contacted him. loza first spoke to the defense investigator in july 2015 after being contacted by olivia and vicente jr. the interview, arranged by olivia, took place at while were present. loza did not tell the investigator that olivia had told . loza could not remember whether he told the investigator that alvarado was a compitas member. witness herold noel (noel), a surgeon who practiced medicine in africa and haiti, but manufactured generic medicines in long beach, testified about the events he observed on august 23, 2013: he turned right onto virginia avenue from long beach boulevard, when he saw a commotion. people were running. he saw a pickup truck right in front of his car, and he heard gunshots. he saw the hand of the driver of the truck out the window firing at people. someone was running toward the truck, and gunfire was coming from both sides. a woman and two men jumped onto the front of his car, and another person rolled over and damaged his side view mirror, which he wanted the person responsible to fix. noel thought fault that people were running into his mirror, so he followed the pickup truck, writing he followed it to redwood avenue, where the driver parked, got out, placed something in the back seat of the truck, and went into the nearby house. the driver soon came out, walked to the dead end of the street, and then placed his hands around his mouth and screamed as though calling someone. after a few minutes the man and made a shooting gesture by pointing his index finger toward noel with his thumb in the air. noel backed up and returned to the scene of the 13 shooting. noel claimed that he was not afraid, because he was a christian and did what was right. noel described the driver-shooter as a male hispanic, mid--shaven except for a mustache on each side of lips, wearing khaki pants, long socks, and a light white shirt. he also identified a photograph. when noel returned to scene of the shooting he tried to speak to a police officer, but when the replied noel felt disrespected and left. the next day, noel returned to redwood avenue but did not see the truck. he walked to the end of the street where the man had screamed, and found a woman watering. as he explained about the damage to his car, he heard a female voice he did not tell the woman that he had seen a shooting, only that he was looking for the man who lived on the corner in the house with the white fence, where he had seen the truck, because the man had damaged his mirror. he gave her his contact information. no one answered when he knocked at the door of the other house. noel never called the police and he left the country two days later. in mid-august 2015, noel saw the woman with whom he had left his contact information. she approached him at an atm, asked whether he was dr. noel, and said, and the defense investigator thereafter contacted him and they spoke in august and in october. in august, noel gave the investigator the license plate number of the truck. he told the investigator in october that he had seen the shooteron television news. still, he did not call the police, because it was none of his business. defense investigator edward shore (shore) testified that he interviewed loza in july 2015, after a meeting was arranged by defendant14 apprehensive, and frightened. he was afraid of alvarado, and he did not want to go to court to testify. loza never said where the shooting took place, or whether it was day or night. in august, shore spoke to noel, who gave him a manila envelope on which he wrote noted, noel said that he did not recognize the shooter when shown photographs of defendant. instead, noel identified the photograph of alvarado as the driver of the truck he followed. shore showed noel photographs of two trucks. noel did not recognize the photograph (exh. n) depicting a truck . the photograph of the truck later identified as belonging to alvarado, was a black-and-white photograph of shiny pickup truck with chrome rims and four doors, with the outside door handles evident on all four doors. noel said that it resembled the truck he saw on the day of the shooting. noel told shore that he went to house after the shooting and an older hispanic woman answered his knock. noel said that he had trouble communicating with her due to a language barrier, and he left when someone iaway, we got nothing . . . to say to you. two days later, noel returned to the same house, and left his name and telephone number. he told shore that he did that because his mirror had been hooting, and he wanted to have it fixed. in september 2015, alvarado tried to kill her. he then absconded, and his whereabouts were unknown. orozco was acquainted with defendant and his brother. defendant and alvarado were friends and neighbors at the time of the shooting. 15 orozco recounted a telephone call she received from alvarado he said that he was driving his truck on virginia avenue, saw three or four people, and hit two of them, one in the head. he said he was alone and would walk to his house. later in her testimony orozco admitted that she did not ask who he was with when he committed the shooting. when he called her after the alvarado called her a second time, about 20-30 minutes after the first call. he said he had to get rid of the gun and was driving back to work in his truck. detective giles interviewed orozco shortly after alvarado had stabbed her, and told her that defendant had been convicted of attempted murder. detective giles questioned her about the shooting just as she came out of the icu after surgery. orozco thought she was under the influence of morphine at the time, as she was sleepy and dizzy. she did not recall telling detective giles that alvarado was with defendant, or that they went together to shoot those fools. on cross-examination, orozco admitted telling detective giles that alvarado and defendant were together, saw the enemy, went to get a gun, and then went back to shoot them, but she claimed this was not the truth, because alvarado told her he was by himself. what she meant to say was that alvarado walked to to truck, so that defendant could take alvarado to work. orozco believed that shop, but they could have gone in other car. orozco claimed that because of the medication she also misspoke when she told detective giles that the shooting took place on josephine street, which is just a block away from virginia avenue. 16 alvarado told her in february 2014 that defendant was in she did not go to the police because she was afraid of alvarado; he was violent, always threatening to kill her. alvarado was a compitas gang member, but orozco did not think that defendant was a member of the gang. orozco identified a and described it as brown or gray, with 26 inch rims. orozco told detective giles that alvarado returned his truck to the dealer in may 2015. she explained that alvarado knew that defendant had been charged, detectives had been to his house, and he and was afraid that someone would recognize his truck. alvarado had taken the rims off the truck about six months earlier for the same reason. prosecution opposition noel testified that he gave the envelope with notations to the defense investigator in 2015, before seeing alvarado on television in september 2015. he testified that he did not go to the police, explaining that he did not want to be a victim of the police as a black man in the united states, and that he knew what the sheriffs could do to a person who went against them. he did not give the envelope to the police, because the police were worse than gang members, especially at that time, and he did not want to place his life in dangerdepartment, if you are against them, they will come after you; -- when i see a sheriff, i feel like same as my son as a marine when he had the taliban in his noel then testified that he did the same day as the shooting, and explained the situation to the woman who answered. she told him that he would be connected to the gang unit, or that someone would get back to him. though 17 he gave his name, phone number, and the date of the shooting, no one ever called back. photograph on television news two years later, he immediately number, but no one ever got back to him. he called twice, selected the voicemail option from a recorded message, and left his name, phone number, and a brief explanation of his reason for calling. noel identified the courtroom audience as the woman he spoke with the second day after the shooting in front of her house. noel denied knocking on her front door. he admitted that he had trouble communicating with her that day. later in his testimony, noel explained that he first spoke to her in english, but switched to spanish when she did not understand. he did not tell her he had seen a shooting. he told her only that he wanted to talk to her about a man who had parked his truck at the corner, at the house with the white picket fence. he gave her his cell phone number, name, and address. noel recognized her when he mother at a lynwood bank sometime in 2015. she approached, and that he was in jail for something he did not do, but she did not say that it was about the shooting. noel told her he could probably talk to her, but not at that time, and she asked him to speak to an investigator about the man he saw park on the corner. although he had never told her that he had seen the shooting or knew who the shooter was, she seemed to believe he knew the identity of the shooter. noel gave her his contact information and soon thereafter left the country. when he returned, he had several messages from the investigator. noel testified that he spoke to the investigator twice, once during the summer (2015), and again, possibly in october 2015, 18 after he saw the photograph (of alvarado) on television. noel in my office, and it was in univision. and i saw they posted the gentleman on the screen, and it was exactly the same guy that noel testified that he did not tell the defense investigator that he called the police when he saw the news story, because the investigator did not interview noel then testified that he probably told the investigator, but he did not recall. after noel testified, the parties stipulated that noel never told the defense investigator that he called the police after seeing alvarado on tv news. the prosecution submitted, without objection, a copy of a report prepared by district attorney investigator hudson, regarding the recorded statement of the bali construction office manager, which set forth that vicente jr. had appeared at bali construction on april 20, 2015,5 asking for employment records or a letter showing that his brother, michael renteria was at the facility for a drug test on august 23, 2013, at 2:30 p.m. the office manager defendant had been sent to the drug testing facility on august 27, 2013. the prosecutor also represented that on april 23, 2015, the day the verdict was rendered, former defense co-counsel mendez, emailed a video showing someone named luis telling vicente jr. that that his brother was in custody for something he did not do. 5 vicente jr. began his testimony sometime between approximately 10:45 to 11:00 a.m. on april 20, 2015. 19 discussion defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence, resulting in a denial of his federal due process liberty interest. the trial court denied the motion after discovered evidence. as relevant here, section 1181 has been rendered . . . application, grant a new trial, in the following cases only: [] . . . [] 8. when new evidence is discovered material to the defendant, and which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial. . . discovered evidence, the trial court considers the following that the evidence, and not merely its materiality, be newly discovered; 2. that the evidence be not cumulative merely; 3. that it be such as to render a different result probable on a retrial of the cause; 4. that the party could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced it at the trial; and 5. that these facts be shown by the best evidence of which the case may consider the credibility as well as materiality of the evidence in its determination [of] whether introduction of the evidence in a people v. howard (2010) 51 cal.4th 15, 43 (howard).) f newly discovered evidence, the evidence must make a different result probable on [t]he trial court has broad discretion in ruling on a new trial motion . . . only for clear abuse of that discr in addition, 20 findings on questions of historical fact if supported by substantial people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 308 (verdugo).) it is the defendantmanifest id. at p. 309.) the trial court denied the motion primarily upon the finding that the testimony of the witnesses did not present newly discovered evidence. finding was erroneous for the following reasons: alvarado did not make his admission to loza until after the verdict; although there were rumors of s guilt prior to the verdict, rumors were not admissible evidence6; and, hernandez and orozco did september 2015 stabbing of orozco. it is clear that the trial court did not believe loza, hernandez, and orozco. the court found it unbelievable that the one who did the shooting and [his good buddy defendant] also, the trial court did not believe mother waited until after the verdict to connect the shooting with the man who had given her his contact information within days of the shooting. indeed, the court did not believe any testimony. as the 6 defendant does not explain or cite authority for his suggestion that inadmissible evidence cannot be deemed to have been discovered. this appears to relate to the issue of diligence, factor no. 4, to be reached after a finding that the evidence was newly discovered, as suggested in howard, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 43. 21 makes absolutely no sense to me. none whatsoever. none supported by substantial evidence. (verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 308.) rather than attempting to show credibility findings were not supported by substantial evidence, defendant ignores the issue. that the testimony of loza and hernandez was not probative, based in part on the paucity of facts linking the shooting of august 23, 2013, to the shooting that alvarado allegedly admitted committing. defendant argues that the testimony was probative, which he demonstrates by summarizing those portions of the testimony of loza, orozco,7 and hernandez which might support such a link, as well as the testimony of noel that would corroborate their testimony. that a fact would be probative, if believed, begs the question whether it was or should have been believed. demonstrating that the witnesses testified to facts establishing a link between the two shootings does not show that supported by substantial evidence. moreover, in arguing that the evidence was newly discovered, defendant ignores weeks before had already told him that alvarado was the actual shooter. evidence had been known to defendant or his family prior to the verdict. 7 the trial court found only that loza and hernandez did not orozco. 22 defendant also disregards the defense learned about alvaradoprior to the verdict from a videothat this person was known because the video disclosed the day of the verdict, so it had to be in the possession of the defense prior to the verdict that someone else was saying that some other as substantial evidence supthat the witnesses were not credible, and defendant has failed to witnesses established that the evidence was newly discovered.8 in any event, we would rejeceven if we assumed that the evidence was newly discovered. defendant contends that the testimony of hernandez, orozco, loza, and noel provided material evidence that contradicted the strongest evidence against defendant at trial, and that the prosecution case rested on weak identification evidence. be granted when the newly discovered evidence contradicts the strongest evidence introduced against the defendant. [cpeople v. martinez (1984) 36 cal.3d 816, 823.) defendant acknowledges this observation and relies on it to argue that the new evidence contradicted the strongest prosecution evidence. however, in furtherance of such argument, defendant instead summarizes the weakest, not the strongest evidence presented against defendant at trial. he concludes that 8 as the trial courtits discovering. 23 because the new trial evidence contradicted weak identification evidence, the trial court should have granted the motion. defendant summarizes weak parts of the testimony of eyewitness carlos, and minimizes her identification of carlos was a reticent witness, afraid to testify about what she saw, and who had previously run from the police who had arrived at her house to escort her to the preliminary hearing to give testimony. her conflicting trial testimony certainly reflected her fear, but her identification of defendant was otherwise strong. she identified defendant in court at the preliminary hearing and at trial as the person she identified from the photographic lineup. at the preliminary hearing, carlos testified that she was 100 percent sure that the photograph depicted the shooter. she said, carlos told deputy perez soon after the shooting that she had witnessed the shooting while standing in her front yard, which supported her initial estimate of having an unobstructed view just truck, rather than her reconsidered estimate of a 45-foot view from a barred and curtained window. she also told deputy perez that she would be able to identify the shooter, and never said she saw only half his face, as she did at trial. finally, although she retracted her identification of the exhibit 16 photograph of few months after the shooting. next, defendant points out that jose did not identify defendant in court at trial, claiming not to recognize defendant and not knowing who the shooter was. defendant disregards shooter if he saw him again, a testimony that his life would be in danger if he were to identify the shooter at trial. 24 defendant also disregards identification of a photograph of went blind before seeing the shooter and identified him from hearsay descriptions. in so doing, defendant disregards later admission that his in-court identification of defendant was based upon his observation of the person in the truck at the time. defendan(exh. 16) as the same truck driven by the shooter. . as defendant himself argues, a third-party confession points to if credited. (see in re branch (1969) 70 cal.2d 200, 215 [on habeas corpus].) as defendant did not show that the evidence, this contention must also fail.9 evidence was such as to likely render a different result on retrial. (see howard, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 43 [factor no. 4].) defendant argues that a different result would be probable because it evidence. as discussed, however, there would remain the 9 defendant argues at length that the evidence would be admissible as a hearsay exception, a statement against . argument on this point, as the trial court ultimately ruled that the hearsay exception was applicable, but found the testimony lacking in probative value and unlikely to be admitted on that basis. 25 prosecutions strong identification evidence. and although the trial court found that orozco provided more specific facts connecting alvarado admitted shooting to the august 2013 shooting, her testimony was impeached by her recorded statement. although orozco claimed that alvarado told her he committed the shooting alone, she then admitted that he had merely said that he was alone when he called. further, orozco admitted telling detective giles that alvarado and defendant together saw the enemy, went to get a gun, and then returned to shoot them. her claim that she misspoke because she had been given morphine was not supported by the recorded interview in the shooting. any retrial would be just as likely to result in a finding that defendant was guilty, either directly or as an aider and abettor. furtherfinding that he was not with alvarado at the time of the shooting, as it would again be shown to be false. not only would the prosecution again prove repair shop at the time, but it was also prepared to present the testimony of the bali construction office manager to prove the falsday. in creating a false alibi suggests a family conspiracy. such obtgood friend loza, would cast doubt on their objectivity and credibility. further, such evidence would cast doubt on noeltwo alleged finally, as the trial co 26 the trial court found that defendant did not meet his burden to demonstrate that the evidence was newly discovered, that it was probative, or that a different result would be probable on retrial. and he has not met his burden here to demonstrate that the trial court abused its discretion. as there appears no reasonable probability of a different result on retrial, process liberty interest. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, acting p.j. ashmann-gerst __________________________, j.* goodman ____________________________________________________________ * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 