filed 12/21/16 p. v. smith ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kwabente smith, defendant and appellant. b272229 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta138698) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, pat connolly, judge. affirmed. tracy l. emblem, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 defendant kwabente smith appeals from a judgment of conviction. to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 stating that no arguable issue exists and requesting that this court independently review the record. we have reviewed the entire record and find no arguable issue. we affirm the judgment. procedure in an amended eight-count information, defendant was charged with four counts of second degree robbery. he also was while driving recklessly, driving or taking a vehicle without consent, kidnapping for carjacking, and kidnapping to commit another crime. firearm enhancements were alleged as well as prior conviction enhancements. the charge for while driving recklessly was dismissed. jurors found defendant guilty of four counts of second degree robbery and of driving or taking a vehicle without consent. jurors found defendant not guilty of the remaining offenses. jurors found that with respect to each robbery, defendant personally used a firearm within the meaning of section penal code1 section 12022.53, subdivision (b) and that a principal was armed with a firearm within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (a)(1). the court found that defendant suffered two prior convictions within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b), one prior strike conviction pursuant to section 667, subdivision (d), and one prior serious or violent felony pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court further found that defendant committed a probation violation. 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 including the probation violation, defendant was sentenced to a total prison term of 44 years eight months. facts on november 15, 2015, four victims stood outside a building after an alcoholics anonymous meeting. two armed men, including defendant, approached and demanded the four victims turn over their money and cell phones. the victims relinquished their property because they were afraid. the in the crawl space home. j.c., one of the robbery victims, was incarcerated at the time of his testimony. when j.c. was scheduled to testify, defendant identified him ,and caused others to break j testimony was delayed, but like the other three victims, j.c. identified defendant in court as one of the armed men who robbed him and his friends. on november 18, 2015, d.v. was driving his chevy impala when two men jumped into his car. the person in the passenger seat put a gun to d.v. head and demanded he drive. the passenger also eventually was impounded, and defendanin it. a wallet belonging to j.c. discussion the court appointed counsel to represent defendant. counsel filed a brief pursuant to people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436 identifying no issues. defendant did not file a supplemental brief. we have reviewed the entire record and find attorney has fully complied with the responsibilities of counsel. 4 (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278; see people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 111; people v. wende, supra, at p. 441.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 