 filed 5/30/19 p. v. gallup ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bill lawrence gallup, defendant and appellant. b272258 los angeles county super. ct. no. ya055822 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed and remanded for resentencing. medrano and carlton, manuel medrano; law offices of a. william bartz, jr. and arthur william bartz, jr. for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and david w. williams, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant bill lawrence gallup of the first degree murder of his wife oliva with a gun. on appeal, gallup does not complain of any error in his jury trial for murder. rather, he contends the trial court erred in finding him competent to stand trial after an earlier court trial on competence. gallup also asserts there was no adequate waiver of his right to a jury trial on competence, and that the prosecution should have renewed its plea offer of 14 years on a manslaughter charge after the trial court found him competent. we find no error and affirm . we remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancement. facts and procedural background 1. gallup shoots his wife, then himself in july 2003 oliva g. was living in manhattan beach with her husband bill gallup, her sister maria,1 and her niece. oliva and gallup had been married for 30 years. on july 5, oliva and maria came home in the late afternoon after going to the bank, helping a friend clean a house, and shopping. they heard loud music coming from upstairs. oliva went upstairs and either turned down the music or asked gallup to turn it down. gallup either did not turn the music down or turned it up again and oliva went back upstairs. maria heard oliva and gallup arguing; then she heard gunshots. manhattan beach police officer tony presgraves was working that evening. he heard a radio call of a shooting and went to the gallup home. presgraves found gallup lying on his back on a bed; there was a lot of blood on him and the bed. presgraves got closer and saw a revolver lying on the bed next 1 we refer to the victim and the witness by their first names. (cal. rules of ct., rule 8.90(b)(4).) 3 to gallup, about four inches from his hand. gallup appeared to have been shot in the face. at first, presgraves thought gallup was dead. then gallup opened one eye and started to gasp for air. paramedics arrived within moments and took gallup to harbor-ucla hospital. gallup had a blood alcohol level of something between .166 and .24. police and paramedics found the victim oliva lying on the floor in a pool of blood. she appeared to have gunshot wounds to her face, the back of her head, and her chest. breathing. an autopsy revealed oliva had been shot in the head at close range. she also had been shot in the center of her chest. including her liver, stomach, and spleen. 2. the charges, and twelve years of pretrial proceedings murder. the people alleged gallup personally and intentionally discharged a in march 2004 and the court held gallup to answer. the people filed an information and the court arraigned gallup in april 2004. a doubt as to his competence under penal code section 1368.2 the court therefore declared a doubt as well, and suspended proceedings. the court appointed two doctors to evaluate gallup, ronald fairbanks and robert brook. in late january 2005, the court appointed a third doctorsanjay sahgalto evaluate 2 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 4 gallup.3 at some point, the court appointed a fourth doctor, kyle boone. in march 2005, the court appointed dr. marshall cherkas t on march 3, 2006, the parties appeared before the trial court for a competency trial. counsel told the court they were boone, and cherkas.4 the parties agreed the court could decide the matter without a jury. defense counsel said he believedbased on the reportsbecause of the damage to his frontal lobe. reports, the court finds that the defense has demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that mr. gallup is incompetent ordered gallup transferred to patton state hospital. patton admitted gallup on may 30, 2006. in august 2006, patton apparent proceedings remained 3 it turned out dr. sahgal already had been appointed at the privileged information. 4 the record does not reflect whether the court also contain the 2004-2005 reports of drs. fairbanks, brook, boone, or 2015 competency trial state that those evaluators did read the 2004-2005 reports. 5 suspended, and the matter was continued a number of times over the next 16 months. on december 13, 2007, the parties and the court agreed gallup would be transferred to a skilled nursing facility in the the minute order states, defendant has no reasonable likelihood of ever regaining his the court ordered that gallup be placed at napa state hospital but he was sent back to patton state hospital instead. patton readmitted gallup in october 2008. in march 2009 patton again certified gallup as competent. the record does not reflect what happened next, but it appears the court did not deem gallup competent at that point. in the meantime, between 2007 and 2012, there was considerable discussion of a conservatorship for gallup. gallup did not qualify for a so-called murphy conservatorship,5 so in november 2010 the court granted a temporary probate conservatorship over gallup and his assets. apparently there 5 see welf. & inst. code,  5008, subd. (h)(1)(b). a murphy conservatorship is available under the lanterman-petris-short act (welf. & inst. code,  5000-5599) for a defendant who has a pending felony case involving death or great bodily harm to another, has been found mentally incompetent under penal code (welf. & inst. code,  5008, subd. (h)(1)(b)(i) and (iv).) murphy conservatorships are named for the legislator who sponsored the legislation. (jackson v. superior court (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 767, 771.) counsel told the court gallup did not qualify for a murphy conservatorship because he did not have an axis i 6 was a conservatorship proceeding in the probate court as well. was released to a residential care center. in november 2014, the trial court apparently received an august 2014 report that dr. gordon plotkin had done for the mental health court opining that gallup was competent. the court appointed in a january 2015 report, dr. bangston opined gallup was not competent. the court appointed dr. sanjay sahgal (again) to evaluate gallup. dr. sahgal opined gallup was not competent. on may 4, 2015, the court appointed a fourth doctor, bruce h. gross, to conduct an evaluation.6 in april 2015 the court set a court trial on competency for mid-june 2015. the trial was continued to august and then to september on defense motions. 3. the court trial on competence a. the testimony at trial the court trial finally began in mid-september 2015. it continued into november. as gallup bore the burden of proving his incompetence, the defense expert witnesses testified first.7 i. psychiatrist sanjay m. sahgal dr. sahgal wrote a report dated march 18, 2015. sahgal concluded gallup was not mentally competent to stand trial 6 if dr. gross prepared a report, it apparently was not introduced into evidence; there is no report by dr. gross in the record on appeal. 7 people v. buenrostro (2018) 6 cal.5th 367, 387 (buenrostro);  1369, subd. (b)(1). 7 sahgal acknowledged he shooting did not render him incompetent. the problem, sahgal provide[d] different and equally confident accounts of his sahgal noted gallup gave him three different versions of what happened that evening: (1) his sister-in-law shot oliva and then him; (2) a an accident. at trial, sahgal elaborated on his report. he testified he interviewed gallup for about an hour. sahgal said gallup had very thorough understanding of the nature and purpose of the on the a that he is engaging in confabulation than that he is either being a very inconsistently clumsy manipulator or a very sophisticated malingerer of the esoteric clinical phenomenon. sahgal was asked about his 2005 evaluation of gallup. sahgal testified he did not remember that earlier report. in the 2005 report, sahgal had opined gallup was competent. sahgal ; of cooperating in a rational manner with counse demonstrates a level of cognitive ability, social engagement, 8 and emotional stability to rise well above the threshold for sahgal explained the discrepancy between his two opinions 10 years apart: in the first interview, he did not ask gallup what had happened; in the second interview he did. sahgal said, way for me to expose his confabulating behavior, because it only pertains to the period of his amnesia and his statements about mental functioning may have changed in the intervening years. ii. psychologist lydia bangston dr. bangston wrote a report dated january 9, 2015. bangston opined gallup was not competent to stand trial because [,] ultimately, suspiciousness and paranoia, interfere with his ability to work in a rational way and uncompromising about his legal situation, and exhibits an inability to reasonably consider the facts of his case, despite his at trial, bangston testified she interviewed gallup for about an hour. ; problems with memory and with his ability to take in information and use it to come to conclusions, to make decisions, and to on cross-examination bangston said she had not seen the 16-page report by dr. dominque kinney, who administered a number of tests to gallup in 2008. bangston admitted she had not discussed possible defense strategies with gallup because she or say something incriminating. bangston also admitted that a lot of her opinion 9 inability to discuss defense strategies came from her conversations with defense counsel. unwillingness to discuss anything other than his professed bangston en though bangston also said indications that he was a pretty heavy drinker before this all on i guess that he iii. psychologist craig r. lareau dr. lareau wrote a report dated march 19, 2015. lareau interviewed gallup for three hours. attorneys continue to challenge his competency to stand trial, asserting that he wants to go to trial lareau stated, [a]to a very circumscribed area of . . . compromised executive when story, sometimes dramatically so, yet he is convinced that he has 10 lareau opined gallup was unable to cooperate with his attorney and therefore was incompetent to stand trial. at trial lareau testified galfor was the have no memory given his amnesia and provid lareau testified, gallup appears to engage in significant confabulation regarding this one [w]e would say that for that period of time he is generating new false memories that he truly believes at that regain competence to stand trial on cross-examination, lareau admitted gallup told him he lareau had not included that in his report, and he did not produce his notes to the prosecution until the beginning of his cross-examination, six months after he wrote the report. he then said what gallup told him about that day was confabulation rather than real memories. the defense rested. trial resumed in november 2015. the prosecution called three experts: iv. psychologist martin d. lloyd dated december 5, 2008. gallup was at patton state hospital at the time. lloyd interviewed gallup twice for a total of two and a half hours. [t]hought 11 and lloyd reviewed the results of the testing dr. kinney had done. lloyd wrote, [t]he neurological damage caused by the however, memories. nonetheless, lloyd opined, gallup was competent to go to trial. request, lloyd did not ask gallup about any of the details in the police report. information on privilege. evidence to reconstruct circumstances of the offense, even if mr. gallup did not remember or even if he had confabulated lloyd testified that dr. lareau was his supervisor at the time, and he opinion that gallup was competent. on cross-examination lloyd admitted thathad he had the opportunity (as dr. sahgal had) to discuss with defense counsel that might have altered his opinion. lloyd stated v. psychologist dominique kinney dr. kinney prepared a report entitled focused neuropsychological assessment dated december 12, 2008. gallup was about two months into his second stay at patton at the time. neuropsychological evaluation to determine what 12 cognitive abilities remain intact to determine if he has the kinney kinney listed the tests she had given gallup and the reports she had read. she noted his axis i diagnoses were areas of intact cognition than areas his for mr. gallup when he is engaged in learning traumatic amnesia beginning 24 hours before the gunshot wound e able to accurately recall the events immediate[ly] surrounding the time vi. psychiatrist gordon plotkin dr. plotkin wrote a report dated august 25, 2014. before interviewing gallup, plotkin spoke with staff at the care center where gallup had been living for about two years. after still suffering first significantly interfered with executive functioning, communication, memory, and other frontal lobe- amount of time, he appears to have resolved most of these of the courtroom procedures, participants, plea bargaining, potential penalty, prosecution case, expected outcome, and 13 even complex legal terms such as miranda and 5th amendment plotkin continued: case), may be related to personality characteristics and/or frontal lobe injury, but did not appear to cause deficits in his ability to the opinions for the defendant to have memory for the events to be properly and adequately at trial, plotkin said he had testified as a psychiatric [m] plotkin stated gallup told him he had no memory of the actual crime, but he remembered his wife and her sister had gone to the bank that day. confabulation was irrelevant in this case [i]f you asked him if he remembers specifically what happened, the plotkin testified he saw no evidence that gallup could not , or that he plotkin said if gallup were shown evidence such as a police on cross-examination, plotkin said he had not seen the reports by drs. bangston and lareau. after being handed those reports and reading them, plotkin testified he disagreed. plotkin explained he had instructed gallup to tell him just what he remembered, not what anyone else had told him; it was unclear 14 whether other evaluators had given gallup the same instruction. defense lawyers. b. the court commended the prosecution and the defense on their presentation of evidence. the court stated the defense had demonstrated gallup had frontal lobe damage from his self-inflicted gunshot wound. the defense position, the court said, was gallup was unable to assist his counsel with his defense because he confabulates due to amnesia. the court noted both lucid, engaging and knowledgeable about the court system and everything except the day of the shooting and about 25 to 30 days the court said it found dr. sahgal to be the most credible of the defense witnesses. the court stated sahgal viewed [ ] of had the court observed she did not appear to be objective, but rather the defendant anything about what he recal the court also noted that, when gallup told bang the court stated dr. lareau was highly trained and very [the court the court noted lareau testified gallup told 15 but lareau did not put this in his report. to th as for the prosecution witnesses, the court said it did not pinion as to whether the defendant was confabulating or had an facts of the case with gallup. the court found dr. kinney more credible than dr. lloyd even though her last contact with gallup also was in 2008. the kinney administered and the court found dr. plotkin qualified and credible. the that confabulation was not relevant to him be finally, the court stated the evidence showed gallup to be mental health experts that he had a good relationship with his wife, which we know is convinced that the defendant has no memory of the incident and that, therefore, [he] is confabulating. he did give what appears to be a cogent account of what occurred to drs. lareau and plotkin and, again, it t 16 what is in the police reports because he adamantly believes that he has given different stories of what occurred and then denies but, the court said, difficult, amnesia, he can still receive a fair trial. the defense has access reconstruct what occurred before and during the incident, his criminal culpability and also then, an argument immediately preced[ing] the shooting which can also impact his criminal has not met his burden to show incompetence and the defendant is therefore deemed competent. criminal proceedings are 4. the murder trial gallup testified on his own behalf at his april 2016 murder trial. gallup said he remembered his wife coming home on july 5, 2003, having left at some point to cash a check. gallup [w]aking up in los being gallup testified he remembered some things about that day: he got up late, took a bath, and watched television. he remembered july 5 was a saturday, and noted the bank a 17 because he spent too much time with her sister. he testified the came home. but, he said gallup testified he had no problem with his memory; he he gallup denied having shot his wife. discussion 1. substantial evidence supportconclusion that gallup was competent to stand trial the due process guarantees of both the federal and state constitutions forbid the trial of a criminal defendant while he is mentally incompetent. (buenrostro, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 385.) section 1367 governs the determination of whether a criminal defendant is competent to stand trial. (buenrostro, at p. 385.) under section 1367, a defendant is mentally incompetent as a result of mental disorder or developmental disability, the defendant is unable to understand the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist counsel in the conduct of a defense in a (buenrostro, at p. 385.) ([ ]  1369, subd. (f).) competence to stand trial in issue, the defendant bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that he or (buenrostro, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 387 quoting people v. mendoza (2016) 62 cal.4th 856, 871; medina v. california (1992) 505 u.s. 437, 445-448 [allocation of burden of proof to a criminal defendant to prove incompetence does not violate procedural due process].) disturbed if there is any substantial and credible evidence in the 18 (people v. hightower (1996) 41 cal.app.4th 1108, 1111.) the record in the light most favorable to the verdict [that a defendant is mentally competent] and uphold the verdict if it is (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 31.) credible, and of solid valueibid.) gallup contends there was substantial evidence of his incompetence to stand trial. he cites authority for the proposition that, if there is substantial evidence a defendant is incompetent, the court must conduct a competency hearing. here, of course, the trial court did conduct a hearinga full multiple-day court trial with a number of witnesses who testified and were cross-examined. the issue before us is not whether there was substantial evidence that gallup was incompetent; it is whether substantial competent. attacked on the ground that there is no substantial evidence to sustain it, the power of an appellate court begins and ends with the determination as to whether, on the entire record, there is substantial evidence, contradicted or uncontradicted, which will (bowers v. bernards (1984) 150 cal.app.3d 870, 873-874.) that there is substantial evidence to support the judgment, we must affirm, even if there is also substantial evidence to support a contrary conclusion and the [trier of fact] might have reached a different result if it had believed other evidence. [citation.] accordingly, if the evidence is such that rational people could reach conflicting conclusions, there is by definition substantial (people v. riley (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1152, 1165-1166.) 19 as noted, six experts testified at the competency trial. three opined gallup was incompetent and three opined he was competent. all six agreed gallup had a more than adequate understanding of the court process and the roles of his lawyer, the prosecutor, the judge, and the jury. the experts also agreed that amnesia alone does not render a defendant incompetent. (see people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 809; people v. amador (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 1449, 1454.) the sole area of disagreement concerned the confabulation issue. the experts disagreed about whether gallup was confabulating at all and whethereven if he werehe was incapable of cooperating with his trial lawyer or, instead, could receive a fair trial given that defense counsel had abundant information about the facts of the crime. the trial court watched and listened to each witness, judging the credibility of each. the court also observed gallup during tens of pretrial conferences over a 12-year period, including his interactions with both his court-appointed counsel and the privately-retained lawyer who later replaced him. the trial court detailed the reasons for the weight it gave to each gallup and her consideration of input from his treatment team. as noted, plotkin explained that any confabulation by gallup did not render him incompetent; if he had no memory of the shooting as he claimed, he nevertheless information from police reports and witness interviews. the court was not convinced gallup had no memory of the incident. moreover, the court seemed to conclude the rigidity wyer resulted from stubbornness 20 rather than his cognitive disorder. substantial evidence supports 2. the trial court did not deny gallup his right to a jury trial on competence gallup contends he was denied his right to a jury trial on competence. to a gallup is mistaken. as noted, at the first trial on competence, in march 2006, yes. years lateron april 9, 2015the parties appeared before the court. gallup was personally present with two attorneys. parties were asking for june 15 and 16, 2015. there was some discussion of the availability of the expert witnesses. the court then asked the court then asked he parties had no right to a jury on competency. we decline to as gallup recognizes, there is no constitutional right to a jury trial in a competency proceeding. the right to a jury in section 1368 proceedings is a creature of statute. (people v. masterson (1994) 8 cal.4th 965, 969.) counsel may waive this statutory right to a jury trial in a competency proceeding, even 21 over thdefendant of his statutory right to a jury trial. (id. at pp. 971-972; see also people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 134 [masterson required to advise the defendant of his right to a jury determination of his competency, given the lack of a ; reversal not required not lawley, supra, at p. 134.) 3. the prosecution had no obligation to renew its earlier offer to gallup of a plea deal after the court found him competent at the outset of the competency trial in september 2015, the prosecutor told the court the people had offered gallup a plea to voluntary manslaughter, with admission to a gun enhancement, for a total of 14 years in the state prison.8 tates he will not accept make a counteroffer, to plead to the same offenses [sic] for time served with the understanding that he would essentially be released and serve probation [sic] or parole, depending on exactly calculated. he stated that he would not make such a 8 17 years. it was 14, apparently consisting of the upper term of 11 years for voluntary manslaughter plus three years for the use of the firearm (probably the low term under section 12022.5, subd. (a)). 22 9 counsel went on to say he believed gallup to be incompetent, so or would make be given the opportunity to reconsider the plea agreement for this novel and surprising assertion. first, the people disputed, and still dispute, that he was incompetent at the outset of his competency trial. the prosecution contendedand the court ultimately concludedthat gallup was competent. second, the prosecutor had no obligation to make any offer to resolve the case for less than the 50 years to life gallup faced for murdering his wife. (people v. trejo (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 646, 655.) 4. we remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 620 the trial court imposed a term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (d). after briefing was complete in this case, our legislature passed senate bill no. 620 (sb 620), effective january 1, 2018. sb 620 gives trial courts authority to strike 9 bargain. gallup told at the time, sahgal derstanding of the charges against him, the plea bargaining process, and the consequences of conviction 23 section 12022.53 firearm enhancements in the interest of justice. the amendment to section 12022.53 applies to casessuch as that were not final when the amendment took effect. (people v. watts (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 102, 119; people v. arredondo (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 493, 507.) whether gallup is asking us to remand the case for sb 620 consideration. counsel confirmed gallup does make that request and the attorney general concedes remand is appropriate. accordingly, we remand the case to allow the trial court the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion under the amended statute. we express no opinion about how the court should exercise its discretion. (see people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 423-424, 428.) 24 disposition the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to consider, at a hearing at which bill lawrence gallup has a right to be present with counsel, whether to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancement imposed in count 1 under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (d). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. murillo, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 