filed 5/30/17 p. v. romero ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steven trujillo romero, defendant and appellant. b272230 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa085248) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. hayden a. zacky, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. benjamin owens, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, and thomas c. hsieh, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 steven romero appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of one count of criminal threats in violation of penal code1 section 422, subdivision (a). the jury found the accompanying gang allegation true.2 ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(b), (c).) following a court trial on the allegations that appellant had suffered a prior serious or violent felony strike conviction ( 667, subds. (b)(i), 1170.12, subd. (b)) and had served four prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)), the trial court found the strike prior and one of the prior prison term allegations to be true. the trial court imposed an aggregate sentence of nine years in state prison. 2003 juvenile adjudication for violation of former section 245, subdivision (a)(1) qualifies as a serious felony conviction and a handwritten reference to a baseball bat contained in the juvenile petition. given that none of the documents in the record of the adjudication distinguished between assault with a deadly weapon and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury, the juvenile adjudication constituted a serious felony is unsupported by substantial evidence. accordingly, we remand the matter for resentencing. in all other respects, we affirm. 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the jury acquitted appellant of the charge of assault with a firearm, and found a personal firearm use allegation to be not true. 3 factual background the night of december 2, 2015, christopher arroyo was working as a security guard with a partner in an apartment complex. approximately 10:00 p.m., arroyo confronted appellant and another man in the underground parking garage. appellant and the other man left. around 11:30 p.m., arroyo saw appellant outside a gate at the back of the complex. as he jiggled the knob on the gate, appellant said to . can you open the g arroyo asked appellant what unit he lived in. appellant appellant then pulled a revolver from his waistband and pointed it at better watch his back, and made a hand sign toward arroyo, with his ring and little fingers touching his thumb, his index finger pointing out, and his middle finger at a diagonal. arroyo saw that appellant had a playboy bunny tattoo on his head. as soon as appellant left, arroyo called his company and then called 911. police arrived about an hour later and found arroyo waiting outside the apartment complex. arroyo related what had happened, but did not give complete answers or make eye contact with the officers. he appeared distraught and shaky, and he seemed to have been crying. arroyo testified at the preliminary hearing. he identified appellant as one of the two men in the parking garage, and as the person who had returned and threatened him. although arroyo could not remember appellant saying a gang name when he made the hand sign, he thought he recalled telling the police that 4 discussion i. t appellant at a pretrial hearing about the tattoos on head discouraged him from testifying, and thereby violated his federal constitutional right to testify and his sixth amendment right to counsel. we disagree. a. background during a pretrial status conference, the trial court advised appellant that it had discussed the possibility of settling the case with the prosecutor the court outlined appellant maximum exposure er, and suggested appellant might want to plead guilty. the court explained that if appellant decided to go to trial, the court would got the tattoos all over your head. not real help this prompted the following exchange: anything. not saying mpeople from the community sitting in that jury box, okay? and of who you represent in their minds. you may be the nicest guy in the world, but your outside appearance is saying something 5 the court advised appellant that if he did testify, any prior convictions involving moral turpitude could be used to impeach him. the court added that iaccept a plea bargain or go to trial. appellant responded he would not take a plea bargain, to which the court replied ase, the trial court advised you have an absolute right to remain silent. you also have a fifth amendment right against self-incrimination. if you elect to remain silent, i will instruct the jury that they are not to consider your silence for any purpose whatsoever during deliberations. [] on the other hand, you have a right to testify on your own behalf, if you wish. meaning you will waive and give up your right to remain silent and potentially your fifth amendment right against self-incrimination. [] do you understand you have each attorney, and, joined by counsel, waived his right to testify. b. appellant forfeited his claim by failing to object or otherwise raise the issue below; in any event, appellant has failed to demonstrate error his tattoos or otherwise raise the issue below, and thereby forfeited the claim on appeal. nevertheless, appellant urges us to consider the issue because his claim involves a criminal right to testify and the right to counselboth supreme court has recognized, however, o procedural principle is more familiar to this court than that a constitutional 6 right,may be forfeited in criminal as well as civil cases by the failure to make timely assertion of the right before a tribunal havin (united states v. olano (1993) 507 u.s. 725, 731; people v. trujillo (2015) 60 cal.4th 850, 856.) thus, a defendant who fails to make a timely objection to the claimed misconduct forfeits the claim unless it appears an objection or admonition could not have cured any resulting prejudice or that objecting would have been (people v. abel (2012) 53 cal.4th 891, 914.) remark would have been futile. instead, he argues that because trial counsel might have agreed that appellant should not testify for the same reason articulated by the court, appellant has no recourse in a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. he goes on to assert that the court has an obligation to ensure a fair trial, estes v. texas (1965) 381 u.s. 532, 540.) that duty, appellant observes, includes we do not disagree with these general propositions. but regardless of the merits they provide no basis for overlooking issue for appeal by failing to raise it first in the trial court. appellant has also failed to show any connection between during pretrial settlement discussions. after the court candidly advised appellant that a jury might not view him favorably because of the tattoos on his head, appellant opted to proceed to trial. it was then not until after the prosecution had presented its case and the trial court advised appellant of his constitutional 7 rights to testify and to remain silent that appellant conferred with counsel and decided not to testify. perhaps the most fundamental rule of appellate law is that the judgment challenged on appeal is presumed correct, and s burden to affirmatively demonstrate error. (people v. sullivan (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 524, 549.) failure to point to anything in the record that so much as hints at pretrial remark about his tattoos is fatal to his claim that the trial court interfered with his right to testify or intruded upon the attorney-client relationship. ii. testimony the district atrial, and, finding arroyo to be unavailable, the trial court admitted his preliminary hearing testimony in lieu of his live testimony at trial. appellant contends the trial court erroneously found arroyo to be unavailable under evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(5) because the prosecution failed to demonstrate due diligence in its efforts to locate the witness and procure his attendance at trial. according to appellant, the admission of under california law and the sixth amendment. we disagree. a. background paula fong, an investigator in the los angeles county received a subpoena for arroyo around 4:00 p.m. on april 4, 2016, two days before the start of trial. that day, she searched computer databases and found two addresses for him, one of which 8 morning, fong went to both addresses; at the first, she did not she met , who told her arroyo had moved out of state and she did not know where he was. fong left when fong returned to her car, she received a call on her cell phone from the number fong had for arroyo. arroyo told fong he was in new york and wanted nothing to do with the case. although he told fong that he goes back and forth between new york and california and he would be returning to california for work, he refused to give fong any address where he might be located. fong asked him to send her a picture of himself next to a sign showing his location and the current date to prove he was in new york. arroyo sent a picture of a sign in a parking lot that said, new york, but he was not in the picture. he then sent pictures of himself and his wife on a train, but none of the pictures gave any indication he was in new york. fong asked him to take a selfie when he got off the train showing a new york sign responded, going to change my number. am no longer in california. fong replied, in another text, arroyo said want to be mean. danger as well. so can u guys stop bugging all my family. fong repeated her request plea 9 in the course of her investigation, fong learned that arroyo had changed his license plate in january, and had renewed his she had visited. in addition, los angeles police detective john sawada told fong he had spoken with arroyo on march 31, and arroyo had said he was no longer in california but in new york. the prosecutor also spoke with arroyo, who told him he was either in new york or going to new york. the prosecutor had expenses to attend trial, but arroyo said he did not care about the money; he was afraid and did not want to come to court. fong testified that although the district ahas the resources and ability tits location, fong did not attempt to do so in this case. she also made no effort search for his location using his cell phone. fong did not seek to locate arroyo in new york by contacting law enforcement or the motor vehicle department. no effort was made to contact arroyo through his california employer. although fonaddress, she did not attempt to reach arroyo there because the prosecutor had advised her that arroyo no longer worked there. however, defense counsel had spoken with the human resources and was informed that notice for march 31, but he had extended his employment to the end of april. 10 b. the trial court properly concluded arroyo was confrontation clauses of both the federal and state constitutions, amend.; cal. const., art. 1,  15.)people v. herrera (2010) 49 cal.4th 613, 620 (herrera).) -standing statements of witnesses absent from trial have been admitted only where the declarant is unavailable, and only where the defendant has had a prior opportunity to cross-(crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 59; see people v. cromer people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 340.) the exception is codified under california law in evidence code section 1291. (people v. alcala (1992) 4 cal.4th 742, 784785; herrera, suprapreliminary hearing testimony, is not made inadmissible by the gainst whom the former testimony is offered was a party to the action or proceeding in which the testimony was given and had the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an interest and motive similar to that which he thus, when the requirements of section 1291 are met, the admission of former testimony in evidence does not (herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 621, fn. omitted.) constitutional right to confront witnesses mandates that, before a 11 made a good- people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 609 (smith), quoting barber v. page (1968) 390 u.s. 719, 725; herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 622.) the united states supreme court has explained that if there is a possibility, albeit remote, that affirmative measures might produce the declarant, the obligation of good faith may the lengths to which the prosecution must go to produce a witness . . . is a question of [citation.] the ultimate question is whether the witness is unavailable despite good-faith efforts undertaken prior to trial to locate and present that witness. (ohio v. roberts (1980) 448 u.s. 56, 74, disapproved on another point in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 60 (herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 622.) the good faith requirement is codified under california law in evidence code section 240, which provides that a hearsay unavailable as a witness or statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable code,  240, subd. (a)(5).) courts often describe the reasonable diligence req due diligence. people v. cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 898.) where the facts concerning locate a witness are undisputed, the appellate court reviews the nation independently, not deferentially, locat herrera, supra, 49 12 cal.4th at p. 622; people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 675.) the independent standard of review applies equally to the failed efforts to locate a witness as to the failed efforts to obtain the attendance of a witness at trial. (people v. sandoval (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1425, 1432; see also ohio v. roberts, supra, 448 u.s. at pp. 74the witness].) are timely, reasonably extensive and carried out over a reasonpeople v. bunyard (2009) 45 cal.4th 836, 856, citing people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1297 [ neighbors, employer, and relativess last known residence over a one-week period]; people v. diaz (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 695, 706707 (diaz) [numerous attempts to find witnes determined effort to avoid testifying]; people v. wise (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 339, 344 [checking several addresses where witness might be found, as well as local jail, hospital, and coroner].) in contrast, diligence has been found people v. bunyard, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 855.) courts have also to avoid testifying in determining whether the prosecution made a good faith effort and exercised due diligence in seeking to (see, e.g., smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 623624; people v. cogswell (2010) 48 cal.4th 467, 478479; diaz, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at pp. 705707; people v. francis (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 579, 588.) in smith, for example, 13 the penalty phase of the trial unless she could express her views on the punishment the defendant should receive. (smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 621.) our supreme court held that the circumstance that the victim was physically present in the courtroom and merely refused to testify did not preclude a finding of unavailability. (id. at p. 624.) noting that evidence code under which a witness may be deemed legally unavailable for purposes of evidence smith found the trial argument that the trial court should have threatened to fine the victim if she continued to refuse to testify. (ibid.) trial courts, the hig not have to take extreme actions ibid.) similarly in diaz, to procure the witness met the standard for establishing unavailability. in addition to a thorough search for the witness and more than five attempts to personally serve her with the subpoena, the evidence showed that the witness knew the police were looking for her and she was determined not to testify. not only that the prosecution demonstrated due diligence in trying to secure [the presence at trial, but also that it is fairly clear [the witness] purposely made herself unavailable because she was (diaz, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at p. 706.) here, in ruling that arroyo was unavailable, the trial court found the witness were undertaken in good faith and demonstrated due diligence under 14 the circumstances. in initiating the search until two days before trial, the court suggested a reasonable explanation for waiting might have been to gain the element of surprise in an attempt to serve arroyo with a subpoena. the trial court also noted that the prosecution had established that arroyo was doing everything he could to avoid risdiction of california. he is somewhere between here and new york. we desire not to come while in hindsight it is always possible to think of additional steps that the prosecution might have taken to secure presence, [citation] . . . the sixth amendment does not require the prosecution to exhaust every avenue of inquiry, no matter how unpromising.hardy v. cross (2011) 565 u.s. 65, 6870, 7172; people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 293; people v. andrade (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 1274, 1293 [ [t]he law requires only reasonable efforts, not prescient perfection ].) given determination not to be found and to avoid testifying at trial, the trial court properly found arroyo to be unavailable, and in this case. iii. testimony about his statement to police appellant next asserts the trial court committed prejudicial error in admitting the portion of the transcript in which arroyo admitted he might have told police that when he flashed the hand sign. even if we were convinced the 15 trial court erred in admitting the testimony, we find no prejudice and therefore . a. background on direct examination at the preliminary hearing, arroyo testified that he could not recall whether appellant said a gang name when he flashed the hand sign at arroyo. the prosecutor responded that he could not recall, and the prosec [a]n honest the court overruled the objection, observing that the prosecutor was not trying to impeach the witness, but seeking to refresh his recollection. on cross-examination arroyo repeated that he had no recollection of appellant saying anything that arroyo identified as the name of a gang. at trial, appellant renewed the objection, arguing that the testimony was not admissible as a prior inconsistent statement, and the prosecutor had improperly attempted to refresh the the court ruled that evidence of arroyo telling police that appellant had said but could come in as recollection refreshed. the court added that any -examination testimony about whether appellant said anything when he flashed the hand sign went to the weight rather than admissibility of the evidence. 16 b. appellant has failed to demonstrate prejudice s ruling on the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. [citations.] specifically, we wexcept on a showing the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justi (people v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 266; people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 203, 207.) applying this standard, we find no error in the trial courthave told police that ap moreover, appellant has made no showing of prejudice. it is incumbent upon appellant to demonstrate prejudice from the erroneous admission of evidence. (cal. const., art. vi,  13; people v. brotherton (1874) 47 cal. 388, 404.) and reversal is warranted only where there is a reasonable probability that appellant would have received a more favorable result had the testimony been excluded. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) m boils down to nothing more than an assertion that the evidence of statement to police was relevant to the charges. relevance, however, does not establish prejudice, and there was abundant evidence beyond this snippet of testimony that appellant had invoked his gang to threaten arroyo, and that supported the gang allegation. specifically, along with his clearly visible gang tattoos, the playboys hand sign appellant made as he pointed a gun and threatened arroyo was as unmistakable an invocation as anything arroyo might have reported appellant said. 17 iv. prior allegation certified documents, juvenile adjudication for violation of former section 245, subdivision (a)(1). appellant contends substantial evidence does is 2003 juvenile adjudication for violation of former section 245, subdivision (a)(1) constituted a serious felony and qualified as a prior strike conviction under the three strikes law. we agree. a. background none of the documents submitted to prove the prior strike findings regarding the prior offense, referring only to a violation of (former) section 245, subdivision (a)(1). indeed, only the juvenile petition contained any reference at all to commission of the offense with a deadly weapon. specifically, count 3 of the petition alleged a violation of former section 245, subdivision (a)(1) in general terms . . the crime of ass[ault] with deadly weapon, by means likely to produce [great bodily injury], in violation of p[enal] code 245 (a)(1), a felony, was committed by said minor, who did willfully and unlawfull[y commit] assault upon [rld] with a deadly weapon, to wit, other, and by means of fo[rce likely to] produother following a contested hearing, the juvenile court found the petition true as to count 3, dismissed counts 1 and 2, and sustained the petition. 18 appellant argued below that, because a violation of former section 245, subdivision (a)(1) could be established merely on the basis of force likely to produce great bodily injury, the people had failed to prove the prior adjudication was for an assault with a deadly weapon and hence a strike. the trial court disagreed. relying solely on the handwritten reference to a baseball bat in the juvenile petition, the trial court found the prior was an assault with a deadly weapon and declared strike prior to be true beyond a reasonable doubt. b. former penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1) in 2003, when the juvenile court sustained the petition alleging a violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1), that section upon the person of another with a deadly weapon or instrument other than a firearm or by any means of force likely to produce great bodily injury shall be punished . . . , subdivision (a)(1) thus described alternative means of committing the same offense, aggravated assault, within the same subdivision, and a violation could be found without regard to whether the crime was committed by means of a deadly weapon or by force likely to produce great bodily injury.3 (people v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 10361037 [violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1) required proof of two ele 3 in 2012, the legislature amended section 245 by deleting bodilenacted subdivision (a)(4) (stats. 2011, ch. 183,  1), thereby separating the two ways in which an aggravated assault could occur. 19 person was assaulted, and two, the assault was committed by the use of a deadly weapon or instrument or by means of force likely people v. martinez (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 1035, 1043; in re mosley (1970) 1 cal.3d 913, 919, fn. person of another with a deadly weapon or instrument or by any although use of a deadly weapon and great bodily injury were interchangeable for purposes of a violation of former section 245, subdivision (a)(1), under the three strikes law only assault with a deadly weapon constitutes a serious felony. ( 1192.7, subd. (c)(31), 667, subd. (d)(1), 1170.12, subd. (b)(1); people v. delgado (2008) 43 cal.4th 1059, 1065 (delgado).) accordingly, the mere fact of a juvenile adjudication for aggravated assault under former section 245, subdivision (a)(1) would be insufficient to establish the adjudication constituted a strike in any case in which the juvenile court made no findings with regard to the precise means used to commit the offense. c. substantial evidence does not support the trial adjudication involved a serious felony the prosecution is required to prove each element of an alleged sentence enhancement beyond a reasonable doubt. (delgado, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1065; people v. miles (2008) 43 cal.4th 1074, 1082.) where, as here, the mere fact that a defendant was convicted under a particular statute does not establish the serious felony allegation, our supreme court has prior criminal proceeding to determine the nature or basis of the crime of which the defendant people v. mcgee 20 (2006) 38 cal.4th 682, 691; people v. trujillo (2006) 40 cal.4th 165, 179; delgado, at p. 1065.) none of the documents submitted by the people in this case indicates whether the juvenile court found an assault with a deadly weapon or merely an assault likely to produce great bodily injury when it sustained the petition following a contested hearing. committed in multiple ways, and the record of the conviction does not disclose how the offense was committed, a court must presume the conviction was for the least serious form of the offense. [citations.] in such a case, if the statute under which the prior conviction occurred could be violated in a way that does not qualify for the alleged enhancement, the evidence is thus (delgado, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1066.) we review the record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it is supported by substantial evidence. (delgado, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. words, we determine whether a rational trier of fact could have found that the prosecution sustained its burden of proving the elements of the sentence enhancement beyond a reasonable people v. miles, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1083; people v. ledbetter (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 896, 900.) the trial court was permitted to draw reasonable inferences from the records offered to prove appellant suffered a prior serious felony conviction. (delgado, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1066; people v. henley (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 555, 561.) but the court here went beyond reasonable inference when it weighed the allegations in the petition to make its own factual determination about the nature of the offense. in reaching its 21 conclusion that the allegation regarding a deadly weaponin the form of a handwritten reference to a baseball batestablished the crime as a serious felony, the court simply disregarded the reference in the petition to assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. moreover, none of the other documents submitted by the people contained any information which might tip the scale toward a conclusion that prior offense was an assault with a deadly weapon. because the evidence presented by the prosecution juvenile adjudication could have rested on use of a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury, it was insufficient to prove appellant guilty of a prior serious felony conviction beyond a reasonable doubt. without further evidence of the underlying circumstances, it section 245, subdivision (a)(1) was for the least serious form of the offense, that is, assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. (delgado, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1066.) juvenile adjudication for aggravated assault constituted a serious felony lacked substantial evidentiary support. we therefore conclude the court erred in imposing the sentence enhancement under the three strikes law. in light of our decision on substantial evidence grounds, we need not adchallenge to the sentence. 22 disposition the trial cou juvenile adjudication for violation of former penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1) constituted a prior serious felony conviction and a strike is reversed. the cause is remanded for resentencing. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. 