filed 2/17/17 p. v. lopez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. oscar robert lopez, defendant and appellant. b272050 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137483) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura r. walton, judge. affirmed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and yun 2 k. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________________ introduction oscar r. lopez appeals from a judgment and sentence of 10 years, following his plea of no contest to multiple drug, firearms and weapon possession counts. appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his belated request to continue his sentencing. for the reasons set forth below, we affirm. factual background and procedural history1 on august 14, 2015, appellant was charged with possession for sale of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11378; count 1), sale/offer to sell/transportation of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11379, subd. (a); count 2), possession of a firearm by a felon with five priors (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1); count 3),2 having a concealed firearm in a vehicle ( 25400, subd. (a)(1); count 4), carrying a loaded firearm ( 25850, subd. (a); count 5), false compartment activity (health & saf. code,  11366.8, subd. (a); count 6), possession of shuriken ( 22410; count 7), 1 as appellant challenges only his sentencing, we omit the facts underlying his offenses. 2 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 possession of a switchblade knife in a motor vehicle ( 21510, subd. (a); count 8), and identifying information theft ( 530.5, subd. (c)(1); counts 9 & 10). as to counts 1 and 2, it was further alleged that appellant was personally armed with a firearm ( 12022, subd. (c)), and that he had suffered a prior drug conviction pursuant to health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (c). as to counts 1 through 7, it was further alleged that appellant had served three prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). appellant initially pled not guilty. subsequently, on 10 pursuant to section 1385. appellant was informed he faced a maximum sentence of more than 18 years in state prison. offer of seven years, eight months in state prison, but accepted be served in county jail (hon. laura r. walton) stated, [5] him till the end of february as a surrender understanding that if he fails to return on that date, his sentence will remain and he may end up doing more than 5 date appellant withdrew his not guilty plea, waived his right to a jury trial and a court trial, and acknowledged the admonition that if you fail to show up on your sentencing date, that your plea will stand as an open plea and the court could sentence you up to the maximum . . . .pled no 4 contest to the charges and admitted the special allegations. appellant requested that the sentencing hearing be held on february 22, 2016, and the court so ordered. at the february 22 sentencing hearing, appellant failed to appear. the bail bond company telephonically informed the court clerk ankle monitoring bracelet 1 block from the courthouse and a he court found bail forfeited and issued a bench warrant. appellant was subsequently taken into custody. on april 12, 2016, the court denied probation and sentenced appellant to 10 years in custody. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion when it denied his belated request for a continuance and threatened to increase his sentence if he interrupted the pronouncement of sentence again. 1. relevant factual background at the april 12 sentencing hearing, the trial court recounted that appellant had entered an open plea to the court and failed to return for probation and sentencing. the prosecutor argued that because appellant failed to appear, defense counsel stated, his court date, and that is what caused him to be brought before the court. he apologizes for not showing up. he was 5 dealing with a death in the family, i believe, and he just exercised very poor judgment. but we are asking the court to impose the 5 years that he agreed to due to the fact that he ultimately was brought before the court shortly after the original [probation the court respondehave brought himself into the court and walked into the court and given an excuse or asked for more time. do you have evidence . . . the reason that he ended up in court on the warrant is because he, in fact, turned himself into the that i have is a death in my family, which is my mother. it was wronbeing. . . . the court inquiro you have evidence that his the evidence that i have is my mote the court inquired furyou have an obituary? do you have a death certificate? t have it the court asked appellant, [do] you want to continue the probation defendant answthe 6 court inquired, t want to continue the probation and sentencing so that you can have an opportunity to provide your attorney with evidence that, 1, you turned yourself into the police rather than [the police] picking you up on the no-bail warrant, and, 2, provide the court with evidence that you come to court when you agreed to do so for sentencing because your mother passed away; is that counsel then conferred. afterward, counsel informed the [w] the court denied probation and began sentencing. after the court pronounced the sentences on counts 1 and 2 -- midterm on both counts plus enhancements, totaling 10 years -- t? if there is years? . . .you should have thought about that --though. i turned myself into the -- to the la the . . . which you did just appellant continued to interrupt the court while it pronounced sentence on counts 3 through 5 (all stayed you an opportunity. i put it here on do you want to continue it to provide me with proof?. . . . 7 to do that. so now you are being sentenced. and do not over again and we can start off with the high term as to each and every count. now appellant apologized, and the court sentenced him to concurrent terms on the remaining counts. 2. analysis under section 1050, subdivision (e), continuances shall be granted only upon a showing of good cause. the determination of whether a continuance should be granted rests within the sound discretion of the trial court, although that discretion may not be exercised so as to deprive the defendant or his attorney of a reasonable opportunity to people v. sakarias (2000) 22 cal.4th 596, 646.) the party challenging a ruling on a continuance bears the burden of establishing an abuse of discretionpeople v. beames (2007) 40 cal.4th 907, 920.) in the absence of a showing of an abuse of discretion and prejudice to the defendant, a denial of his or her motion for a continuance does not repeople v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 840.) appellant has not shown the trial court abused its discretion in denying his belated request for a continuance and postponement of sentencing. appellant was initially scheduled for sentencing on february 22, 2016, but he failed to appear. when he appeared for sentencing on april 12, appellant confirmed that he had no evidence to explain his failure to appear on february 22. minutes before appellant 8 made his belated request, the trial court asked whether he wanted a continuance to acquire such evidence. his answer after again being asked, appellant reaffirmed that he did not want a continuance. appellant and his counsel conferred before counsel stated, [w]did not seek a continuance after the court pronounced sentence on count 1; only after being sentenced on count 2 did appellant seek to postpone sentencing. on this record, we find no abuse of discretion. appellant sought a continuance to collect evidence explaining his failure to appear on february 22. however, he had ample opportunity to present such evidence. the april 12 sentencing hearing occurred seven weeks after appellant absconded. moreover, at the april 12 hearing, appellant was afforded two opportunities for a continuance, but declined both. the its broad discretion. appellant further contends that the punishment . . . punishment. already sentenced appellant to 10 years, and that punishment was not increased. moreover, remarks did not prevent appellant from seeking a continuance. he had already made his request for a continuance . as stated above, the 9 trial court acted within its discretion in denying the belated request, and its later remarks had no impact on his sentence. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. collins, j. 