 filed 8/9/17 p. v. williams ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rakeem j. williams, defendant and appellant. b272000 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137352) appeal from orders of the superior court of los angeles county, allen j. webster, jr., judge. affirmed, with directions. allen g. weinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and scott a. 2 taryle, supervising deputies attorney general, kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ the jury convicted defendant and appellant rakeem j. williams in count 1 of willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),1 and in counts 2 and 3 of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder ( 664/187, subd. (a)).2 as to all three counts, the jury found true gang enhancement allegations pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). it also found true personal use firearm allegations pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (d), in count 1, and use of a firearm by a principal pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c), in counts 2 and 3. defendant was sentenced to 85 years to life in prison. in count 1, the trial court imposed a sentence of 25 years to life, plus 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). in count 2, the court imposed a consecutive sentence of 15 years to life, plus 20 years to life under section 12022.53, subdivision (c). the court imposed a concurrent sentence of 15 years to life in count 3, with a 1 all future statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 defendant was found not guilty in count 4 of shooting at an inhabited building ( 246). 3 concurrent sentence of 20 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (c).3 sentences were imposed and stayed on the remaining firearm use allegations. defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for mistrial following the outburst by a key prosecution witness, and that his constitutional right to confrontation was violated when the pronouncement of sentence and errors in the abstract of judgment and minute order with respect to sentencing enhancements and restitution require correction. we order that the abstract of judgment and minute order be amended in accordance with our opinion, but 3 the trial court incorrectly pronounced the however, they are correctly listed in the minute order and abstract of judgment as terms of 20 years, so no correction is necessary. (see  12022.53, subd. (c).) 4 facts4 on the evening of december 24, 2014, harrington help his sister jasmine bolden load christmas presents into her car. bolden was standing near mcfrazier, securing her daughter in a child safety seat, when a car drove up the street and parked just south of them. defendant and direction. defendant then ran into the street and fatally shot mcfrazier (count 1). bolden saw defendant look at mcfrazier and say, you bitch ass nigga. bolden made eye contact with defendant. defendant entered the passenger side of the car, which headed down the street. a few houses s also outside with her son brandon -year-old nephew. the car containing defendant pulled over. someone in the vehicle opened fire on tate and ronald (counts 2 and 3). davis laid on his nephew to shield him from the gunfire. on january 12, 2015, bolden saw a photograph of campanella park piru gang members on a social media website. she recognized defendant in the photograph. 4 we provide only a brief summary of the relevant facts. defendant does not argue that the evidence is insufficient to support his conviction of the underlying charges. 5 bolden took a screenshot of the photo, which she gave to detectives. she identified defendant in a six-pack photographic line-up on january 22, 2015. defendant was arrested on january 23, 2015, after police pulled him over for traffic violations. the arresting officers were unaware that defendant had been identified in connection with a murder. they smelled marijuana wafting from the car and initiated a search. the officers noticed that the air conditioning vent in the car was out of place. they removed the vent and discovered a desert eagle .45 handgun inside. although defendant alleged that the car belonged to his girlfriend, detectives later learned that he had recently purchased it and changed the license plates without notifying the department of motor vehicles. dna taken from the interior of the air conditioning vent matched defendant as a major contributor. ballistics testing revealed that eight of the bullet casings found at the handgun discovered in the vent. a bullet fragment taken ound discussion witness outburst bolden was called as a prosecution witness. during her testimony the prosecutor played a video recorded on the 6 evening of the murder, which depicted defendant firing a gun multiple times before getting into a car and leaving the scene. afterwards, bolden burst out: bolden began crying and left the witness stand. the trial court immediately stopped the trial and ordered the jurors to the jury room. defense counsel moved for a mistrial on the basis of jurors individually to determine whether they could give defendant a fair and impartial trial. defense counsel objected, arguing it was impossible to know what the jurors thought regardless of what they said. counsel argued jurors would say what they believed they were supposed to saythat they could give defendant a fair trial. the court decided to speak with the jurors individually on the record, and allowed the parties to question them. not affect their ability to give defendant a fair trial, and that credible because of it. several jurors expressed sympathy for convinced of the truth of her own statements. this did not 7 taint their view of the facts, however. the outburst reflected after questioning the jury, the trial court denied for mistrial. it reasoned that although indicated that they could be fair and impartial, open before calling in the jury, the court admonished bolden at length that it would not tolerate further outbursts from her. when trial resumed, the court instructed the jury under calcrim no. 101 with respect to jury conduct, and no. 226 with respect to witness credibility before continuing estimony. analysis we review a ruling denying a motion for mistrial for abuse of discretion. (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 282.) a motion for mistrial should be granted only when irreparably ibidinadmissible comments and in order for trials to proceed without constant mistrial, it is axiomatic the prejudicial effect of these comments may be corrected by judicial admonishment; absent evidence to the contrary the error is people v. martin (1983) 150 cal.app.3d 148, 163 (martin).) able to state they could be fair and impartial, their 8 comments show they were prejuhe cites to several examples in the record where various jurors said that they but these same jurors consistently differentiated between understanding how bolden would feel about seeing her brother killed, and allowing that sympathy to cause them to believe defendant committed the murder. juror no. 1 look over he was determined to make his [bolden] had some emotions, she had an outburst, and you know, feels that she give defendant a fair trial. juror no. 4 did not have any reaction to the outburst when it occurred. the juror explained, [] . . . [] but then we have to, you know, give the judgment whatever it is, [i]t was q[i]headed ashe described the outburst as a ld be that [bolden] just wants someone to -- situationoutburst did not make him any more likely to excuse 9 several discrepancies between her story and the video played by the prosecution, which he did not discount simply because bolden became overly emotional. based on this record, the trial court could reasonably conclude twere not irreparably damaged . all 15 jurors satisfied the trial court that the possibly tainting events would not affect their deliberations. the trial court instructed the jury with respect to the outburst prior to estimony, and there is no indication that the jury misunderstood or failed to follow its instructions. impact because she was a key prosecution witness is unavailing. in martin, supra, 150 cal.app.3d at pages 162163, the reviewing court motion for new trial under nearly identical conditions, witness had an emotional outburst in which she told martin he was guilty. the court questioned each juror individually to determine whether this unsolicited remark would affect their ability to unemotionally and independently evaluate the case. the court was satisfied each juror could ignore the remark and admonished the jury against using the remark for any purpose. absent any evidence to the contrary, we assume the jury was able to follow the trial courts admonition and disregard the statement. juries often hear unsolicited and inadmissible comments and in order for 10 trials to proceed without constant mistrial, it is axiomatic the prejudicial effect of these comments may be corrected by judicial admonishment; absent evidence to the contrary the error is deemed cured. (people v. ryan (1981) 116 cal.app.3d 168, 184; people v. seiterle (1963) 59 cal.2d 703, 710, cert. den. 375 u.s. 887; people v. sandoval (1970) 9 cal.app.3d the approach of the trial court here is consistent with the holding in martinmistrial was unwarranted was not an abuse of discretion. expert testimony it was alleged that defendant committed the charged offenses for the benefit of the campanella park piru gang, of which he was a member. to prove the allegation, the people were required to establish that campanella park piru was a criminal street gang whose primary activities evidenced a pattern of criminal gang activity. ( 18commission of, conspiracy to commit, or solicitation of, sustained juvenile petition for, or conviction of two or moretime period. [citations.] the predicate offenses must have been committed on separate occasions, or by two or more 11 people v. lara (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 296, 326327.) relevant proceedings at trial, the prosecution introduced certified court deadly weapon and dissuading a witness. after the dockets were admitted without objection, the prosecutor questioned detective nikolai vavakin as follows: the individual named richard widby. are you familiar with that individual? kin]: yes. kin]: i reviewed police reports where he was named as a suspect, i talked to arresting deputies and also [the] arresting detective or detective that investigated the crime. whether or not mr. widby is a campanella park piru? in]: yes, i do. in]park piru gang member. 12 and the investigation you just previously mentioned? in]: yes, and also tattoos. 163, dante daniel koger. are you familiar with this individual? in]: yes. in]: i also talked to arresting deputies who arrested him for the crime and also i talked to [the] investigating detective. i reviewed other police documents and i also have knowledge of his moniker. whether or not mr. koger is a campanella park piru? in]: yes, i do. in]: that he is a campanella park piru gang member. information that you just previously described? defense counsel briefly cross-examined detective vavakin on the issue: couple of individuals and prior convictions, a richard widby. am i pronouncing that correctly? kin]: i believe so, yes. 13 in]: yes. individuals? analysis defendant contends that detective vavaktestimony violated his sixth amendment right to confront witnesses as interpreted in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez). he argues that detective vavakin lacked personal knowledge of the crimes alleged to be predicate offenses and the individuals who committed them, and that the detective relayed case-specific testimonial hearsay to the jury when he testified regarding the basis for his opinion that widby and koger were campanella park piru gang members. we disagree. detective vavakin did not testify to case-specific facts in opining that the men were members of the gang, and sanchez does not require expert witnesses to base their opinions on personal rather than general knowledge. the defendant in sanchez was convicted of possession of a firearm by a felon, possession of drugs while armed with street gang. the jury found that the defendant committed a felony for the benefit of the delhi gang. (sanchez, supra, 63 gang expert testified to specific content contained in a step 14 notice,5 the expert also testified to the details of several contacts between sanchez and police that were taken from police cousin, a known delhi member, was shot while [sanchez] stood next to him. [sanchez] told police then that he grew in the delhi neighborhood. (2) on december 30, 2007, [sanchez] was with mike salinas when salinas was shot from a passing car. salinas, a documented delhi member, identified the perpetrator as a rival gang member. . . . [(3) o]n december 9, 2009, [sanchez] was arrested in a garage with [two known delhi members, john] gomez and . . . surveillance camera, ziploc baggies, narcotics, and a id. at pp. 672673.) on cross-examination, the expert testified that he had never met sanchez. he was not knowledge of the individual incidents was derived from police reports. (id. at p. 673.) the sanchez court first held that, under state - 5 known to associate with gang members as part of a law enforcement effort to control gang activity. the acronym refers to the california street terrorism enforcement and prevention act ( 186.20 et seq.). (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 672, fn. 3.) 15 testimony taken from a step notice or police report about other police officers regarding his gang affiliation, such testimony is inadmissible hearsay unless the expert has personal knowledge of the evidence or the evidence has been otherwise properly admitted. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685686.) the court next held that statements contained in a step notice or police report are testimonial hearsay because those documents are sufficiently formal and made for the primary purpose of establishing facts to be used against the defendant at trial. (id. at pp. 696697.) it enhancements. (id. at p. 699.) the sanchez rely on hearsay in forming an opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms that he did so. because the jury must testimony, evidence code section 802 properly allows an upon which his opinion rests. . . . there is a distinction to be made between allowing an expert to describe the type or source of the matter relied upon as opposed to presenting, as fact, case-specific hearsay that does not otherwise fall under sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685686.) in the case before us detective vavakgenerally the kind and sosanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686.) 16 unlike the expert witness in sanchez, who described police contacts and statements the defendant made in detail, detective vavakin did not impart any information regarding the crimes widby and koger committed, relate any of the facts or statements contained in the police reports, or recount the substance of any conversations he had with arresting or investigating officers to the jury. he properly identified the sources he relied upon to form his opinion that widby and koger were campanella park piru gang members in a general manner. detective vavakadmissible under state evidentiary rules and nontestimonial in co gang and firearm enhancements as relevant here, section 12022.53 establishes three enhancements for use of a firearm in the commission of enumerated felonies: 10 years under subdivision (b) for personal use of a firearm; 20 years under subdivision (c) for personal and intentional discharge of a firearm; and 25 years to life under subdivision (d) for personal and intentional discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury, or death, to any person other than an accomplice. these subdivisions apply to a defendant who is a principal in the commission of the offense where it has been pleaded and proven that the defendant violated section 186.22 and a principal committed any of the acts specified in section 12022.53, subdivisions (b)(d), as was the case here. ( 12022.53, subd. (e)(1).) 17 alternative methods for punishing felons whose crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) . . . imposes a 10-year enhancement when such a defendant commits a violent felony. section 186.22[, subdivision ](b)(1)(c) does not apply, imprisonment in the state pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(5).) instead, section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) . . . applies and imposes a minimum term of 15 years people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1004 (lopez).) section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) applies to defendants convicted of first degree murder and sentenced to state prison for a term of 25 years to life, even when the minimum parole eligibility because the minimum parole eligibility term in the murder statute is longer. (id. at pp. 10081009.) where firearm and gang enhancements have both been found true, only the firearm enhancement may be imposed, absent a finding that defendant personally used or discharged a firearm in the commission of the offense. ( 12022.53, subd. (e)(2).) clerical errors defendant contends, and the attorney general concedes, that the minute order and abstract of judgment 18 incorrectly indicate the trial court imposed and stayed 10-year gang enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), as to all three counts. we agree that the indications in the abstract of judgment and minute order (see people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185 (mitchell) judgment must be amended when in conflict].) our review of the record reveals that the abstract of judgment incorrectly indicates the firearm enhancements of 25 years to life in count 1 ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), and 20 years in count 3 ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), were imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (b). these discreat sentencing and the abstract of judgment must also be corrected to properly reflect that the trial court imposed an enhancement of 25 years to life in count 1 pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and imposed and stayed an enhancement of 20 years in count 3 pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (c). (see mitchell, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 185 [oral pronouncement controls].) errors in the pronouncement of sentence as the trial court impliedly recognized, section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5)not section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c)is applicable in all three counts because both murder and 19 attempted murder may be penalized by imposition of life sentences. (see lopez, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 10061011.) as the attorney general argues, because the jury found that defendant personally used and discharged a firearm in the commission of the murder, both section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), should have been orally imposed in count 1, although section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) will have no practical effect on lopez, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 10061011 [section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) applies to sentences of 25 years to life as well as straight life sentences].) in counts 2 and 3, however, the jury found only that a principalrather than defendant personallyused and discharged a firearm, so the 15-year minimum parole period may not be imposed in addition to the 20-year term for the firearm enhancement in each of those counts. the abstract of judgment must be modified to reflect terms of life with the possibility of parole as to counts 2 and 3, rather than sentences of 15 years to life. (see  664, subd. (a) [punishment for willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder is life in prison with the possibility of parole].) restitution we agree with the parties that the abstract of pronouncement of restitution. (see mitchell, supra, 26 20 (s)should be checked to indicate that the total amount of and the restitution fund. (see ibid. [appellate court has the authority to correct clerical errors at any time].) disposition we order that the trial court amend the abstract of judgment as follows: (1) strike the indications that 10-year gang enhancements were imposed and stayed in counts 1-3; (2) correct the sentences in counts 2 and 3 to reflect that sentences of life with the possibility of parole are imposed in both counts; (3) correct the enhancement term in count 1 to reflect that the 25-year-to-life term was imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d); (4) correct the enhancement term in count 3 to reflect that the concurrent term of 20 years was imposed and stayed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (c); and (5) (s)indicate that the total restitution amount of $8,648.50 is to restitution fund. the court is further ordered to strike the indications that 10-year gang enhancements were imposed and stayed in counts 1-3 from the minute order. the trial court shall 21 forward a certified copy of the corrected abstract to the department of corrections. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. kriegler, acting p.j. i concur: landin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 1 people v. rakeem j. williams b272000 baker, j., concurring ruling on his motion for mistrial and the commission of certain sentencing errors. i also agree the majority opinion reaches the correct contention, but i disagree with the reason given. that the gang expert witness related his testimony concerning the gang predicate offenses in so-dispositive. (see, e.g., people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 685-686 (sanchez).) if it were, attorneys could avoid the bar on hearsay merely by artful tailoring of questions (for instance, you asked officers smith and jones whether the defendant was a gang member in preparation for testifying today, what did they tell you?). about the predicate gang offenses and the gang membership of the perpetrators that committed them was not hearsay is -specific fac2 defined in sanchez. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676 case-specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants alleged to have been involved in the predicate offenses and the defendants who committed them were unconnected to the case being tried against defendant. baker, j. 