filed 3/15/17 p. v. leonard ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. markice leonard, defendant and appellant. b272147 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta136191) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, tammy chung ryu, judge. affirmed. law office of paul kleven and paul kleven, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris and xavier becerra, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and amanda v. lopez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant markice leonard was charged with second degree robbery of laquala mckinley (pen. code,  211; count 1), with further allegations that he personally used a handgun, and had been convicted of a serious or violent felony. (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (b), 667, subd. (a)(1).)1 a jury found defendant guilty of robbery as to count 1, and found true the firearm allegation. defendant admitted the prior conviction allegation. he filed a motion for a new trial, which was denied. defendant was sentenced to 21 years in prison. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred, and deprived him of the right to present a defense by precluding him from eliciting thirdparty culpability evidence during his cross-examination of a robbery victim. he also contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for a new trial. finding no error, we affirm. 1 defendant was charged with another count of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211; count 2), and two counts of attempted second degree robbery (pen. code,  664/211; counts 3 & 4). as to counts 24, it was alleged that he was a principal armed with a handgun (pen. code,  12022, subd. (a)(1)), and had been convicted of a serious or violent felony (pen. code,  667, subd. (a)(1).) he was acquitted on counts 2-4. 3 background the prosecution case on september 25, 2014, at about 10:00 p.m., mckinley was returning home from work. after parking her ford expedition near the intersection of 102nd street and towne avenue in los angeles, mckinley noticed two men on the other side of the street. she recognized both men, but did not know their names. she did not pay them much attention and did not see them cross the street. one of the two men, whom mckinley later identified as defendant, approached mckinley from behind a tree as she gathered items from her truck and stepped onto the sidewalk. she recognized defendant dingy burgundy sweater and khaki cargo pants. he held a gun at his side. defendant asked what her name was and where she lived. she mckinley knew defendant planned to rob her and handed him her credit and bank cards, two phones, identification and credentials, among other things. defendant stood about 12 inches from mckinley. he said someone had killed his sister. a second, unidentified man emerged from the tree putting on gloves. were in the air and she pled with defendant not 4 . . . shut the latch on her necklace, snatched it from her neck and handed it to the man wearing gloves. as mckinley removed the chain, defendant raised a silver metal gun to her chest, causing her extreme fright. after robbing her, the men ran off toward 101st street. mckinley yelled for her husband who came immediately, as did others. her husband and nephew ran in different directions after the robbers. police officers drove by. mckinley flagged them down and told them she had just been robbed at gunpoint. she gave the officers descriptions of the robbers, told them that she had seen the men around the neighborhood and showed them which way they fled. the police picked er, marcus, one street over. an officer asked mckinley to come see him; she said he was not one of the robbers.2 mckinley did not leave her home for three months after the robbery. on one of the first days after she emerged, she saw defendant. he wore the same pants and haircut he had worn during the robbery. by early december 2014, mckinley had learned , which she gave to the police. in december, mckinley identified defendant at the police station in a photo lineup. in a written 2 introduce himself and say that he had not robbed her. it is unclear when mckinley learned marcus and defendant were brothers. 5 stno. 4 [defendant] because he robbed me at 10:00 p.m. on september 25th. he was with another boy. o no. 4] before and september 25, 2014. the defense case kenneth williams (williams) testified for defendant. in september 2014, williams and defendant, brother, lived at throbbed. unlike williams, defendant did not hang out in the neighborhood. defendant was always working, or at school or fixing cars. williams learned about this case against defendant in midjanuary 2015. he did not contact the police and did not get in touch was to admit that he was the person who robbed mckinley. williams had seen . . . williams testified that late one night in september 2014, he was coming home from the markedescription pull up in a white truck at the corner of 102nd street and 6 towne avenue.3 williams did not remember if he had been across the street from where the woman parked, or on the same side of the street. williams was with a man named trayvont,4 whose nickname was tyrie, whom he had known for two or three days. williams grabbed a black ed mckinley from behind a tree. he pulled out the toy gun and asked purse and neck chain. trayvont said nothing. williams had not worn gloves, and was not sure if trayvont had worn them. williams took and tossed it aside almost immediately (within 150 feet from mckinley). in. there had been a pendant on the chain, but williams did not see what it was. he heard it drop to the ground when mckinley took the chain off, but did not see where the pendant landed and did not look for it. he and trayvont ran away toward 101st street. williams sold the chain for $100. 3 he committed the robbery on september 13. later, he said it had been done during the third or fourth week of the month, closer to october 1 when he gets his food stamps. 4 defendant and kenneth williams have a brother named travonne williams. williams testified that travonne williams was not with defendant or williams the night mckinley was robbed. 7 defendant was not with williams when he robbed mckinley and defendant knew nothing about the crime. initially, williams told an investigator that appellant was at a football game the night mckinley was robbed. at trial, williams testified that he was not sure whether defendant had been at a football game or at home during the robbery. williams and defendant had spoken since september 2014, but not about this robbery. when williams first contacted defense counsel, he did not mention been killed in a traffic collision with a fire engine during a highspeed police chase. he had not mentioned trayvont when investigator shortly before trial. williams said he had not done so because he had been told trayvont had moved out of town, and because discussion 1. exclusion of evidence of thirdparty culpability defendant contends that the trial court deprived him of the right to present a complete defense by precluding him from eliciting evidence of third-party culpability for the crime during crossexamination of mckinley. we disagree. 8 a. pertinent proceedings before trial, the prosecution filed a motion pursuant to evidence code section 4025 arguing that defendant should be precluded from suggesting, in his opening statement or through cross-examination of any prosecution witness, that the robbery of mckinley involved a case of mistaken identity, and that williams was actually the perpetrator of circumstantial evidence to support a claim that [williams] committed the [robbery of mckinley] and the had not satisfied the criteria for admissibility of thirdparty culpability evidence under people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826 (hall). in addition, the prosecution observed that defendant would be able to introduce evidence that williams had been the perpetrator only if williams testified during the defense case. at the time trial began, williams was in custody on unrelated charges. thus, the jury in dewould never hear testimony if he chose to exercise his fifth agree with the people that defense counsel not be permitted to mention thirdparty culpability until we determine whether mr. williams is . . in a side-bar conference after the prosecutionexamination, and before he began his cross-examination of mckinley, 5 statutory references are to the evidence code. 9 defense counsel requested permission to show her and the jury three photographs, one depicting defendant and the other two depicting his brothers, kenneth and travonne williams, to see if this jogs her objection to the admission of any evidence of thirdparty culpability, arguing that defendant was simply trying to introduce the same evidence using a different vehicle. the court inquired whether, if williams chose to testify, the prosecution would bring mckinley back on rebuttal. the prosecutor said he would not. he noted that her identification testimony had been consistent and unambiguous, there it ruled court sustained the objection. it also noted that its ruling would be had expressed some reservation about her prior identification, then [defense counsel] could have brought [the photographs] in through had a right to put on a defense and present it to a jury, and objected on state and federal constitutional grounds, citing chambers v. mississippi [(1973) 410 u.s. 284]. 10 b. party culpability evidence the standard for the admissibility of thirdparty culpability evidence was established in hall, supra, 41 cal.3d 826: party evidence need not show the act; it need only be capable of raising a reasonable doubt of o not require that any evidence, however remote, must be admitted to show a third . . . [e]vidence of mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime in another person, without more, will not suffice to raise a reasonable douguilt: there must be direct or circumstantial evidence linking the id. at p. 833.) hall party culpability evidence like any other evidence: if relevant it is admissible ( 350) unless its probative value is substantially outweighed by the risk of undue delay, prejudice, or confusion ( hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 834.) to be admissible, thirdparty culpability evidence offered by a defendant to demonstrate that a reasonable doubt exists as to his guilt must link the third party directly or circumstantially to the actual perpetration of the crime. (people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 372assessing an offer of proof relating to such evidence, the court must decide whether the evidence could raise a more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352.id. 11 at pp. 367third party culpability evidence for abuse of discretion. (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 581.) on this record, we conclude the trial court correctly excluded evidence of thirdparty culpability offered by defendant which was not defendant as the perpetrator, not capable of raising a reasonable doubt ectly or circumstantially link williams (the third party) to actual perpetration of the crime. ther than irrelevant photographs of the siblings, and the unlikely possibility that mckinley would equivocate after viewing them, there was no evidence that thirdparty culpability would actually be put before the jury, and there was no evidence that williams would waive his fifth amendment rights and testify that he robbed mckinley. in other words, at the time the court made its ruling, there was no evidence that williams was the actual perpetrator. thirdparty culpability evidence is relevant only if it links a third party to the crime. (see hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. party culpability failed to satisfy threshold requirements of relevance and admissibility. while there was no evidence of thirdparty culpability, there was fact that mckinley had no trouble identifying defendant as someone she saw in the neighborhood on a daily basis, had seen on the morning of the day she was robbed, and as the man who robbed her at gunpoint on 12 ndant was firm and unequivocal; she picked defendant out of a photo lineup and identified him at both the preliminary hearing and at trial. in show mckinley and the jury the photographs and question mckinley about them, the court observed that there was no basis to do so given wavered. engage in a balancinquiry [is] limited to whether [the thirdparty culpability] evidence (hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 833.) the evidence defendant sought to introduce (and elicit) was relevant only if there was some evidence linking the third party to the crime. (hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 833.) here, the court implicitly concluded the evidence defendant sought to elicit by cross-examining mckinley regarding the photos was that point in the trial, there was no foundation to support its admission because no evidence of thirdparty culpability had been put before the jwilliams would testify. because the evidence failed to satisfy the first prong of the test, there was no need for the court to proceed to the second prong of the section 352 analysis, and determine whether the 13 probative value of then non-existent evidence was substantially outweighed by its potential for prejudice. c. defendant was not denied a meaningful opportunity to present a defense a d(california v. trombetta (1984) 467 u.s. 479, 485; people v. brown the ordinary rules of right to present a defense. courts retain . . . a traditional and intrinsic power to exercise discretion to control the admission of evidence in the interests of orderly procedure and the avoidance of prejudice. [citations.]people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 611.) this principle is equally applicable in the case of evidence of thirdparty culpability. (ibid.) -examination of mckinley regarding them did not prevent defendant from presenting a l made his opening statement after the prosecution rested, it had been established that williams 14 crime. the court permitted defendant to present a defense of thirdparty culpability by calling williams to testify, while also protecting rights. the court first appointed counsel to represent williams and made sure that williams was voluntarily waiving his fifth amendment right and that he understood all the consequences of his decision. the williams was not tainted by the fact that he was in custody (on unrelated offenses). the trial court: (1) permitted williams to testify wearing civilian clothing; (2) ensured that he was already seated in the witness box before the jury entered the courtroom; (3) placed his attorney in the first row of public seats so he could closely, but inconspicuously, observe the proceedings; (4) refused to permit the prosecution to question williams regarding his two pending criminal at any point that he wanted to stop, or to talk to his counsel, a sign that was designed not to alert the jurywhich would be excusedto any irregularities in the proceeding. party culpability defense. that does not mean defendant was prevented from presenting williams delivered on his promise and testified that it was he who committed the robbery. the jurors did not need photographs to compare any resemblance between the two brothers (brother travonne 15 is irrelevant here). the jurors had ample time during trial to compare might have mistaken defendant for williams. o present a defense is also belied by the fact that he retainedbut never exercisedthe ability to seek to recall mckinley during his case, or subpoena her on his own under proper circumstances. first, the record contains no indication that the trial court would not have afforded defense counsel an opportunity to recall mckinley and question her regarding the photographs in the event williams testified. second, during his affirmative case, defense counsel could have subpoenaed mckinley after williams testified and a thirdparty culpability foundation was laid. defendant had an opportunity to present his thirdparty culpability defense, and no error under state law was due process were not violated. (see people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1242-1243 [exclusion of third party culpability evidence did not constitute a violation of the federal constitutional rights to present a defense or to confront and cross-examine witnesses].)6 6 prejudice. however, we make two brief observations on the subject. first, we party culpability evidence implicates the federal constitution and is governed by the chapman (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18) standard of review. it is settled that the standard for determining prejudice where a court errs in excluding such evidence is harmless error standard 16 2. defendant sought a new trial on three grounds: (1) his contention that the court improperly refused to allow him to confront mckinley with and question her regarding the photographs of the three brothers, (2) newly discovered evidence of his work records, and (3) newly discovered records confirming the death of trayvont/tyrie, the man williams claimed was with him when he robbed mckinley. the motion was denied on all grounds. only the first of the three bases for denial is at issue here. abuse of discretion. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 140.) disturbed people v. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 837). (hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 836.) reversal is more favorable to defendant would have been reached in the absence of the ibid.) second, under the watson standard, even were we to conclude that the trial court erreda finding we expressly do not makein light of the extremely strong case against defendant, there was no prejudice: it is not reasonably probable that defendant would have achieved a more favorable result absent such assumed error. the jury was able to view williams when he testified and determine whether it was reasonable that mckinleywho had seen the armed robber at a 12-inch distancemistook him for defendant. moreover, williams was vague or mistaken on numerous details (the brand and color of the purse, the date of the robbery and his location in relation to mckinley before the robbery), and his testimony was suspect on others (he nor did he look for a diamond pendant that purportedly fell near his feet). 17 fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 730.) the appellant has the burden to reasoned judgment and guided by legal principles and policies appropriate to the particular matter at issue. people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977.) [regarding the exclusion of thirdphotographs of him, kenneth williams and travonne williams . . . , the trial court again abused its discretion in denying the motion for new demonstrate that the trial court abused its discretion in excluding the thirdparty culpability evidence, we find that defendant similarly failed to show that the court abused its discretion when it denied his motion for a new trial. // // // // // // // // 18 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 