 filed 6/28/17 p. v. cunningham ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john d. cunningham, defendant and appellant. b272322 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma065633) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, christopher g. estes, judge. affirmed. russell s. babcock, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, michael j. wise, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 when police officers responded to a 911 domestic violence call, they encountered defendant and appellant john cunningham (defendant) at the scene, partially hidden behind some trees. unbeknownst to the officers when they arrived, defendant had not committed the reported incident of domestic violence, but he had very recently committed identity theft. defendant belligerently refused to comply with certain of the , and a scuffle ensued when the officers detained him. defendant was charged with resisting-arrest-related offenses and with identity theft, and he was tried on all the charges in a single action and convicted on several counts. we consider whether the trial court prejudicially erred by joining the identity theft charges for trial with the resisting arrest charges, and by permitting the prosecution to introduce testimony regarding as evidence of motive. i. background a. the identity theft offense conduct in march 2015, defendant was living with his aunt, thyra checks without her consent. two of the checks, dated march 15 and march 20, and made out to a frank harris. both checks were depositedone on march 21, 2015.1 1 the march 21, 2015, date is taken from the amended information charging defendant with identity theft and the subsequent motion for joinder. a trial exhibit shows the check is dated march 20 and appears to have been cleared and posted to the account on march 24. defendant does not contest that the 3 when isaac noticed money had been withdrawn from her belongings and found a third check of hers. this one was made out to defendant with e forged on it. she also discovered defendant had taken a check that a third party had made payable to her. defendant admitted to police detectives in may 2015 that he took several of the police two $250 checks , but he took the money from one of them to pay for a room. defendant said he gave the check made payable to isaac by a third party to another man whose name he did not know. defendant also claimed he never attempted to cash a check made out to himself. b. the resisting arrest offense conduct on the evening of march 22, 2015i.e., the next day after one of the checks stolen from isaac was depositedshayla caldwell (shayla) and her husband keion caldwell (keion)2 were at their home in lancaster when they heard a woman screaming for help. they recognized the screams as coming from a transient woman who had been living with a man in a nearby garage attached to a vacant property. shayla called 911 while keion went outside to investigate. the 911 operator did not ask for a description of the suspect, and shayla offered none. police officers responding to the call were check was deposited on march 21. accordingly, we treat march 21, 2015, as the date of deposit. 2 because these witnesses share the same last name, we identify them individually by their first names. 4 told only of the address and that it was a potential domestic violence situation. when keion went to the garage, he saw the man who had been living there leave the property. keion stayed with the victim, who had been stabbed, until the police arrived 15 to 20 minutes later. los angeles county sheriff deputies aaron tanner and donald nelson arrived at the location around 7:20 p.m. when deputy tanner stepped into the front yard, he saw a pair of legs from the knees down behind two large trees. the deputy ordered the person, who turned out to be defendant, to come out, but defendant refusedeputy tanner continued to order defendant to show himself; when defendant complied after 10 or 15 seconds, his hands were balled up. left hand and ordered him to release it, which he did not do. defendant told the deputies something along the lines of, keion was waiting for the police near the garage when he heard yelling and screaming. he ventured toward the commotion and saw defendant standing before the officers with his hands raised to about shoulder level. keion could see the fingertips of right hand and keion saw fully open. defendant was yelling something to the effect of, keion repeatedly shouted to the officers. deputy tanner heard keion but did not respond to him. 5 deputy nelson drew a taser, and when that distracted defendant, deputy hand and pulled. defendant stumbled, deputy nelson grabbed right hand, and the officers took defendant to the ground, where they handcuffed him. in taking defendant to the ground, deputy nelson landed hard on his knee and injured his kneecap. once defendant was handcuffed, the officers discovered the object they the entire being handcuffed took no more than two minutes. keion said vocal than anytaccording to deputy tanner, defendant did not try to punch or kick the deputies, but he verbal. defendant twisted and kicked as the officers handcuffed him, and h, aet this shit on video. scene after defendant was handcuffed. when officers placed defendant in the back of a patrol car, he continued to yell. defendant rear passenger window, breaking it. after doing so, defendant told the officers his head hurt and deputy whalen and two other officers (not nelson and tanner) took defendant to a nearby hospital. based deputy whalen thought it was possible defendant was under the influence of narcotics. at the hospital, defendant was a doctor examined defendant and cleared him to be transported to jail, but defendant refused to allow officers to approach him. defendant told the officers he was not going to jail simply on a . . . 6 officers began videotaping defendant at that point. the videotape shows defendant with his left hand cuffed to a bench. throughout the video, which is approximately 30 minutes long, defendant is moving around to the extent he can given the handcuff, and mostly standing or squatting on the bench, as opposed to sitting on it. he repeatedly tells the officers and medical personnel that he is not going to cooperate because he is ke him into custody. at one point, defendant lurched to grab some sort of rolling medical device. when an officer responded by pulling a taser and pointing it at defen defendant also warnedswinging. . . . something up in my hand so i make sure that hurt, so that is going to hurt.defendant then picked up some sort of medical implement and brandished it. he told he repositioned himself on the bench, muttering to make sure [he] got leverage . . . to spin after the officers stopped recording defendant, they approached him as a group from behind a ballistic shield. as deputy william zavala (zavala) the officers managed to handcuff him. 7 c. procedural history in september 2015, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant with seven crimes stemming from his interactions with the police in the field and at the hospital: two counts of assault on a peace officer in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (c)3 (count one relating to tanner and count two relating to nelson); one count of battery in violation of section 243, subdivision (d) (count three, relating to nelson); and four counts of resisting an executive officer in violation of section 69 (count four relating to nelson, count five to tanner, count six to whalen, and count seven to zavala). the district attorney further alleged defendant had caused great bodily injury to deputy nelson within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a) and defendant had suffered three prior prison convictions within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the district attorney also filed a separate case against defendant for identity theft based on the checks he stole from isaac. in january 2016, the district attorney moved to consolidate the cases and join all the charges. the prosecutor contended the incidents were connected in their commission, thereby justifying joinder of the chargesconcerned there was already a warrant in the system for his arrest for passing stolen and forcontended joinder would not present a substantial risk of prejudice because the crimes in each case would likely be cross-admissible in separate trials, neither case was particularly 3 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 8 stronger than the other, and the charges would not create any spillover effect. the trial court granted the motion for joinder and consolidation, over drelying on people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1 (merriman). in an amended information reflecting the consolidation of the two cases, the district attorney charged defendant with two counts of identity theft in violation of section 530.5, subdivision (a) (count 8 relating to the first check redeemed on march 15, 2015, and count 9 relating to the check redeemed on march 21, 2015). after the people presented their case at trial, the court dismissed the great bodily injury allegation for insufficient evidence. the jury acquitted defendant on both counts charging assault on a peace officer and the sole count charging battery (counts 1-3). the jury found defendant not guilty of resisting an executive officer with respect to deputies nelson and tanner (counts four and five), but found him guilty of the lesser crime of resisting, delaying or obstructing an officer in violation of section 148, subdivision (a)(1). the jury found defendant guilty of the resisting an executive officer charges in counts six and seven (with respect to deputies whalen and zavala), and it found him guilty of the two identity theft charges (counts eight and nine). defendant admitted the alleged prison priors. the trial court sentenced him to eight years and four months in custody. ii. discussion defendant contends his conviction must be reversed because the jury was improperly influenced by two trial court rulings, including their cumulative effect: joining his resisting arrest and identity theft charges in a single trial, and admitting 9 evidence of his drug use. we reject both contentions. joinder was not an abuse of discretion because the trial court reasonably concluded the two groups of charges were connected in their commission (the identity theft being at least part of the reason for resisting the officers, or so a jury could find) and defendant has not established a of methamphetamine likewise provides no basis for overturning his convictions. the evidence was relevant and the trial balancing of the probative value of the evidence against any prejudicial effect was not error, let alone prejudicial error. a. the trial court committed no error by joining charges in a single trial section 954 allows a defendant to be tried on different charges in a single action so long as the charges are .crimes are (people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, 76, citations omitted (landry).) crimes of different classes that do not relate to the same transaction or eventare connected in their commission if there is a common element of substantial importance in their commission . . . .people v. armstrong (2016) 1 cal.5th 432, 455 (armstrong); see also landry, supra, at p. 76 [different times and places against different victims are nevertheless connected together in their commission when they are . . . linke], internal quotation marks omitted.) 10 the law favors joinder for efficiency reasons. (landry, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 75; merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 37.) however, charges that are statutorily joinable may be tried separately if a court determines there is good cause for separate trials in the interests of justice. ( 954.) defendant contends the two sets of charges against himthose relating to resisting arrest, on the one hand, and identity theft, on the otherwere not eligible to be joined under section 4 he further contends that even if joinder was statutorily permitted, the trial court abused its discretion in not ordering separate trials. abuse of discretion. (people v. gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 221.) if the statutory requirements for joinder are satisfied, the joining the charges for trial. (people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 122-123 a defendant seeking severance of properly joined charged offenses must make a stronger showing of potential prejudice than would be necessary to exclude evidence of other crimes in a severed (simon).) our review proceeds in two stages. first, we consider the record before the trial court at the time of its joinder ruling. (armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 456.) if we find no abuse of discretion at that juncture, we must then determine events after 4 11 defenal right to simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 129.) examining made prior to trial, we conclude the trial court was within its discretion to join the charges against defendant as connected together in their commission. in merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th 1, our supreme court held the charges for evading arrest and witness intimidation were connected in their commission to his resisting arrest and intimidating witnesses was to avoid criminal id. at p. 36.) in this case, the prosecution similarly argued in their commission because his desire to escape prosecution for identity theft was a motive for resisting arrest. the trial court had sufficient information before it to make that inference. a day after the second check he stole was deposited, and both categories of crime took place in lancaster. under these circumstancesvery close temporal proximity, some geographic proximity, and a readily understandable motive that linked both categories of crime (avoiding detention by the police, which might lead to an arrest)the trial court reasonably concluded there was a common element of substantial importance linking both sets of crimes. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 188 [close proximity in time and location between rape and subsequent vehicle theft supported inference theft was motivated by desire to elude capture for rape].) defendant also has not demonstrated prejudice. in evaluating the trial 12 evidence of each of the offenses would be cross-admissible in armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 456.) cross-(people v. trujeque (2015) 61 cal.4th 227, 259; see also armstrong, supra, at p. 456.) if the evidence would not be cross-admissible, three additional factors, any of whichcombined with our earlier determination of absence of cross-admissibility discretion: (1) whether some of the charges are particularly likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (2) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the totality of the evidence may alter the outcome as to some or all of the charges; or (3) whether one of the charges (but not another) is a capital offense . . . . [citations.] we then balance the potential for prejudice to the defendant from a joint trial against (armstrong, supra, at p. 456.) in this case, the basis for connecting offensesnamely, that his recent commission of identity theft was a motive for him to evade custodyalso rendered the evidence of those offenses cross-admissible. evidence defendant took, forged, and benefitted from cashing motive for his resistance to being arrested shortly after the check-related admissible to permit the jury to infer he was conscious of having committed the identity theft. (see merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 44 [evidence defendant resisted arrest would be admissible in a separate trial for murder to show consciousness of guilt, and evidence of murder would be admissible in a separate trial for 13 resisting arrest to ; see also people v. valdez escape after pleading not guilty to murder admissible to indicate consciousness of guilt, while murder charge admissible to show underlying felony in escape prosecution]; people v. garcia (2008) to arrest, like evidence of flight, is admissible as evidence of the .) defendant cannot establish error in joinder of the charges in a single trial where the evidence underlying each would have been admissible in separate trials.5 continuing to the second stage of our analysis, which examines joinder not at the time of the ruling but in hindsight following trial, there was no gross unfairness resulting in a denial of due process ered to prove of the various charges arising from the two (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 553; see also people v. soper s have found crime is simple and distinct, even though such evidence might soper).) 5 having concluded evidence of both sets of crimes was cross-admissible, we need not engage in any extended analysis of whether some of the charges were inflammatory or whether a weak case was joined with a strong case or another weak case. we note, however, that neither consideration would support se of the trial 14 the evidence was both straightforward and strong. as defense counsel acknowledged in his closing statement, a substantial portion of the evidence consisted of video and audiotapes. conduct at the hospital, which related to two of the resisting an executive officer charges, and the jury heard defendant statement admitting spent little time discussing that evidence because the jury could interpret it themselves. furthermore, the testimonial evidence relating to st by deputies tanner and nelson was neither complicated nor marred by significant disparities in what the witnesses reported. in addition, the verdicts after trial persuasively suggest there was no spillover effect. none of the charges were particularly inflammatory, and the verdictsincluding acquittals on some charges and convictions of lesser included offenses on othersprovide some indication the jury properly considered each charge separately. (see soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 784.) b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence defendant had used methamphetamine on the eve of trial, defendant sought to exclude any evidence he had used drugs. the prosecutor argued evidence of to his motives for both sets of charged offenses: his need for and his addiction was also a motive to avoid custody, where he would have no access to narcotics. defense counsel called the . . . that 15 crystal meth. he talks about it being highly addictive and that the court was persuaded by it determined the probative value of that evidence was not substantially outweighed by a risk of undue prejudice or substantial consumption of time. at trial, the prosecution presented the following evidence of isaac testified she found a pipe for smoking methamphetamine while she was looking through . when defendant was interviewed by the did not sell them, he had previously been addicted to cocaine, and isaac had been upset with him for doing drugs. defendant also sted and brought to the hospital, defendant might have been under the influence of methamphetamine. generally inadmissible to prove he or she committed a crime. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (a) [subject to certain exceptions, a trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a 16 preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake, or accident, . . .) other than his or her disposition to commit [the uncharged conduct under evidence code section 1101, : (1) the materiality of the fact to be proved or disproved, (2) the probative value of the other crime evidence to prove or disprove the fact, and (3) the existence of any rule or policy requiring exclusion even if the evidence is relevant. [citation.] because this type of evidencuncharged offense and the ultimate fact in dispute is not clear, the evidence should be excluded.(people v. thompson (2016) 1 cal.5th 1043, 1114 (thompson).) evidence determined to be relevant under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) may be excluded nonetheless under outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of trial 352 and 1101 for abuse of discretion. (thompson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1114.) theft cases where the defendant admitted to stealing in order to buy drugs. (see, e.g., people v. felix (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1385, 1392-1393 [d 17 in order to steal something he could sell to buy drugs admissible in trial for burglary]; people v. conrad (1973) 31 cal.app.3d 308, 325-to drugs by stealing admissible in trial for robberies and other however, where there is little to connect the drug use with a theft or robbery motive. (see, e.g., people v. reid (1982) 133 cal.app.3d 354, 362-363 [evidence defendant used drugs inadmissible to show motive to rob absent additional evidence defendant needed the money to support his habit] (reid).) the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting in this case. when detectives , and reasonable inferences a jury could draw therefrom, use squarely within the province of cases permitting the admission of such evidence. having held there was no error in related contention that admission of the evidence violated his federal due process rights by rendering the trial fundamentally unfair. indeed, we can also say that the admission of evidence concerning cannot have resulted in any prejudice to defendant under the people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 standard.6 6 erroneous admission of character evidence is reviewed for prejudice under watson. (people v. malone (1988) 47 cal.3d 1, 22; see also people v. marks (2003) 31 cal.4th 197, 227 nce like evidence code 18 guilt, as we have said, was strong. defendant told the police when, where, and with whom he took, forged, and deposited his sisting arrest charges was largely captured on video. consequently, it is not reasonably probable the jury would have reached a different outcome had such evidence been excluded. (watson, supra, at p. 836.) c. there was no cumulative error defendant contends that even if the effect of the asserted errors in this case do not merit reversal when considered individually, they do when considered cumulatively. we have rejected dcumulative error claim therefore fails. (people v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 316.) section 352 does not implicate the federal constitution, and thus standard of watson . . reid, supra, 133 cal.app.3d at p. 363 [applying watson review to determine whether error in admitting evidence of drug use was prejudicial].) 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. kumar, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 