filed 2/28/18 p. v. villalobos ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. enrique villalobos, defendant and appellant. b275993 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta135124) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed and remanded for resentencing. edward j. haggerty, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and douglas l. wilson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant enrique villalobos (defendant) appeals from the judgment entered after he was convicted of murder and attempted murder. defendant contends: the omission of an accomplice jury instruction was prejudicial; the accomplice testimony was not supported by sufficient corroborating evidence; that distinct corroborating evidence was required to support the firearm enhancements; the trial court trial; jury instructions calcrim nos. 520 and 600 are inconsistent and confusing when read together; jury instructions using the term the use of common experiences to illustrate premeditation and deliberation was misconduct; the cumulative effect of multiple errors denied defendant a fair trial; that a restitution fine may not be lawfully imposed without a jury trial; and any omission by trial counsel resulting in forfeiture of any issue on appeal defendant also asks that the matter be remanded for resentencing under the recently amended penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (h).1 we remand to allow the trial court the opportunity to exercise its discretion under the amended statute. we further find that the omission of an accomplice jury contentions are without merit. we thus affirm the judgment of conviction. 1 the legislature amended penal code section 12022.53, effective january 1, 2018, to give the sentencing court discretion to strike the firearm enhancement in the interests of justice. (see stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 background in an amended information defendant and codefendant eder rodriguez (rodriguez) were charged in count 1 with the murder of joaquin hinojos (hinojos), in violation of section 187, subdivision (a)(1). defendant and rodriguez were charged in counts 2 and 3 with the attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murders of ismael lara (ismael) and fernando serna (fernando),2 respectively, in violation of sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a). the information alleged pursuant to former section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), (d), and (e)(1), that a principal and defendant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm that proximately caused great bodily injury or death to the victims, that a principal and defendant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, and that a principal personally used a firearm in the commission of the crimes. it was further alleged pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), and for purposes of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), that the crimes were committed for the benefit of, and the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. in addition, the information alleged that defendant had suffered a conviction for a 7, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12), as well as section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and section 667.5, subdivision (b). in a bifurcated proceeding defendant admitted the prior conviction. a jury found defendant guilty as charged, found the attempted murders to have been committed willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation, and found true all firearm allegations. the jury acquitted rodriguez on all counts. on july 6, 2016, the trial court sentenced defendant to prison as follows: 2 as there were others with the surname serna or lara, either mentioned at trial or who testified, we refer to all those affected by their first names to avoid confusion. 4 as to count 1, 25 years to life, doubled as a second strike, plus 25 years to life pursuant to former section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and five years pursuant to section 667 subdivision (a)(1); as to each counts 2 and 3, a consecutive term of life in prison, with a minimum parole date of 15 years, pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), doubled as a second strike, plus 25 years to life pursuant to former section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and five years per section 667 subdivision (a)(1). the remaining firearm and gang enhancements were stayed. the court ordered defendant to pay mandatory fines and fees, including a restitution fine of $10,000, and calculated presentence custody credit at 531 actual days of custody. defendant was also ordered to pay victim compensation in the amounts of $5,253 and $,1000. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. prosecution evidence on september 7, 2014, fernando was outside his house on 110th street in lynwood with his friends, hinojos and ismael. fernando testified that hinojos had ridden his bicycle to house that day wearing a baseball cap emblazoned after amusing themselves for about 30 minutes by riding back and forth on a bike and scooter, the threesome was about to go into fernan. ismael was getting his phone charger out of the trunk of his car, when a man emerged from a silver pontiac vibe and fired a nine-millimeter handgun eight or nine times toward them. a neighbor called 911 at 12:40 p.m. fernando was shot in the left hand and right thigh, ismael was struck with four bullets, one of which left him permanently paralyzed, and hinojos died of a single gunshot wound to the chest. (lasd) homicide detective david gunner and sergeant troy ewing were able to 5 determine that rodriguez owned a silver pontiac vibe, which was located on september 17, 2014, in an auto body shop owned by the car had been prepared for painting, and the bumper, license plate, and handles had been removed. rodriguez was arrested on september 17, 2014, and interviewed by detectives. at first he claimed that he had been kidnapped and forced at gunpoint to drive to the shooting. he admitted being a member of the paragon gang, and acknowledged the others in the car were also members of the gang. later, rodriguez told detectives that when the man from another suggested that he was uld serve as initiation into the big league. rodriguez declined, suggesting instead they go to the rodriguez told detectives that as he drove to the liquor store, one of his companions directed him to 110th street, told him to stop, opened the door, fired his weapon, and then got back into the car. rodriguez then drove to norton street near his mother-in-dropped off his passengers. the shooter left the gun, a nine-millimeter pistol, with rodriguez, who later hid it in an explorer suv parked at his apartment building. rodriguez told the detectives that one of the three victims was associated with the brother -3 and he had told emmanuel to warn his brother not to be outside with his friends, paragon gang members did not get along with swindles, and rodriguez recounted an incident when the hostility had led to gun violence. 3 rodriguez was apparently referring to emmanuel serna, 6 rodriguez identified relevant individuals to the detectives using fabricated nicknames, claiming not to know real names, but although in his cell .4 sic]5 rodriguez identified a photograph of defendant as kiki. perkins 6 dressed in jail uniform and posing as a recently arrested gang member. their conversation was recorded, and the recording was played for the jury. rodriguez said he was suspected of homicide, and had falsely told the police he had been forced to give someone a ride after being held at gunpoint. he confided that what actually had happened was that he was football. aving a bad temper. the girlfriend - streets. intending who did not belong and looking like they were up to no good. one of when the threesome rodriguez to stop. kiki got out, and started shooting them with a nine-millimeter 4 - transcript. 5 rodriguez apparently meant desarie delarosa, who later testified for the defense. 6 see illinois v. perkins (1990) 496 u.s. 292. 7 handgun. shot about four rounds in his belly, close and personal. kiki hit another in the neck, and hit the one from swindles in the hand. kiki then hopped back into the car, told rodriguez then . rodriguez told the agent that although he had told detectives pelon was the shooter, pelon did not exist. the homie in the back seat was 7 who was older, arout of prison. rodriguez told the agent that things were not supposed to go down that way, that he was not at all prepared for what happened, and that he - if he had known, he would have at least taken the license plate off, or something. e-man, the brother of the victim from swindles came outside, saw rodriquez and made eye contact. rodriguez thought e-because they knew each other and e-man had seen him. rodriguez also testified at trial. he admitted being a member of a paragon gang and that his gang moniker was he identified defendant in court as kiki. they had been introduced at a gang meeting when defendant came back rodriguez had not known him before his hiatus. at approximately 10:00 a.m. on the morning of the shooting, rodriguez went to defendfootball with defendant and p-loc. they finished a blunt, and were outside smoking the second one when they saw someone on a bicycle. defendant asked whether he or p-loc knew someone 7 -s of the 8 who lived near 110th street, rolling around on a bike, rodriguez replied a lot of people passed through looking like that, because they lived close to wattsdeal. when rodriguez finished the second blunt, he drove his to the liquor store to buy another. defendant decided to go along too, and got into the passenger seat, while p-loc got into the back seat. rodriguez drove on lorraine street, but defendant directed him otherwise until he turned onto 110th street. as he was turning onto 110th street, rodriguez heard defendant cock his pistol and saw him hold it close to his lower chest. before that rodriguez did not know that defendant had a weapon. rodriguez was frightened, did not know what defendant intended to do. he was afraid that defendant had discovered that he was selling drugs to rival gangs, which was forbidden by the gang. p-loc told rodriguez to slow down, so he took his foot off the gas pedal. the passenger door swung open before the car came to a complete stop. within seconds defendant got out, replied, in shock, rodriguez froze, saw a victim fall, but did not know there were other victims until a few hours later. suddenly defendant was back in the car, rodriguez denied knowing that defendant was going to shoot those people, and denied that he intended for defendant to do so. when rodriguez wethat day, he knew there was a rifle in the house, but did not know that defendant had a handgun. irodriguez turned onto lorraine street, but defendant stopped him and directed him to norton avenue. he 9 mother-in-law, about three houses down from defendant and p-loc got out, but before closing the door, defendant threw the empty gun onto left it there, and told rodriguez to take off. rodriguez went home and sat in the car for awhile not knowing what to do. he later hid the gun in an abandoned car in the apartment building parking lot. he did not call the police because he feared arrest rodriguez told emmanuel, his fairly good friend, to warn to visit with his friends in the backyard so as not to be exposed. rodriguez assured emmanuel that he did not good for business, and could result in retaliation. drug customers would stop coming to the neighborhood, and there would be police patrols flooding the streets. rodriguez explained that the swindles tagging crew was affiliated with the cv-3 gang, also called the tres gang, one of there had been previous incidents of violence and retaliation between the paragons and the swindles. the day of the shooting, rodriguez called and texted defendant in order to find out what he should do with the gun. defendant told him to hold onto it; that someone was interested in buying it. rodriguez called so often that defendant finally was in the car. rodriguez admitted that the cell phone number which ended in 9465 was his, although it was registered to his wife. rodriguez deleted from the phone all text messages contact list to kricki or kri-kri. rodriguez was arrested on september 17, 2014, when the police served a search warrant for his home. the number 10 kricki ended in the numbers 3377. detectives in the lasd tech crimes unit extracted data from the memory chips of the cell phones used by rodriguez (number 9465) and defendant (number 3377), including contacts, call logs, emails, text messages, photographs, videos, and internet history. the cell towers used by the two phones were mapped by lasd analyst romy haas and explained to the jury. on the day of the shooting beginning at 11:37 a.m., several number utilized a cell tower located near his home and the el granero restaurant in the city of bell. at 12:51 p.m., it used a tower closer to the area of on 110th street in lynwood, south of bell. at 12:55 p.m., 12:57 to the north and successively closer to his home, suggesting that he was moving in that direction. between 1:06 p.m. and 3:15 p.m., his phone used the cell towers closest to his home and the restaurant. the cell tower records showed that the cell phone with the 3377 number was used near dthe shooting several times between 12:20 p.m. and 1:05 p.m. between 1:05 p.m. and 1:15 p.m., that phone used towers on a northerly route successively closer to the el granero restaurant, and then used towers close to the restaurant for several calls until shortly after 3:20 p.m., including several calls to or from p.m. around 2:18 p.m., shortly phone began to use towers along a southerly route successively closer to his home; then, around 4:45 located between his home and the downey regional hospital in downeyhome. finally, between 5:14 p.m. 11 and 5:50 p.m., there were several calls using towers close to the hospital. the parties stipulated that on september 7, 2014, there were two searches on the 3377 phone for breaking news, one at 3:08 p.m. and one at 3:45 p.m., and that the phone was not used at any other time for a similar search. defendant was arrested on september 18, 2014, at an irvine cell phone records show that from 10:00 p.m. on september 17 until ab beginning near his home and ending near the hotel. lasd detective carolina roman testified as an expert in gang culture and lynwood gangs, including the lynwood varrio paragon criminal street gang (paragons or paragon gang). she creating victimizing the residents made the residents reluctant to speak to rs the power to commit their crimes freely. commission of some crimes led to money which was used to buy weapons to share among gang members. violence also served to maintain a reputation among rival gang members, so that the gang is not viewed as weak. weakness would encourage other gangs to invade the neighborhood. a strong reputation is maintained by demanding respect through violence; disrespect requires retaliation by means of a physical assault or shooting. rivals of the paragon gang include the compton varrio trece gang, also known as cv-3, the swindles, the neighborhood crip gang and the compitas gang. for the paragon gang, an example of disrespect would include someone riding through the ng, such as the area where this shooting took place was within the territory claimed by the 12 paragon gang. the 2700 block of norton avenue, which is near the shooting scene, was also in paragon gang territory. detective roman explained that photographs depicting defendant and other men (including one who was in the audience) forming the letter p with their fingers, was a way to signify the paragon gang. some men in the photographs wore pittsburgh steelers attire, which is indicative of the paragon gang. detective roman listened to a jail telephone call in which defendant identified himself as kiki from paragons.8 detective explained their connection to the paragon gang, including the in his gangs alliance with the mexican mafia. based upon the photographs and the recording, detective roman opined that opinion, rodriguez was also a member of the paragon gang, based on photographs of his tattoos, and an audio recording in which he admitted being a member of the gang and known by the moniker, kronik. given a hypothetical question mirroring the facts in evidence, detective roman opined that the shootings were committed for the benefit of and in association with the paragon 8 the recorded call was also played for the jury. before the actual is a prepaid call from--,added the a kiki from lynwood par 13 defense evidence testified that in 2014, she lived with defendant on norton street. other adults living in the house included her brother mario defendant and her brother had both been members of the paragon gang, and she . she further claimed that defendant left the gang in october 2013, when he was paroled, and was no longer involved in any type of gang life. delarosa denied their home was -acknowledged many people visited the house. delarosa had been acquainted with rodriguez for about seven years, but did not see him leave the house with rodriguez or any paragon gang members on the day of the shooting. she claimed that she and defendant left the house around 11:45 a.m. or noon to go to a hospital emergency room, and the only time during that morning she did not have defendant in her sight was when he was in the living room or outside the house sweeping with the children. delarosa explained that the day before the shooting, her old surgical wound began to swell with pus, and she was treated at st. francis medical center. when she woke up on september 7, 2014, she felt worse. her leg felt like it was on fire and she could not stand. when nothing helped, defendant insisted she go back to the hospital, and helped her to the car. she was unable to reach her friend sendy by phone so she and defendant went to house to ask her to check on the children after work. driveway, she parked, got out, went to the gate and called for later, delarosa testified that defendant drove there, and when he pulled into the driveway, she got out and hopped to the fence. when two of the children came to the gate and told her that sendy was working that day, 14 delarosa left them her keys, and eventually reached sendy sometime later. the couple went to st. francis, but the emergency room was crowded, so they left to have lunch at the el granero restaurant. after lunch, they drove around, went to a shopping center, got a snow cone, parked, stood outside the car to smoke a joint, dropped her four-year- then went to the downey regional hospital (southeast of lynwood). delarosa denied they ever that day. she claimed that when rodriguez called, it was not about a shooting or about hiding a gun, he simply asked where she was, because he wanted marijuana. she said they arrived at the hospital a little after 4:00 p.m. when faced with the call made at 4:45 p.m. using a tower somewhere between her home and the hospital, she testified that they arrived at 5:00 p.m., but the nurse did not call her name from the sign-in sheet or give her a wristband until about 5:39 p.m. in sum, delarosa testified that she and defendant left the house at 11:40 a.m. to go to the hospital, traveled north to an area near bell, and then south and east to downey, arriving at the hospital around 5:00 p.m. delarosa claimed that the 3377 number belonged to her cell phone, the only one in the family, and that defendant did not use it. any calls to or from paragon gang members were her calls. shown the photographs on her phone of defendant with other paragon gang members, she surmised that they were probably taken by her brother or sent to her by someone else. delarosa thought a photograph taken in january or february 2014 depicted defendant forming a gang sign, must was short. sendy lara (sendy) testified that she knew defendant, who lived nearby with her friend, delarosa on norton avenue. she 15 received a call from delarosa one day in september 2014, between noon and 1:00 p.m. at her workplace. delarosa asked sendy to check on children when sendy got off work at 2:00 p.m., adding that delarosa house. after work sendy found the keys and checked on the children. in september 2014, when he was 13 years old, he got a call from his mother regarding keys. he recalled that delarosa came to their home between noon and 1:00 p.m., although his previous statement to the defense investigator was that she came at noon. she walked up to the gate and passed keys to him. he saw delarosa arrive in a car driven by a man he did not recognize. he could not remember . miguel knew delarosa, but did not know defendant. -year-old daughter leila testified that she remembered that day because her mother had gone to the doctor the day before. it was a sunday, and she was at home with her brothers, sister, mother, and her stepfather (defendant). leila got up at 7:00 a.m. and watched defendant rake leaves between 8:30 to 10:30 a.m. when she and defendant went back inside the house, her mother was crying due to the pain in her leg. defendant and her mother left to see a doctor in her grandfather leila knew rodriguez, as a former neighbor, but she did not see him that day, nor did she see any other men visiting the house that day. rebuttal detective gunner testified that the 3377 phone included sendy in its contact folder, and he found several calls to her. the first such september 7, 2014, was placed at 3:48 p.m., and lasted three seconds. 16 phone at 1:44 p.m. discussion i. accomplice instruction defendant contends that the trial court should have given a sua sponte accomplice jury instruction such as calcrim no. 334, which tells the jury that the defendant may not be convicted on the testimony of an accomplice alone, without some corroborating evidence connecting him to the crime, and to view accomplice testimony with caution. witness is an accomplice to the crime charged, the court must people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 302 (gonzales and soliz).) the instruction is derived from section 1111, which y of an accomplice unless it be corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense; and the corroboration is not sufficient if it merely shows the commission of the offense or the circumstances thereof. an accomplice is hereby defined as one who is liable to prosecution for the identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in rodriguez was charged with the identical offenses as defendant, he fell within this definition. relying on people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 556, respondent counters that no accomplice instruction was required perkins agent were admissible as statements against penal interest under evidence code section 1230. defendant replies statements to the agent were insufficiently reliable to qualify as statements against penal interest, as they were partially 17 exculpatory. (see people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 614.) following extensive discussion of the requirements of the penal interest exception by counsel and the court. defendant has not assigned error to that ruling, and indeed, fails to mention it. thus, declarations against interest, and no corroboration was required. regardless, if the trial court had erred, the failure to give an accomplice instruction was harmless as there was sufficient trial courts error in instructing on accomplice liability under corroborating evidence may be slight, entirely circumstantial, and entitled to little consideration when standing alone. [citations.] it need not be sufficient to establish every element of the charged offense or to establish the precise facts to which the accomplice testified. [citations.] with the crime in such a way as to satisfy the jury that the people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 147-148.) to test to determine whether evidence is sufficiently corroborative is less stringent than the harmless error analysis of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, which would require a determination whether a different result would have been reasonably probable absent the alleged error. (gonzales and soliz, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 303.) upon application of this less stringent stin the absence of sufficient corroboration [that] we will submit the omission of accomplice 18 instructions to the harmless error analysis for state law error under [watsongonzales and soliz, at p. 304.) that standard may be met with evidence independent of motive, opportunity, and a discredited alibi, all of which were shown here. (see people v. vu (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 1009, 1022 (vu).) as in vu, defendant had a gang motive to commit the crimes. detective roman testified that defendant was a member of and lived in the territory claimed by the paragon gang, which needed to maintain its violent reputation so that rival gang members would not perceive weakness and invade the neighborhood. paragon rivals included the swindles crew. the violently retaliating for any perceived disrespect. a show of wearing clothing relating to a rival, such as clothing emblazoned . fernando testified that hinojos had ridden a bicycle to house that day wearing a baseball cap printed ,had amused themselves for 30 minutes in the street in front of the house. also as in vu, cell phone records served to discredit vu, supra, 143 cal.app.4th at p. 1023.) delarosa testified that the phone with the 3377 number was hers, and that defendant did not use it. however, that number was delarosa claimed that she and defendant left their house around 11:45 a.m. or 12:00 noon to go to a hospital, and that she called her friend sendy before sendy received the call between noon and 1:00 p.m. at her workplace. cell phone records showed that the 3377 number was used near 19 between 12:20 p.m. and 1:05 p.m. however, the first call on that 3:48 p.m., and lasted just three seconds. the phone was at 5:57 p.m. cell phone records also demonstrate that defendant had the opportunity to commit the crimes, as the 3377 phone was still in the neighborhood at the time the crimes were committed, shortly before 12:51 p.m. in adstatements, the cell phone records established that rodriguezphone the phone defendant multiple times that afternoon regarding the gun, and that defendant then came to apartment that afternoon when defendant refused to take the gun. there were several calls s between 1:30 p.m. and 2:06 p.m., and at 2:18 p.m., when unusual interest in the crime can provide additional corroboration. (people v. hayes (1999) 21 cal.4th 1211, 1272.) online sources for breaking news in the past, there were two such searches on september 7, 2014, one at 3:08 p.m. and one at 3:45 p.m., providing strong circumstantial evidence that the breaking neighborhood. fiwere committed supports an inference of consciousness of guilt and constitutes an implied admission, which may properly be considered as corroborative of the accomplice testimony. [citation.] (people v. williams (2013) 56 cal.4th 630, 679.) rodriguez was arrested in the early morning of september 17, 20 2014. defendant was arrested on september 18, 2014, at an irvine hotel, home. cell phone records shows towers between the two locations from 10:00 p.m. on september 17 until about midnight, beginning near norton street and ending near the hotel. as respondent observes, such facts strongly suggest that defendant fled in the night after learning of testimony. we conclude that the corroborating evidence was sufficient to render the omission of an accomplice instruction harmless. had been given, it was reasonably probable that the jury would contention that failure to give the instruction amounted to federal constitutional error. the trial court thoroughly instructed the jury with calcrim nos. 226, 302, and 318, regarding the evaluation of witness credibility. calcrim no. 226 included in partdeliberately lied about something significant in this case, you should consider not believing anything that witness says, or, if you think the witness lied about some things but told the truth about others, you may simply accept the part that you think is in light of these instructions, any failure to give the accomplice cautionary instruction was not prejudicial and did not implicate the constitutional right to due process. (people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 148 [equivalent caljic instructions]; people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 370-371 [same].) ii. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends that the judgment should be reversed for insufficiency of the evidence because there was no credible, 21 independent evidence corroborating the accomplice testimony pointing to defendant as the shooter, or that he aided and abetted the shootings. to support a conviction, accomplice testimony must be corroborated by independent evidence which, without aid or assistance from the defendant with the crime charged. (people v. szeto (1981) 29 entitled to little consideration when standing alone. (people v. perry (1972) 7 cal.3d 756, 769, overruled on another ground in people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 27-28.) to determine whether corroborating evidence was sufficient, the reviewing court views the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment. (perry, at p. 774.) contrary to these governing principles, defendant points to several isolated bits of evidence which, standing alone, merit little consideration. defendant singles out three areas of evidence. first, defendant argues that the cell phone records showed merely that defendant was in the area where he lived at the time of the shooting and that evidence of opportunity alone is insufficiently corroborative. second, defendant urges that that the prosecution was required to present independent evidence of third, defendant contends that evidence of flight is not probative, because there could be an innocent reason for defendant to have gone to a hotel in irvine the very night after rodriguez was arrested. [be] sufficient to connect the defendant to the crime. . . . if the sum total testimony), connects the defendant to the commission of the offense the requirements of penal code section 1111 are 22 people v. manson (1977) 71 cal.app.3d 1, 36, italics phone evidence, when the details set forth in section i above are reviewed, not only does it show that defendant had the opportunity to commit the crime, it also discredited his alibi evidence, exposed suggested that he fled the area to avoid arrest. in addition, contrary to defendaidentity of the victimpeople v. romero and self (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 32s flight after the crimes were committed supports an inference of consciousness of guilt and constitutes an implied admission, which may properly be considered as corroborative of the accomplice testimony. [citation.] (people v. williams, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. -- other than consciousness of guilt of the crime charged -- for conduct which may be interpreted as flight is relevant to the weight of the evidence showing flight, but not to its admissibility people v. perry, supra, 7 cal.3d at pp. 773-774.) defendant contends that flight was not shown here, because there was insufficient evidence that defendant knew that rodriguez was arrested. if defendant did not know that rodriguez had been arrested, leaving town on the very night of the day of the arrest would be a surprising coincidence. regardless, independent evidence gave rise to a reasonable inference that defendant knew that rodriguez had been arrested. specifically, ddefendant lived with her and her brother mario, a paragon gang member. most of 23 friends visited frequently. rodriguez was a member of paragon whom delarosa had known for six or seven years. daughter knew rodriguez since he used to live across the street. the neighborhood clearly included paragon gang members who were often in contact. we thus decline to give no weight to evidence of flightsufficiently corroborated. iii. firearm enhancement - corroboration defendant contends that even if the corroborative evidence was sufficient to support the convictions of the underlying offenses, the firearm enhancements must be stricken due to defendant was the shooter. respondent points out that accomplice corroboration is not required to prove a gun use allegation. (people v. maldonado (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 588, 597.) as explained in maldonado: penal code section 1111, requiring corroboration, applies by its use of a firearm is not an people v. morris maldonado, at p. 597.) defendant contends that maldonado is flawed, and asks this court to enunciate a new rule requiring accomplice use and identifies the defendant as the shooter. we find no flaw in maldonado, and observe that defendandepart from longstanding california supreme court precedent interpreting the requirements of section 1111. the court has long held that the evidence need not corroborate every fact to which the accomplice testified, or support each element of the offense, 24 but merely connect the defendant with the commission of the offense in such a way as reasonably may satisfy a jury that the accomplice is telling the truth . . . people v. szeto, supra, 29 cal.3d at p. 27, and see people v. romero and self, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 32.) we therefore decline to strike the firearm enhancements. (see auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) iv. prosecutorial misconduct/mistrial defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct by failing to redact a portion of the transcript of perkins agent; that the misconduct resulted in a denial of due process; and that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for mistrial. constitution unless it is so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819; see also darden v. wainwright (1986) 477 u.s. 168, 181.) misconduct violates state law only if the prosecutor has used deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. (see hill, supraprosecutor used deceptive or reprehensible methods. (people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 256-257.) it is also construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an id. at p. 257.) prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial 25 is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions. [citation.]people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 198-ing a fair trial have been irreparably people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 283.) burden is on the party complaining to establish an abuse of discretion, and unless a clear case of abuse is shown and unless there has been a miscarriage of justice a reviewing court will not substitute its opinion and thereby divest the trial court of its denham v. superior court to demonstrate that legal principles and policies appropriate to the particular matter people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977 (alvarez).) prior to playing the recording of the conversation, the prosecutor had agreed to redact passages from the cd and the transcript. one of the passages was not redacted in the original transcript given to the jury, although it had been redacted from the audio. that passage read: . . . one of the homies, he just got out, fool. the homie kiki. that fool just got out, just got out. inmate [perkins agent]: he just came out? (unintelligible) rodriguez: yeah. only been out probably like two months. inmate: 26 rodriguez: two or three months, fool. inmate: after a gang of time? rodriguez: after like 15 years. . . . rodriguez: ah, fool, they were -- to come out. they was trying to get that fool for another toward the end of the day on a friday, the prosecutor played part of the recording during the testimony of detective gunner, starting and stopping it to ask questions about some of the statements recorded. when he realized that the subject passage had not been redacted from the transcript he stopped the recording altogether. recess was taken, and in a discussion outside the presence of the jury the prosecutor explained to the court that the original plan to play the cd would have given him additional time to complete the redactions, but when the timetable was moved up, and defense counsel requested additional edits, he tried to complete all the redactions at lunchtime, and missed this passage in the transcript. defense counsel indicated that the cd had stopped prior to the area of the recording corresponding to the written passage, and thus the unredacted page or pages were not reached. the jurors would have had to read the transcript a little ahead of the recording in order to have seen it. trial court offered to admonish the jury, but suggested that it might be better not to highlight it, to put on a different witness for the rest of the day, tell the jury that this was a scheduling issue and that the transcripts had been collected so they would not be lost and 27 passed out again on monday. when the jury returned from recess, another witness was called. before the jurors came in on mondaysay nothing to the jury. defense counsel acknowledged that the prosecutor stopped the recording before anyone reading along would get to the page with the challenged passage, and that it was unknown whether any juror read ahead. absent was deceptive or the result of reprehensible methods, prosecutorial misconduct under state law has not been established. further, defendant has shown no reasonable likelihood that the jury construed the passage in an objectionable fashion. indeed, defendant has not shown a reasonable likelihood that any juror even read or understood the jargon-filled passage. defendant has also failed to demonstrate that the trial was infected with such unfairness as to violate due process. unfairness must be assessed in the context of the trial as a whole, and a trial is not fundamentally unfair simply because it was imperfect. (darden v. wainwright, supra, 477 u.s. at pp. 180-183.) not only is there no evidence that any juror saw the passage, defendant does not claim that it undermined his ability to present a defense or that it was used by the prosecutor in argument. moreover, the jury learned from defense witness delarosa that defendant had been incarcerated and paroled less than a year before the shootings. defendant argues in essence that there was a potential for prejudice if any juror read and understood the passage, and he points out that evidence of a prior criminal conviction carries (people v. fritz (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 949, 961.) defendant concludes that the evidence of prior incarceration infected the trial with unfairness because it suggested a history of serious criminality. 28 goes to the egregious nature of the passage, but not to the question whether the trial was fundamentally unfair because of it, considering the trial as a whole. we agree with respondent that defendant has failed to show prejudicial misconduct under either california law or federal law. further, defendant has failed to show, or even argue guided by legal principles and policies appropriate to the alvarez, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 977.) we thus find no abuse of discretion. v. murder and attempted murder instructions defendant contends that while calcrim nos. 520 and 600 correctly set forth the elements of murder and attempted murder respectively, the instructions are inconsistent and when read in combination, could confuse the jury as to the required mental state for attempted murder. as a result, defendant contends, the jurors could have mistakenly believed that implied malice satisfied the mental state required for attempted murder. defendant relies primarily on people v. lee (1987) 43 cal.3d 666, which held that it is error to give an instruction on implied malice in an attempted murder case, as the required mental state for attempted murder is express malice, i.e. intent to kill, and never implied malice. (id. at pp. 669-670.) defendant also relies on such authorities as people v. visciotti (1992) 2 cal.4th 1, 58, which held that the court must instruct that an intent to kill is an element of attempted murder, and people v. murtishaw (1981) 29 cal.3d 733, 764-765, which held that it was error to instruct on implied malice in conjunction with assault with intent to commit murder. there were no such errors in this case. indeed, the trial court gave calcrim instructions, and 29 attempted murder.9 here, defendants were charged both with murder and attempted murder. the instructions for each crime were clearly separate. the trial court did not instruct the jury on implied malice in connection with the attempted murder charges and instead correctly instructed that in order to find defendant guilty of those crimes the people had to prove that the defendant took a indicates a definite and unambiguous intent to kil the instruction was clear, and required no clarification. nor did the possible ambiguity, as defendant argues. the prosecutor made it very clear that he was speaking only of the murder of hinojos.10 moreover, defendant has failed to meet the burden imposed to erroneous interpretation by the jury, [to] demonstrate a reasonable likelihood that the jury misconstrued or misapplied the inspeople v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 926.) defendant simply 9 the cases upon which defendant relies discussed the caljic instructions rather than calcrim. 10 deadly, obviously the natural result of that is a murder, not caring about the results. shooting over, and over, and over again when you have those two things, when you have a human being killed with malice aforethought you have murder. . . . you take 30 concludes that respondent must demonstrate that a failure to clarify the allegedly confusing instructions was harmless under the constitutional standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman) (beyond a reasonable doubt). as defendant has failed to show any reasonable likelihood that the jury misconstrued or misapplied the instruction, his conclusion is premature. moreover, if any ambiguity was created by the two instructions, it was harmless under any standard. first, we was not strong. victim[s], if otherwise legally unexcused, will itself give rise to an inference of intent to kill. (people v. smith shown, such evidence will usually be probative of proof of intent (ibid.) a motive to kill may be reasonably inferred from the hatred of rival gang members. (people v. rand (1995) 37 cal.app.4th 999, 1001-1002.) thus, when defendant, a member of a criminal street gang, fired multiple shots at members of a tagging crew believed to be affiliated with a rival gang, the reasonable inference arose that he harbored an intent to kill. (see people v. francisco (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1180, 1192.) the the opinions of the gang expert all provided ample evidence to support all such inferences. people v. gonzales (2011) 51 cal.4th at 894, (ibid.) we thus conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that there was no likelihood of confusion caused by instructing as to both 31 murder and attempted murder with calcrim nos. 520 and 600, where defendant was charged with both crimes, the evidence of intent to kill was strong, and neither the concept of implied ction with attempted murder. vi. consciousness/awareness of guilt defendant challenges calcrim nos. 362, 371, and 372, which permit an inference of consciousness of guilt from false statements, fabrication of evidence, or flight. he contends that the instructions embody irrational permissive inferences in violation of due process. as defendant acknowledges, the california supreme court has repeatedly approved consciousness-of-guilt instructions. (see, e.g., people v. howard (2008) 42 cal.4th 1000, 1020-1021, 1024-1025; people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 101-102; people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 181; people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, 1224; people v. pensinger (1991) 52 cal.3d 1210, 1245; people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 871.) defendant points out, however, that unlike the caljic instructions in those cases, the calcrim counterparts no longer re of has that the former term equates the described behavior with guilt. as defendant also acknowledges, the identical argument was rejected by in people v. hernandez rios (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1154, 1158-1159, in relation to calcrim no. 372, which found no difference in the meaning of the two terms. we find the reasoning of hernandez rios persuasive and equally applicable to calcrim nos. 362 and 371. we thus adopt it here, and conclude th32 not render the instruction constitutionally defective. premeditated and deliberate defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct in closing argument by comparing premeditation and deliberation to the everyday acts of driving and strolling. he argues that the comparison mischaracterized premeditation and deliberation, was designed to diminish the pon the issue, and resulted in a denial of due process. defendant challenges the following portion of the something which you do every day. when you think about coming to stop signs or crosswalks. you are coming to a stop sign, you pause. do you look left? do you look right? do you think about it? is it safe to enter? do you move on? you deliberate. you premeditate before doing something. you look to the left. you look to the right. is it safe? and how long does that we agree with respondent that defendant forfeited this the alleged misconduct and request the jury be admonished to disregard it. people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 797.) defendant asks that we reach the issue to avoid a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. upon doing so, we find the issue to be without merit. the true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly, but the express requirement 33 for a concurrence of deliberation and premeditation excludes from murder of the first degree those homicides . . . which are the result of mere unconsidered or rash impulse hastily executed. people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 58.) there is with these principles. more common experience must not imply that the task is less people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 671.) a comparison with looking both ways before proceeding through an intersection does not violate this rule. as respondent observes, the comparison is similar to the following argument approved by the supreme court in people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 715traffic light, and the location of surrounding vehicles, when it appears the light will soon turn yellow and then red, and then determining based on this information whether to proceed through the intersection when the light does turn yellow, [is] an defendant argues that crossing an intersection requires deliberation and premeditation involved in deciding whether to on the contrary, while deciding not to kill likely involves a consideration of moral and ethical considerations, defendant has cited no authority or evidence that the decision to kill must involve such a thought process. our supreme court considered a similar claim of prosecutorial misconduct in people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, where the 34 jury need not fas long as might regular, civilized people, who aren't criminals, id. at p. 697.) scenario included tactical considerations: whether it was safe to cross an intersection and whether to do so. while we do not considerations should play some part in premeditation and deliberation, considerations such as planning and the manner of killing are categories of evidence from which preexisting reflection and weighing of considerations may be inferred. they are however, not required elements. (people v. brooks, supra, 3 cal.5th at pp. 58-59, citing people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 [other categories include motive and manner of killing].) we conclude the prosecutor did not commit misconduct or diminish the common experiences not involving moral or ethical considerations. as defendant did not object in the trial court or complain that his constitutional rights were violated, our rejection of [the] claim on the merits necessarily leads to rejection of [the] constitutional theoryrgument resulted in a denial of due process. (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 364.) moreover, we discern no reasonable probability that the outcome would have been different absent comments, or that there was any unfairness amounting to denial of due process. the trial court twice instructed the jury with the definitions of premeditation and deliberation, including the following: considering whether to kill does not alone determine whether the killing is deliberate and premeditated. 35 the amount of time required for deliberation and premeditation may vary from person to person and according to the circumstances. a decision to kill made rashly, impulsively, or without careful consideration is not deliberate and premeditated. on the other hand, a cold, calculated decision to kill can be reached quickly. the test is the extent of reflection, not the length of time. (calcrim nos. 521 & 601.) the jury was also toldt follow the law as i explain it to comments on the law conflict with my instructions you must further, the categories of evidence suggesting premeditation and deliberation were present in abundance in this case. (see people v. anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at pp. 26-27 [include motive, planning, and manner of killing].) carrying a loaded firearm to confront rival gang members and getting out of a car in order to shoot in their direction, shows planning and motive; and shooting at rivals multiple times is a manner of killing that suggests premeditation and deliberation. (people v. villegas (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 1217, 1224-1225.) here, defendant saw a man wearing a compton cap, directed rodriguez to the block on which swindles had been seen, emerged from the car, approached the victims, and fired seven to nine times toward them with a semiautomatic handgun which he had brought with him. s coupled with the evidence on premeditation and deliberation, defendant suffered no prejudice under any standard, as we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the result would not have been different absent the claimed misconduct. (see chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24.) 36 viii. no cumulative error defendant contends that the cumulative effect of all the errors heretofore discussed was to deny him a fair trial. because error or have found any (people v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 316.) ix. restitution fine citing blakely v. washington (2004) 542 u.s. 296 (blakely), and apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 490 (apprendi), which require a jury determination of any facts which might increase criminal punishment beyond the prescribed statutory maximum, defendant contends that because a restitution fine is punitive, it may not be imposed absent a jury determination. defendant also relies on southern union co. v. united states (2012) 567 u.s. 343, which held that the apprendi rule also applies to the imposition of criminal fines. the former and current section 1202.4, requires the imposition of a restitution fine up to a maximum of $10,000, with a minimum of $300. (see section 1202.4, subd. (b)(1); stats. 2012, ch. 873,  1.5.) the amount of the fine is set at the discretion of the court, commensurate with the seriousness of the offense, but may not exceed the maximum. ( 1204.4, subd. (b)(1).) here, the trial court imposed a fine of $10,000, the maximum within the statutory range. in apprendi, the united states supreme court held: other than the fact of a prior conviction, any fact that increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must be submitted to a jury, and proved beyond a reasonable doubt.apprendi, supra, 530 u.s. at p. 525.) apprendi purposes is the maximum sentence a judge may impose solely on the basis of the facts 37 reflected in the jury verdict or admitted by the defendant. (blakely, supra, 542 u.s. at p. 303.) defendant acknowledges people v. kramis (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 346, 350-351, which held that the apprendi rule does not apply to the imposition of a restitution fine within the statutory range. under that holding, the maximum $10,000 fine imposed here did not violate the apprendi rule. nevertheless, defendant reasons that the minimum fine is in reality the maximum permitted by section 1202.4, because subdivision (c) and because subdivision (d) of the statute requires consideration of multiple factors prior to imposing an amount above the to pay, the seriousness and gravity of the offense and the circumstances of its commission, any economic gain derived by the defendant as a result of the crime, the extent to which any other person suffered losses as a result of the crime, and the number ( 1204.4, subd. (d).) the plain language of subdivisions (c) and (d) refers to a consideration of factors, they contain no language which requires the court to find any fact as a prerequisite to the imposition of an amount more than the statutory minimum. in apprendi, the supreme court reviewed the relevant common law and suggests that it is impermissible for judges to exercise discretion -- taking into consideration various factors relating both to offense and offender -- in imposing a judgment within the range prescribed by statute. . . . [j]udges in this country have long exercised discretion of this nature in imposing sentence within statutory limits in the individual case. [citation.apprendi, 38 supra, at p. 481; see also people v. kramis, supra, 209 cal.app.4th at p. 351.) as subdivisions (c) and (d) of section 1202.4 merely describe factors the court may or should take into consideration in exercising its discretion within the statutory range, it comports with the requirements of apprendi. moreover, the trial court in this case did not engage in judicial fact-finding. as defendant has not shown that any factor was used to enhance the fine beyond the statutory maximum, apprendi does not apply to this case. x. effective assistance of counsel defendant advances a blanket challenge, on the ground of ineffective assistance of counsel, to any failure by trial counsel to raise an issue where such failure resulted in forfeiture. the sixth amendment right to assistance of counsel includes the right to the effective assistance of counsel. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686; see also cal. trial counsel was inadequate and that prejudice resulted. (people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 875-876.) as defendant has failed to identify any specific error or to provide an analysis of any claimed error to demonstrate the inadequacy of counsel or resulting prejudice, we find no ineffective assistance of counsel. (see strickland, at p. 687; people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1126.) xi. firearm enhancement as amended in supplemental briefing, defendant has requested remand for resentencing under the recent amendment of section 12022.53, subdivision (h), which grants the trial court the interests of justice. (see stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) defendant was sentenced in all three counts to a consecutive term of 25 years to life in prison pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision 39 interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur pursuant respondent acknowledges the amendment applies retroactively to judgments which are not final on january 1, 2018, under the reasoning of in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, because the amendment gave trial courts new sentencing discretion to lessen punishment. (see people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 324; people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-76.) in general, when new statutory discretion is applied retroactively or the trial court was otherwise unaware of its discretion, a defendant is entitled to resentencing. (people v. belmontes entitled to sentencing decisions made in the exercise of the which is unaware of the scope of its discretionary powers can no is or may have been based on misinformation regarding a ibid.) the general rule is not without exception. remand for resentencing . . . clearly indicated that it would not, in any event, have (people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 530, fn. 13 (romero).) respondent contends that remand should also be denied when the respondent points to the eight factors in 40 aggravation listed in the probation report, noting that just one factor in mitigation was listed (satisfactory performance on parole). respondent also summarizes the violent circumstances constitute an abuse of discretion to strike any of the firearm-use in support of his conclusion, respondent relies on our opinion in people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896 (gutierrez). however, gutierrez is inapposite. in gutierrezthe pendency of his appeal, the california supreme court published its opinion in romero, supra, 13 cal.4th 497, holding that trial courts had discretion under section 1385 to strike prior convictions alleged under the three strikes law. (gutierrez, supra, at p. 1896.) the gutierrez court considered romero but declined to remand for resentencing, reasoning that no purpose would be served by a remand, as the following comment by the sentencing court showed that the court would not have exercised cause to strike it. there are a lot of reasons not to, and this is the kind of individual the law was intended to keep off the street as ibid.) as the gutierrez court recognized, resentencing is required indicated that it would not, in any event, have exercised its gutierrez, supra, 48 cal.app.4th at p. 1896, citing romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. would not have exercised its discretion even if it believed it could 41 people v. gamble (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 891, 901.) respondent fails to point out any comment or action by this trial court indicating how it might act on remand. as the trial court made no comments at sentencing, or gave any other indication how it would have exercised its discretion if it had such authority at that time, no exception to the general rule requiring resentencing can be discerned from the record. we must thus vacate the sentence and remand for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to exercise its newly granted discretion. disposition the sentence is vacated, and the case is remanded to give the trial court the opportunity to exercise its discretion under section 12202.53, subdivision (h). the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst __________________________, j. hoffstadt 