filed 2/21/17 p. v. perez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bernardo perez, defendant and appellant. b275990 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba441731 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed. alan s. yockelson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 on november 22, 2015, defendant bernardo patricio perez1 approached antonio hernandez as hernandez walked through mcarthur park to catch a bus. defendant held a switchblade to because he was scared, hernandez allowed defendant to remove was able to grab his phone back from defendant. after he reclaimed his phone, hernandez ran away. during the incident, to 45 minutes later, hernandez identified defendant to the police. by information filed december 22, 2015, the people charged defendant with one count of second degree robbery under penal code section 211, and alleged he had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction for robbery. the people also alleged that defendant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife, during the incident. defendant subsequently pled no contest to one count of second degree robbery. he also admitted the prior serious or violent felony allegations. during the plea and sentencing hearing, defendant was asinterpreters. at the time he entered his plea, defendant was advised of his constitutional rights and the nature and consequences of the plea, which he stated he understood. ounsel joined in the waivers of his clients constitutional rights and stipulated to a factual basis for the plea. the trial court found that defendants waivers, plea, and admissions were voluntary, knowing and intelligent. 1 this appeal was filed on behalf of hector perez. we use information to reflect name, bernardo patricio perez. 3 the court sentenced defendant in accordance with the negotiated plea agreement to an aggregate state prison term of nine years,2 consisting of four years for second degree robbery (the lower term of two years, doubled under the three strikes law), plus five years for the enhancement under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court awarded defendant presentence custody credits and imposed various fines, fees, and assessments. the court dismissed the weapon allegation. defendant filed a notice of appeal and obtained a certificate of probable cause. in his request for a certificate of probable cause, defendant states that he entered the plea because the interpreter and his attorney told him to do so without explaining the significance of the plea. discussion we appointed counsel to represent defendant on appeal. after reviewing the record, counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436.) we subsequently advised defendant he had 30 days to file a supplemental brief raising any contentions or issues he wanted us to consider. defendant has not done so. nothing in the record indicates the plea was made under duress, as a result of fraud, misrepresentation or false promise, or because of any other fact overreaching defendants free will and judgment. the record shows defendant was ably represented by counsel and assisted by court-appointed interpreters throughout the proceedings. the prosecutor fully advised 2 the negotiated plea a probation violation in the 2011 robbery case (ba379296). defendant was sentenced to one year for that violation. 4 defendant before the court accepted his plea. the court sentenced defendant in accordance with the stipulated disposition, properly ordered custody credits, and imposed the required fines and fees. upon review of the record for potential error, including the sealed record of the courts examination under people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118, we conclude no arguable issues are presented for review. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: aldrich, acting p. j. goswami, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 