filed 7/26/18 p. v. wilcher ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tonsha wilcher, defendant and appellant. b275876 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba436943) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig richman, judge. reversed and remanded. carlos ramirez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, william h. shin and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 tonsha wilcher appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of driving under the influence of a drug and causing injury (former veh. code,  23153, subd. (e); count 1), hit and run driving resulting in injury to another person (veh. code,  20001, subd. (b)(1); count 2), and resisting an executive officer (pen. code,  69;1 count 3). the jury further found true the special allegation that wilcher personally inflicted great bodily injury on another in the commission of count 1 ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) and two prior prison term allegations ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced him to seven years and eight months in prison. wilcher contends the trial court committed reversible error when it declined to declare a doubt about his mental competence to stand trial. we agree and reverse the judgment. background prosecution case at approximately 4:45 a.m., on may 30, 2015, wilcher was driving on the wrong side of a surface street when he struck a car driven by an adult woman. after impact, vehicle spun and crashed into a pole. she fractured her neck in the car accident and wore a neck brace for three months. her two adult passengers also sustained injuries. wilcher did not stop his car at the scene of the accident. firefighters and police officers located him and his damaged car wilcher exited his car. he approached officers and, with slurred d to suck his dick, that he was the son of god, and that if [the officers] came near him, he was going to fuck [them] 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 he asserted that he could see the officers but they could not see him. at one point, he examined his damaged car and stated, according to officersthen up and very aggressive and belligerent ttheir batons. officers used pepper spray, a taser, and a baton to subdue him and take him into custody.2 an ambulance transported wilcher to a hospital. at trial, an would stare -- it was like a blank stare. he was looking right through you, extremely angry. at times, incoherent. he was rambthe officer stated wilcher made the following about chopping our heads off. he talked about -- he said that we were reptilians. he mentioned the grand architect. he was mentioning a righteous god. he brought up lucifer. he said that he wanted to go to hell, and he was going to take us all with him. he talked about -- i had asked him if he took any kind of he talked about all mighty [sic] god, and extremely angry, and the officer believed wilcher was under the influence. 2 the prosecution played for the jury a video recording of the struggle between wilcher and officers. 4 a drug recognition expert from the police department attempted to examine wilcher at the hospital. according to the watery. he would begin to cooperate with various tests and then become angry, use profanity, and stop cooperating. when the wilcher replied when the expert asked if according to the expert, persons under the influence of amphetamine and methamphetamine display signs and symptoms consistent with persons under the influence of pcp. at trial, the prosecution and defense stipulated that wilcher had his blood drawn at the hospital, and subsequent tests conducted by police department criminalists revealed the he metabolites of thc, a main compound in defense case wilcher testified in his defense. he denied being under the influence of drugs at the time of the car accident, but admitted to using marijuana and methamphetamine two or three days before the accident. wilcher testified he had recently purchased the used car he was driving in the early morning on may 30, 2015. he claimed the car suddenly a 5 his car. his c he did not attempt to flee. wilcher stated he tried and comply with their orders. he claimed they hen he told them he a child of god in response to their questions about s only one god, but wilcher testified he also told the officers: m all for life, you know, wilcher stated an officer used pepper spray on him as he was trying to answer their questions. then, as he was trying to sit down in his car to comply with the officers demands that he used a taser on him. he denied resisting the officers. during his direct examination and cross-examination, wilcher acknowledged he had a 2003 conviction for child endangerment ( 273a, subd. (a)) and a 2011 conviction for evading a police officer (veh. code,  2800.2).3 3 prosecution could impeach him with these prior convictions. 6 verdicts and sentence the jury found wilcher guilty of the charged offensesdriving under the influence (dui) of a drug and causing injury, hit and run driving resulting in injury to another person, and resisting an executive officer. the jury also found true the special allegation that wilcher personally inflicted great bodily injury on the driver of the other car in the commission of the dui offense. in a subsequent, bifurcated trial, the jury found two prior prison term enhancement allegations to be true. the trial court sentenced wilcher to seven years and eight months in prison: the middle term of two years for the dui offense, plus three years for the great bodily injury enhancement; and one-third the middle term for resisting an executive officer (8 months), plus one year for each of the two prior prison term enhancements. the court also imposed a concurrent term of two years for the hit and run driving offense. discussion wilcher contends the trial court erred in declining to declare a doubt about his mental competence to stand trial. proceedings below may 3, 2016 on may 3, 2016, during voir dire, wilcher informed the trial court outside the presence of the prospective jurors that he room during the jury trial the trial court noted defense counsel previously stated off tal competence. 7 the court invited defense counsel to make a record on this defense counsel stated she did not believe wilcher was to court after the lunch hour, i was informed by the deputy that mr. wilcher wanted to speak with me. i went into the back to speak with him. it was at that time that he stated he did not want to come into the courtroom. in addition to that, he began making comments related to satan, and that he was following the word of lucifer. this is consistent with other remarks that mr. wilcher has made in court, on the record. [seven months before the instant court hearing], mr. wilcher was in court -- or he was due to be in court that day; however, shortly before the case was called, we were informed by the courtroom deputy in department 133 that mr. wilcher had been taken to psych because he was making comments about the devil and sending the devil after the deputies at that time. the trial court reviewed the minute order from the october apparently, a mental health evaluation never occurred.4 with mr. wilcher, as i was speaking with him and he was making the comments about following the word of lucifer, he began 4 later in the hearing, defense counsel noted the reason she did not pursue appointment of a mental health professional in october 2015 was that she was not attempting to communicate with wilcher about trial strategy at that time and, therefore, did not believe an evaluation was necessary. 8 pointing around the cell, talking about the number thirteen, that he had third eyesight. he then made references to snitches and that mr. weller [the prosecutor] and i were snitches, and that everyone in the courtroom were snitches. then again, he restated that he did not want to be present. he was making n counsel stated inquiry. earlier discussion with him about absenting himself from the courtroom. the court further stated: behavior at all. i want that to be clear. but two things: one, you are not a mental health-care professional. and the second is that where a mental health-care professional would come into play, and their opinion would have a value to me. i am not being presented with competent evidence to find a doubt as to mr. evaluate [wilcher] within 24 hours regarding [his] mental compet the court further ordered a report on when voir dire resumed, wilcher was no longer in the courtroom. 9 may 4, 2016 the following day, on may 4, 2016, wilcher came to court in his jail-issued jumpsuit. outside the presence of the prospective jurors, he acknowledged the deputy had given him an opportunity to change his clothes, but indicated he had declined because he did not want to be present for the proceedings. he told the trial court that although he did not want to be present, p] the court told him he would be brought back to the courtroom after lunch. from the courtroom at his request. he has voluntarily absented thereafter, defense counsel reiterated she had declared a the day before (may 3, 2016). the trial court noted wilcher had not yet been evaluated pursuant to the with the trial absent a mental competence evaluation. the court indicated it was difficult to schedule the evaluation because wilcher was at the courthouse during the day, but expressed the trial court decided to proceed with jury selection unless the parties stipulated to a continuance (which they did not). the court explained it would not suspend the proceedings unless a mental health professional found wilcher to be incompetent, mr. wilcher, and i am not getting the same feeling that [defense counsel] has. but, again, she has had much more contact with 10 mr the trial i am confident in my ruling about requiring competent evidence to suspend proceedings, with all due respect. and we all know what that means to [defense counsel]. just because the defense attorney court -- and neither of you guys work in this court -- i will not suspend proceedings without an evaluation from a mental health-care professional, because it is such a drastic measure at that point in time to hold someone in custody without the clock ticking. and for who knows how long before the issue ultimately gets resolved? but if i have a letter from -- a report from a psychiatrist or psychologist, saying that in their opinion the defendant is incompetent, at that point in time, i must and do more than i do, defense counsel replithat when i go into the back to try to have a conversation with mr. wilcher about the status of his case or decisions that are raising several red flags, along with all the other representations the triatalked nd 11 -- capable of telling the difference. and, you know, there is needs to be considered. and those are things that a mental health-care professional is available [sic] of evaluating, that we -- unless you agree to continue the case, and then i will continue the case. but i will not suspend proceedings, because en that evaluation. and i get the impression that mr. wilcher would not give a time waiver, so it would have to be over his objection.[5] so we can get an evaluation and figure out where we go from here. but, again, if an evaluation comes back that he is incompetent, i will suspend proceedings upon request -- probably automatic anyway -- at the beginning of the afternoon session on may 4, 2016, wilcher was brought into the courtroom in his jail-issued jumpsuit. outside the presence of the prospective jurors, he confirmed he did not want to be present for the proceedings. the going to probably start testimony this afternoon. but because ndicating he wanted to remain at the courthouse for 5 wilcher objected to two prior continuances the trial court granted on defe 12 wilcher was removed from the courtroom, and voir dire continued. after the parties selected a jury and the jury was sworn, the trial court informed the parties, outside the presence of the are working very hard at trying to get someone. we may have not having any luck getting someone to examine mr. wilcher tomorrow. we cannot have someone examine him at the jail after he gets back to the jail in the evening, so our window of the trial court pre-instructed the jury and recessed for the evening. may 5, 2016 at the beginning of the morning session on may 5, 2016, wilcher was brought into the courtroom in his jail-issued jumpsuit. he confirmed he had an opportunity to change his clothes, but chose not to do so. are you , until, you after the court explained that the first victim would testify that morning, wilcher decided he wanted to be present and went to change his clothes. after wilcher returned to the courtroom, defense counsel competent to assist in the defense counsel added: the court brought him out the first time. i was called back in to lock-up. mr. wilcher -- after the court explained what was going 13 to be happening this morning, mr. wilcher asked me again whether or not the victims were present, after the court just explained that to him. [] so for those reasons, as well as all of the other reasons i have identified, i am objecting to the trial proceeding, absent mr. wilch understood my inquiries. he has answered them appropriately. ion at this point this time. we have made efforts to have someone come in and evaluate him. we have not been successful so far. we are continuing our efforts. so we will continue moving forward with competency at is making regarding his appearance and non-appearance in court. i -- over the past two days when the court has inquired of mr. wilcher whether or not he chooses to be present, i deciding to be present. all of these things are making the jury percept [siccompetently made in his -- i cannot discuss this to him. i have not been able to, over the last three days that we have been sent out to trial, have a conversation with him that has been productive for purposes of me presenting a defense on his behalf, and i am again renewing my request for the court to declare a the trial court informed wilcher that, in the future, if he made the decision not to change his clothes before a court session, 14 he would not be brought to the courtroom. wilcher indicated he understood. the prosecution made its opening statement and began its presentation of witnesses. at the beginning of the afternoon session on may 5, 2016, wilcher addressed the trial court and asked if he could have three minutes to speak with his attorney. the court granted his continued. at the conclusion of the afternoon session, the trial court made the following cwith this issue, whether mr. wilcher is currently competent. i will note for the record that some of the statements that he made on may 30, 2015 [the date of the crimes] are identical to the statements that he has purportedly made over the last couple of days.[6] so it is clear that everybody was well aware of the statements long before they were made, within the last day or may 6, 2016 at the beginning of the morning session on friday, may 6, 2016, wilcher was brought into the courtroom, dressed in civilian clothing. at the conclusion of the morning session, after additional prosecution witnesses testified, the proceedings were adjourned until may 9, 2016. 6 defense counsel. 15 may 9, 2016 in the morning on monday, may 9, 2016, wilcher came to court, appropriately dressed. after the prosecution concluded its presentation of evidence, defense counsel informed the trial court that wilcher intended to testify. counsel renewed her objection to the trial proceeding absent a mental competence evaluation. she stated that based on her conversation with wilcher that morning, she did not believe he was making the decision to testify competently. the trial court explained that the planning to move wilcher to a different facility so he could be evaluated. in the meantime, the court declined to declare a doubt have significant competent evidence at this point in time. in fact, my conclusion is exactly the opposite. i think mr. wilcher is well the trial court explained to wilcher that he had the right to testify and the right not to testify, and that his attorney was advising him not to testify, but it was his choice. wilcher stated he wanted to testify. wilcher testified in his defense. his testimony is summarized above in the background section of this opinion. thereafter, the trial court instructed the jury. may 10, 2016 wilcher did not appear in court on may 10, 2016. outside refused to come to court today. he was transported to county jail to be evaluated for competencdepartment came to him this morning to have him transported to 16 the trial court further explained that wilcher was not in fact evaluated (for reasons not made clear in the record) and would not be evaluated before the jury returned a verdict. the court assured defense counsel that wilcher would be evaluated tion, the court proceeded with the trial. prior to closing arguments, the trial court informed the continue without him, just li that afternoon, the jury rendered its verdicts on the charged offenses and thereafter on the prior conviction allegations. after the jury was excused, the trial court asked defense counsel to prepare an order for appointment of a mental health june 28, 2016 wilcher was present for the june 28, 2016 sentencing hearing. the trial court indicated wilcher had been evaluated and asked defense counsel if she still had an issue regarding his presently an issue. however, the report i received cannot speak to mr. doubt, and that is the issue i raised in my motion for new trial. t this time, as 17 mr. wilcher presently sits before the court; however, my previous counsel declined to have a copy of the evaluation report placed in the court stated for tcompetent evidence to declare a doubt, and i am satisfied mr. wilcher was competent during the course of the trial. so the record speaks quite clear to that point -- is quite clear regarding as set forth above, the trial court sentenced wilcher to seven years and eight months in prison. at the conclusion of the judge, you have to answer to the grand architect too. satan. all you all do. [] . . . [] watch the news. watch t legal analysis a person cannot be tried or adjudged to punishment while mentally incompetent. ( 1367, subd. (a).) a defendant is mentally incompetent if, as a result of a mental disorder or developmental disability, he or she is unable to understand the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist counsel in the conduct of a defense in a rational manner. (ibid [citation.] both the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution and state law require a trial judge to suspend proceedings and conduct a competency hearing whenever the court is presented with substantial evidence of incompetence, that is, evidence that raises a reasonable or bona fide doubt concerning the defendants competence to stand people v. townsel (2016) 63 cal.4th 25, 36-37.) his standard is satisfied if at least one expert who is competent to render such an opinion, and who has had a sufficient opportunity to conduct an examination, testifies under oath with particularity 18 that, because of mental illness, the accused is incapable of understanding the proceedings or assisting in his defense(people v. lewis (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1047.) substantial evidence test is satisfied and a full competence hearing is required but the trial court fails to hold one, the people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 738.) require a full competence hearing even if the evidence is in people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 738.) a trial judges personal observations obviate the necessity for a competency hearing. [citation.] the function of the trial court in applying [the] substantial evidence test is not to determine the ultimate issue: is the defendant competent to stand trial? itsole function is to decide whether there is any evidence which, assuming its truth, raises a reasonable doubt about the defendants competency. at any time that such evidence appears, the trial court sua sponte must order an evidentiary hearing on the competency issue. it is only after the evidentiary hearing, applying the usual rules appropriate to trial, that the court decides the issue of competency of the defendant to stand people v. johnson (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 267, 276 (johnson).) constitute substantial evidence of incompetence [citation]; but calm behavior in the courtroom is not necessarily inconsistent johnson, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at p. 276.) a bald assertion from counsel that the defendant is incapable of understanding the proceedings or 19 assisting in his defense does not constitute substantial evidence constitute substantial evidence. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.130(b)(2).) in this case, the trial court was presented with substantial evidence which competence to stand trial. wilcher exhibited odd behavior in declining to attend some court proceedings and appearing at other proceedings, potentially prejudicing himself in front of the jury and suggesting he did not understand the nature of the proceedings. moreover, the court was aware of bizarre behavior in the preceding year. at the time of his arrest in may 2015 (about a year before defense counsel raised a doubt), wilcher displayed irrational and volatile behavior. in october 2015 (seven months before defense counsel raised a doubt), wilcher missed a court appearance because he threatened to send the most substantially, defense counsel presented the trial court with a statement of specific reasons supporting her opinion wilcher was incapable of assisting in his defense due to mental incompetence. counsel explained wilcher referenced satan and that he wanted to absent himself from the courtroom. he pointed around the room, made hand gestures counsel did not comprehend, and attached some undisclosed significance to the counsel, the prosecutor, and everyone in the courtroom of being seemingly related this accusation to his belief that 20 defense counsel was a buddhist. counsel represented she had been unable to have a productive conversation with wilcher regarding his defense due to his bizarre behavior and stated she did not believe he was making decisions competently about whether to absent himself from proceedings and testify. on seven, consecutive court dates, from pretrial proceedings through trial, defense counsel continually raised a believe he was competent to assist in his defense. it is not clear what additional information counsel could have presented about absent a mental health evaluation. as the court of appeal stated in johnson, supra, 21 cal.app.5th psychological evaluation of defendant available to the court [at the time it declined to suspend the proceedings]. unlike most of the reported cases cited by the parties, no psychiatrist, psychologist, or any other mental health expert testified whether defendant was capable of understanding the nature of the proceedings or was equipped to help his lawyer with his defense. the trial courts decision that defendant was competent was based exclusively on its own observation of defendants behavior . . . .id. at p. 277.) the trial court expressly stated on multiple occasions it did yet the court repeatedly indicated it would not suspend proceedings absent a mental health evaluation, stating neither defense counsel nor the court was qualified to determine if wilcher was unable or unwilling to assist in his defense. because the court had before it substantial 21 suspend proceedings and conduct a competency hearing. after a full hearing, with expert testimony, the court could then make the determination whether wilcher was unable or unwilling to assist in his defense. the fact wilcher was found competent at the time of and not by reference to evidence produced (people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 739.) time. (johnson, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at p. 277.) we must reverse the judgment because the trial court declined to suspend the proceedings and hold a full competence hearing at the time it was presented with substantial evidence of wil7 dipsosition the judgment is reversed and the matter remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. 7 because we reverse the judgment on this ground, we need not address the other contention wilcher raised on appealthat the trial court erred in allowing the prosecution to impeach him with his 2003 conviction for child endangerment and his 2011 conviction for evading a police officer. 