 filed 1/23/19 p. v. white ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. shumonte white, defendant and appellant. b275585 los angeles county super. ct. no. na094007 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james d. otto, judge. affirmed with directions. fay arfa for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez, steven e. mercer and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant shumonte white of second degree murder after he stabbed and killed carlos gamboa. the trial court sentenced defendant to a term of 15 years to life in prison. on appeal, defendant argues insufficient evidence supports his conviction for second degree murder and the court erroneously denied his batson/wheeler motion1 alleging the people exercised a peremptory challenge to a prospective juror numerous claims of evidentiary error and ineffective assistance of counsel. we affirm with directions to correct an error in the abstract of judgment. procedural background in september 2013, the people charged defendant with the willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of gamboa (pen. code,2  187, subd. (a)). the people alleged defendant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife, during the commission of the offense ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). a jury convicted defendant of second degree murder and found true the allegation that he personally used a knife to commit the murder. the trial court struck the personal use of a knife allegation and sentenced defendant to a term of 15 years to life in prison. 1 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler). 2 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 defendant filed a timely notice of appeal.3 factual background -in-chief 1. the stabbing in november 2012, defendant lived in an apartment in san pedro with several roommates. around 3:45 p.m. on november homes shouting and striking at passing cars. gamboa was appeared to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs. gamboa, defendant approached gamboa. after the two started arguing, gamboa tried to hit defendant. defendant then started to walk away but gamboa followed him. gamboa yelled to r at some point, defendant and gamboa started fighting. several neighbors witnessed the fight. one neighbor, jasmin t on top of gamboa and, while pushing 3 defendant also filed a petition for habeas corpus, raising three claims of ineffective assistance of counsel that are identical to claims raised in his direct appeal. we ordered defat the same time as this appeal. we have denied the petition in a separate order. 4 s left arm. according to marquez, and neither defendant nor gamboa appeared to engage in - after defendant and gamboa fought for a few minutes, defendant left the scene. as he walked away, defendant told around 3:50 p.m., defendant returned to his apartment. he yelled for his roommates to call 911, claiming gamboa had attacked him. defendant paced around his bedroom, complaining he was afraid he would get sick because gamboa had bitten him. after several minutes, defendant grabbed a knife with a three- to four-inch blade and left the apartment to confront gamboa again. carrying the knife, defendant again before defendant stabbed gamboa in the abdomen with his knife. after stabbing gamboa, defendant walked away and tried to conceal the knife under his shirt. as he walked away, 4 after defendant left the fight, gamboa tried to walk to the sidewalk but collapsed in the street, clutching his stomach. gamboa had a wound near his abdomen through which his intestines had become exposed. robert cormier, one of the neighbors who witnessed the altercation, tended to gamboa until 4 at trial, defendant stipulated that he was the person who stabbed gamboa. 5 paramedics arrived. gamboa died at the hospital while undergoing emergency medical treatment for his wounds. the cause of death was a three-and-a-half- to four-inch stab wound to the abdomen. 2. the investigation defendant returned to his apartment around 4:00 p.m. enter the apartment carrying a knife. sambrano heard defendant tell eddie smith, one of their other roommates, that defendant stab gamboa and left the apartment a few minutes later. after leaving his apartment, defendant went to the same hospital where the paramedics had taken gamboa. defendant sought treatment for the bite wound gamboa had inflicted on him during their initial fight. defendant was apprehended by law enforcement at the hospital. defendant admitted to the arresting officers that he had stabbed someone in san pedro. at the police station, defendant was interviewed by officer boris oliva and a detective rodriguez of the los angeles police ny wounds or injuries he may have suffered during the altercation . during his interview with oliva and rodriguez, defendant admitted he stabbed gamboa during their fight. defendant initially told the officers he had been carrying the knife when he and gamboa first confronted each other and that he stabbed gamboa during the same fight when gamboa bit his arm. however, after oliva told defendant he thought defendant was 6 lying about the sequence of events surrounding the altercation with gamboa, defendant admitted that gamboa had bitten his arm during their first fight, before defendant went to his apartment to retrieve the knife. specifically, defendant admitted that he left the fight after gamboa bit him, went to his they started fighting the second time. defendant claimed, however, that when he approached gamboa the second time, he did not intend to stab gamboa. rather, defendant intended only to scare gamboa into leaving the neighborhood. 3. impeachment of robert cormier about law enforcement. when law enforcement responded to the scene of the stabbing, cormier provided a brief description of told the officers that he did not want to be involved in the investigation. cormier moved away from the neighborhood after the altercation. incident about three years before trial. aside from when he spoke to police officers shortly after defendant stabbed gamboa, cormier did not speak about the incident with law enforcement or anyone from the prosecution team until the middle of february 2015, or less than a month before trial, when he went to the police station, cormier had heard from one of his neighbors that 7 to law enforcement in february 2015. defense evidence 1. expert testimony in 2010, defendant was attacked in palmdale by someone carrying a knife or screwdriver; the attacker stabbed defendant six times. in january 2014, dr. catherine scarf, a forensic, clinical, and neuropsychologist, examined defendant. based on that interview and her observations of defendant, dr. scarf concluded that defendant has been suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd) as a result of the 2010 palmdale incident. the original trauma he experienced. a person who suffers from ptsd may also perceive non-dangerous situations as dangerous situations, or he may perceive a situation that is no longer dangerous as remaining dangerous, even once the threat has dissipated. ptsd affesymptoms applied to defendant. dr. scarf also diagnosed defendant with borderline intellectual functioning and cannabis abuse. according to dr. intellectual functioning at the time he was 13 years old compared 8 ty 2. defendant testified at trial. he grew up in wilmington. although he was familiar with many of the local street gangs, was likely a gang member. on november 16, 2012, defendant worked from 2:30 a.m. until 10:30 a.m. loading 18-wheel trucks. after work, defendant went home and took a nap until 1:00 p.m. or 2:00 p.m. when he woke up, he walked to a chinese food restaurant a few blocks from his apartment. as he left the restaurant, defendant called his girlfriend, sade pinson, and walked to a liquor store across the street. as defendant left the liquor store, he saw gamboa standing near the exit. gamboa started walking in front of defendant as defendant walked back to his apartment. as defendant got close to his apartment, gamboa asked defendant where he was from. defendant, who was still on the phone with pinson, replied that he waon his back. defendant changed directions several times while walking back to his apartment, but gamboa continued to follow him. endant where he was from. 9 when defendant got close to his apartment, his 16-year-old tried to pull him out of his car. when defendant got between boa then swung at defendant, grabbed a pair of on the ground. defendant and gamboa started fighting. defendant defendant. gamboa eventually fell to the ground and defendant kept punching him. at some point, gamboa jumped up, grabbed ant thought gamboa was able to once gamboa stopped biting him, defendant gathered some remember whether he told gamboa he would come back to the fight. when defendant got back to his apartment, he told his roommates that someone had bitten and robbed him, and he asked them to call the police. he then grabbed a knife, left the apartment, and went back to confront gamboa. defendant conly brought the knife to scare gamboa into leaving the neighborhood. 10 defendant walked toward gamboa with his knife open and come hereacted by swinging the knife, stabbing gamboa in the stomach. after he stabbed gamboa, defendant walked back to his apartment. defendant testified that when he got back to his knife and told smith to dispose of it. defendant then fled from the apartment. when questioned about his interview with the police, defendant admitted that he had initially lied to the officers about the sequence of events leading up to him stabbing gamboa. he claimed he had lied because he was scared and panicked. defendant decided to tell the officers the truth when they told him they had spoken to other people who had witnessed his fight with gamboa. discussion 1. conviction for second degree murder defendant contends insufficient evidence supports his conviction for second degree murder. according to defendant, the evidence establishes he acted under a heat of passion when he attacked gamboa with the knife. contrary to the substantial evidence standard that applies to his claim, defendant asks us to mans 11 dismiss the case. as we explain, substantial evidence supports 5 1.1. standard of review when evaluating the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the evidence proved the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) we do not reweigh the evidence, nor do we resolve credibility issues or evidentiary conflicts. (ibid.) instead, we draw all reasonable inferences in favor of the judgment. (ibid.) we apply this standard whether direct or circumstantial evidence is involved. (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 701.) if the circumstances reasonably justify the we cannot reverse the judgment even if we believe contrary findings could have been made based on the same evidence. (people v. cravens (2012) 53 cal.4th 500, 508.) therefore, before we may set aside the judgment, it must be clear t (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) 1.2. substconviction for second degree murder. another ... people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 941 (beltran).) criminal homicide is divided into two categories: 5 besides first degree and second degree murder, the jury was instructed on voluntary manslaughter and self-defense. 12 murder and manslaughter. (ibid.) murder is a killing performed with malice aforethought. ( 187.) malice may be express or express malice is an intent to kill. [citation.] implied malice does not require an intent to kill. malice is implied when a person willfully does an act, the natural and probable consequences of which are dangerous to human life, and the person knowingly acts with conscious disregard for the danger to life that the act poses.people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 653.) while first degree murder requires the defendant to act willfully, deliberately, and premeditatedly with an intent to kill, second degree murder requires only that the defendant act with malice. (beltran, at p. 942.) manslaughter is a les(beltran, supraa person who kills without malice does not commit murder.ibid.) an unlawful killing is committed without malice and constitutes manslaughter if the defendant committed the killing in a heat of passion or through imperfect self-defense. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 832.) to qualify as voluntary manslaughter committed in a heat of passionsuddenly as a response to the (people v. daniels (1991) 52 cal.3d 815, 868.) at the time of the killing, the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from judgment. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 942.) i 13 is murder, not voluntary manslaughter. (daniels, at p. 868.) substantial evidence supposecond degree murder. first, defendant does not dispute that he stabbed gamboa. he stipulated that he stabbed gamboa and admitted that fact to the police shortly after he was arrested and when he testified at trial. second, there was overwhelming evidence to support a finding that defendant acted with at least implied malice when first fight, but before defendant stabbed gamboa, marquez heard defendant tell gamboa walked back to his apartment. defendant told the police that after he returned to his apartment, he decided to retrieve a knife while carrying a knife, and defendant admitted that he opened pproached gamboa the second time. defendant admitted that he swung his blade. defendant stabbed gamboa. defendant argues the evidence also supports a finding that he acted in the heat of passion when he stabbed gamboa. specifically, defendant claims the evidence establishes that, at 14 -endant contends the jury could have found a reasonable person in his position would not have had sufficient time to cool down between the time he left the altercation to retrieve the knife from his apartment and the time he stabbed gamboa during their second altercation. this argument lacks merit. even if we were to assume the evidence could have supported a finding that defendant harbored a different mental state when he stabbed gamboa, we will not second guess the credibility determinations or resolution of evidentiary conflicts. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) 2. evidence of offender registration history defendant next contends the people violated his due process rights and their obligations under brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady) to disclose evidence favorable to the felony convictions. specifically, defendant argues the people violated brady because they informed defense counsel that cormier had suffered a conviction for a felony sex offense without disclosing that cormier had suffered a second similar conviction. defendant also complains the court erred when it excluded ing felony conviction and precluded defendant from introducing evidence that cormier went to the police station to register as a sex 15 2.1. relevant proceedings in february 2015, cormier was interviewed by the police explained he had been on parole for three years because of a sex crime and that term because of recent changes in the law. cormier stated he had not spoken to the police since the time of the murder because he involved with lainvestigator claim that defendant was acting in self-defense at the time he stabbed gamboa, a characterization of the attack with which cormier disagreed. the interviewing officers assured cormier that it would be would not violate the terms of his parole if he missed a parole obligation because he had to testify at trial. one of the officers told cormier to give whoever is in charge of administering the rds so that person could verify that cormier was participating in a criminal investigation. before concluding the interview, the same ormier to on march 9, 2015, the same day the evidence phase of trial began, the prosecutor notified the court that he intended to add r had provided 16 february 2015 interview with the police, and the prosecutor had notified defense counsel during the weekend prior to trial that the people intended to call cormier as a witness. although investigators had interviewed cormier more than a year before late d the next day, before calling cormier to testify, the prosecutor informed the court and defense counsel that cormier also stated that cormier had gone to the police station to register as a sex offender on the day he was interviewed. in response to should be allowed to impeach cormier by asking questions about the nature of cormierwent to the police station on the day he was interviewed. the court ruled that defendant could ask cormier whether he had been convicted of a felony involving moral turpitude, without going into the details of the underlying conviction or the reason why cormier went to the police station on the day he was conviction and the fact he went to the police station to register as a sex offender were irrelevant. on november 20, 2015, after retaining new counsel, requesting the court to order the people to disclose, among other cormier 17 [defe on december 1, 2015, the court held a hearing on and criminal record before or during trial. the prosecutor also o of registering as a sex offender. as to information concerning any benefits cormier may court concluded no such evidence existed because there had been mier. on march 24, 2016, defendant filed a motion to dismiss or for a new trial, arguing, among other things, that the people violated his due process rights and their disclosure obligations under brady history. specifically, defendant asserted that while the people one prior felony conviction for a crime of moral turpitude, the people failed to disclose: (1) that cormier had suffered a second fel 18 convictions; and (3) the fact that cormier was on parole at the court erred in excluding evidence that cormier had gone to the police station in february 2015 to register as a sex offender. defendant attached to his motion an exhibit containing several court documents from two criminal proceedings against cormier6 police. before cormier was called to testify during which the prosecutor disclosed that cormier had suffered multiple prior felony convictions. the court found the people did not violate brady prior underlying convictions because the inflammatory nature of the 6 the following information. in january 2004, the people charged cormier with aggravated sexual assault of a child by oral copulation ( 269, subd. (a)(4)) and commission of a lewd act upon a child ( 288, subd. (a)). in february 2004, cormier pled no contest to commission of a lewd act upon a child. the court dismissed the charge of aggravated sexual assault of a child, sentenced cormier to six years in prison, and ordered cormier to register with local law enforcement as a sex offender under section 290. also in february 2004, the people charged cormier with forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)). in march 2004, cormier pled no contest to forcible oral copulation, and the court sentenced him to three years in prison. 19 underlying sexual offenses outweighed the probative value such 2.2. defendant has not established a brady violation defendant contends the people violated his due process rights and their disclosure obligations under brady because they failed to disclose before trial that cormier had suffered a second prior felony conviction for a sexual offense. defendant insists that the jury likely wouunreliable. in turn, defendant argues, he likely would have obtained a more favorable verdict because cormier was a critical -in-chief. as we explain, defendant cannot establish a violation of brady because, even if we were to assume the people failed to disclose evidence that could have been used to further impeach cormier, he has not shown that evidence was material. due process rights when it suppresses, intentionally or unintentionally, evidence favorable to where the evidence is material either brady, supra, 373 u.s. at p. 87.) the prosecution, therefore, has a duty to disclose all material evidence that reasonably appears favorable to the defendant. (in re sassounian (1995) 9 cal.4th 535, 543 (sassounian).) this duty exists regardless of whether the defendant makes any request for such evidence to be disclosed. (kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 432.) favorable evidence for purposes of brady includes evidence that is exculpatory to the defendant as well as evidence that is damaging to the prosecution, such as evidence that impeaches a government witness. (united states v. bagley (1985) 473 u.s. 20 667, 676; see also sassounian 9 cal.4th at p. 544; people v. uribe (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 1457, 14711472.) impeachment bagley, at p. 676.) evidence is material disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have sufficient to undermine confidence in the outid. at p. 682.) there are three components to a brady violation: (1) the evidence at issue is favorable to the accused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is impeaching; (2) the evidence must have been suppressed by the government, either willfully or inadvertently; and (3) the suppression of the evidence must have prejudiced the defendant. (strickler v. greene (1999) 527 u.s. 263, 281282.) the defendant carries the burden of showing on appeal that there is a reasonable probability of a different result in the trial court had the evidence at issue not been suppressed. (banks v. dretke (2004) 540 u.s. 668, 699.) we independently review the question whether a brady violation has occurred, but give great weight to any trial court findings of fact that are sup(people v. letner and tobin (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 176 (letner and tobin).) there is no dispute that the first element of a brady claim is satisfied in this case. evidence that cormier had suffered multiple prior felony convictions for sexual offenses is impeachment evidence that would have a tendency to undermine people v. rowland (1992) 4 cal.4th 238, 259, fn. onvictions for sodomy, lewd conduct, and oral 21 copulation [manifestly] moral turpitudepeople v. massey (1987) 192 cal.app.3d 819, 823 it is well established that child molesting in california law is a crime of moral turpitude for impeachment and other purposes.decide, however, whether the second elementsuppression of favorable evidence by the peopleis satisfied because defendant conviction was material. in general, impeachment evidence has been found to be material where the wsupplied the only evidence linking [citations], or where the s credibility would have undermined a critical element of the letner and tobin, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 177.) conviction satisfies either of these standards. first, cormier was not the only witness whose testimony as noted in our factual summary, several witnesses aside from cormier testified about the events leading up to, and including, evidence that cormier had suffered a second felony conviction, d 22 away from that fight. marquez also saw defendant carrying a knife as he approached gamboa shortly before defendant stabbed him. christopher r. heard defendant threaten gamboa as defendant walked away from the first fight, and he heard stabbing gamboa. in addition, christopher r. saw defendant try to conceal the knife after he stabbed gamboa. finally, defendant testified that he retrieved the knife after the first fight, that he openly carried the knife as he approached gamboa the second in sum, defendant cannot establish that the people violated brady evidence was material.7 7 for the same reasons we just discussed, defendant cannot show he excluding evidence that cormier had reported to the police station in february 2015 to register as a sex offender. accordingly, we need not determine whether the court erred in making those evidentiary rulings. (see people v. houston (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 279, 295 (houston) [unnecessary for reviewing court to excluding certain evidence where, even if the reviewing court were to assume the evidentiary rulings were erroneous, any error was harmless].) 23 3. disabilaffiliation defendant next contends the court deprived him of his right to present a defense by excluding several pieces of evidence that he claims would have supported his defense that he lacked malice when he stabbed gamboa. specifically, defendant contends the court erred in excluding the following evidence: (1) a post-mortem toxicology report showing gamboa tested positive for methamphetamine at the time of his death; (2) expert testimony about the effects of methamphetamine use; (3) expert from a learning disability. as we explain, defendant has failed to show the court committed reversible error in excluding any of these items of evidence.8 3.1. applicable law only relevant evidence is admissible at trial. (evid. code,  evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed 8 evidentiary rulings violated his constitutional rights because he did not object to the rulings on constitutional grounds at the time the rulings were made. we conclude defendant did not forfeit his claims on do not invoke facts or legal standards different from those the trial court itself was asked to apply, but merely assert legal consequence of violating the constitution. (people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 856, fn. 25 (homick).) 24 fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.(evid. code,  210.) the trial court has discretion to exclude the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue exclude evidence for abuse of discretion, and we will not disturb that decision except on a showing the ... court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justicepeople v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 910.) the ordinary rules of evidence do not impermissibly infringe on the accuseds right to present a defense. people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 305.) while a defendant has a due process right to present all relevant evidence that has significant probative value to his defense, he is not entitled to engage in an unlimited inquiry into collateral matters. (homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 865.) that is to say, the defendant is not entitled to attack a wi-consuming and remote evidence that was not obviously probative on the people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 52, disapproved on other grounds in people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1216.) 3.2. relevant proceedings we separately discuss the proceedings surrounding each of the challenged evidentiary rulings. 25 3.2.1. during the defense phase of evidence, the people moved to exclude defende fact that dr. scarf had have affected his ability to make good judgments at the time he arguing the court should allow defendaadditional support and real-life observations to go with dr. cumulative [and] unduly prejudicial under [evidence code 3.2.2. prior to trial, defendant requested the people disclose any defense counsel argued evidence that gamboa was affiliated with a gang would be relevant to an imperfect self-defense or heat-of-passion defense, because such evidence would corroborate defendant stabbed him. the prosecutor responded that he was 26 the people had not investigated the issue. the prosecutor also disputed whether such evidence would be relevant since the people did not believe the case was gang related. the court agreed that whether defendant believed gamboa was a the time he stabbed gamboa, the court did not believe that evidence establishing gamboa actually was a gang member, or whether other witnesses believed gamboa was a gang member, would be relevant to any issue at trial. the court reasoned defendant could establish whether he believed gamboa was a before and during their altercation, such as by introducing back and heard gamboa make gang-related statements. later, -in-chief, the court precluded defendant from questioning a police officer who responded to the scene of associated with a criminal street gang. 3.2.3. evidence of g before trial, defendant sought to admit evidence that -mortem toxicology report revealed gamboa had 450 nanograms per milliliter of methamphetamine in his system at the time he died. defendant argued such evidence would help corroborate his defense that he acted in imperfect self-defense or out of a heat of passion at the time he stabbed gamboa. the court request to admit the resul-mortem toxicology 27 expert testimony addressing the symptoms that a person may experience from having 450 nanograms per milliliter of methamphetamine in his or her system. the court reasoned such evidence would be unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352, especially in light of the fact that the people did not dispute during their case-in-chief that gamboa was the initial aggressor or that some of the witnesses to the stabbing thought gamboa was under the influence of drugs when he confronted defendant. 3.3. any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt we need not determine whether the court erred in learninassume it was error of a constitutional dimension to exclude such assess federal constitutional errors under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). under chapman, we must the error complained of did not contribute to the verdict ibidpeople v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 11651166.) that burden is met here. first, there was overwhelming evidence to support above, several neighbors witnessed the events leading up to, and including, the moment defendant stabbed gamboa. each of their accounts are entirely consistent with a finding that defendant acted with malice when he stabbed gamboa. 28 second, the evidence the court excluded-mortem toxicology report confirming gamboa had methamphetamine in his system at the time of death; and expert testimony about the effects of methamphetamine usewould have been cumulative of other evidence admitted at trial that addressed the same factual issues. for exdiagnosed with borderline intellectual functioning and that his learning diallege his mother would have testified to any facts outside those ng affiliation and -related statements gamboa made before and during his altercation with defendant, such evidence would have been cumulative of other evidence introduced by the people and defendant. for instance, the people introduced evidence that him shout names that were associated with local criminal street gangs before and during his altercation with defendant. and defendant testified that: (1) he was aware gamboa was shouting the names of local street gangs before and during their likely a gang member; and (4) he believed that gamboa was 29 demeanor and statements. the jury therefore heard ample out of fear for his safety when he stabbed gamboa because he believed gamboa was a gang member. report and expert testimony on the effects of methamphetamine use also would have been cumulative of other evidence presented at trial. several neighbors who witnessed the events surrounding the stabbing testified that gamboa appeared to be under the influence of drugs. in addition, defendant testified that he they confronted each other. in light of the foregoing, we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant would not have obtained a more favorable verdict had the trial court admitted additional evidence of 4. admission of 911 recordings defendant argues the court erred in excluding recordings of two 911 calls made shortly before and after he stabbed gamboa. in the first call, an unidentified male told the 911 operator that one camecame rushing [] something serioussomething seriously just happened just now female caller stuff like that. so i would approach him, i have no problem, but i 30 people v. poggi (1988) 45 cal.3d 306, 318 [extrajudicial statements are admissible as excited utterances (1) there [was] some occurrence startling enough to produce this nervous excitement and render the utterance spontaneous and unreflecting; (2) the utterance [was made] before there ha[d] been time to contrive and misrepresent ; and (3) the utterance to the circumstance of the ].) defendant acknowledges, however, that the court never made a ruling excluding either of the calls he claims should have been admitted. indeed, the record shows that before the court counsel stated he only wanted to introduce the recording of a 911 oommate, eddie smith, in which defendant could be heard shouting in the background.9 as for the recordings of several other 911 calls made around the time of the stabbing, defense counsel agreed to stipulate to a statement informing the jury of the time those calls were placed and the identity of the people who made the calls. that stipulation was read to the jury. because the record does not show the court excluded any of the recordings of the 911 calls defendant claims 9 defendant confirmed he was inside his apartment at the time smith placed the call, and he confirmed that his voice could be heard in the 31 should have been admitted, defendanterred in excluding those calls necessarily fails. defendant argues in the alternative that if the court never excluded the recordings of the 911 calls, his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to admit them. to establish a claim for ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must satisfy two requirements. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 690692.) first, the defendant must conduct fell ionally competent (id. at p. 690.) second, the defendant must show conduct, the result of the trial would have been more favorable to the defendant. (id. at p. 694.) a probability sufficient to undermine confidence i in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150 (crew).) defendant cannot establish his claim for ineffective assistance of counsel because it is not reasonably probable he would have received a more favorable verdict had the jury heard the recordings of the 911 calls he claims should have been introduced. defendant asserts trial counsel should have introduced the explain in his opening brief, however, why those statements would have corroborated any aspect of his defense or how they would have in any way affected the outcome of the trial. although defendant attempts in his reply brief to elaborate why the corroborated his defense, he fails to even mention the recording of 32 explain how he wathe recording of the 911 call made by the unidentified male, his claim of ineffective assistance of counsel as it relates to that call fails. as for the recording of the 911 call made by the unidentified female, defendant claims her statements specifically, that -black sentiments and that, even after the incident when gamboa was incapacitated, the caller was e people and defendant introduced a significant amount of evidence showing that, leading gamboa behaved aggressively and erratically and appeared to be under the influence of drugs. in addition, defendant was able to testify that gamboa expressed anti-black sentiments before they started fighting, and the people never disputed that gamboa call would have therefore been cumulative of other evidence that addressed issues the people did not dispute. consequently, introduce the recording of that call. 5. admission of police officer opinion testimony defendant next contends the court violated his due process rights and deprived him of a fair trial by allowing oliva, one of the police officers who interviewed defendant, to opine that defendant did not tell the truth during parts of his post-arrest interview. specifically, defendant argues the court erred in allowing oliva to testify that he believed there were numerous also contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by 33 failing to object to those portions of oldefendant argues the court prejudicially erred by failing to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 333, which addresses how the jury may consider opinion testimony from lay witnesses. each of these claims lacks merit. 5.1. relevant proceedings -in-chief, the prosecutor asked oliva several questions about whether oliva believed defendant had lied during the post-arrest interview about the circumstances surrounding the altercation with gamboa. for example, the prosecu later, when the prosecutor asked oliva whether defendant told the officers that the entire altercation between him and one fight. [] the inconsistency that i noted also was the fact that after he described the stabbing, he said, oh, i forgot to tell you about the bite. he left all that out, and he realized that i saw the expression on his face. when i caught him, he came back to explainhe came back to say that he had stabbed [gamboa] after during the interview that he had left the initial fight to retrieve interviewed four other people, and two people gave us the 34 everything that the witnesses were saying [was] accurate. they were all interviewed separately. [] so when [defendant] was telling us his version, there were inconsistencies. there was some truth to it as far as the fight and everything else, but the time of e suggested that defendant was lying about the sequence of events surrounding his altercation with gamboa. defendant did not oliva ide-arrest interview. after both parties rested, the court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 333. specifically, the court instructed the jury as opinions during the trial. you may but are not required to accept those opinions as true or correct. you may give the opinions whatever weight you think appropriate. consider the extent of her opinion is based, the reasons the witness gave for any opinion, and the facts or information on which the witness relied in forming that opinion. you must decide whether information on which the witness relied was true and accurate. you may disregard all or any part of an opinion that you find unbelievable, 5.2. analysis argument that the court erred by failing to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 333. as the people point out, and as our summary of the relevant proceedings shows, the court did instruct the jury 35 with calcrim no. 333. defendant does not address this argument in his reply brief, nor does he contend any aspect of calcrim no. 333 as it was given to the jury was erroneous. this claim therefore lacks merit. his due process rights and deprived him of a fair trial when it allowed oliva to opine about whether he believed defendant had lied during the police interview, we need not reach the issue because any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. as we noted in our factual summary, defendant testified that he had lied to oliva -arrest interview. defendant explained that he had lied because defendant whether he had lied about the sequence of events surrounding his altercation with gamboa; and (2) defendant admitted that he had lied about aspects of the altercation, such as when he retrieved the knife he used to stab gamboa. defendant does not contend the court erred in admitting any of this evidence. because the jury heard defendant admit during his testimony and in the excerpts from his post-arrest interview that he had lied to oliva during that interview, any error in admitting testimony that oliva also believed defendant had lied during the interview was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.10 (see houston, supra, 130 cal.app.4th at p. 295 [erroneous admission 10 because defendant cannot show he was prejudiced by the admission estimony, he cannot establish a claim for ineffective testimony. (see crew, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 150.) 36 of evidence was harmless where evidence of guilt was overwhelming and challenged evidence was cumulative of other properly admitted evidence].) 6. police interview defendant next contends the trial court violated his due process rights and deprived him of a fair trial when it granted the ertain segments of the recording of defendant claims were consistent with his testimony at trial and corroborated his defense that he acted in a heat of passion or out of self-defense when he stabbed gamboa.11 (see people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 130 (samuels) [under evid. code,  356have some bearing upon, or connection with, the portion of the conversation laims in passing that his identify any specific ruling to which his counsel did not object or 11 specifically, defendant claims he should have been allowed to introduce portions of the interview in which he discussed the following details about the underlying altercation: (1) defendant heard gamboa make racially derogatory statements about defendant and african-americans before and after defendant stabbed him; (2) defendant heard gamboa make gang-related statements before defendant stabbed him; (3) defendant believed gamboa was under the influence of methamphetamine or heroin during their altercation; and (4) defendant believed gamboa charged at him before he stabbed gamboa. defendant also claims defense counsel should have admitted portions of the interview in which defendant told the officers that he worked a 37 these arguments lack merit because the court never precluded defendant from playing the segments of the interview recording he claims should have been admitted. prior to trial, the people moved to admit portions of the interviewing officers about statements defendant made during that interview. the people also moved to exclude segments of the and had some probative to whether [defendant] actually committed the crime counsel claimed he should be allowed to question the interviewing officer about the portions of the interview in which defendant became emotional, as well as play those parts of the interview for the jury. exclude the parts of the interview in which defendant became admit them. the court also found the probative value of those segments of the interview would be outweighed by their prejudicial effect under evidence code section 352. -in-chief, oliva testified about the defendant made during that interview. the prosecutor played parts of the recording of the interview that corresponded with recording of the interview. 38 defense counsel that if he wanted to play other segments of the interview while he cross-examined oliva, he needed to provide the court with transcripts of those segments of the interview so the court could determine whether they were admissible under the rule of completeness. the court told defense counsel he could informed defense counsel, however, that defendant could play his entire interview during the defense phase of trial if he testified, so long as defense counsel provided the court with a transcript of the interview by that time. defense counsel cross-interview. oliva testified the interview lasted between 45 minutes and an hour and a half. defense counsel read from, and questioned oliva about, portions of the interview in which defendant and the officers discussed the details of the events during the defense phase of trial, defendant testified about the portions of the interview the prosecutor played for the jury -examination, the prosecutor asked defendant whether he told the police that he gamboa. defendant told the prosecutor he did make that statement to the interviewing officers, but that the prosecutor had not played that part of the interview when oliva testified. when the prosecutor asked defendant whether defense counsel prosecutor then asked defendant whether defense counsel could 39 the prosecutocourt to admonish the jury that defendant had not been precluded from introducing any relevant portions of his police defendant has been kept from showing the evidence in that -direct examination, defense counsel and the prosecutor stipulated that defendant had told the officers during his interview that he had intended only to scare gamboa out of the neighborhood when he approached gamboa the second time. defense counsel then read the following ed] around, walked away, i would have walked my ass back away, too. i back down, but he wanted some more. he was feeling himself he police interview. as the summary of the relevant proceedings shows, the court never precluded defendant from introducing any part of his police interview he claims should have been admitted. although the court restricted defendant from cross-examining oliva about the parts of the interview in which defendant became emotional, the court informed defendant that he could play the recording of 40 the entire interview if he testified. although defendant testified, he did not introduce any parts of the interview he claims should have been admitted. because the court did not preclude defendant from introducing any portions of his police interview, there was no error. (see samuels, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 130 [no error where trial court informed defendant that she could seek to admit relevant portions of an out-of-court conversation, but that was never made. 7. ineffective assistance of counsel for failing to present evidence that gamboa may have suffered offensive wounds defendant argues his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to introduce evidence that would support an inference that gamboa suffered offensive wounds to his hands during the altercation with defendant. specifically, defendant asserts trial counsel failed to elicit testimony from dr. jeffrey gutstadt, the suffered numerous contusions and abrasions on his hands and arms which dr. gutstadt opined 12 12 in support of his new trial motion, defendant submitted a sworn declaration executed by dr. gutstadt. in his declaration, dr. gutstadt observed gamboa had suffered numerous wounds and abrasions to his hands during his altercation with defendant, which dr. gutstadt opined could be either defensive or offensive wounds. 41 before defendant stabbed him. defendant has failed to show he crew, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 150.) ave been cumulative of other evidence contributing factor that led to the confrontation with defendant. aggressive and belligerent behavior before and during his altercation with defendant. none of those neighbors testified that defendant solely initiated the confrontation with gamboa or that gamboa did not appear to be a willing participant in the two fights between him and defendant. in addition, defendant testified in great detail about the circumstances leading up to the confrontation; defendant clearly portrayed gamboa as the aggressor. second, throughout trial, the people never disputed that gamboa acted aggressively before and during his encounter with defendant. nor did the people contend that defendant was the testimony would have been, at best, cumulative of a wealth of other evidence that helped establish a factual issue the people did not contest at trial. accordingly, defendant cannot show that arms. (see houston, supra, 130 cal.app.4th at p. 295.) 8. batson/wheeler motion defendant, who is african-american, challenges the trial batson/wheeler motion. he contends the 42 people violated his federal and state constitutional rights when the prosecutor exercised one of his peremptory challenges to excuse an african-american prospective juror. as we explain batson/wheeler motion. 8.1. relevant proceedings at the beginning of jury selection, the court swore a panel of 55 prospective jurors. after the court excused several prospective jurors for hardship, defendant moved for a new venire, arguing that only two of the remaining prospective jurors were african-the next day, the court clarified that it disagreed with jurors were african-american. the court stated it saw at least three females who were african-american, a fourth female who may be african-american, and one or two males who were african-american. it called 18 members of the panel to the jury box for voir dire. the prosecutor and defendant each exercised three peremptory challenges on the initial 18 prospective jurors who were called to the jury box. juror no. 24 was then called into the jury box, where she was assigned seat number 15. juror no. 24, an african-american children; her son worked as a longshoreman and her daughter worked for a mentor program in california. juror no. 24 had served on a jury in the past, and she 43 no. 24 thought that her friend had been treated fairly by law enforcement and the criminal justice system. she stated she system. juror no. 24 also stated she could vote guilty if the people proved their case against defendant beyond a reasonable doubt, and that she could vote not guilty if the people failed to no. 24 stated she would keep an open mind until the end of trial, and she believed she could be fair to both the people and defendant. when asked by the prosecutor whether she felt that the american criminal justice system was in any way unfair, juror no. 24 asked the prosecutor to repeat the question. after the reallyof what is taking place, you know. as far as what i know, i guess not, butsaid as far as you know you guess not. so are there parts you feel may not be faimuch about it to say if i did or 4 stated she would be able to hold the people to the same standard of proof regardless of whether she believed the victim was a good 44 person or a bad person. when asked whether a victim whose behavior contributed to him being attacked by another person should be blamed for the attack, or whether both the victim and the attacker should share the blame, juror no. 24 stated she believed both parties should share the blame. the prosecutor then questioned juror no. 24 about her employment. juror no. 24 stated she cognitive and mental disabilities. juror no. 24 stated that she person who was on trial based on the fact that that person had a the prosecutor exercised four more peremptory challenges before using his eighth challenge to excuse juror no. 24. defense under batson/wheeler, noting that he (defense counsel) saw only one remaining african-american prospective juror in the venire. the court concluded that juror no. 24 was part of a protected remaining african america t think using a for striking this juror other than the fact that she is black, and when the court stated it believed the prosecutor had excused one other african-american prospective juror besides 45 defendant that the prosecutor had excused any other african-american prospective jurors, but that if the prosecutor had, that would further support a prima facie showing of discriminatory intent by the prosecutor to excuse jurors on the basis of race. the prosecutor explained he believed the other prospective juror the court was referring to was hispanic, and defense counsel stated he b- small panel that would reflect other about having a black on the juryon the panel and that she has making a finding that defendant had made a prima facie showing of discriminatory intent, but it allowed the prosecutor to make an offer of proof explaining why he excused juror no. 24. the prosecutor responded that he believed the group of prospective jurors who had already been excused represented a wide range of races, including three caucasians, three hispanics, and one asian. the prosecutor then explained that he had asked each prospective juror, including juror no. 24, about whether the prospective juror believed the criminal justice system was fair. e prosecutor to repeat the question, and gave responses that caused the prosecutor to think there was something about the criminal justice system with which juror no. 24 did not agree. the prosecutor noted that he had also excused juror no. 25 and juror no. 26 because they had stated they believed the criminal justice system was unfair. 46 the prosecutor explained he had excused juror no. 24 for additional reasons. first, the prosecutor was concerned that juror no. 24 would have difficulty rationally processing with people with behavioral disabilities. the prosecutor believed juror no. 24 could potentially be sympathetic toward defendant disaba friend who was in prison, although it was unclear how close she was to that friend. batson/wheeler motion. the court found that defendant did not make a prima facie showing that the prosecutor had excused juror no. 24 for discriminatory reasons. the court explained that even had defendant made a prima facie showing, it nevertheless found the prosecutor no. 24] did have trouble with the criminal justice system and its operations, and she did express potential sympathies or issues even though she said she would not be sympathetic. so i think 8.2. applicable law the use of peremptory challenges to exclude prospective violates the equal protection guarantees of the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution as well as a representative cross-section of the community under article i, people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 11571158 (gutierrezexclusion of even one 47 prospective juror for reasons impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural error, requiring reversal.id. at p. 1158.) ha[ve] improperly discriminated in the exercise of peremptory challenges, the court and counsel must follow a three-step process.gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) at the first step, the defendant must demonstrate a prima facie case by showing the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. (ibid.) the defendant satisfies this first step by producing evidence sufficient to permit the trial judge to draw an inference that discrimination has occurred. (ibid.) among the types of evidence relevant to determining that a party has struck most or all of the members of the identified group from the venire, that a party has used a disproportionate number of strikes against the group, that the party has failed to engage these jurors in more than desultory voir dire, that the defendant is a member of the identified group, and that the victim is a member of the group to which the majority of the remaining jurors belong. [citation.] a court may also consider nondiscriminatory reasons for a peremptory challenge that are in the record [citations] and that necessarilpeople v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 384 (scott).) where denie[s] a [batson/wheeler] motion because it finds no prima facie case of group bias was established, the reviewing court considers the entire resuggests grounds upon which the prosecutor might reasonably 48 the (people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 439.) once the defendant makes a prima facie showing of discrimination, the burden shifts to the to give an adequate nondiscriminatory explanation for the challenges. to [prosecution] must a le (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) third, if the prosecution tenders a race-neutral gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at this portion of the batson/wheeler inquiry focuses on the subjective genuineness of the reason, not the objective reasonableness.ibidid. at p. 1159.) (1) the trial court has determined that no prima facie case of discrimination exists, (2) the trial court allows or invites the prosecutor to state his or her reasons for excusing the juror for the record, (3) the prosecutor provides nondiscriminatory reasons, and (4) the trial court determines s nondiscriminatory reasons are genuine, an appellate court should begin s denial of the batson/wheeler motion with a review of the first-stage ruling.scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 391.) if the reviewing court s first-stage ruling, the claim is resolved.ibid.) if the reviewing court disagrees, it can proceed directly to review of the third-stage ruling, aided by a full record 49 s evaluation of their plausibility. (ibid.) s denial of a wheeler/batson motion is deferential, examining only whether substantial evidence supports its conclusions. s determination regarding the sufficiency of a prosecutors with great presume that a prosecutor uses peremptory challenges in a constitutional manner and give great s ability to distinguish bona fide reasons from sham excuses. [citation.] so long as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered, its conclusions are entitled to dpeople v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 613614, fn. omitted.) 8.3. batson/wheeler motion defendant argues the court erred in denying his batson/wheeler motion because he made a prima facie showing that the prosecutor had discriminatory reasons for excusing juror no. 24. specifically, defendant contends he made a prima facie showing of discriminatory intent by pointing out that the prosecutor had struck one of only two african-american prospective jurors in the entire jury pool and because juror no. prpretextual because the juror never stated she did not believe the criminal justice system was unfair or that she would be sympathetic toward defendant due to the nature of her work as a 50 support professional for people with cognitive and behavioral disabilities and the fact that defendant suffered from ptsd. as while it is true that the use of a peremptory challenge to exclude only a single prospective juror on the basis of race or ethnicity is a constitutional error requiring reversal (see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158), a prima facie case is not established merely by showing the excluded juror was a member of a cognizable group. (people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 343 (bonilla); people v. bell (2007) 40 cal.4th 582, 598 (bell), disapproved on other grounds by people v. sanchez (2016) 63 in drawing an inference of discrimination from the fact most or allmembers of a cognizable group [citation], a court finding a prima facie case is necessarily relying on an apparent pattern in the partys challenges.bell, such a pattern will be difficult to discern when the number of challenges is extremely small.bonilla, at p. 343, fn. 12.) in bonilla, for example, the prosecutor struck the only two african-american prospective jurors in a 78-person juror pool. (bonilla, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 342.) the california supreme impossible to draw an inference of discrimination based solely on the fact that the people struck the only two african-american prospective jurors in the juror pool. (id. at p. 343.) while the of one or two jurors can rarely suggest a pattern of impermissible ibid.; see also people v. howard (2008) 51 42 cal.4th 1000, 1018, fn. 10 (howardhe challenge of one or two jurors, standing alone, can rarely suggest a pattern of impermissible exclusion.bell, the supreme court -americans in the jury pool established a prima facie case of discriminatory intent. (see bell, supra, 40 cal.4th at pp. 597598.) excuse one of only two african-americans in the juror pool was, by itself, insufficient to establish a prima facie case of discriminatory intent. in addition, defendant has not shown that the prosecutor used a disproportionate amount of his peremptory challenges on african-american prospective jurors. the prosecutor used his eighth peremptory challenge to excuse juror no. 24, and up until that point in the jury selection process, the prosecutor had not used any of his peremptory challenges to excuse an african-american prospective juror. (see bell, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 598 [the prosecutor did not use a of his peremptory challenges against a protected group when he used two of his 16 challenges, or one-eighth of his challenges, to excuse african-american prospective jurors].) because defendant did not make a prima facie showing of race discrimination, tbatson/wheeler motion. in light of this conclusion, we need not engage in comparative juror analysis or conduct a review of the nondiscriminatory reasons for excusing juror no. 24 were genuine. (see howard, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 1020 [a reviewing 52 court does not need to conduct a comparative juror analysis if it concludes the trial court correctly found the defendant failed to make a prima facie showing of racial discrimination].) 9. cumulative error finally, defendant argues the cumulative effect of the trial alleged evidentiary errors deficiencies warrants reversal of his conviction for second degree or doctrine, the reviewing effect of any errors to see if it is reasonably probable the jury would have reached a result more favorable to defendant in their [citation.] when the cumulative effect of errors deprives the defendant of a fair trial and due process, reversal is (people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 646.) it is not reasonably probable the jury would have reached a more favorable verdict in the absence of any combination of the evidentiary errors. as we have already discussed, overwhelming murder. moreover, all of the evidentiary errors defendant has raised concern issues that were either collateral to the issue of guilt or that were independently established through properly admitted evidence. accordingly, we find no denial of due process as the result of cumulative error. (see people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 737.) 53 disposition the judgment is affirmed. upon issuance of the remittitur in this case, the court is directed to correct the abstract of one involving willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder, and replacing it with second degree murder, and to send a certified copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j. 