 filed 5/1/18 p. v. muied ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jabari haleem muied, defendant and appellant. b275406 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa091130) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, judge edward b. moreton, jr. sentence reversed in part and remanded. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. cindy brines, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and margaret e. maxwell and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant jabari haleem muied of first degree residential burglary. on appeal, muied contends the trial court violated his rights by accepting his admission of a prison prior under penal code section 667.5(b) without advising him of his rights. we agree. we therefore reverse the one-year people to decide if they wish to try the enhancement allegation. factual and procedural background in an information filed in october 2015, the people charged muied with first degree burglary, person present, a felony, as well as resisting a peace officer, a misdemeanor. the people alleged muied had two prior convictions of a serious felony within : two september 2009 convictions in washington state for residential burglary. the people further alleged, under penal code section 667.5(b), that muied served a prison term in that case and did not remain free of prison custody for five years before committing the burglary in california. , if admitted or found true, ipleading essentially moving to strike the allegation that the washington convictions constituted strike priors under california law. on april 11, 2016, the people conceded the washington convictions were not strikes and the court struck that allegation. the case proceeded to jury trial later that month. the jury convicted muied on both counts and found true the allegation that a person was present in the residence at the time of the burglary. as muied does not challenge his conviction, we do not discuss the evidence at trial. before the jury came back into the courtroom to deliver its [i]n the event of guilty 3 penal code section] 667.5(b) one-year prison prior allegation which would be the trial court did not take the admission at that point, nor did the court or defense counsel mention any jury trial right on the prison prior. after the jury returned its guilty verdicts and was discharged, the court asked the deputy district attorney if s[ed] the prosecutor count 1 that you have suffered the following prior conviction in case no. 09109441, in violation of . . . [] rcw9a.52.025 subsection (2) otherwise known as residential burglary with the conviction date of september 24, 2009, in the county of whatcom in the superior court of the state of washington; and that a term was served as described in penal code section 667.5 for said offense and that the defendant did not remain free of prison custody for and did commit an offense resulting in a felony conviction during a period of five years subsequent to the conclusion of said term. [] mr. muied, do you admit that prior after speaking with his attorney, muied then possession of stolen property. been found convicted [sic] of two residential burglaries at one deferecord is clear, he has admitted that prior conviction under penal code section 667.5(b), one-year prison prior enhancement, not the on june 2, 2016, the court sentenced muied to seven years in the state prison, consisting of the upper term of six years for the residential burglary plus one year for the prison prior. 4 discussion trial muied contends the trial court was required to advise him of his right to a jury trial before accepting his admission of his prison prior. his contention has merit. o a jury trial does not extend to the factual determination of whether a defendant has suffered a prior conviction. (apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 490 [147 l. ed. 2d 435, 120 s. ct. 2348].)people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 360 (mosby)constitution afford such a right. (people v. epps (2001) 25 cal.4th 19, 23.)ibid.) however, in california a defendant has the defendant has suffered the pr. code,  1025, subd. (b).) our supreme court has said thateven for a trial right that is statutory rather than constitutionalremain silent and to confront witnesses. (cal. const., art. i,  15.)mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 360.) in mosby, a jury convicted the defendant of selling cocaine. the people alleged mosby had a prior narcotics sales conviction under health & safety code section 11370, which would add three years to his sentence. when the judge learned the jury had a verdict, he asked defense counsel if mosby wanted a jury trial on the prior. defense counsel told the court mosby was willing to waive jury on the prior (and admit it). (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 356357.) entitled to have this jury determine the truth of the allegation that you suffered this prior felony have t5 have this jury make a determination as to whether you suffered a prior conid. at p. 358.) on appeal, mosby argued his waiver was invalid because (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 356.) the court rejected that contention, stating, uadmitted his prior conviction despite being advised of and having waived only his rigid. at p. 365.) the court even though the defendants had just had a jury trial on a of their right to trial to determine the truth of a prior conviction (id. at p. 362.) in those cases, the court to have a trial on an alleged prior conviction, we cannot infer that in admitting the prior the defendant has knowingly and intelligently waived that right as well as the associated rights to ibid.) muied argues this case is a silent record case. he is right. the attorney general contends the prosecutor told muied what the prison prior allegation was based on and muied understood it when he admitted it. but the issue is not whether muied understood and admitted the allegation that he had gone to prison on the washington case and failed to stay out of prison for 6 five years.1 the issue is whether he was advised he had a statutory right to have the jury determine that issue and waived that right. the attorney general cites people v. thomas (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 212 (thomas)appeal. there, the people charged thomas with felony evading and alleged he had two prison priors under section 667.5(b). at he trial. (id. at pp. 214215.) after the jury found thomas guilty and was excused, the court believe in chambers we had indicated that there was going to be a id. at p. 215.) on appeal, the court stated the guarantees an accused the right to a jury trial on section 667.5 id. at p. 214.) after an extensive analysis of then-recent united states supreme court decisions, 1 muied did not expressly admit he had not remained free of prison custody for five years before his august 2015 crime in this case. the prosecutor read the allegation to muied who replied he ssue is state (09b29557) than the case number listed in the information 09-24-available. muied was arrested in this case on august 21, 2015, nearly six years later. the record contains no information about when muied was released from prison on his washington case. 7 id. at p. 223.) here, defense statutory right to have the jury decide his prison prior, either in chambers or in open court. at no time did the court, or the prosecutor, or defense counsel, ever mention the words, ,, orfor that matter, in connection with in thomas, by contrast, the defendant presumably heard his attorneyon the record in open courtconfirm he had (through counsel in chambers) waived his jury trial right on his priors. moreover, thomas was decided mosby. the mosby court [d] for the purpose of [its] dis some due process constitutional rights and reconfirmed the continuing validity of the silent record cases. (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 360362.) the silent record cases the supreme court cited in mosby control here. for example, in people v. johnson (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 169 (johnson), a jury had convicted the defendant of second degree murder and other crimes. (id. at p. 172.) the court felony priors and prison prior. (id. at p. 177, fn. 2.) before the jury was nt to know is whether you were convicted or whether or he had been convicted of the prior offenses. (id. at p. 177.) in for fudoubt that johnson was in fact aware of his right to a jury trial, his right to confront witnesses, and his right to remain silent, all 8 of which he had just exercised in trial. what is impossible to determine from this silent record is whether johnson not only was aware of these rights, but was also prepared to waive them id. at p. 178.) in johnsonre, there was no mention of a trial at all, jury or court. (see also people v. campbell (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 305 [reversing prison prior enhancements where court asked defense counsel if there defendant, who admitted them; court of appeal there were no admonitions people v. stills (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 1766, 1769, 1771 [reversing no admonitions or waivers whatsoeveradmit allegation of prior strike; court then asked defendant if he had pled guilty to that prior felony and defendant said yes]; people v. moore (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 411, 417 [reversing prison boykin [v. alabama (1969)] 395 u.s. [238,] 243 [23 l.ed.2d [274,] 279280]].) a silent record case with facts similar to ours is people v. sifuentes (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1410 (sifuentes). sifuentes was charged with being a felon in possession of a firearm and active gang participation. (id. at p. 1413.) the people alleged sifuentes had a prior strike and two prison priors. before trial, the court the trial of 9 priors. the trial court took no waiver of sifuen(id. at p. 1420.) after the jury returned its verdict and was discharged, the court read sifuentes the allegations of the priors and sifuentes admitted them. (id. at p. 1420 & fn. 8.) citing mosby and johnson, the court of appeal noted a trial court, before advise him of his rights and of the penal consequences of admitting the prior. (id. at pp. 14201421.) e prior conviction id. at p. 1421.) the result here must be the same. b. muied has not forfeited his challenge to his unwarned admission of his prison prior. the attorney general also argues muied forfeited his challenge to the imposition othe attorney general cites people v. vera (1997) 15 cal.4th 269 (vera). vera was convicted of multiple counts of trial court had bifurcated the trial of veraid. at pp. 273.) (id. at p. 273.) the court discharged the jury after taking the verdicts andcontinued the court trial on the prison priors to another date. at the court trial, vera again raised no objection to the court deciding his priors. based on documents the prison priors true. (ibid.) on appeal, vera argued the trial court erred in not taking his express, personal waiver of his statutory right to a jury trial on the priors. (vera, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 273274.) the court rejected that argument, noting the trial court had 10 substantive crimes because it understood, based on representations by defense counsel, that the defendant wished to waive jury on id. at rather than court trial of the sentencing allegations, he could court rendered its findings on the truth of the prior conviction allegations. the prior conviction allegations could have been ibid.) court that muied wished to waive his statutory jury trial right. there was no mention at all of any trial right, jury or bench, as to nor did muied have a court trial on his prior. moreover, as our supreme court explained nearly 20 years after vera was decided, that holding is not as sweeping as the attorney general contends. in people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, the defendant was charged with felony domestic violence stipulated to the prior conviction, and the trial court accepted the stipulation without advising cross of any trial rights or eliciting id. at p. 168.) on appeal, cross conviction had the direct consequence of subjecting him to a longer prison term, the stipulation was invalid under in re yurko ibid.) the court r, based on vera, that cross had forfeited his argument. the court distinguished vera(id. defendant in vera did not admit the truth of a prior conviction allegation. . . . thus, the 11 forfeiture in vera bench trial instead of a jury trial, not from his acquiescence to no (ibid.)2 c. remand is appropriate, and the abstract of judgment must be corrected. where, as here, a conviction is invalid, the appropriate remedy is to remand the case to the trial court to allow the prosecution, if it wishes, to retry the prison prior allegation. (sifuentes, supra, 195 cal.app.4th at pp. 14211422.) accordingly, we vacate the one-code section 667.5(b) and remand the case to the trial court. the attorney general also notes the abstract of judgment indicatesincorrectlythat muied was convicted by plea rather than jury verdict. following the further sentencing proceedings, we order the abstract of judgment to be corrected and the amended abstract to be forwarded to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. 2 the attorney general also cites people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698. in that capital case, before trial began, defense cprison priors and offered to waive jury trial on those allegations. (id. at p. 737.) grimes waived jury on the priors and the court later conducted a bench trial. on appeal, grimes claimed he had been pressured and so his waiver was invalid. (ibid.) the court explanation to grimes that he had a right to have the jury decide the issue. (id. at p. 738.) again, here, muied never was advised of, nor asked if he wished to waive, any trial right of any sort on his prison prior. 12 disposition the true finding on the one-sentence is reversed. we remand to the trial court for retrial of the prison prior allegation. the trial court shall correct the abstract of judgment and forward the amended abstract to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 