filed 9/20/17 p. v. zamora ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people of the state of california, plaintiff and respondent, v. victor h. zamora, defendant and appellant. b275298 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137546) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. h. clay jacke, ii, judge. affirmed. theresa osterman stevenson, appointed by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 a jury found victor zamora guilty of 11 criminal charges related to domestic violence. on appeal zamora contends multiple evidentiary errors resulted in cumulative prejudice requiring reversal. we disagree and affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the may 28th incident zamora is married to magali tinoco, with whom he has five children. the family initially lived together. however, in february 2015, after an incident where zamora hit tinoco, she moved in to with the children. on the night of may 28, 2015, tinoco woke up to find zamora standing outside her open bedroom window. zamora asked tinoco to give him her car keys and she refused. zamora then reached inside the room, ripping the window screen. he grabbed a lotion bottle, threw it at tinoco, and saidbefore leaving, zamora scratched with a stick. after zamora had left, the police responded to the scene. zamora called tinoco on her phone while the police were with her. an officer answered the phone and asked to speak with zamora in person. zamora refused and said he had not done approximately one month later, the police received a house. zamora was said zamora and the police told him to leave the premises. he did, but twenty minutes later tinoco called the police again about zamora. the police responded and found him. 3 shortly thereafter, a criminal protective order was issued restraining zamora from contacting tinoco or coming within 100 yards of her. an information was filed based on the may 28, 2015 incident, charging zamora with burglary house and vandalism to the truck and window screen. between july and october 2015, zamora called tinoco from jail on a daily basis. on july 7, 2015, , t go, on july 27, 2015, tinoco told zamora she was not going to testify, em too much information, say nothing, during these jail calls, zamora told tinoco he was prison. tinoco said that made her feel worried and sad. 2. the november 17th incident tinoco bailed zamora out in october 2015. his trial was set for november 17, 2015. he did not show up. on that day, zamora called tinoco and asked for money to flee to arizona. when tinoco refused, zamora got angry and said he was going to he texted her a picture of a gun. tinoco was afraid he would come to her house and shoot her. 3. the december 9th incident on december 9, 2015, tinoco was taking the trash out with her four-year-old daughter when zamora drove up the alley. he exited the car, accused her of infidelity, and slapped and punched her while the child was standing next to her. tinoco picked up the child and ran into the house while yelling for help. zamora was arrested two days later. 4 4. the trial and judgment an amended information was filed charging zamora with burglary (pen. code,  459)1 and vandalism ( 594, subd. (a)) based on the may 28, 2015 incident; criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)) his initial trial, november 17, 2015; battery ( 243, subd. (e)(1)) and child endangerment ( 273a, subd. (b)) of force against tinoco when he encountered her on december 9, 2015 in the alley; stalking in violation of a protective order ( 646.9, subd. between may 28, 2015 and december 9, 2015; and two counts of attempting to dissuade a witness july 27, 2015 phone calls to tinoco ( 136.1, subd. (a)(2)). zamora was also charged with four violations of the protective order ( 166, subd. (c)(1)).2 as to the criminal threats and stalking charges, it was alleged that zamora had been released on bail when he committed those offenses ( 12022.1).3 zamora pled not guilty and denied the special allegations. at the close of the -in-chief, the trial court grant a jury 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 2 there was also a misdemeanor vandalism charge ( 594, subd. (a)) based on the allegation that zamora tagged a wall with 9, 2015. zamora pled guilty to this charge. 3 the information also charged zamora with a prior prison allegation which the prosecution later dismissed. 5 convicted zamora on the remaining charges. in a bifurcated proceeding, the court found the out-on-bail allegations true. the motion to reduce the dissuading a witness convictions to misdemeanors under section 17. zamora was sentenced to seven years in state prison and 724 days in local custody. he timely appealed. discussion 1. the court did not abuse its discretion in admitting zamora contends the trial court abused its discretion under evidence code section 352 by admitting his statement that he was the statementprobative value outweighed its prejudicial effect. we conclude the court did not abuse its discretion.4 statement redacted from potential exhibits. during tcross-examination, she was asked whether her phone conversations with zamora wh tinoco said yes. the prosecutor then sought to impeach tinoco with cond striker. the prosecutor argued that the defense had opened the door to this evidence by eliciting testimony that tinoco and zamora had only talked about preserving the family during their phone calls. the court found that the statement was relevant to the dissuading a 4 since we conclude the evidence was properly admitted we the admission of evidence violated due process, forfeited this claim. 6 witness charges, and allowed the prosecutor to question tinoco about it. the court then instructed the jury as follows: [y]ou heard he had a strike. it is to be considered as possible evidence of attempting to dissuade a witness and not for 5 court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or section 352 s consideration of the unique facts and issues of each case, rather than upon the mechanical application of automatic rules. [citations.] we will not overturn s exercise of its discretion under section 352 in the absence of manifest abuse, upon a finding that its decision was palpably arbitrary, capricious and patently absurd. people v. jennings (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 1301, 1314.) here, zamora was charged with two counts of dissuading a witness which required the prosecution to prove that he witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any trial, proceeding, or inquiry authorized by law. 136.1, subd. (a)(2).) had 5 based on a colloquy in the trial court and the positions suffer a strike. 7 attempted to dissuade tinoco from testifying against him. the jury could reasonably infer that zamora was attempting to engender sympathy with tinoco by underscoring the penalties he faced. zamora argues the statement was of minimal probative value because there was other evidence he told tinoco not to testify against him. zamora is correct that, to a certain extent, the statement was cumulative of other evidence showing that zamora attempted to dissuade tinoco from testifying. on the other hand, the statement tended to show that zamora had engaged in a manipulative scheme to dissuade tinoco from testifying, and, thus, provided additional support for the malice prong of the statute. (cf.  136.1, subd. (a)(3) for purposes of this section, evidence that the defendant was a family member who interceded in an effort to protect the witness or victim shall he had suffered a strike was prejudicial because it was evidence he had previously been convicted of a serious or violent felony. it is well-established that evidence of a prior conviction risks prejudicing a jury against a defendant. (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049.) on the other hand, the jury was not informed of any inflammatory details about the unspecified crime. although the value unreasonable. finally, the jury was properly instructed that it should only tement as possible evidence supporting the attempt to dissuade a witness charges. we presume the jury 8 (people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 436.) zamora also argues the statement was improper character evidence under evidence code section 1101. evidence code section 1101 limits the admission of character evidence to prove a admission of evidence that a person committed a crime . . . when relevant to prove some fact (such as . . . intent . . . )id., subd. (b).) here, the statement was not inadmissible character evidence because it was relevant to show dissuade tinoco from testifying. lastly, zamora contends his counsel was ineffective in failing to request that the court instruct the jury that he had not, in fact, suffered a strike conviction. implied the statement was true and defense counsel should have acted to correct this misimpression. we cannot say based on this record that counsel may have reasonably decided that the courtwas sufficient to correct any prejudice caused to zamora. counsel may have also reasonably chosen not to highlight accordingly, zamora has not met his burden in this appeal of affirknowledgeable choice of tactics. (see people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 954 [ s reasonable tactical decisions in examining a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel presumption that s conduct falls within the wide range of 9 zamora also has not shown that, had counsel requested a he did not have a strike, there is a reasonable probability the result of trial would have been more favorable for him. (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 540.) reasonably probable the court would have addressed the issue further with that the result of trial would have been more favorablebut only suggests that the issue would have further discussed. zamora has not met his burden of establishing ineffective assistance. (ibid.) 2. prior bad acts zamora argues the trial court erred in admitting uncharged acts of domestic violence under evidence code section 1109 because the prejudicial effect of the evidence outweighed its probative value. we find no abuse of discretion. evidence of prior criminal acts is ordinarily inadmissible to (evid. code,  1101.) however, evidence code section 1109 provides for an exception to this rule in a criminal action in which the defendant is accused of an offense involving domestic violence. (evid. code,  1109, subd. (a)(1).) in such an action, evidence of the s commission of other acts of domestic violence is not inadmissible character evidence if admissible under section 352. evidence code section 352 gives a trial court discretion to exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading (evid. code,  352.) the probative value of evidence of uncharged acts is increased by the relative 10 similarity between the charged and uncharged offenses, the close proximity in time of the offenses, and the independent sources of evidence (the victims) in each offense. (people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 917 [applying evid. code,  352 to the parallel evid. code,  1108 exception for uncharged sexual offenses]). he principal factor affecting the probative value of an uncharged act (people v. johnson (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 520, 531.) we evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 282.) here, the trial court admitted evidence that zamora had used force against tinoco in 2011 and early 2015. in the 2011 incident, tinoco accused zamora of infidelity, poured beer on her head, slapped her, and then left. tinoco called the police. an emergency protective order was issued against zamora. the prosecution informed the jury that zamora was acquitted of charges arising out of that incident. in the early 2015 incident, zamora accused tinoco of infidelity, struck her on the head with his fist, shoved her to the ground, and then left. she called the police and told them he had a gun. the court instructed the jury it could consider both incidents with regard to the stalking charge between may 28, 2015 and december 9, 2015. zamora argues this evidenthe evidence of the incidents presented by the prosecution as to to the current charges is what makes this evidence so probative. in the uncharged acts, zamora displayed the same behavior as he 11 did on december 9, 2015: arguing with tinoco over infidelity, hitting her on the head, and then leaving. nor did the uncharged acts involve inflammatory details that would increase the risk of prejudice to zamora. (see people v. harris (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 727, 737uncharged bad acts context].) rather, the current charge of stalkingsent her a picture of gunwas more grave. zamora argues the uncharged acts were unduly prejudicial in part because a deputy testified that, in the early 2015 incident, zamora said to tinoco deputy gave this testimony, he immediately acknowledged that, in fact, zamora then struck the inaccurate testimony and suggested the parties stipulate that zamora had never made the statement, which the parties did. that the deputy made this spontaneous statement on the witness stand does not supporuncharged acts. this statement, while inflammatory, was not part of the evidence of uncharged acts that the court admitted. there was no indication the deputy would fabricate such a statement before he determination as to the prejudicial nature of the uncharged acts. zamora contends evidence of the 2011 incident was speculative because he had been acquitted of charges arising from that incident. evidence of a prior act may be introduced as propensity evidence even if the defendant was acquitted of criminal charges based upon that act. (people v. brown (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1222, 1233.) as explained by the court in people v. mueller, evidence that a 12 the crime did not happen or that the defendant did not commit only that the state did not prove every element of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt [citation.] . . . doubt, evidence of an acquittal is not, of course, as convincing of innocence as a judgment of conviction is convincing of guilt; but (people v. mullens (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 648, 668.) here, the jury was informed that zamora had been acquitted of charges arising out of the 2011 incident. the jury, therefore, was properly tasked with weighing evidence in light of the acquittal. the acquittal did not render that evidence inadmissible. zamora also argues that neither uncharged act was of the uncharged acts, he was not violating any protective order when he used force against tinoco. the stalking statute, section 646.9, prohibits the willful and malicious harassment of another person when the accused makes a credible threat with the intent to place that person in reasonable fear for his or her safetyviolation of a restraining order. ( 646.9, subd. (b).) here, although there was no evidence that the uncharged acts were committed in violation of a restraining order, the evidence was tinoco. 3. the scope of impeachment at the sought a ruling that, should zamora testify as to the burglary and criminal threats charges, the prosecutor would not be permitted to question him about his gang involvement. the trial 13 court ruled the prosecution could present relevant gang evidence if zamora were to testify about his intent in sending the november 17, 2015 text messages. it further ruled the prosecutor could cross-examine zamora about all the charges in this case. zamora contends the trial court erred by ruling the prosecutor could cross-examine him about his gang membership and all charges. right to testify. zamora did not, in fact, testiit is well established that the denial of a motion to exclude impeachment evidence is not reviewable on appeal if the defendant people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 731.) aclaim of error is forfeited. 4. substantial evidence supported the child endangerment conviction zamora contends there was insufficient evidence he violated section 273a, subdivision (b)misdemeanor child endangermentbecause his four-year-old daughter was not physically injured during the december 9, 2015 incident, and the only evidence the child was in emotional distress was the observation we conclude there was substantial evidence. section 273a, subdivision (b) any person who, under circumstances or conditions other than those likely to produce great bodily harm or death, willfully causes or permits any child to suffer, or inflicts thereon unjustifiable physical pain or mental suffering . . . or willfully causes or permits that child to be placed in a situation where his or her person or health may be the people charged 14 zamora with willfully causing and permitting his daughter to be injured or placed in a situation that her person and health may be endangered. the record shows that, on december 9, 2015, tinoco was taking the trash out with her daughter when zamora drove up. he accused her of infidelity, then slapped and punched her in the head. the child was standing next to tinoco while this happened. tinoco picked up the child and ran into the house yelling for help. the deputy who responded to the scene testified conviction rests on whether the evidence is sufficient that he inflicted unjustifiable mental suffering on his daughter or put her in danger. the evidence showed that the four-year-old was standing next to her mother when her father slapped and punched the mother. the attack was vicious enough to cause the mother to yell for help and run away with the child in her arms. the child was of tender yearsonly four years oldwhen she witnessed this attack. based on this evidence, it was reasonable for the jury to infer the child experienced mental distressthis was substantial evidence zamora inflicted unjustifiable mental suffering on the child or placed her mental health in danger. (see people v. burton (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 447, 450 [a parent may be convicted of misdemeanor child endangerment under section 273a, subdivision (b) by engaging in serious domestic violence against the other parent while aware that his or her child is at the scene.].) 15 5. the court did not abuse its discretion in declining to reduce the dissuading a witness convictions to misdemeanors zamora contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to reduce the dissuading a witness counts to misdemeanors under section 17, subdivision (b) (section 17(b)). we disagree. dissuading a witness in violation of section 136.1 is a misdemeanor. ( 136.1, subd. (b).) section 17authorizes the s discretion, may be sentenced alternately as felonies or misdemeanorsupon imposition of a punishment other than state prison ( 17(b)(1)) or by declaration as a misdemeanor after a grant of probation ( people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 974 (alvarez).) in conjunction with the relevant charging statute, rests the decision whether to reduce a wobbler party attacking the sentence to clearly show that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. [citation.] in the absence of such a showing, the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and its discretionary determination to impose a particular sentence will not be set alvarez, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 977978.) the factors that inform the exercise of section 17(b) or his traits of character as evidenced by his behavior and 16 (alvarez, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 978.) zamora argues the trial court did not consider the individualized circumstances of his case. he also argues the court disregarded factors weighing in his favor: he did not threaten tinoco when he told her not to testify, his prior felony conviction was nine years old, he did not severely injure anyone or cause serious damage to property, and he supported his family with his wages. consider the necessary factors. at the sentencing hearing, the trial court listened to defense couarguments on the motion. it noted it had considered the sentencing memorandum. the court then listed individualized circumstances in this case: zamora himself in conduct which continued to fracture their had served a prior prison term, he had been trouble for over ficourt to reduce the dissuading a witness counts to misdemeanors because -- as to those counts, was not although the trial court did not detail its reasoning for nothis does not mean the court did not analyze the relevant factors under section 17(b). rather, the record suggests, and we must presume, the court carefully considered those factors. (denham v. superior court of los angeles county (1970) 2 cal.3d 557, 564 17 [the order] on matters as to which the record is silent, and error second, the court acted within its discretion considering the nature and circumstances of the offense, and attitude toward the offense, and the general objectives in sentencing. on may 28, 2015, zamora threatened tinoco when she refused to give him her car keysthings up for you,thereafter, he was served with a criminal protective order and then arrested. he was charged with burglary and vandalism. while he was in local custody for these charges and in violation of the restraining order, he called tinoco and tried to convince her not to testify against him. he told her not to testify, to tell her motheranother percipient witness just drop the case, that he was facing severe penalties if convicted, and never got caught for the shit i used to do. . . . your family . . . hate[s] zamora attempted to dissuade tinoco from testifying while he was in custody and in violation of the protective order. while doing so, he boasted about previously evading law enforcement. this evidence suggested that reducing his offenses to misdemeanors would not deter him and encourage him to lead a law-abiding life. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.410(3).) his repeated flouting of the law and threat to tinoco that he would her also supported a finding that his incarceration would protect society and prevent him from 18 committing new crimes. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.410(1) & (5).) zamora has not demonstrated the court abused its discretion in denying the motion to reduce the felony convictions to misdemeanors. 6. the court did not err in imposing consecutive sentences on the dissuading a witness counts zamora argues the sentences for the dissuading a witness convictions should have been stayed pursuant to section 654 because he made the july 7 and july 27, 2015 phone calls with the singular intent and objective of dissuading tinoco from testifying at the preliminary hearing. he also contends the trial court erred in imposing consecutive sentences on these convictions. we disagree. section 654 provides, in relevant part: that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the id., subd. (a).) zamora argues that section 654 bars the imposition of multiple sentences for the dissuading a witness convictions. the supreme court has rejected a similar contention holding that [a]n act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law . . . people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 341.) as section 654 does not bar multiple punishment for violations of the same provision of law, the court did not err in declining to stay one of the dissuading a witness sentences under section 654. zamora next argues that the trial court was unaware of its discretionary authority to impose concurrent sentences for these 19 convictions. at the sentencing hearing, defense counsel argued for the imposition of concurrent sentences only as to misdemeanor counts. the trial court, prior to issuing its ruling, they were separate acts and with different objectives. utory provision to the contrary, section 669 provides that a trial court shall impose either concurrent or people v. rodriguez (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 1257, 1262.) a trial courts decision to impose a particular sentence is reviewed for abuse of is so irrational or arbitrary that no reasonable person could agree people v. jones (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 853, 860861.) here, the parties agree the trial court had discretion to impose either concurrent or consecutive terms for the section 136.1 convictions. zamora cites to people v. woodworth (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 1473 (woodworth) in support of his argument that remand is necessary to allow the trial court to exercise its sentencing discretion. in woodworth, the trial court explained at the sentencing hearing that it was required by statute to impose a full consecutive sentence on the dissuading a witness count. (id. at p. 1478.) on appeal, the parties agreed that, in fact, the trial court had discretion to impose a concurrent term for the dissuading a witness felony. (id. at p. 1476.) the court of adiscretion to impose a concurrent sentence for the dissuading a witness felony, we will remand the matter for resentencing. (ibid.) 20 unlike woodworth, here, the record does not show the trial court acted on the erroneous assumption it lacked discretion. when the court stated it was imposing consecutive terms where presume the court was addressing the multiple other consecutive terms. nor did the court abuse its discretion, as zamora argues, simply because the dissuading a witness counts involved the same objective. only one aggravating factor is required to support a consecutive sentence. (people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 552.) the criteria affecting the decision to impose consecutive rather than concurrent sentences include the following: ng whether or not . . . the crimes were committed at different times or separate places, rather than being committed so closely in time and place as to indicate a single period of aberrant bcourt, rule 4.425(a).) here, the crimes were committed at different times. there were also other factors in aggravation: zamora had served a prior term in prison and he committed the crimes while in local custody. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(b)(3) & (b)(4).) once a defendant attempts to dissuade a witness, he may not thereafter make further attempts to achieve the same objective with impunity. we find no abuse of discretion. 7. there was no cumulative error zamora argues the cumulative effect of the evidentiary errors compels reversal. because we conclude the trial court did not err, however, there is no cumulative error. (see people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 910 endant has 21 failed to demonstrate any error, there is no prejudicial .) disposition the judgment is affirmed. rubin, acting p. j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 