filed 10/29/18 p. v. soria ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james anthony soria, defendant and appellant. b275214 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va122116) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, roger ito, judge. affirmed with directions. ralph h. goldsen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, shawn mcgahey webb 2 and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ at trial, defendant james anthony soria admitted shooting victor avila to death in a los angeles alley. soria also admitted alph avila, who fled the alley without injury. the jury convicted soria of murdering victor avila and of attempting to murder ralph avila. jury acquitted cuellar of assaulting the avilas with a baseball bat, but could not reach verdicts on other counts against cuellar. cuellar thus had nothing to appeal. soria is the sole appellant. the parties had conflicting accounts of the confrontation. the prosecution maintained soria and cuellar had gone out hunting the avilas, seeking to ambush and kill them. the prosecutor argued soria and cuellar planned for cuellar to threaten and divert the avilas with a baseball bat and thus argued soria had no plan at all. rather, soria unexpectedly chanced upon the alley and discovered two large and fearsome menvictor and ralph avilamenacing his small uncle cuellar, who was alone and holding off the avilas with a bat. soria shot at the avilas to defend his uncle cuellar from a deadly attack. soria fired at both avilas, killing victor avila and missing but scaring off ralph avila. soria raises four issues: jury instructions, evidence rulings, ineffective assistance of counsel, and error under people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261. we affirm on the first three issues and remand with directions on the fourth. 3 i. jury instructions instructions. a. standard of review in criminal cases, a trial court must instruct on general principles of law relevant to the issues raised at trial, including people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 996.) we independently review jury instruction issues for legal error. (see people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 133.) failure to object to an instruction forfeits any claim of error on appeal. (people v. cardona (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 608, 612.) incorrect statement of law or if the instructional error affected s substantial rights. (people v. mason (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 818, 823.) defending someone else justifies lethal force. the doctrine comes in two versions: perfect and imperfect. the perfect version of defense of another justifies force to defend another when one sincerely and reasonably believed a sufficiently serious attack was imminent. (cf. people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082 [perfect self-defense].) the imperfect version of this defense reduces the offense from murder to voluntary manslaughter if the killer sincerely but unreasonably believed force was necessary. (see people v. randle 4 (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 9951000, overruled on another ground in people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172.) soria makes three arguments about jury instructions. first, he complains caljic 5.12 was the proper instruction, but his trial counsel did not request it and the trial judge did not give it. instegave caljic 5.13. second, soria complains caljic 5.14, which was given, incorrectly states the law. third, he asserts caljic 5.31, which the court also gave, was misleading. 1. caljic 5.12 use deadly force to resist force likely to produce great bodily injury, but the jury instructions did not convey this principle. specifically, soria says his trial counsel did not request caljic 5.12, it was not given, it was mandatory, and therefore soria is entitled to a new trial. this argument errs. the title of caljic 5.12 is self-defenseself-ense. there was neither evidence nor argument that soria saw or had any need to defend himself in the alley. -defense, the caljic self-defense instruction was not nse of not self-defense. that trial lawyer was right not to request an instruction on self-defense and the trial court was right not to give it. the caljic instructions appropriate to this case thus were different than caljic 5.12. the trial court gave those appropriate caljic instructions. in the caljic series, the two 5 defense. these instructions are 5.13 and 5.14. caljic 5.13 is -- lawful -of-counsel requested these instructions and argued the case in their terms. the trial court gave both requested instructions. soria groundless. in a variant of this invalid argument, soria complains about particular wording. he claims the court should have used because these phrases are synonyms in the context of this case, which was, as his counsel put it, that soria entered the alley and avila. according to counsel, soria saw the avilas confronting on himself. probably just -- [soria] soria saw victor and ralph avila ready to kill cuellar, thus 6 phrases accurately describe the threat of a fatal beating. in a further permutation, soria claims his trial lawyer was not relying on a defense that victor and ralph avila were committing a forcible and atrocious crime when soria shot them. this is to put [victor avila] down, [to] protect his uncle [cuellar] from a physical, atrocious talics added.) soria also argues his trial counsel did not request and the trial court did not give caljic 5.16, which defines forcible and atrocious crimes. which appella this statement implies soria does count this omission as error of some sort. yet if soria wanted the a duty to request such clarification. he did not. (people v. barillas (1996) 49 cal.app.4th 1012, 1023.) this forfeiture did beaten to death is something very bad. the jury never asked for clarification on this point. it reached a verdict in less than two hours. the jury instructions as given explained the law correctly. 2. caljic 5.14 soria launches a second attack on a different caljic instruction, which is 5.14. we italicize the disputed portion: justifiable homicide in defense of another actual danger, but it does require (1) that the person about to kill another be confronted by the appearance of a peril such as has been mentioned; (2) that the appearance of peril arouse in [his] [her] mind an actual belief and fear of the existence of that peril; (3) that a reasonable person in the same situation, seeing and 7 knowing the same facts, would justifiably have, and be justified in having, the same fear; and (4) that the killing be done under the influence of that fear alone soria claims this italicized requirement four is legal error. yet people v. trevino instruction which states that the party killing must act under the additional instructions with regard to his feeling anger toward [the avilas] as well as fear, or with regard to a situation where anger and fear were both causal factors. he did not do so. nor did he argue to the jury the presence of such dual motivation or feeling. under such circumstances, his argument on appeal must (people v. trevino, supra, 200 cal.app.3d at p. 880; see people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1042-1047.) 3. caljic 5.31 soria claims there was a third instructional error because the trial court gave the following version of caljic 5.31, to which we add italics: when use of deadly weapon not justified stify the person being assaulted in using a deadly weapon in self-defense unless that person believes and a reasonable person in the same or similar circumstances would believe that the assault is likely to inflict great bodily injury upon [him] [her] this instruction is about self-defense. this instruction was involve self-defense. this instruction was not error. 8 ii. evidence objections in 2011, police arrested cuellar first. only later did they find and arrest soria. cuellar and soria both spoke to police after arrest, but separately. the trial court admitted tapes of these two 2011 police interviews in their entirety. soria complains both recordings contained inadmissible evidence. we review evidence rulings for abuses of discretion. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 197.) in our record, the transcript is 86 pages. 1. background cuellar testified during the defense phase of the trial. during a break ithe trial court discussed the cuellar interview tape with counsel. nt statements. the same concession. at trial, cuellar and soria objected to 13 particular statements or sentences within the evidentiary -serving conclusions and opinions that are otherwise inadmissible under the law. in its entirety cuts both ways, cuts all ways. [cuellar] makes . . . very incriminating, highly inflammatory statements toward the victim mr. victor avila. he makes inflammatory statements towards his nephew. he incriminates himself to some extent. [] 9 but the statements are what he said and they are subject to parsi[] this is part and [parcel] to the totality of the statements and ce officer . . . . [] i want to make sure that the record is very clear so that the court of appeal understands i looked at this transcript in its entirety and i measured out those things and i wanted to make a fair and impartial determination under [evidence code section] 352 and as to the admissibility [of] any and all of these 2. waiver on appeal, soria makes specific evidentiary objections to 18 particular statements within this long interview. yet 13 of these 18 appellate objections are to statements to which trial counsel did not object. a judgment shall not be reversed by reason of the erroneous admission of evidence unless there appears of record an objection that made clear its specific ground. (evid. code,  353.) soria thus has forfeited the 13 appellate objections he did not present to the trial court. 3. two categories of preserved objections as stated above, the evidentiary basis for the defense objections was that the -serving conclusions and opinions that are otherwise inadmissible under the five specific challenges soria did assert at trial fall into two categories. the first category encompasses four specific 10 statements, while the second category involves a single statement. a. in the first category, cuellar in his 2011 interview claimed (in four slightly different ways) that soria was agitated and ore the killing. in one before the shooting. this observation prompted cuellar to ask soria said nothing and departed. know what, this guy is up to no good elsewhere cuellar again -- like a dad knows about a son. that for two independent reasons, the trial court did not abuse its discretion to admit this testimony. i. impeachment statements, admissible to impeach the veracity of his 2015 trial testimony. cuellar described the crucial events twice: first in 2011 to police and then at the 2015 trial. the prosecution claimed the two versions were inconsistent and proved cuellar was a liar. the court properly allowed jurors to hear the evidence and to judge for themselves. the arguable inconsistency here was as follows. when testifying in 2015, cuellar changed his 2011 claim that soria was but that soria was ittle just , but i would say out of ordinary. he wasn also, at trial cuellar 11 although this particular conflict was not ineluctable, the trial judge had a proper basis for deciding the jury could find 2011, cuellar knew police had not located soria. that gave cuellar an incentive to exculpate himself by incriminating soria, whom police might never find. the situation changed once police captured soria. when cuellar and soria were codefendants in a murder trial, soria no longer was a conveniently missing fall guy, but instead was a family member seated at the defense table. by then, soria and cuellar both had counsel who were striving to present a consistent defense. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by concluding the statetestimony was admissible. ii. lay opinion second, and as an independent basis for admission, these statements were proper lay witness opinion testimony. taken relevant. the statements supported the prosecutionsoria was agitated, which went to motive. the prosecution he avilas only by chance and shot at them only to defend cuellar. 12 the statements were proper lay testimony. they were rationally based on the perception of the witness and helpful to a clear understanding of his testimony. (see evid. code,  800.) the trial court had proper discretion to overrule objections under section 352 of the evidence code. the statements were brief -- only sentence fragments, actually -- and involved no extraneous or improper topics. b. second category: south side tattoo the swas to the following portion of the police interview of cuellar. we quote extensively for context. [detective]this case [victor avila]? cuellar: the victim. [detective] cuellar: yes. [detective]: do you ... how do you know him? cuellar: i mean, we stay there, you know. i live there. [detective] cuellar: yea, my neighbor. we try to keep everything calm there, you know. [detective]: do you know do you get to know his name? cuellar: no, i know him by whatever he used to come out and tell me his gang name or something. [detective]: well, what was that? cuellar: blue. [detective]: okay. cuellar: but he. . . [detective]: okay. 13 . . . i that we lived in the same place, we got to keep things calm. just. [detective]: so he [blue] had a problem with your nephew [soria]? cuellar: yes. [detective]: what was the problem? cuellar: i have no idea. they had an incident up and around here. you know so. [detective]: okay. and [your] nephew [soria], is. . . is he from a gang? [detective]he have on him? it. [detective] from a gang or being involved. this testimony was admissible for two reasons. first, the defense failed to specify a specific and valid evidentiary objection to this testimony. the defense objection was, 14 the only specific objection defense counsel offered was the -serving conclusions and opinion that are otherwise were not inadmissible self-serving conclusions and opinions, assuming this objection qualifies as specific. cuellar based his personal knowledge of his nephew, whom he professed to have known long and well. cuellar also claimed personal knowledge that soria was not in a gang. between having a south side tattoo and not being in a gang was second, assuming there was a valid defense objection under evidence code section 352, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting this testimony. the testimony was relevant to show motive. soria did not request any limiting instruction. the testimony was brief. there was no probability this evidence would create a substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury that would substantially outweigh its probative value. the probative value was significant. cuellar explained victim victor avila had -- soria-- that soria was in a rival gang. these facts were probative of motive. a reasonable inference was that victor avila had a problem with soria, soria had a problem with avila, and soria could solve the problem by removing avila. as stalin supposedly said, no man, no problem. the probative value was substantial because motive can be important in explaining human behavior. 15 any undue prejudice was minimal because cuellar maintained soria was not a gang member. the mention of a south side tattoo was fleeting. cuellar, not police, introduced the topic of gangs. cuellar did so only to explain why he knew victor avila by the gang name of blue and why blue had a ext to this case. it was not error to admit this testimony. because, as he concedes on appeal, he failed to make a specific objection to this evidence. a judgment shall not be reversed by reason of the erroneous admission of evidence unless there appears of record an objection that made clear its specific ground. (evid. code,  353.) police interviewed soria after his arrest in 2011. after miranda warnings, soria voluntarily answered questions for about 20 minutes. the transcript of this interview is 16 pages long. the prosecution moved to play this tape. soria initially objected on the ground soria was not testifying in the case. the prosecutor said the recording was admissible whether or not soria testified. the trial court stated that, as long as there was ecording. this tentative ruling was a party opponent under evidence code section 1220. never specified its evidentiary basis. the defense attorney requested an evidence code section objectionable information in there including domestic violence, gangon that prior to it being the trial court responded, 16 right. what is it specifica e in the [soria] denies everything, including that [referring to gangs and domestic violence]. the only mention of the [domestic violence] is rm to swered yes. the trial court began to ask soria another question about the taped interview when soria interrupted to protest the tape also revealed that an interrogating detective told soria a falsehood: that cuellar had fingered soria to police. the prosecution promised to put that detective on the witness stand to explain his statement was a false ruse. that detective testified as promised, thus eliminating this ruse issue. in sum, soria objected to the gang and domestic violence topics in his taped interview but never specified the specific evidentiary basis for his objections. accordingly, soria waived these trial objections according to subdivision (a) of evidence stated as to make clear the specific ground of th on appeal, soria acknowledges he failed to specify the basis for his objections. soria claims the doctrine of futility excuses it. this is incorrect. soria objected to this same evidence two days in a row and the trial court never refused to consider the repetitive objections. to the contrary, the trial court reliably was courteous, and obliging. there is no basis for a futility argument. 17 to support his futility argument, moreover, soria cites an inapposite case: people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820. hill is inapposite for two reasons. it did not interpret section 353 of the evidence code. the hill case also presented a case unlike the trial. our supreme court described the hill, where the defense attorney was named blum: instances of prosecutorial misconduct, he did not do so in all cases. moreover, some of the times blum objected he either did not adequately state the grounds of his objection or failed to request the jury be admonished. nevertheless, we note blum was subjected to a constas unethical conduct, including misstating the evidence, sarcastic and critical comments demeaning defense counsel, and propounding outright falsehoods. with a few exceptions, all of s misconduct occurred in front of the jury. her continual misconduct, coupled with the trial cours failure to rein in her excesses, created a trial atmosphere so poisonous that blum was thrust upon the horns of a dilemma. on the one hand, he could s misconduct and risk repeatedly provokins wrath, which took the form of comments before the jury suggesting blum was an obstructionist, from the bench ran an obvious risk of prejudicing the jury towards his client. on the other hand, blum could decline to object, thereby forcing defendant to suffer the prejudice caused by s constant misconduct. under these unusual circumstances, we conclude blum must be excused from the legal obligation to continually object, state the grounds of his objection, 18 and ask the jury be admonished. on this record, we are convinced any additional attempts on his part to do so would have been people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) there was no unethical conduct by counsel. the trial atmosphere was never poisonous. judge was never sarcastic or critical of counsel. ons would not have been futile. objections to the trial court bars soria from using these objections to attack the verdict and judgment below. (evid. code,  353, subd. (a).) iii. ineffective assistance of counsel soria incorrectly argues his trial counsel was ineffective. the problem, soria argues, is that counsel did not ask the court -trial instruction to the jury. because there was no the instruction was about the limited relevance of gang evidence. the defense wanted to prove the avilas were gang members. the prosecution wanted to keep gang evidence out. the trial court decided to admit the evidence, but for a limited purpose only. the limited and proper purpose was to allow cuellar to argue the baseball bat was valid self-defense because to cuellar. the improper and forbidden purpose was to tarnish was justified. 19 cuellar decided to testify and, just before he took the stand, the trial court and counsel analyzed the appropriate bounds of the court to allow cuellar to testify victor avila was a member of a gang called florencia 13. evidence that victim victor avila was a frightening and violent gangster would support that soria was justified in shooting avila, whom soria contended r and ralph avila was justified self-defense. the prosecution sought to avoid all uys [soria to defend himself because [victor avila was from the] florence [gang], th cuellar to identify victor avila as a gang member, the prosecution asked the court to admonish the jury that there was only a limited proper purpose for evidence of avilastatus. the trial court agreed to give a limiting instruction. after this discussion, the trial court welcomed jurors back into the courtroom and admonished them as follows. involved in this case was affiliated with a street gang. you may hear that. that evidence is to be used by you for one reason only, cuellar. okay? what he believed. he can explain why he acted 20 as he did and what he thought and why he behaved as he did. did what he did or said what he said. anything along those lines. person is a violenshow that the f beingwhatever ted mr. cuellar then testified as his attorney predicted: that cuellar armed himself with a bat out of fear of victor and ralph avila, and the fact that the avilas were gang members increased s fear of them. soria argues his counsel should have asked that this admonition include soria as well. there was, however, no factual basis for extending this admonition to soria. soria had not yet testified and in fact never would. there was no evidence to state of mind at any time. a party is not entitled to an instruction on a theory for which there is no supporting evidence. (people v. memro (1995) failing to request an instruction that violated this rule. additionally, this instruction did not bar soria from arguing (or bar instruction ordered the jury not to infer a gang member was bad 21 whatever happened to ee to argue, and did argue, without supported his defense of justification. name be included in this instruction, which was to benefit the prosecution and not the defense. the prosecution asked for it, to perspective that this instruction was of slight import. iv. remand the parties agree a limited remand under franklin is appropriate. (see franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 272287; people v. jones (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 787, 817820.) this remand is proper because soria was 22 years old when he committed these crimes, the court sentenced him to state prison for 75 years to life on may 17, 2016, and intervening legal developments have given the youthful soria the possibility of an earlier release. (see franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 272287; people v. jones, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at pp. 817820.) we remand to allow the presentation of evidence regarding youth. in letter briefing this court requested, the attorney general also concedes soria should be given a new sentencing hearing at which the trial court can consider whether to strike the firearm enhancements pursuant to the discretion conferred by senate bill no. 620, which became effective january 1, 2018. (see people v. chavez (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 663, 712.) 22 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the matter is remanded to allow the presentation of evidence regarding youth and for the trial court to consider whether to strike the firearm enhancements pursuant to the discretion conferred by senate bill no. 620. wiley, j.* we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 