filed 11/21/18 p. v. jackson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raymond earl jackson, jr., defendant and appellant. b275834 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba435999) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mildred escobedo, judge. affirmed. gail harper, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and david f. glassman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant raymond earl jackson, jr. (defendant) appeals from his murder conviction, contending that the audio portion of a video of the murder should have been excluded as irrelevant and as inadmissible testimonial hearsay based on the united states constitution; that the trial court erred in failing to give certain sua sponte jury instructions; that the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct in closing argument; that defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object to the alleged misconduct; that permitting the court reporter to read a response to a jury question in the jury room violated constitutional rights to a public trial and to be present with counsel; and that the cumulative effect of all such errors requires reversal. contentions, we affirm the judgment. background defendant was charged with the murder of joel fraticelli (fraticelli), in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a).1 it was also alleged that in the commission of the offense, defendant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a fixed-blade knife, within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). a jury convicted defendant of second degree murder, and found true the deadly weapon allegation. on june 27, 2016, the trial court sentenced defendant to 15 years to life in prison, plus one consecutive year due to the deadly weapon enhancement, for a total of 16 years to life. defendant was ordered to pay mandatory fines and fees, and was granted 430 actual days of presentence custody credit. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 evidence presented fraticelli was stabbed to death on april 22, 2015. for a few days before that, defendant spent time with him, tamira leeper (leeper), austin sun (sun), and gurindeep bhatti (bhatti). leeper and sun both testified at trial. leeper testimony leeper testified that she had known defendant and sun for about a month before fraticellithat she had met bhatti through defendant about a week earlier. she met fraticelli through defendant a few days before . leeper had a sexual relationship with sun, but denied that he was her boyfriend. she claimed that she paid sun to drive her around. leeper, defendant, and the other three men stayed at a motel for two days. during this time they went together to several stores such as ross, target, and cvs. on both the day of the stabbing and the day before, all members of the group used drugs. leeper used heroin and she, defendant, and fraticelli all smoked methamphetamine together. sun used only marijuana, occasionally joined by leeper and defendant. leeper never saw any of them sober and she thought that whatever clashes the men had during this time were made worse by the drugs. leeper testified that tuesday night, april 21, she went into a ross store while the others stayed behind . when she returned sun was upset because she had taken too long and he wanted to leave. sun had begun removing her belongings from his truck. the two argued. sun pulled out a knife and threatened her with it, putting the knife directly to her face until sun turned the knife toward defendant, but defendant managed to calm the situation down. leeper then fell asleep or passed out, and was not aware of any further interaction between defendant and sun. she did not recall where they went because she was 4 high on drugs, but remembered having sex with defendant in the truck after they parked. leeper woke up the next day in a parking lot. defendant was sleeping next to her. fraticelli holding the same knife sun had displayed the day before, cleaning his fingernails with it defendant woke up, saw fraticelli with the knife, got out and went around the truck knife, and threw it. leeper thought defendant got out of the truck because fraticelli was holding the knife, and she explained knife because he was coming at us in like a mode or way. he was after defendant threw the knife, he told fraticelli to get out of the car and fight like a man, or something to that effect. fraticelli got out of the truck and they fought with their fists. leeper began gathering her belongings so she would be prepared to leave if the police came. as a result she did not see defendant pick up the knife or walk toward fraticelli. she heard sun yelling at them to stop. leeper said she saw fraticelli run toward the area where the knife had been thrown, with defendant chasing himhands. when leeper yelled that she had the keys to the truck, bhatti and defendant got into the truck and defendant drove away, leaving fraticelli and sun behind. bhatti had the knife, which he handed to defendant after they had traveled about two blocks. defendant then threw it out the window. defendant drove recklessly a bit after that, causing two flat tires until he finally stopped at the parking lot of an apartment building. the three then took their belongings from the truck and walked to a 5 bus stop. bhatti disappeared, and leeper and defendant took a where they rested and showered. that night defendant told leeper he may have accidentally hurt fraticelli. leeper gestured to the area of her heart and testified that defendant said that he had stabbed fraticelli there. leeper admitted that she told a detective that defendant said he thought he might have killed someone, but claimed she was pressured to make that statement. leeper testified that defendant did not say how many times he had stabbed fraticelli, but she acknowledged telling the police that defendant said that he had stabbed fraticelli twice. sun testimony sun testified that he met leeper about a week before the stabbing, and met defendant three days before, on a sunday. sun admitted having sex with leeper, but denied that they were involved in a relationship. he also denied that leeper paid him to drive his truck, claiming he did it for her as a favor. they pickon a sunday, and the three spent the next two nights at a motel. on tuesday, defendant introduced them to fraticelli, and they decided to go to a target store to steal merchandise. sun and fraticelli remained in the truck for about four or five hours after the others went into the store. when sun drove to the front of the store, he found them sitting outside. sun denied having an argument, claiming that he just told them he was ready to leave because they had been there so long. they all then went to a ross store, about nine miles away. again, defendant, leeper, and bhatti went inside while sun and fraticelli remained in the truck. sun and fraticelli agreed that it would be a good idea to get away from the other three and from the situation, and they both wanted to go home. as they were 6 came outside, saw what they were doing and became angry. sun yelled at her that he wanted to leave, and offered to drop the three of them off somewhere. sun admitted that he had retrieved his knife from inside the truck, but he denied having brandished it, threatened leeper with it, or held it to her face. defendant and bhatti were also upset to see their belongings removed from the truck. sun admitted that he threatened defendant but claimed he made no attempt to use the knife. he during the confrontation defendant grabbed a bong from the back of the truck, broke it, and raised it up in a threatening manner toward sun. fraticelli put his arms around sun from behind and said, bhatti, who had not been involved in the argument, agreed to let sun drop him off somewhere, and he got into the truck. defendant decided that it would be best to leave because they were making a lot of noise and were drawing attention. sun agreed and they all got into the truck. as sun started driving defendant, who was sitting next to sun s sun found the remark upsetting, so he pressed the gas pedal, drove as fast as he could, took his hands of the wheel for a few seconds, bhatti, who was in the backseat with the others, told sun to slow down, but sun sped on for another quarter mile. after miles per hour, defendant reached over and punched sun in the nose. sun slammed on the brakes, grabbed his bleeding nose, at in an attempt to push him out of the truck. the effort failed as the door was closed. sun then cooled off and continued driving. both men pretended that nothing had happened. estion, they went to hollywood and parked in a liquor store parking lot where sun and bhatti walked around 7 while defendant, leeper, and fraticelli stayed in the truck. when sun and bhatti returned, fraticelli was outside. the three men then waited while defendant and leeper had sex in the back seat of the truck. sun was tired, wanted to leave, and asked who fraticelli was the only one who did, so sun asked him to drive, and then fell asleep in the passenger seat. sun woke up momentarily around 3:00 a.m., and realized they were still in the same parking lot. they were still there when he woke up again at 7:30 a.m. fraticelli and admired it. he then offered to trade for it with his speaker. sun agreed, gave fraticelli the knife, saying it was dirty and should be cleaned. fraticelli began to clean it with an alcohol wipe. at about 8:00 a.m., defendant awoke and defendant and fraticelli began arguing, calmly at first and then it became more heated. defendant got out of the truck, window, and continued the argument. fraticelli sheathed the knife and tried to get out of the truck, but defendant stopped him by slamming the door closed. sun became upset and picked up a piece of plywood from the ground, planning to use it to hit defendant. bhatti said so sun put down the board and began recording the argument with his phone. though a few blows were landed by each man, there were no hard punches. defendant then picked up the knife, pulled it from its sheath and as he walked toward fraticelli making rotating and thrusting motions with the knife sun then saw the knife make contact. fraticelli stepped back, grabbed his chest, and stumbled from behind the truck to another car, hit that car, stumbled across the parking lot and collapsed. as sun called 911, defendant drove off with l8 truck. sun applied pressure to fraticelli and wrapped a ut fraticelli died. the videos and other prosecution evidence in addition to a 40-second video taken by witness karen sanchez, who was unavailable to testify. pushing and backing off occasionally, and then making some contact. defendant can be heard telling fraticelliwalk to the car defendant is then filmed walking a few yards away from fraticelli to the place where he had thrown the knife, picking it up, pulling it out of its sheath, and then walking directly back toward fraticelli. an off camera voice is then , just before defendant stabs fraticelli with a single quick thrust. defendant then removes the knife just as quickly. fraticelli immediately backs out of view, followed by defendant. on the sanchez video, which was taken through a window screen a distance awaya voice [g-- members of the los angeles police department fugitive task force arrested defendant the next day, after defendant emerged on a bicycle from a residence in pacoima. as police followed him, defendant turned his head toward one of the marked police vehicles and then began to pedal faster away from them, until he crashed his bicycle next to a parked car. as he was taken into custody, blood was observed on his shoes, which were then turned over to detectives. dna obtained from the blood on the shoes was analyzed and determined to match a dna sample taken from fraticelli. 9 when deputy medical examiner kevin young performed an autopsy on fraticelli, he found two stab wounds, one to the heart and another to the rib cage, near the heart. the two wounds were about inch and a half apart, with a depth of three to four inches. dr. young testified that the wounds could have been caused by a single stabbing, if the knife was pulled out at a different angle. if so, the knife had to have been pulled out at least two inches, moved up about an inch and a half, and then back in two inches to create the two wounds. if not, they were two completely separate stab wounds, with just one piercing the heart. there was no way to know which came first. either wound was consistent with fraticelli staggering around as he did. discussion i. the sanchez video a. objection to the sanchez video defendant contends that the audio portion of the sanchez video should have been excluded as irrelevant, and that playing it violated his constitutional right of confrontation under the sixth amendment. prior to trial, defendant objected to the audio portion of the sanchez video on the grounds of relevance, hearsay, and a lack of foundation. the trial court deferred ruling until after it viewed the video. it was at that time that defendant added an objection based upon the confrontation clause. the trial court overruled the hearsay and confrontation objections, finding the audio to consist of spontaneous statements. the court ruled that the video could be authenticated by a witness who observed the events, since the witness who recorded the video would not be called to testify, and thus overruled the foundation objection. the court found the audio probative regarding the stabbing. 10 although defendant separately argues the relevance and confrontation contentions, he conflates the two claims of error for purposes of discussing the standard of review and prejudice, suggesting that both issues should be reviewed de novo, and that prejudice for both issues should be analyzed under the test applied to federal constitutional error under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). we first address the contention that admission of the audio portion of the video violated the confrontation clause. b. confrontation clause the confrontation clause bars the use of testimonial hearsay unless the declarant is unavailable to testify and defendant was afforded a prior opportunity to cross-examine that witness. (crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 62, 68 (crawfordstatemethe question is whether, in light of all the circumstances, viewed -of-[cita(ohio v. clark (2015) 576 u.s. __, [135 s.ct. 2173, 2180], quoting michigan v. bryant (2011) 562 u.s. 344, 358; see also people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1214-1215.) charged with uncovering and prosecuting criminal behavior are significantly less likely to be testimonial than statements given to ohio v. clark, supra, 35 s.ct. at p. 2182.) -is not testimonial, even if it is inadmissible hearsay. (crawford, 541 u.s. at p. 51; cf. ohio v. clarkto his preschool teachers]; people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 11 disapproved on another ground in people v. rangel, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1216; people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1234, 1270--in-law]; people v. gutierrez spontaneous statement to his aunt]; people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 536, 579, fn. 19 [statement made to school friend], disapproved on another point in people v. riccardi, at p. 824, fn. 32.) in addition, [s]tatements are nontestimonial [even] when made in the course of police interrogation under circumstances objectively indicating that the primary purpose of the interrogation is to enable police assistance to meet an ongoing emergency,. (ohio v. clark, supra, 135 s.ct. at p. 2179, quoting davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813, 822 [primary purpose of 911 call is ordinarily to describe current emergency circumstances, not to prove a past fact].) davis is the idea that because the prospect of fabrication in statements given for the primary purpose of resolving that emergency is presumably significantly diminished, the confrontation clause does not require such statements to be subject to the crucible of cross-examination. [] this logic is not unlike that justifying the excited utterance exception in hearsay law. while the declarant was under the stress of excitement caused by the event or condition,citations], are considered reliable because the declarant, in the excitement, presumably cannot form a falsehood. [citations.](michigan v. bryant, supra, 562 u.s. at p. 361.) in light of these authorities and considering all the circumstances, viewed objectively, it cannot be said that the purpose of sanchez excited utterance was testimonial. there is no reason to conclude that sanchez was speaking to law 12 enforcement; she was not describing past events, but rather events as they were occurring; and her several exclamations of ding a crime because the event was shocking, not because she had a future criminal prosecution in mind. defendant acknowledges the primary purpose test enunciated by the united states supreme court and more expansively explained in ohio v. clark. however, he argues that the prosecutor treated . . . (italics added.) defendant explains his argument as followseven ot appear to have been testimonial at the time she made them, the government used them to make an end-run around the rule by asking the jury to speculate about what sanchez saw after the first stabbing. in essence, defendant urges a new rule under which recorded statements would be treated as testimonial whenever law enforcement obtains the recording for purposes of admitting it at trial. such a rule would, in effect, overturn the united states and california supreme court precedents describing testimonial hearsay as a statement which, at the time it is produced, made, or procured, is done so with a primary purpose of creating an out-of-court substitute for trial testimony.people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608, 624-625, quoting bryant, supra, 562 u.s. at p. 358, and other cases; see also ohio v. clark, supra, 135 s.ct. at p. 2183.) 911 calls would cease to be admissible, in derogation of supreme court authority. (see ohio v. clark, at p. 2179; davis v. washington, supra, 547 u.s. at p. 827.) we decline to adopt . (see auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) 13 c. the audio was harmless if the sanchez statements had been testimonial, we would find any error in admitting them to be harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the defense never claimed that defendant did not stab fraticelliseveral yards to the knife, returning with it, and quickly stabbing fraticelli in the area of his heart. defendant contends that an evidentiary gap created when fraticelli followed him. however, neither does the sanchez video show what happened. furthermore, the action depicted in that video was taken from an upper floor window on the far side of the parking lot, and was obscured by a screen. the narration did no more than corroborate at most, it was cumulative. defendant argues that the sanchez exclamations gave the prosecutor fuel to speculate that defendant stabbed fraticelli a second time, and that the second stabbing demonstrated intent to kill and premeditation. he argues that without the exclamations he might have been convicted of manslaughter under the defense theory of heat of passion. the addresses only the possibility that sanchez had a complete view of the stabbingshe could see behind that truck and saw what the defendant did, its not clear. she could have been referring to the earlier cut. but in terms of the entirety of what she said, she said it was after he decided to cut the other one. and remember when he falls? so based on her statement, it appears she had seen that happen. all right? . . . who knows how many times the defendant stabbed the victim? two people. right? the victim, dead, and the defendant. attention was there. all right? and possibly the person who 14 narrated the cell phone if she saw (italics added.) as respondent notes, the trial court instructed the jury on evidence. ng statement, the court opening statements and closing argument, the attorneys will discuss the case. but their remarks are not evidence. their questions are not evidence. only the witnevidence. argument is not evidence. you will decide what the facts are, that jurors are presumed to be intelligent and capable of understanding and people v. gonzales (2011) 51 cal.4th 894, 940.) this presumption applies equally to arguments or counsel are not evidence. (people v. morgain (2009) 177 cal.app.4th 454, 469.) the verdict of second degree murder supports the presumption that the jury did not accept theory that sanchez might have seen a second stabbing, as it did not find premeditation. moreover, the evidence overwhelmingly supported the defense. voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion has both a subjective element, that is, a killing actually done in the heat of passion, and an objective element, which requires that the heat of passion resulted from provocation such that an average, sober person would be so inflamed that he or she would lose reason and judgment.people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 585;  192, subd. (a).) 15 malice was well established here by the manner in which defendant killed the victim. defendant walked several yards to pick up the sheathed knife, unsheathed it and made rotating and thrusting motions with it before stabbing fraticelli forcefully into the area of his heart. the medical examiner found two stab wounds, one to the heart and another about an inch and a half away from the heart, with a depth of three to four inches. he testified that while the wounds could have been caused by a single stabbing if the knife had been pulled out at a different angle, moved up, and then thrust back in. otherwise, they were two separate stab wounds, with just one piercing the heart. both possible actions are consistent with an intent to kill. furthermore, leeper told the police defendant admitted to her that defendant had stabbed fraticelli twice. the evidence of heat of passion was weak. to be legally conduct in the heat of passion must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to as measured under an objective standard. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549-550.) aggressor, and, without first seeking to withdraw from the conflict, kill an adversary and expect to reduce the crime to manslaughter by merely asserting that it was accomplished upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. the claim of provocation cannot be based on events for which the defendant is people v. oropeza (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 73, 83-84.) both the testimony and video evidence suggest that defendant was the initial aggressor and never sought to withdraw from the conflict. fraticelli seat of the truck while defendant slept in the back seat. though 16 leeper thought fraticelli was aggressively cleaning his fingernails, sun testified that he was cleaning the knife. neither witness testified that fraticelli threatened defendant with the knife. on the contrary, when defendant awoke, he immediately told fraticelli that he had better be prepared to use it, before aggressively going to . after fraticelli sheathed the knife, defendant prevented fraticelli from opening the door, reached through the open window, took the knife, threw it away, and then told fraticelli to get out of the car and fight like a man. sun testified that there were no hard punches from either man, and neither landed many blows. the video confirms that defendant and fraticelli were mostly circling each other, and after sparring in this manner for less than a minute, defendant walked several yards to the knife, picked it up, and walked back to fraticelli, who was not advancing or threatening defendant, and thrust the knife into fraticelliheart. it does not appear from these facts that any rational jury would have found that fraticelliprovocation reasonable person; one of ordinary self- (people v. oropeza, supra, 151 cal.app.4th at p. 83.) moreover, evidence of was even weaker than the evidence of provocation. leeper testified that though she was not certain, she thought defendant got out of the truck to try to defend himself when he saw fraticelli as defendant did not testify and there was no testimony from any witness regarding at most the evidence showed anger from an aggressive person. we thus conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the result would not have been different had the sanchez audio been excluded. 17 d. relevance irrelevant under the definition of evidence code section 210, because the facts that defendant stabbed fraticelli and that fraticelli fell were not in dispute. under that statute[r]elevant credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of  210.) the trial court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence [citations] but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. [citations.]people v. heard (2003) 31 cal.4th 946, 973; evid. code,  350.) defendant does not argue that the audio had no tendency in reason to prove that fraticelli was stabbed by a man in the hollywood parking lot, but argues that the audio was irrelevant because the stabbing was undisputed, while the disputed material issue was whether defendant stabbed fraticelli twice, which would have rebutted heat of passion. defendant then suggests that because the sanchez video failed to resolve that issue, it was irrelevant. defendant makes no prejudice argument separate from his contention that the admission of the audio prejudicially violated his right of confrontation. we rejected that claim above, and as not implicate the federal constitution, . . . we review allegations of error under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. [citation.]people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 336.) as we have already concluded that the admission of the audio portion of the sanchez video was harmless under the more stringent standard of chapman, we conclude that 18 if the court erred in admitting the audio, it was harmless under the watson standard as well. ii. dewberry instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred in failing to give a sua sponte instruction in the language of caljic no. 8.72 or its equivalent.2 citing sullivan v. louisiana (1993) 508 u.s. 275, 281-282, defendant further contends that the omission effectively lowered the amounted to structural error, thus requiring automatic reversal of all counts without regard to prejudice. defendant relies on people v. dewberry (1959) 51 cal.2d 548 (dewberry), in which the california supreme court held that it was error to refuse a similar instruction proffered by the defendant. (id. at pp. 555-557.) the error in dewberry failure of the trial court to instruct on the effect of a reasonable doubt as between any of the included offenses, when it had instructed as to the effect of such doubt as between the two highest offenses, and as between the lowest offense and justifiable homicide, [which] left the instructions with the clearly erroneous implication that the rule requiring a finding of guilt of the lesser offense applied only as between first and second degree id. at p. 557.) the court ruled that is sufficient to support a finding of guilt of both the offense charged and a lesser included offense, the jury must be instructed that if they entertain a reasonable doubt as to which offense has 2 you are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt and unanimously agree that the killing was unlawful, but you unanimously agree that you have a reasonable doubt whether the crime is murder or manslaughter, you must give the defendant the benefit of that doubt and find it to be manslaughter 19 been committed, they must find the defendant guilty only of the lesser offense. id. at p. 555.) as the court later explained, however, dewberry did not require a specific instruction or particular language, so long as where it had a reasonable doubt as to any included or related offenses or degrees, to find defendant guilty of the lesser included or related offense or lesser degree, that is, to give defendant the (people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 1262-1263.) in determining the adequacy of the instructions given, the reviewing court element in one instruction may be supplied by another or cured id. at p. 1248.) we understand and correlate people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 852.) here, the trial court did not give caljic no. 8.72, because it used calcrim instructions.3 the trial court instructed that defendant was presumed innocent and that the people were required to prove his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (calcrim no. 220). the court instructed that murder and manslaughter were types of homicide, that manslaughter was a lesser offense to murder, and the court gave standard calcrim instructions regarding first and second degree murder, voluntary manslaughter, as well as (calcrim nos. 500, 505, 520, 521, 570, 571.) as read by the 3 in 2005, the california judicial council adopted calcrim as the official instructions for use in the state of california, added california rules of court, rule 2.1050, which states that is strongly people v. thomas (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 461, 465.) 20 trial court, calcrim no. 505 instructed in relevant part: people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the killing was not justified. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of murder or manslaughter calcrim nos. 520 and 521 instructed that if the jury found that defendant committed murder, it must be second degree murder unless it found first degree murder beyond a reasonable doubt. in relevant part calcrim no. 570 instructed: reasonable doubt that the defendant did not kill as the result of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of calcrim no. 571 instructed in relevant part: people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant was not acting in imperfect self-defense or imperfect defense of another. if the people have not met this the trial court then instructed with calcrim no. 640, regarding the verdict forms, stating in part: kinds of homicide in whatever order you wish, but i can accept a verdict of guilty or not guilty of second degree murder or voluntary manslaughter only if all of you have found the defendant not guilty of first degree murder, and i can accept a verdict of guilty or not guilty of voluntary manslaughter only if all of you have found the defendant not guilty of both first and second degree murder.4 4 calcrim no. 640 is similar to caljic no. 17.10, which has been held to satisfy the requirements of dewberry, as it is the logical equivalent of caljic no. 8.72. thus it is not error to omit caljic no. 8.72. (see, e.g., people v. barajas (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 787, 791 793; people v. gonzalez (1983) 141 cal.app.3d 786, 793-794, disapproved on other grounds in people 21 considering the instructions as a whole, the calcrim instructions adequately provided the jury with all the information needed to base its decision on the principle expressed in dewberry, and did not fail to instruct the jurors to give defendant the benefit of any reasonable doubts. in particular, by following calcrim no. 640, the jury could not have convicted defendant of second degree murder unless the prosecution had established every element of second degree murder beyond a reasonable doubt. defendant points to evidencdefendant and leeper with the knife the preceding day, and fraticelli. defendant argues that ues of self-defense, defense of others, and provocation. the omission of caljic no. 8.72 did determining such issues beyond a reasonable doubt, as the trial court read calcrim no. 505, regarding justifiable homicide based on self-defense or defense of others. within the instruction else was threatened may be reasonable even if he relied on information that was not true. however, the defendant must actually and reasonably have believed that the information was true. . . . if you find that the defendant received a threat from someone else that he reasonably associated with j. fraticelli, you may consider that threat in deciding whether the defendant was v. kurtzman (1988) 46 cal.3d 322, 330; people v. st. germain (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 507, 520-522; but see people v. crone (1997) 54 cal.app.4th 71, 76-79 [error but harmless]; people v. reeves (1981) 123 cal.app.3d 65, 69-70 [same], disapproved on a different point in people v. sumstine (1984) 36 cal.3d 909, 919, fn. 6.) 22 justified in acting in self-defense or defense of anotherthe burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the killing was not justified. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guil as the instructions were adequate, we conclude that if the jury had been given the dewberry instruction or caljic no. 8.72, in addition to the calcrim instructions, it is not reasonably probable that the result would have been different, under the test of watson. defendant contends that the length of deliberations,5 including juror questions, request for additional copies of the instructions, request to view the sun video in slow motion, and for read, demonstrated that the case was close and that the jury had great difficulty in reaching a verdict. where the evidence of guilt is contradicted and not overwhelming, jury questions and relatively long deliberations can provide additional indication of the closeness of a case. (see people v. pearch (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 1282, 1294-1295.) here mental state was limited, weak and speculative, while stronger evidence established that defendant acted with malice and that there was no legally sufficient provocation by the victim, such that an average, sober person would be so inflamed that he or she would lose reason and judgment.n.] (people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 584, 585-586.) given this state of the evidence, the 5 defendant calculates the time as 13 hours; however if the time for readbacks and breaks is deducted, it appears that the jury deliberated for approximately nine hours after four days of trial over a period of two weeks. 23 its civic duty, rather than its difficulty [citation.] (people v. houston (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 279, 300-301, quoting people v. walker (1995) 31 cal.app.4th 432, 438.) indeed, the state of the evidence was such that we can conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that omission of a dewberry instruction or caljic no. 8.72 did not affect the verdict. iii. mutual combat instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred in failing to give a jury instruction sua sponte supportive of his claim of self-defense, such as calcrim no. 3471.6 the trial court instructed the jury on self-defense with calcrim no. 505. calcrim no. 3471 limits the right to self-defense where one starts a fight or engages in mutual combat, in accordance with section 197, subdivision (3), which provides that homicide is justifiable when committed in lawful self-defense, but if the he must really and in good faith have endeavored to decline any the instruction explains that a fight is mutual combat which began or was continued by express or implied mutual consent or agreement before the claim to self-defense arose; and that a person engaged in mutual combat has a right to self-defense only if he [his] opponent, in a way that a reasonable person would understand, that [he] wanted to stop fighting and that [he] [he] gave [his] opponent a chance to stop fighting; however, where the defendant started the fight non-deadly force, and the 6 while defense counsel indicated to the court toward the end of trial that he might request a mutual combat instruction, he did not specify what instruction he would request, or mention it further. 24 opponent responded with such sudden and deadly force that the defendant could not withdraw from the fight, then the defendant had the right to defend [himself] with deadly force and was not (calcrim no. 3471.) defendant argues that calcrim no. 3471 was necessary to make clear that even if he started the fight, he could still claim self-defense or unreasonable self-defense, depending on the circumstances. on the contrary; where, as here, the trial court has given an unqualified self-defense instruction and the question presented to the jury was whether defendant exercised that right in a reasonable manner when he stabbed the victim, calcrim no. 3471 is unnecessary. (see people v. johnson (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 702, 711.) moreover, a trial court must instruct sua sponte on defenses only a defense, or if there is substantial evidence supportive of such a defense and the defense is not inconsistent with the defendant's (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 157.) requiring sua sponte instructions [concerning defenses] which are inconsistent with defense trial theory or not clearly demanded by the evidence would hamper defense attorneys and put trial judges under pressure to glean legal theories and winnow the evidence for remotely tenable and sophistical instructions. id. at p. 158, second italics added.) assuming for discussion that defendant and fraticelli engaged in mutual combat, defendant has pointed to no evidence that fraticelli used deadly force, or that defendant made any effort to withdraw from the conflict or to offer to stop fighting, and we find no substantial evidence to support any such findings. the sun video shows that defendant ended any mutuality of the combat by walking over to the only deadly weapon known to be in 25 the area, picking it up, unsheathing it, and then returning with it to stab fraticelli, who had stopped fighting, was not approaching or threatening defendant, and was unarmed. under such circumstances, the use of the knife was necessarily an undue advantage, precluding a mutual combat form of manslaughter. (see people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 60, fn. 6.) there was thus no duty on the part of the trial court to give this instruction. failure to instruct on a lesser included offense or a defense is reviewed for prejudice under the reasonable probability standard of watson. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at pp. 165, 177-178.) defendant contends that the omission of calcrim no. 3471 allowed the prosecutor to misstate the law of self-defense by arguing that if the defendant provoked and started the fight, ,] [h]e cannot then say, oh, but then the victim did something else. if he starts it, if he starts the fight, that is it. you dont go past that. the prosecutor prefaced those statements with the required elements of a heat of passion defense, and was arguing that there was no legally adequate provocation by the victim. the prosecutor was clearly not making this argument in relation to self-defense, as that theory was not argued by either side in summation. there was thus no need to clarify that the argument did not relate to self-defense. the overwhelming evidence that defendant took unfair advantage of the victim, and the lack of substantial evidence of the elements enumerated in calcrim no. 3471, as summarized above, demonstrate the absence of any reasonable probability of a more favorable result had the instruction been given. indeed, we conclude that no rational jury would have found manslaughter or justifiable homicide under the facts of this case. 26 iv. prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends that the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct in closing arguments, which resulted in a violation of the sixth and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution. constitution when they are so egregious that they infect the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819; see also darden v. wainwright (1986) 477 u.s. 168, 181.) otherwise, misconduct violates state law if the prosecutor has used deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. (hill, at p. 819.) where the prosecutor engaged appeal is not how many times the prosecutor erred but whether constituted . . . reprehensible methods . . . (people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 793-794 (peoples).) we paraphrase the alleged instances of misconduct asserted by defendant as follows: (1) exploiting the trial courts error in admitting the audio portion of the sanchez video in to speculate about facts not shown in the video; (2) misstatement of legal standards to be applied in deciding whether provocation was legally sufficient to support a heat of passion defense, by arguing that the instigator of a fight may not claim heat of passion, that the required passion is the equivalent of being be such that would motivate an average person to kill; (3) taking instruction by arguing that if defendant started the fight, he cannot claim self-defense or imperfect self-defense; and (4) 27 stating that manslaughter was a question of morality or of justice. during trial defense counsel objection to the claim that manslaughter was a moral question, was sustained. however, counsel did not assign misconduct and made no request for an admonition. misconduct for appeal, the defense must make a timely objection people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 1146.) one or the other is not enough; both objection and request for an admonition are required. (see people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 259-260.) ground urged on appeal and included an assignment of misconduct, as well as a request that the jury be admonished to disregard the misconduct. (people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298.) the claim is reviewable only if an admonition would not have otherwise cured the harm caused by the misconduct. (gutierrez, supra, at p. 1146.) defendant acknowledges that trial counsel did not object to all or most of the instances of alleged misconduct, but claims futility as an excuse for argument falls short of demonstrating futility. to be excused from the necessity of either a timely objection or a request for admonition on the ground of futility, the defendant must explain (peoples, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 797.) as respondent has aptly argued, a failure to show that a curative admonition would have been ineffective forfeits the issue of misconduct on appeal. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1201.) defendant has made no attempt to argue that admonitions would not have been effective. as he has failed to 28 show the probable overruling of objections or the probable ineffectiveness of admonitions, his claim of futility fails. defendant next claims ineffective assistance of counsel for failing to make adequate objections or request admonitions. the sixth amendment right to assistance of counsel includes the right to the effective assistance of counsel. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686-674; see also cal. const., art. i,  15.) it is defendantcounsel was inadequate and that prejudice resulted. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1126.errors, the result of the pr(strickland v. washington, supra, at p. 694.) reasonable, and where, as here, the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) . . . argument seldom (people v. ghent people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1197.) in particular, it may be a legitimate tactical decision not to argument. (see people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 764.) ong as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include . . . matters not in evidence, but which are common knowledge or are illustrations drawn from common experience . . . 29 may . . . . . . people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 567.) in this case, defense counsel could easily have made the reasonable tactical decision that his address some of the prosecutoand would thus not require objections or admonitions. for example, the prosecutor only after defense concept. defense counsel could reasonably refrain from objecting when the prosecutor correctly stated that heat of passion required the instigator to seek to withdraw from the conflict. (see people v. oropeza, supra, 151 cal.app.4th at pp. 83-84.) in any event, we need not reach defendanthe four categories of alleged misconduct were objectionable, as defendant has failed to demonstrate a reasonable probability that a more favorable determination would have resulted absent the alleged counsel errors. (see people v. rodrigues, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 1126.) first, the sanchez video was not admitted in , as defendant again contends. in addition, in part ic of our discussion, we have already determined that the evidence overwhelmingly supported concluded beyond a reasonable doubt that the result would not have been different had the sanchez audio been excluded. defendantsecond category of alleged misconduct -- that the prosecutor misstated the law regarding legally sufficient provocation to support a heat of passion defense -- was also harmless. again, we have previously determined that overwhelming at of passion defense. thus we also conclude that defendant suffered no prejudice from any incomplete statement as to when the instigator of a fight may claim heat of passion; or 30 from the prosecutorthe expression to mean an intense emotion; or from the argument that the provocation must be such that would motivate an average person to kill, rather than provocation which would cause a person of average disposition to react without due deliberation or reflection.7 moreover, the correct statement of this rule was explained in the instructions, along with the trial courtou must follow the law as i explain it to you, even if you disagree with it. with my instructions, you must follow my instructions. we presume that the jurors understood and followed this instruction. (people v. gonzales, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 940.) the prosecutor took advantage mutual combat instruction by arguing that if defendant started the fight, he could not claim self-defense or imperfect self-defense. the prosecutor did not so argue. the statements quoted by defendant concerned heat of passion, not self-defense or imperfect self-defense. the statements were made in the rebuttal argument, in which there was no mention of self-defense, as defense counsel never argued that the killing was justified. furthermore the prosecutor did not mention imperfect self-defense, as defense counsel had not done so in his closing argument. finally, we not only determined that overwhelming passion defense, we concluded in part ii of our discussion that 7 see people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 939 (the question is whether provocation would cause an ordinary person average disposition to kill. 31 overwhelming evidence established that defendant acted with malice. we thus discern no reasonable probability of a different result if the prosecutor had not said that manslaughter was a moral question, or if the jury had been admonished to disregard the statement. in sum, defendant has failed to preserve the issue of prosecutorial misconduct for appellate review and has failed to demonstrate a violation of his sixth amendment right to the effective assistance of counsel. v. response to juror question defendant contends that the trial court violated his constitutional rights to counsel, a public trial, and to be present during all stages of his trial, when it permitted the court reporter to go into the jury room to instruct the jury iquestions, unaccompanied by the court, counsel, or defendant. the jury requested read back of some of the testimony given. it also asked for clarification of some of the instructions. outside the presence of the jury, but in the presence of defendant and both counsel, the trial court stated for the record that the court reporter went to the jury room to read back testimony after discussions with both counsel. the court also explained: [t]hat is exactly what occurred for all of the questions and the responses to their questions. . . . counsel stipulated and agreed to the portions that were being there was no objection to the the only instruction defendant challenges is apparently the agreed-upon answer excuse and an unlawful excuse? [] can you provide examples to decided (guilty or not) then move to no. 521 (1st degree murder) and if not decided (guilty or not) then discuss 522 32 on each of the two juror request forms (), the court wrote the following response: the reporter did not transcribe the response she read to the jury and there was no express stipulation on the record.8 with the agreement of both trial counsel, the court later certified the following in a settled statementtinued discussions with counsel and stipulation by counsel to permit the reporter to read the statement to the jurors in the deliberation room, the court ordered the court reporter to read the following to the jurors: ul and unlawful. the instructions explain to you the process in . . . the settled statement also reflects that the court reporter read the statement, and the entire action took two minutes.9 defendant does not dispute that the court and counsel agreed on giving this response to the jury, but claims that the procedure involved a critical stage of the proceedings and resulted in a violation of his fundamental rights under the sixth 8 after a pause in the proceedings during which the reporter read basked [both counsel] if they are agreeable [to] permitting our reporter to go back and read to the jurors what the court is giving as answers to their questions. that will be called a read back, if you will, the read back of the answer by the reporter, and then i outside the presence of the jury: court and counsel confer as to . . . . [] the parties formulated response to their questions 9 appellate counsel objected in the trial court to the settled statement and brought a motion in this court to have it stricken. the motion was denied. 33 amendment to a public trial and to be present with counsel at such a critical stage. defendant asserts that reversal is required without regard to prejudice it is well established that the rereading of testimony is not a critical stage of the proceedings. (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 288.) thus, due process does not require the during readbacks. (people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, 1120-1121; see people v. fauber (1992) 2 cal.4th 792, 837.)10 absence from various court may be declared nonprejudicial in situations where his presence [citation.] (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 538.) for example, defendant does not have the right to be present during discussion of the law between the court and counsel or discussions regarding appropriate instructions. (ibidpersonally present during proceedings which bear no reasonable, substantial relation to his or her opportunity to defend the charges against him, and the burden is on defendant to demonstrate that his absence prejudiced his case or denied him a fair and impeople v. horton, supra, at p. 1121.) we find the reading of an agreed-upon answer to a jury question to be analogous to testimony readback. this is 10 defendant has cited no case which has held that the court upon response to a jury question is a critical stage of the proceedings, although he has referred to several federal cases which have held that that an agreed upon rereading of testimony or instructions is not a critical stage. (e.g., musladin v. lamarque (2009) 555 f.3d 830, 842 & fn. 9, and cases cited therein.) 34 illustrated in people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 597-598 (avila), where the california supreme court rejected a claim that the trial , which included an instruction, was a critical stage under the sixth amendment. there, after a discussion between the court and all parties, it was determined that there was no testimony directly would instead read other testimony. as agreed, the judge and the court reporter went into the jury room, the judge told the jury what had been determined, and instructed: while she is reading to you, you may not deliberate or discuss the case in her presence. you need to wait until she finishes and has left the room, and then you may resume your deliberations.id. at p. 598.) the court held that any error in failing to obtain statutory error under section 977, subdivision (b)(1), which calls for a written waiver signed by defendant.11 (avila, supra, at p. 598.) here as in avila, there was at most a statutory error, as defendant did not sign a written waiver as required by section 977, subdivision (b)(1). idemonstrate that he would have achieved a more favorable result absent the error. (avila, at p. 598.) comparison with the extreme circumstances of people v. bradford (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 1390 is unavailing. 11 section 977, subdivision (b)(1) provides that with charged, the accused shall be personally present at the arraignment, at the time of plea, during the preliminary hearing, during those portions of the trial when evidence is taken before the trier of fact, and at the time of the imposition of sentence. the accused shall be personally present at all other proceedings unless he or she shall, with leave of court, execute in open court, a written waiver of his or her ri 35 deliberating, unaccompanied by counsel and with no court reporter, on four occasions. eas recollection as stated at the hearing to settle the record, the jurors posed questions to him concerning the instructions he had id. at p. 1413.) upon finding that this was an unconstitutional , the court reviewed it for harmless error under the reasonable doubt standard of chapman. (bradford, at p. 1417; see also people v. oliver (1987) 196 cal.app.3d 423, 435-silent presence while jury deliberated was subject to chapman analysis].) defendant complains that because the proceedings were not reported, it is unknown what the court reporter said to the deliberating jurors, suggesting that we cannot therefore assume that she was silent. on the contrary, the presumption that official duty has been regularly performed applies to court reporters. (people v. ayala, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 289; evid. code,  664.) instructions, and conclude that there was no such intrusion into deliberations here as a result of the two-minute reading of the agreed upon response to its questions. as defendant did not object to the absence of a written waiver below, does not raise the issue here, and makes no effort to demonstrate prejudice, he may not now be heard to complain of the omission. (see people v. ayala, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 288.) regardless, as we discern no reasonable probability that would have borne any reasonably substantial relation to the fullness of his opportunity to defend against the charge, we find the procedure to have been harmless. (ibid. at fn. 8.) 36 vi. cumulative error defendant contends that the judgment must be reversed because of the cumulative effect of all the asserted errors. claims of error or have found any assumed errors to be nonprejudicialcumulative effect. (people v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 316.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst __________________________, j. hoffstadt 