filed 12/11/18 p. v. williamsburg national ins. ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. williamsburg national ins. co., defendant and appellant. b275306 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sj4246/ka096633) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kerry bensinger, judge. affirmed. law office of john rorabaugh, john mark rorabaugh and crystal l. rorabaugh for defendant and appellant. mary c. wickham, county counsel, ruben baeza, jr., assistant county and david d. lee, associate county counsel for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction appellant williamsburg national insurance company, acting through its agent montana bail bonds, inc. (collectively, the surety) posted bond for a criminal defendant who later failed to appear for trial. bail was forfeited. in a previous appeal, we held that the trial coufor an extension of time to locate a defendant without first holding a hearing. (county of los angeles v. williamsburg national ins. co. (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 944 (williamsburg).) upon remand, the parties stipulated to the maximum extension that would have been available under the applicable statutes had the trial court held a hearing and granted the the surety did not locate defendant within that time period. the surety then moved to vacate the forfeiture and exonerate bail, arguing that the delay caused by the ensuing appeal interfered the trial court denied the motion, and the surety appealed. we affirm. the surety has not demonstrated that the demonstrated that prejudice purportedly arising from a prior error may be asserted in a later appeal. factual and procedural background on january 17, 2012, defendant juan escobedo, jr. was charged with sexual penetration by means of force or fear (pen. code,  289, subd. (a)(1)(a), a felony),1 lewd or lascivious act on a 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 child aged 14 or 15 ( 288, subd. (c)(1), a felony), annoying or molesting a child under the age of 18 ( 647.6, subd. (a)(1), a misdemeanor), and forgery or counterfeiting of official seals ( 472, a felony). bail was set at $200,000.00. on january 18, 2012, the surety posted bond for defendant failed to appear at a trial readiness hearing on july 20, 2012, and bail was forfeited. notice of forfeiture was mailed to the surety on july 23, 2012. pursuant to statute, if the defendant appears in court within 185 days of a mailed notice of forfeiture, the court shall order the forfeiture vacated. ( 1305, subd. (c).) upon a showing of good cause, the court may extend that initial appearance period for up to 180 days. ( 1305.4.) n extension motion may be filed up to the end of the initial appearance period and heard (people v. financial casualty & surety, inc. (2016) 2 cal.5th 35, 43 (financial casualty).) 01-24- the surety filed a notice to extend the time period under section 1305.4, and on february 1, 2013, the court granted an extension of 169 days to july 20, 2013, a saturday. on the next court day, july 22, 2013, the surety filed another motion to extend the exoneration period. the trial court denied the motion the court entered summary judgment on the forfeited bond on august 9, 2013. on august 13, 2013, the surety placed a motion for reconsideration on calendar. on august 27, 2013, it telephonically requested that the motion be taken off calendar. the surety filed a notice of appeal on october 10, 2013. following briefing and oral argument, this court reversed the 4 had a statutory right to an oral hearing, and the court erred in depriving [the surety] of that right. (williamsburg, supra, 235 cal.app.4th at p. 948.) we ecause [the surety] could only obtain a maximum extension of 180 days . . . its second motion to extend, filed on july 22, 2013, could have extended the period for no more than nine days. (id. at p. 951.) we remanded and instructed the trial court to vacate summary judgment and hold an oral hearing on section 1305.4 motion. (id. at p. 956.) upon remand, on august 21, 2015 the county of los trial court accepted the stipulation. ten days later, on august 31, 2015, the surety filed a motion to vacate the forfeiture and exonerate bail. the surety argued that the case was returned to investigation was previously halted, the investigator was unable to re-establish h fugitive recovery agent ryan smalls submitted a declaration in support of the motion. smalls stated that in 2013 he had learned that defendant had been in contact with his the child smalls also said that a confidential who may be in the declaration did not include dates regarding these leads or any information about following up with these leads. it stated that smalls was informed on july 28, 2013 that the extension of time on the bond had elapsed, and the investigation was terminated as a result. 5 from the confidential informant, who has close family ties to the escobedo family, it is my belief that our investigations would in its second motion for an extension of time, agents believed that they were close to locating and apprehending the defendant; however, tion and the subsequent appeal resulted in the agents having to stand down on their investigation and allow their investigative leads to go cold. this delay, caused by the actions of the court, prevented agents for the surety from apprehending the defendan by creating an artificial two-year gap in the investigation. . . . therefore, actions of the court have aided the defendant in evading the people opposed the motion. they argued that the resulted in the agents withdrawal from its pursuit of the defendant. . . . however, [the surety] relies on a false premise that the judicial system caused [the] surety to abandon its search the people asserted obligation was not extinguished by the appeal process itself, but the people noted that the bench warrant for defendant remained outstanding, and statedin the system, [the] surety had the authority to apprehend the the people contended that the forfeiture was not caused b, and asserted that this case was 6 distinguishable from cases in which forfeiture resulted from errors by the people. they also noted that the people had never seeking relief from forfeiture. in its reply, the surety argued that at the time its extension . the current motion, which was also filed on july 19, 2013 with the sure the smalls declaration attached as exhibit e to the motion to vacate, however, was dated august 31, 2015, and therefore post- the 2013 motion and supporting documents are not included in the record on appeal. apparently referencing the 2013 declaration, the surety coordinate the assistance of several governmental fugitive recovery agencies, that surveillance had been established at multiple residences and phone lines, and most importantly that a witness had seen the defendant in sylmar during the weekend of 2015 declaration, however, does not state that any witnesses had seen the defendant or that phone surveillance was underway. the surety also asserted that smalls this statement potentially conflicts 2015 declaration describing new (however, we note that this statement is unclear as to whether ) the surety argued that by denying its 2013 motion for an rminated the bail bond contract that provides the primary basis for the surety to 7 en[ied] the 2013, less than 20 days after a witness had spotted the defendant nearby and resulting in a two year process to rectify ce that a surety should continue to pursue and apprehend bail when the fugitive the surety plainly suffered significant and irreparable prejudice by the erroneous trial court decision in this case and the surety should not now be subject to forfeiture as a result of that error and the resulting additional briefing on the issue of whether the bail agent retains its authority to apprehend and take into custody the criminal defendant . . . following the entry of summary judgment. the authority to apprehend a bail fugitive and continues to have such person is finally [( 1301.)] the bail bond continued to be in 2012. even while the summary judgment was entered on august 9, 2013, the bail bond remained in forfeiture status and was not indeed, the bail bond remains in forfeiture the people also noted that no authority 8 prevented the surety from enlisting the assistance of local law enforcement in arresting defendant on his outstanding bench warrant. at the hearing on the motion, after argument by the benefit analysis. and when you take an appeal, the matter is ue with in denying the additional time, won, and received the full term of the extension period. the surety can not [sic] now be heard on equitable the court noted that the time to surrender the defendant had expired and no additional time could be granted, and the defendant had not been surrendered. therefore denied. [] so the motion is denied. summary judgment was entered against the surety on april 6, 2016. the surety timely appealed. discussion we review an order denying a motion to vacate a bond forfeiture under an abuse of discretion standard; however, where the facts are uncontested and the issue concerns a pure question of law, we review the decision de novo. (people v. fairmont specialty group (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 146, 151.) on appeal, the surety questions whether it is entitled to regarding --establish their investigative in essence, the surety is arguing that t 9 error addressed in our previous appealdenial of the 2013 motion for an extension without a hearingwas so prejudicial that, even though the surety appealed that decision and obtained the result it requested, the bail forfeiture should nonetheless be vacated. we are unconvinced by arguments that court error caused the surety to fail to apprehend defendant, prejudiced the surety to the extent that exoneration of bail was warranted. the surety makes clear that the purported prejudice arose from the error in denying the 2013 motion for an extensionnot from a new error following remand. the surety the july 2013 extension motion which was later reversed on -year delay it also asserts invalidated the bail bond contract when it prematurely terminated the by erroneously denying the 2013 extension motion without a hearing. the surety he delay caused by the upon the unsupported assumption that the surety was entitled to additional time to apprehend defendant. in its opening brief, the surety characterizes the error at issue in the previous appeal as a however, this in williamsburg, supra, 235 cal.app.4th 944, did not hold that the court erred by denying the 10 . to the contrary, we held that the court erred by without a hearing. we noted that hearing and extended, and that the prosecuting agency must be given notice before a hearing held pursuant to this sectio ( 1305.4, emphases added.) section 1305.4 incorporates subdivision (j) of section 1305, which states that a motion filed in a timely manner may be heard of the expiration of the exoneration period. ( 1305, subd. (j), emphasis added.) (williamsburg, supra, 235 cal.app.4th at p. 953.) we statedconclude that the legislature intended the court to schedule an oral hearing at which time the parties would have a right to appear and argue their case for or against an extension of the exoneration periid. at pp. 953-954.) because the court had and argue, we reversed the judgment and remanded the case, ordering the trial court to hold the hearing requested by the surety. our holding that the surety was entitled to a hearing is not tantamount to holding that the surety was entitled to an extension of time. in its opening brief, the surety seems to conflate these issues by asserting that the trial court error limited the time period available to apprehend defendant. but an extension of time beyond the initial 180-is not automatic. [a surety] has to earn any additional time by a showing of good cause. (people v. ranger ins. co. (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 676, 681; see also  1304.5 [a request for an 11 require a trial court to extend the [appearance] period and keep the file open on the bond forfeiture matter in the absence of any reasonable prospect doing so will r (people v. financial casualty & surety, inc., supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 48.) below, the trial court erroneously denied the motion without a hearing, but in doing so it stated that set forth in the (financial casualty, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 47.) court deciding a xtend the appearance period may consider, as a factor tending to show lack of good cause, that the motion is unsupported by facts establishing a reasonable likelihood the (ibid.) here, the court presumably read the documents submitted in support of the motion, including the declaration of investigator smalls that was purportedly filed with that motion. the surety makes no effort to show that there was in fact good cause to grant the motion, or that the court likely would have granted the motion had a hearing been held. upon remand following the previous appeal, no hearing was held; the people stipulated to -day extension. moreover, it is not clear that ion allowed for a timely ruling on an extension. since the last appeal was he total allowable extension is . . . limited to 180 days from the date of the first extension order, regardless of how many individual extensions (financial casualty, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 46 fn. 2; see also county of los angeles v. allegheny casualty co. 12 (2017) 13 cal.app.5th 580, 586 (allegheny casualty).) the first extension order was entered on february 1, 2013, so the total allowable extension ran to july 31, 2013 at the latest. here, the motion was filed on july 22, 2013. section 1305.4 requires that notice at least 10 court days before a hearing held pursuant to it appears that the within the allowable extension period. in light of this procedural statement that the motion a nine-day extension and would have received one in the absence nonetheless, the surety blames prejudice arising from the trial court and the delay inherent in the appeal process as the cause of its failure to locate defendant.2 the surety asserts n the trial court erroneously effectively terminated the bail bond contract by artificially expiring the contractual deadline for the surety to remedy the the surety asserts that because bail is contractual, contract itself. it argues that when the trial court denied its request for an extension in 2013, the court ability to apprehend defendant. the people disagree, asserting 2we also note that the surety itself added to the appellate delay by requesting and receiving extensions of time for a total of 123 days to file its opening and reply briefs. 13 surety had the authority t the surety does not cite any relevant legal authority for its its ability to apprehend the defendant. the bail bond contract itself states in court as required, the surety the defendant will appear for judgment. it also states that if these conditions are the bail apprehend defendant. the california authority discussing the contractual nature of bail does not suggest that a bail contract grants any particular powers to the surety to apprehend a fugitive defendant; it simply . between the surety and the government whereby the surety acts s appearance in court under the risk of forfeiture of (people v. american contractors indemnity co. (2004) 33 cal.4th 653, 657-658.) bail and its forfeiture is to insure the attendance of the accused . . . . (ibid.) scheduled hearing, the forfeiture of bail implicates not just the [citation.] s nonappearance is without sufficient excuse, it is the surety wh 14 (people v. safety national casualty corp. (2016) 62 cal.4th 703, 709.) tdecision, however, because we have found no authority stating that failing to grant a surety improper interference with either a bail contract authority. to the contrary, the applicable statutes make clear that extensions of time are within the discretion of the court, and therefore ruling on such authority. section 1305.4 states that following the initial may order the period extended to a the statute does not mandate that an extension be granted, and it does not mandate that the extension be 180 days. we therefore granting an extension for less than 180 days constitutes interference with a bail contract. people v. accredited surety & casualty co., inc. (2006) 137 cal.app.4th 1349 (accredited), which neither party cites, warrant exoneration of bailif the defendant is apprehended before the extension period expires. in that case, the surety, accredited, filed a motion for an extension of time under section 1305.4. the motion was accompanied by a detailed declaration describing the extensive efforts of investigators, and stating that the investigator was confident he could locate the defendant, thomas, within the extension period. (id. at pp. 1353-1354.) the court denied the motion for lack of good cause, and the surety appealed. accredited, the surety here, showed due diligence during the initial 180-day 15 period in attempting to capture thomas. it also demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of bringing thomas to custody in another 180 days. as a matter of law, this showing was sufficient to satisfy the good cause requirement of section 1305.4. accredited was entitled to an extension of the forfeiture period; therefore, the trial court abused its ds motion for an extension under section 1305.4. (id. at p. 1359.) the court of apmotion for extension of the forfeiture period. he was arrested within 180 days of the order. therefore, accredited is entitled to exoneration of the bond. (id. at p. 1360 fn. 3.) here, the surety argues that it could not have continued searching for defendant after bail was forfeited, and cites allegheny casualty, supra, 13 cal.app.5th 580, which discussed accredited. there, the maximum extension period for three defendants expired on october 20, 2015. (allegheny casualty, supra, 13 cal.app.5th at p. 586.) the court noted that two of the three defendants appeared in the underlying case while the appeal was pending; one on february 17, 2016, and the other on may 11, 2016. (id. at p. 584 fn. 6.) the court of appeal held that the reasoning in accredited did not warrant exoneration of bail under the circumstancesaccredited does not stand for the proposition that bail may be exonerated when a defendant has been returned to custody during the pendency of the appeal. both [defendants] were returned to custody well after the 180-day extension, unlike in accredited (id. at p. 588.) the people argue that the surety could have simply apprehended defendant at any time while the warrant remained 16 outstanding, during the appeal or after remand. as allegheny casualty stated, however, neither that decision nor accredited supports a theory that a surety may apprehend a defendant at any time and be entitled to an exoneration of bail as a result. instead, accredited and allegheny casualty indicate that if the surety had apprehended defendant in the nine days before the maximum extension period expired, and later established on appeal that the court erred by failing to grant the requested extension, the surety may have been entitled to vacation of forfeiture and exoneration of bail, as in accredited. instead, the surety called off its investigation of defendant on july 28, 2013, days before the outer possible limit of the extension period.3 neither party represents that defendant has been apprehended, and thus exoneration of bail is not warranted. the surety also argues tfollow the procedures set forth in penal code section 1305, or then forfeiture must be vacated and bail must be exonerated. this is an overstatement of the holdings of the cases cited. many cases state that errors in the court procedures specifically relating to forfeitures and resulting summary judgment may warrant vacating the erroneously entered forfeiture or judgment. (see, e.g., people v. national auto. and cas. ins. co. (2002) 98 cal.app.4th 277, 290 mandated by section 1305, subdivision (a) resulted in the court 3because the first extension order was entered on february 1, 2013, the total allowable extension (180 days) ran to july 31, 2013. smalls stated in his declaration that he was told on july 28, 2013 to stop his investigation. 17 losing jurisdiction to later attempt to forfeit the bail by simply noting it in tpeople v. bankers ins. co. (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 1529, 1534 [same]; people v. surety ins. co. (1985) declarpeople v. american contractors indemnity co. (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 799, 809 [where notice of forfeiture was not provided within 30 days of forfeiture as mandated by section 1305, subd. (b), that subdivision required the sureleased of all obligations under the bondpeople v. frontier pacific ins. co. (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 1289, 1294 [reversing summary judgment that had been signed by the which may be delegated to the clerk.) these cases do not hold that every technical error requires that forfeiture be vacated, and here, the surety has not asserted error in the proceedings relating to the declaration of forfeiture or summary judgment. thus, warrants an exoneration of bail. both parties discuss people v. far west ins. co. (2001) 93 cal.app.4th 791 (far west), in which the defendant was arrested in oakland, released pursuant to a bail bond, and later failed to appear. the surety located the defendant in dougherty county, a miscommunication, the oakland police department told the dougherty county sheriff to release the defendant, which the sheriff did. (id. at p. 793.) the surety then moved to vacate forfeiture of bail, and the court denied the motion. (id. at p. 794.) the court of appeal reversed. it noted that section 1305, subdivisions (f) and (g) state that when the defendant is in 18 custody in another jurisdiction and the prosecuting agency does the court shall vacate the forfeiture and shown herea california fugitive admitted to bail, apprehended and held in custody in another state, is released as a result of errors committed solely by officials of the demanding county government and the surety has done all that is required of it under the terms of the bondbail is exoner (far west, 93 cal.app.4th at p. 798.) the surety argues that the reasoning of far west warrants creating an artificial two- the people assert that this case is not like far westfailed to do all that was required of it under the terms of the the facts here are not similar to those in far west. section 1305, subdivisions (f) and (g), specifically addressed the situation in far west, in which the defendant had been in custody but was released due to actions by the prosecuting agency. subdivisions (f) and (g) mandated that bail be exonerated under those circumstances. here, by contrast, the surety asked for an extension and the trial court denied that request, which the court has discretion to do pursuant to section 1305.4. even though the discretion when the appropriate procedure is followed. nothing 19 in section 1305.4, or any other bail statute we have found, mandates that bail be exonerated under these circumstances. in sum, the surety has not demonstrated that the action of the courtfailing to hold a hearing on the extension requestwas the cause of its failure to capture defendant. moreover, the surety has not demonstrated that prejudice arising from a previously appealed ruling may be challenged in an entirely separate appeal. as such, the surety has not demonstrated forfeiture and exonerate bail. disposition affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. willhite, j. 