filed 6/14/17 p. v. murillo ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. manuel murillo, defendant and appellant. b275294 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba429656) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jose sandoval and douglas sortino, judges. affirmed. buckley & buckley, christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez, acting supervising deputy attorney general, eric j. kohm and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury acquitted defendant and appellant manuel murillo (defendant) of attempted murder and failed to reach a verdict on charges of assault with a firearm and mayhem. the people retried defendant on the latter two charges, and he was found guilty of both offenses. convictions must be reversed because the trial court denied his request to select the attorney he retained to represent him during the first trial as his court-appointed attorney for the second trial. we also consider whether there was substantial evidence on which the jury could have appropriately relied to find defendant was the person who shot the victim. i. background a. first trial the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant with attempted murder in violation of penal code sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a),1 assault with a firearm in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(2), and mayhem in violation of section 203all predicated on a shooting that took place on august 5, 2014. the district attorney also alleged various sentence enhancements relating to defirearm, gang membership, infliction of great bodily injury, and prior convictions. private attorney michael duggan (duggan) to represent defendant. in august 2015, a jury acquitted defendant of attempted murder. the jury could not 1 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 3 reach a verdict on the other two charges, and the court declared a mistrial. b. second trial 1. appointment of counsel the prosecution elected to retry the charges on which the jury hung, and neither defendant nor his mother could afford to pay duggan for the second trial. defendant was accordingly considered indigent, and he filed a motion on august 31, 2015, asking the trial court to designate duggan as his court-appointed attorney for the retrial. in addition to this case, in which duggan had represented defendant since first being arraigned on the charges, motion explained duggan had represented defendant in a 2010 robbery case and had represented family members in unrelated matters. the motion asserted defendant and duggan shed close working relationship and that duggan background in the multitude of various legal and factual matters which will be relevant for upcoming proceedings such as gang allegations requiring [a] defense expert, identification issues requiring [a] defense expert, and extensive written discovery and at a hearing on september 15, 2015, duggan asked the trial court to rule on the motion he had filed to be appointed as . the trial court the public defender will determine if they have any conflict and 4 the following day, the court was advised both the public defender and the alternate deputy public defender had conflicts. james cooper iii (cooper), a bar panel attorney, was appointed to represent defendant. neither at that hearing nor at any other time did defendant object to appointment or ask the court to reconsider its decision not to appoint duggan as his attorney for the retrial. nor did petition for writ of mandate in this court. 2. trial defendant was retried in march 2016 on the assault with a firearm and mayhem charges. the evidence presented by the prosecution (the defense put on no evidence during its case-in-chief) was as follows. victim danny moran (moran) was jogging home from work on a pedestrian and bicycle pathway along the los angeles river in an area known as frogtown. moran saw a group of youths ahead of himone young woman and several young men. defendant separated himself from the group, came up alongside moran, and repeatedly asked moran where he was from. moran understood defendant to be asking what gang he (moran) was affiliated with. as defendant continued to repeat the question, moran sought to defuse the situation, responding, of my tattoos, these are my . defendant continued to walk beside moran, and moran eventually told defendant and the others in the group good night. moran walked away from the group at a brisk pace and did not look back. when he was about 50 feet away from 5 where he parted from defendant, he heike a firecracker; he also heard sound of people running. moran took off running toward his house and noticed his left leg was not responding normally. he discovered he had been shot in the left thigh and he was unable to make it home. paramedics arrived to tend to moran, and he subsequently spent a month in the hospital, underwent multiple surgeries, and suffered permanent damage and scarring. he did not see who shot him. police officers assigned to investigate the shooting, detective ryan lamar (detective lamar) and his partner detective juan aguilar, learned a woman named kristine valladares (valladares) may have been present at the time of the crime. she lived on denby street, near where the shooting took place. through use of a ruse, the detectives arranged a meeting with valladares, and when she arrived, they placed her in handcuffs and took her to a police station. the detectives interviewed valladares at the police station (by that point, they had removed her handcuffs). during the interview, valladares told the detectives she was walking by the los angeles river when she saw defendant approach moran. she said defendant was with two other men, rocky and someone she did not recognize. valladares said defendant asked moran just kept i valladares said after moran walked away, defendant was and forth, like he was thinking about doing it or not, because he seemed like he got frustrated or like he seemed like 6 he felt dumb or something . . . valladares saw defendant gun. like i turned around, well i was watching, but i had looked away for a split sec, and i had like, i had seen the sparks from his hand, butand i heard the sound like a firecracker, and i was rst moran then started running, as did defendant and the others in his group. valladares said she thought she saw defendant put a gun back in his pocket. valladares told the detectives she was certain defendant was the shooter because she was standing just 15 feet away from him when the shooting occurred and she recognized him from the neighborhood. she said she knew defendant was a member of the frogtown gang because he had claimed membership in frogtown to one of her friends before. during the interview, valladares expressed concern that talking to the police would endanger her own safety and her . she indicated her fear kept her from reporting the shooting when it happened. the police arrested defendant two days after interviewing valladares. officers had previously shown moran a six-pack photospread in which he did not identify defendant, but after detectives again showed moran a photospread and this time he positively identified defendant. moran wrote the following comments on the police form used to show him the photospread[picture] #5 [defendant] is the same person that was shown to me on 9-18-14 and in that picture he was the person in picture #2 the reason was because i was afraid at that moment and i was still inside 7 the neighborhood and now i moved out and i feel more safe and i feel more comfortable [to] identify this person [as] the same person that was talking to me on 8-5-14 at river bike path and when moran testified at trial, he said he was certain defendant was the person who approached him that night. vallada in some significant respects from what she previously told the police. valladares testified she saw defendant approach moran, but she claimed she did not stop to watch what was going on. she admitted she heard the interaction between defendant and moran, explaining that defendant asked moran where he was from, moran told walking. valladares testified she thought the altercation was but valladares said her back was turned to defendant and the rest of the group at the time of the shooting; she testified she never saw a gun or anyone extend an arm, just sparks in her peripheral vision. the prosecutor played a recording of valladarseptember 2014 police interview in which she said defendant was the shooter. valladares acknowledged her memory at the time of the interview was probably better than at the time of the trial. she insisted, however, that when she initially identified defendant as the shooter, she was merely making an based on the fact that she saw sparks and felt would take her into custody. valladares conceded she had to be compelled to testify as a witness at trial and was afraid. she no 8 longer lived on denby street, but she was still worried about retribution by members of the frogtown gang. in an effort to further establish account of events were attributable to her fear of testifying against defendant, the prosecution also introduced into evidence facebook messages exchanged between rocky (one of the men with defendant at the time of the shooting) and valladares four days after she spoke to the police, as well as recordings of phone calls between defendant, rocky, and others that took place while defendant was in custody. in the facebook messages, rocky wrote to valladares on september 23, 2014, stating: hood saying u snitching on the homie is it true? valladares responded do with whatever [you] guys do.valladares asked name into edpeople are talking about u saying ur dropping dime on the later that same day, rocky wrote . . . i just hope ng valladares wrote ] nothing to do with ed[y] told her, did u fucked up big time. three days later, rocky sent valladares another message stating when valladares asked what for, rocky saidvalladares testified get ambushhim. she told rocky she did not want to be involved anymore, to which he replied 9 valladares admitted the police asked her about defendant and rocky, but she told rocky she know you with u replied valladares then asked, responded the recorded jail calls that the prosecution introduced into evidence occurred later, in october 2014. in one of the calls, defendant told that girl on denby too. rocky responded, and he added, u know me homie. i keep it gangsta. in a later jail call, defendant said to another of his friends, that girl that lives on the friend on the call responded affirmatively, defendant told himexplainedsubliminal . . . 3. verdict and sentence the jury found defendant guilty of assault with a firearm and mayhem. with respect to the former, the jury found defendant personally and intentionally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.5, subdivision (a), and personally inflicted great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). with respect to the mayhem charge, the jury found defendant personally and intentionally used a firearm, causing great bodily injury, within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, 10 subdivision (c). the jury also found defendant committed both offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). defendant admitted he had a prior conviction that qualified as both a ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12) and a serious felony for purposes of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court sentenced him to 56 years to life in prison. ii. discussion defendant response when asked to rule on have to deny that motion. sorry.) indicates the court mistakenly believed it had no discretion to grant the motion. defendant further argues, in the alternative, that if the court understood it had discretion, its ruling facts and circumstances of this caseeven accepting initial response, the courtdecision was correct: it was obligated to deny the motion when defendant asked for a ruling because the applicable california statute requires courts to defende ( 987.2, subd. (e)) and the public defender had not by then declared a conflict or indicated unavailability. assumes the trial court did exercise discretion in deciding not to appoint duggan, also fails because the record shows there was no prejudicial abuse of discretion. defendantthat there was insufficient evidence for the jury to find he was the shooterfares no better. valladaresidentification of defendant as the 11 shooter, plus the evidence presented that would explain him with the gang challenge immediately before the shooting, constitute ample evidence supporting a. the appoint his prior retained attorney was not error, let alone prejudicial error the federal and state constitutions. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. 1,  15.) an indigent defendant has a right to effective counsel, but not to a particular attorney of his or her choosing. (caplin & drysdale, chartered v. united states (1989) criminal cases the right to adequate representation, but those who do not have the means to hire their own lawyers have no cognizable complaint so long as they are adequately represented people v. noriega (2010) indigent defendant the right to select a court-appointed (noriega).) section 987.2 establishes a procedure for trial courts to follow in assigning counsel to indigent defendants in los angeles county. the first, second, or third class, the court shall first utilize the services of the public defender to provide criminal defense services for indigent defendants. in the event that the public defender is unavailable and the county has created a second public defender and contracted with one or more responsible attorneys or with a 12 panel of attorneys to provide criminal defense services for indigent defendants, and if the quality of representation provided by the second public defender is comparable to the quality of representation provided by the public defender, the court shall next utilize the services of the second public defender and then the services of the county-contracted attorneys prior to assigning any other private counsel. nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to require the appointment of counsel in any case in which the counsel has a conflict of interest. in the interest of justice, a court may depart from that portion of the procedure requiring appointment of the second public defender or a county-contracted attorney after making a finding of good cause and stating the reasons therefor on the record(emphasis added).) at the september 15, 2015, hearing in the trial court, told the court . . . for a ruling on there was no reason to believe the public defender would be unable to take case; it was not until the following day that the court determined the public defender had a conflict that would preclude appointment. thus, statement that it . . . believed it had no discretion to grant the motion, the court was not wrong at the time it ruled. it was obligated to assign the case (joshua p. v. superior court (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 957, 964 compensate assigned counsel to situations in which there is no 13 public defender, or the public defender is unable because of a williams v. superior court deviation in the requisite order of appointment of the second public defender or the county-contracted attorney, but not for the requirement that the public defender be utilized first (williams); see harris v. superior court (1977) 19 cal.3d 786, 796 [defining judicial discretion as the power of decision exercised law but for which decision there is no special governing statute or harris); but see people v. lancaster (2007) 41 cal.4th 50, 71, fn. 6 [noting our supreme court has not decided whether harris permits the appointment of private counsel even when the public defender is available to represent the defendant] (lancaster).) at no time after learning of the public conflict did defendant object to the appointment of cooper or renew his motion to appoint duggan. indeed, duggan, who was present in court when the trial judge notified the parties the public defender had declared a conflict, told the court bar panel attorney by notwithstanding the new facts that were then before the court (the disqualification of the public defender), defendant has no grounds to seek reversal on appeal. (lancaster, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 70-71 [no basis for reversal where the defendant was informed his preferred attorney would be appointed only if the public defender found a conflict and defendant never made a proper request for the harris, supra, 19 cal.3d at pp. 14 790-791 [reversal of a counsel appointment order in a case where the defendants persisted in objections after trial court initially appointed attorneys other than their preferred counsel].) even assuming defendant had renewed his motion to appoint duggan as his attorney after learni, and further assuming it would have been an abuse of discretion to deny such a renewed motion,2 ack of a 2 arguing in the alternative, defendant contends that insofar was a discretionary decision, it was an abuse of discretion to deny the motion. when privspecial familiarity with the case and any efficiencies of time and people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 871 (alexander); accord, people v. chavez (1980) 26 cal.3d 334, 345-346 (chavez); harris, supra, 19 cal.3d at pp. 795-796 [a court will consider a defendantpreference for a particular attorney but the decision of who to likely have resulted in certain efficiencies, it would be difficult for defendant to show the trial court abused its discretion in deciding to appoint cooper nevertheless. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1187 [no abuse of discretion where (a) the depth of relationship between the defendant and preferred counsel was not comparable to that in harrisattorney did not actively seek to withdraw or support appointment of the preferred counsel, and (c) there was no indication of disagreement among the defendant and the appointed attorney regarding trial tactics or the defense to be presented].) 15 showing of prejudice.3 (chavez, supra, 26 cal.3d at p. 348; see noriega, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 525 [assessing whether erroneous removal and replacement of counsel was prejudicial under the test announced in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818].) the relationship between defendant and duggan is not of comparable depth as the relationship between the harris defendants and their preferred attorneys, especially concerning what harris relationship. (chavez, supra, at p. 348; harris, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 793 [the defendants had come to regard their preferred e court appointed].) in addition, defendant has not contended that cooper, the attorney who represented but fully competenduring the trial court proceedings. (chavez, supra, at pp. 348-349.) we additionally find it significant, as did the chavez court in its discussion of prejudice, that defendant did not seek his motion to appoint duggan. (chavez, supra, 26 cal.3d at p. 348, fn. 4 [noting that the defendant in that case did not seek pretrial harris at least some of the benefits to be gained from a discretion 3 harris error 16 preferred attorneyfor instance, the efficiencies of time and expense that may result from the with the case (alexander, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 871)are irretrievably lost once the attorney actually appointed has taken the case to trial. it will accordingly be more difficult to demonstrate prejudice in a case like this, where defendant opted not to pursue an available avenue for immediate relief under cases like harris and williams and instead asserted appointment decision was prejudicial error only after learning the jury had convicted him. for this reason and the reasons already discussed, we conclude any error in denying the motion to appoint duggan was not prejudicial. b. there was sufficient evidence identifying defendant as the shooter conviction is challenged on appeal, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] our review must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could people v. zaragoza any reasonable trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a ibid.) considering all the evidence in this case, a reasonable jury could have found beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant shot moran. six weeks after the shooting, valladares unequivocally 17 identified defendant as the shooter. the detectives asked her, and she identified defendant. when they asked if she was clowas . . . [defendant] doing the shooyeah and explained she was just 15 feet away from defendant at the time. she told the officers she saw defendant lift his hand and then saw sparks coming from his hand at the same time she heard gunfire. even though valladares retreated from those statements when she testified at trial, the jury was permitted to consider her prior statements as substantive evidence. (evid. code,  1235; people v. wilson (2008) 43 cal.4th 1, 20-21 [where there is evidence witness made prior inconsistent statement, jury may credit the ]; chavez, supra, 26 cal.3d at p. 360 [prior inconsistent statement of witness who testifies at trial may be used as substantive evidence].) there was also strong evidence that valladares changed her story not because she was uncertain about her prior identification, but because she was concerned rocky and defendantincriminated defendant at trial. that fear for her safety is, of course, good reason why the jury could have reasonably chosen to believe her prior statements over her trial testimony. (see, e.g., people v. cuevas (1995) 12 cal.4th 252, 276-testimony they believed it was wrong to testify against a rival gang methe truth when they made their out-of-court statements to police officers [identifying defendant] and that they recanted those statements in court for gang-chavez, supra, at 18 trial testimony, the prosecution in the instant case presented .) as our supreme court has explained, the defendant by a single eyewitness may be sufficient to prove moreover, a tes-of-court identification is probative for that purpose and can, by itself, be sufficient people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 480.) that holding of course applies to of defendant, and trial testimony provides yet further evidentiary support for the identity finding the jury necessarily made. moran testified defendant was the only person from the group who approached him, and moran explained defendant issued a gang challenge just before the shooting. thus, even if moran did not actually see the shot fired, the jury reasonably could think it likely defendant was the shooter; when combined ut-of-court identification of defendant as the shooter, that is more than sufficient evidence to support the 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. dunning, j. judge of the orange county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 