filed 8/24/17 p. v. blackwell ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ernest w. blackwell, defendant and appellant. b275256 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba437066) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mildred escobedo, judge. affirmed. david l. polsky, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, jaime l. fuster and joseph p. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 a jury found ernest blackwell guilty of second degree murder and also found he personally discharged a handgun, years to life in prison. he contends the court violated his constitutional rights by failing to instruct the jury that to prove murder, the prosecution bears the burden of disproving heat of passion and imperfect self-defense beyond a reasonable doubt. we find the court properly instructed the jury and, accordingly, affirm the judgment. background on may 27, 2015, victim brian johnson suffered a fatal gunshot wound to the abdomen, while at the home of his girlfriend, tina bagby. babgy lived with her two adult daughters and their children. defendant blackwell was dating laquanza heated argument between blackwell and johnson that began when blackwell objected to the way johnson addressed blackwell ee-year-old daughter.1 an information charged enhancements. the prosecution presented evidence indicating that, after blackwell and johnson argued inside the living room of the house, blackwell went outside and johnson entered the attached converted garage where bagby resided. a hallway adjacent to the living room led to the garage. blackwell returned to the 1 living room and told him to stop arguing with her grandmother (bagby). johnson and bagby had been arguing for several hours leading up to the shooting. 3 living room with a handgun. while standing near the entrance to the hallway, blackwell fired one round toward the garage, striking johnson, who was at least two to three feet away from him. blackwell testified in his defense. he stated that, after he argued with johnson in the living room, he walked his daughter back to her bedroom.2 when he returned to the living room, johnson was holding a gun and threatening to shoot him. blackwell grabbed onto the gun and the two men struggled for control of it. blackwell wrested the gun from johnson, stumbling backward about two and a half feet. according to blackwell, the gun accidentally discharged as he was stumbling. he did not know the bullet struck johnson. he fled the home and tossed the gun into an alley. in addition to first and second degree murder, the trial court instructed the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on both heat of passion and imperfect self-defense. the court also instructed the jury that blackwell did not commit murder or manslaughter if he acted in perfect self-defense or killed johnson as a result of accident/misfortune. the jury found blackwell guilty of second degree murder and also found true the special allegations that he personally 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d).) the trial court sentenced blackwell to 15 years to life for the murder, plus a consecutive term of 25 2 the prosecution presented evidence indicating that blackwell walked his daughter back to her bedroom before he and johnson engaged in the verbal altercation. 4 years to life for the firearm enhancement, for a total prison sentence of 40 years to life. discussion necessary elements of the charged cdisproving heat of passion and imperfect self-defense beyond a 3 consider both murder and voluntary manslaughter, . . . the absence of heat of passion [or imperfect self-defense] is an element of murder the prosecution must prove beyond a people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 227, citing people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 462.) here, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 570 (voluntary manslaughter: heat of passionlesser included offenseburden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did not kill as the result of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the court also instructed with calcrim no. 571 (voluntary manslaughter: imperfect self-defenselesser 3 although blackwell did not object to the instructions or request a clarifying instruction, he argues he did not forfeit this contention on appeal because (1) the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct on the elements of the crimes and the his substantial rights, so no objection or request for clarification was necessary. we will address his contention on the merits. 5 included offensepeople have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant was not acting in imperfect self-defense or imperfect defense of another. if the people have not met this although blackwell acknowledges the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim nos. 570 and 571, he argues the court nonetheless erred because it did not read the above-quoted language in conjunction with the instructions on murder, which preceded calcrim nos. 570 and 571 (instructions on voluntary manslaughter) in the sequence of instructions. he insists that, if the jury reached its guilty verdict on second degree murder and stopped deliberating without considering heat of passion or imperfect self-heat of passion [or imperfect self-defense] is an element of (people v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 227.) court read all of the instructions to the jury before the parties gave their closing arguments. thus, before beginning its deliberation, the jury heard the court explain that to prove murder, the prosecution had the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt (1) that blackwell did not kill as the result of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion and (2) that blackwell was not acting in imperfect self-defense. (people v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at pp. 227-did not lead to an improper conviction [of second degree murder] in this case. the trial court read the instructions in their entirety to the jury after closing argument. the jury therefore heard the 6 at the outset of its instruction, the trial court directed the ay careful attention to all of these instructions and consider them togetherpresume, of course, the jury understood and considered all of the (people v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 228.) considering the entire charge, as we are required to do when reviewing a claim of instructional error, we find no error. (people v. musselwhite correctness of jury instructions is to be determined from the entire charge of the court, not from a consideration of parts of an disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. lui, j. 