filed 8/16/17 p. v. alvarez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christian alvarez, defendant and appellant. b275735 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na102726) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura laesecke, judge. affirmed. eduardo paredes for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, david a. wildman, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 the trial court denied a motion brought by defendant and appellant christian de jesus alvarez (defendant) to suppress a firearm recovered from as the result of a police stop on a public street. an officer discovered the weapon when he grabbed onto defendant as he was attempting to flee. we consider whether the uct violated constitutional prohibitions on unreasonable searches and seizures. i. background we recount the relevant facts based on the evidence presented at the hearing gang enforcement officer victor sosa (sosa) was the sole witness. on the evening of september 11, 2015, los angeles police department officers in the harbor division police radio broadcasts of gang members gathered in front of an apartment complex. each time the officers drove by the complex in their marked vehicles, individuals among the group ran into the apartments. at approximately 11:35 p.m. that night, another police radio broadcast reported a gang group at the same location. because of the prior incidents, sosa and five other officers decided to approach the site on foot. the officers responded as a group because the location was a west side wilmas gang known to have guns as sosa and the other officers approached the location, approximately eight people were standing in front of the apartment complex. when the officers were roughly five feet from the group, the officers directed everyone one man in the group 3 immediately fled into an apartment. defendant did not show his hands in res instead, defendant attempted to run past sosa into the same apartment as the other man just did. sosa saw defendant his right hand on his waistbandhe was holding something, some type of object . . . .in addition, dwith a posture. sosa believed defendant was probably armed based on training and experience that a with his hand in his waistband . . . probably ha[s] some type of object, which is generally a handgun or some type . . . to fall . . . sosa also believed defendant was probably armed because of other circumstances: the fact that the site gang location, the prior calls that night about possibly armed gang members congregating in the same spot, and the way defendant ran after officers told everyone to stop. sosa ordered defendant to stop running, which he did not do.1 defendant had run a couple steps, and was from sosa, when sosa reached toward . sosa hand and partly on what . . . to be a butt of a sosa ordered defendant to his knees, informed the other officers defendant had a gun, and took defendant into custody. officers retrieved a loaded nine waistband, beneath his 1 sosa did not initially remember ordering defendant to stop. he corrected himself after re-reading the police report he wrote on the date of the incident. 4 shirt. after they recovered the gun, officers conducted a full search of defendant. the los angeles district attorney later charged defendant with carrying a concealed firearm, in violation of penal code section 25400, subdivision (a)(2)2 (count one) and carrying a loaded, unregistered firearm in violation of section 25850, subdivision (a) (count two). the district attorney further alleged, as to count one, that defendant knew and reasonably should have known he was carrying a stolen firearm and, as to both counts, that defendant was out on bail within the meaning of section 12022.1 when he committed the charged offenses. defense counsel moved to suppress the firearm under section 1538.5 on the ground it was the fruit of an illegal seizure and search. after sosa testified at the suppression hearing, defense counsel argued credibility was suspect because of about telling defendant to stop running. defense counsel urged the court to accept testimonyi.e., that he did not tell defendant to stopin which case, counsel argued, there was no evidence defendant attempted to run and therefore no probable cause for sosa to search him. the prosecution responded that sosa reached for defendant only after defendant disobeyed the order to show his hands showed he intended to flee. the trial court denied suppression motion. the court found sosa reached for defendant in an attempt to stop him from running and did not detain defendant until he placed his hands on him. at that point, sosa felt the gun, which gave him probable cause to conduct a search. 2 statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 5 defendant pled guilty to the concealed firearm charge and admitted he committed the offense while he was out on bail. the trial court sentenced him to three years and four months in county jail. as permitted by the terms of his guilty plea, defendant appeals the denial of his motion to suppress. ii. discussion defendant contends the trial court should have excluded the firearm (as well as a subsequent statement he made to the police and other fruits arising from the incident) because sosa detained and searched defendant without a warrant and before sosa had any basis to suspect illegal activity. more specifically, roup to put their hands up, the officers effectively detained defendant without justification. defendant further argues there was no reasonablbecause there was no evidence sosa was afraid for his safety, defendant did not attempt to run away, and sosa had no basis to believe defendant was carrying a gun. as we will explain in greater detail, dargument is unsupported by the evidence or applicable authority. testimony at establishes he was justified in reaching out to stop defendant from fleeing past him, which resulted in sosa placing his hand on the suspicious area of . defendant was not seized until sosa made contact with him, and the seizure was reasonable under the circumstances. the fourth amendment to the united states constitution prohibits the government from subjecting its citizens to . . . . 6 amend.to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable seizures and search) a without a 1538.5, subd. (a)(1)(a).) the standard of appellate review motion to suppress is well established. we defer to the trial substantial evidence. in determining whether, on the facts so found, the search or seizure was reasonable under the fourth people v. suff (2014) 58 cal.4th 1013, 1053.) ally against the importance of the governmental interests alleged to (county of los angeles v. mendez (2017) 581 u.s. ___ [137 s.ct. 1539, 1546].) because the interaction between defendant and sosa was . . . on the terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1 (terry) reasonable suspicion standard applies. (illinois v. wardlow (2000) 528 u.s. 119, 123 (wardlow).) terry person for investigative purposes if the officer has a reasonable suspicion supported by articulable facts that criminal activity united states v. sokolow (1989) 490 u.s. 1, 7 [citing terry, supra, 392 u.s. at p. 30].) if, upon detaining a person based on reasonable 7 suspicion, the officer individual . . . he is investigating at close range is armed and presently dangerous to the officer or (terry, supra, at p. 24), the officer may conduct a search limited to that which is necessary for the discovery of weapons which might be used to harm the officer or others nearby(id. at p. 26). here, we must first encounter the fourth amendment becomes relevant. that is, we whether and when he conducted a terry, supra, 392 u.s. at p. 16.) physical force or restrain[s] the . . . id. at p. 19, fn. 16.) a brief investigatory detention, upon less than probable cause, does specific and articulable facts which, taken together with rational (id. at p. 21, fn. omitted.) defendant contends sosa and the other officers violated his fourth amendment rights as soon as they ordered him (together with the rest of group) to show their hands. runs counter to controlling authority. in california v. hodari d. (1991) 499 u.s. 621 (hodari d.), the united states supreme court considered whether the defendant in that case was seized by a police officer when the officer pursued him as he attempted to flee. the high court held that in order for a constitutional seizure to occur, there must be physical or, where that is absent, submission to the assertion of id. at p. 626; see also brendlin v. california (2007) 551 u.s. 249, 254 [show of authority without physical force or 8 ; people v. brown (2015) 61 cal.4th 968, 974.) the hodari d. court concluded that because the defendant did not yield. (hodari d., supra, at pp. 625-626, 628.) hodari d. is directly applicable here. like the officer in that case, sosa made a show of force when he directed defendant to show his hands. like hodari, defendant did not comply with no seizure at that point. it was only when sosa placed his hands on defendant that a seizure occurred. (see hodari d., supra, 499 u.s. at p. 629 [pursuing officer did not seize the defendant until he tackled him]; united states v. smith (9th cir. 2011) 633 f.3d 889, 891-892 [officer did not seize the defendant when he ordered him to stand in front of his patrol car but only when the officer caught him after the defendant disregarded his order and fled] (smith).) as we explain, that seizure was reasonable. in considering the legality of a terry stop, a reviewing court ve experience and specialized training to make inferences from and deductions about the cumulative information available to them [citations.] (united states v. arvizu (2002) 534 u.s. 266, 273.) presence in a high-crime area is not enough, by itself, to justify a suspicion of criminal activity, but determining whether the circumstances are sufficiently suspicwardlow, supra, 528 u.s. at p. 124.) 9 on the night in question, defendant was not merely present in a high-crime area. he was in a specific area known to be a hangout for west side wilmas gang members, who were known to carry guns. multiple police radio calls had reported gang activity in that same location earlier that night, and every time officers responded to those calls, individuals congregating at the location fled. it was late at night, defendant was in a group of approximately eight people, and a recent radio call had again reported gang activity. then, once defendant disregarded the to make his hands visible and instead attempted to run off while appearing to hold onto an object in his waistband, sosa seized defendant by him at the waist. that was reasonable, and recovery of the gun that sosa felt when he stopped defendant was therefore lawful. (sibron v. new york (1968) 392 u.s. 40, 48-49, 67 [reasonable for officer to grab defendant and pat him down for weapons after defendant tried to flee from what appeared to be an attempted burglary]; pennsylvania v. mimms the officeonce officer saw ]; people v. lindsey (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 1390, 1400-1401 [reasonable for officer to pat down defendant during investigatory stop after officer noticed defendant holding heavy object at his waist]; see also wardlow, supra, 528 u.s. at pp. 122, 124-125 [high crime location combined gave rise to suspicion of criminal activity justifying stop and patdown; people v. superior court (1971) 15 cal.app.3d 806, 809, contained a loaded gun, without first conducting patdown, where 10 the defendant ].) defendant argues, however, it was unreasonable for sosa to grab him because the evidence did not show he in fact ran away. the trial court at least implicitly found to the contrary in relying on authority concerning unprovoked flight (the smith case) to , and that finding is . (see people v. tully (2012) 54 . . . [,] the superior court is vested with the power to judge the credibility of the witnesses, resolve any conflicts in the testimony, weigh the evidence and draw factual inferences in deciding whether a search is consti].) even if defendant managed to run just two steps, that was enough to show he was attempting to flee.3 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436, appearing to contend at one point that any search or seizure was unlawful because it was not preceded by a miranda advisement. to the extent the brief makes such an argument, we reject it as meritless. 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. dunning, j. judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 