filed 8/23/17 p. v. wheeler ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james edward wheeler, defendant and appellant. b275786 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba432690) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. law office of jerome bradford and jerome bradford for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, 2 supervising deputy attorney general, and michael j. wise, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. in may 2016, a jury convicted james edward wheeler (wheeler) of while driving recklessly (veh. code,  2800.2), a felony (count 1), and hit-and-run driving resulting in property damage (veh. code,  20002, subd. (a)), a misdemeanor (count 2). the trial court sentenced wheeler to a term of 16 months in state prison. on appeal, wheeler claims that the trial court violated his right to due process under the federal and state constitutions by acting in a biased manner. we disagree. accordingly, the judgment is affirmed. background i. the reckless driving incident on january 3, 2015, at approximately 3:00 a.m., while on patrol, two los angeles police officers observed a white the officers activated the blue and red lights on the roof of their squad car, a ford explorer, and sounded the en. the ferrari came to a stop in front of the police vehicle for a few seconds, before driving away at a high rate of speed. the police officers pursued the fleeing ferrari and a short, high-speed chase ensued. although the mile in length, and lasted only about one minute, the 3 ferrari reached speeds between 60 and 100 miles per hourin the words of one officer, the ferrari pulled away from the oerrari can.the chase ended when the ferrari crashed into a cement planter in front of a gas station at the intersection where the police had first spotted the ferrari doing doughnuts. the police saw wheeler exit the ferrari from the then begin running away. after a brief foot chase, the police cornered wheeler in a backyard. initially, wheeler acted aggressive, moving towards the officers in a fighting stance and then, after being subdued, refusing to be handcuffed. once he was handcuffed, however, wheeler acted in a polite mannerarrestee, according to one of the arresting officers. at the station, after being read his rights, wheeler admitted to doing doughnuts in the intersection, panicking upon seeing the police car, fleeing the scene, crashing his car, and then fleeing on foot. at no time during his station house interview did wheeler mention sleepwalking, sleepdriving, or that he had been diagnosed with a sleep disorder. according to the interviewing officer, a police sergeant, percent took responsibility for his actions and actually used the words . . . ii. the trial on september 14, 2015, an initial trial resulted in a hung jury, the final ballot being 11 to 1 in favor of a guilty verdict. 4 in the spring of 2016, the trial court presided over a second jury trial. in his defense, wheeler called two witnesses: a girlfriend, who lived with him from 20122015; and a sleep medicine physician, dr. victoria zvonkina wheeler engaged in sleepwalking behavior, including driving while and that on at least one occasion before his arrest, in november 2014, he spun the based on a existing medical records onlythat is, she did not perform a physical, neurological or psychiatric evaluation of wheeler, or conduct any diagnostic tests, including any sleep lab studieszvonkina opined that wheeler suffered from parasomnia or sleepwalking. zvonkina further testified that it is that sleepdriving may occur while someone is sleepwalking. on may 4, 2016, after approximately three and a half hours of deliberation, the jury returned a verdict finding wheeler guilty on both the reckless driving (felony) charge and the hit and runproperty damage (misdemeanor) charge. on june 24, 2016, the trial court sentenced wheeler to 16 months for the reckless driving felony charge and six months for the misdemeanor hit and run, with the sentences to run concurrently.wheeler timely appealed. 5 discussion i. the people contend that wheeler forfeited his judicial bias claim in two ways. first, the people expressly argue that wheeler failed to object on grounds of judicial bias to each of the alleged instances of misconduct at issue in this appeal. second, the people implicitly suggest that wheeler forfeited his bias claim by failing to support it on appeal with proper legal argument. of the two arguments, the second is more compelling. a. wheeler raised the issue of bias at trial as a general rule, judicial misconduct claims are not preserved for appellate review if no objections were made on those grounds at trial. [citations.] however, a defendants jection such misconduct, or when objecting would be futile (people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237, italics added.) in people v. sturm, our supreme court observed that where evident hostility between the trial judge and defense counselunfair to require defense counsel to choose between repeatedly provoking the trial judge into making further negative statements about defense counsel and therefore poisoning the jury against his client or, altes ability to argue misconduct on appeal.id. at p. 1237.) the record here indicates that while there may not 6 the trial judge, there was, on occasion, an undeniable tension between the two that grew out of or existed because of claims of judicial bias. for example, prior to the presentation of and gamesmanship in connection sleepwalking defense, to which defense counsel took exception even though the court explained that it was using defense counsel asked her what wheeler had told her about the instant incident of doughnutting; the people objected on hearsay grounds and the trial court sustained the objection. repeatedly asked to make an offer of proof and the trial court repeatedly denied those requests. defense counsel then requested a sidebar with the trial court and the following colloquy ensued: or try to talk on top of me in front of the jury, or i will admonish the court:or i will admonishit again. again i will consider sanctions. you know that there are no g objections. 7 version of what happened before the jury. i have given you more opportunities than most judges would or should have to put on your defense. now put on your testimony before the jury. ou have indicated before this trial started that there was gamesmanship and that, you knowthere was gamesmanship and, you know the defense games. and i felt like that was inappropriate. . . . [] obviously you are influencing or injecting your[self] in this case, which is inappropriate. and in my opinion i am going to ask for a mistrial. 1 during the direct examination of the other witness (zvonkina)counsel again raised the need for a mistrial due to judicial trial court had just sustained an objection by the people to a hypothetical question that was purportedly improper 1 on appeal, wheeler does not challenge either the trial ruling or the denial of the motion for a mistrial. 8 because it was not based on the facts in evidence.2 during the side bar, while the jury was present, the trial court noted that wheeler had another possible reason for fleeing the police besides being in a parasomnic state, namely that he at the time. took immethat up at this point is improper. and i think that the court be said in the prese although defense counsel did not press the court for a ruling on this second motion for a mistrial, he did return to the felony probationcomment later that same day immediately following the noon recess. while it would have been far more prudent for objection to each instance of alleged judicial bias or to have availed himself of the statutory procedures to litigate the issue of a judge who refuses to recuse himself or herself for alleged judicial bias (see code civ. proc.,  170.3), we conclude on this record that the issue of judicial bias was raised below in a timely manner sufficient to preserve the 2 ruling on the hypothetical question was, in fact, in errorevidence. 9 issue for appellate review. in other words, we hold that, counsel to have refrained from objecting on grounds of bias actions. b. wheelers failure to make proper legal arguments in his opening brief, wheeler identifies eight incidents against him. those eight incidents are described and discussed over the course of just 13 pages. in those 13 pages, however, there is a marked deficit of supporting legal authority. wheeler relies upon a grand total of three sources: two california cases; and the bench notes for one jury instruction. moreover, these three authorities are all cited in support of only one alleged incident of judicial biasthat is, the remaining seven instances of purported bias are not supported by any meaningful legal discussion or even by the citation of any legal authority whatsoeverno cases; no statutes; no treatises; no law review articles; not even any practice guide commentary. this is patently insufficient. a touchstone legal principle governing appeals is that appellant has the burden to prove otherwise by presenting legal authority on each point made and factual analysis, supported by appropriate citations to the material facts in the record; otherwise, the argument may be deemed forfeited. [citations.] [] ility 10 to support claims of error with citation and authority; this court is not obligated to perform that function on the keyes v. bowen (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 647, 655656.) authorities on each point to which error is asserted or else (kurinij v. hanna & morton (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 853, 867.) matters not properly raised or that are lacking in adequate legal discussion will be deemed forfeited. (keyes, at pp. 655656.) in other words, itheories or arguments that would undermine the judgment and defeat the presumption of correctness. rather, an appellant is required to present a cognizable legal argument in support of reversal of the judgment. unsupported by pertinent or cognizable legal argument it may be deemed abandoned and discussion by the reviewing (landry v. berryessa union school dist. (1995) 39 cal.app.4th 691, 699700.) s do not have a life of their own: if they are not raised or supported (jones v. superior court (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 92, 99.) accordingly, we hold that wheeler forfeited his judicial bias claim on appeal. however, out of an abundance of caution, we have reviewed the entire record in this case and ii. guiding legal principles and standard of review impartial trial judge under the state and federal 11 constitutions. [citations.] the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment requires a fair trial in a fair tribunal before a judge with no actual bias against the (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1111, disapproved on other grounds in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) the comments of the trial judge about witnesses, evidence and its importance or lack thereof, and indications of hostility toward or displeasure with defense counsel can all s right to a fair trial. the and upon the correctness of their views expressed during people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1233.) the judge as to his opinion on the weight of the evidence or people v. robinson (1946) strictly judicial attitude and to refrain from comment or (people v. campbell (1958) 162 cal.app.2d 776, 787.) accordingly, a judge shos theory. (people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1238.) although a trial court has the duty and discretion to control the conduct of a trial, (people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1108; see pen. code,  1044), commits misconduct if it persistently makes discourteous and disparaging remarks to defense counsel so as to discredit the defense or create the impression it is 12 allying itself with the prosecution.people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1233.) on the other hand, adverse judicial rulings, impatience, and criticism do not demonstrate bias absent some extrajudicial source. (liteky v. united states (1994) 510 u.s. 540, 555; people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 11111112.) indeed, [i]t is s] discretion to rebuke an attorney, sometimes harshly, when that attorney asks inappropriate questions, ignores the s instructions, or otherwise engages in improper or (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 78.) actual observation of the witnesses and evidence in the (people v. guerra, at p. 1111; liteky v. united states, at p. 551) in reviewing a claim of judicial bias or misconduct, [o]ur role . . . is not to des conduct left something to be desired, or even whether some comments would have been better left unsaid. rather, we ms behavior was so prejudicial that it denied [the defendant] a fair, as opposed [citation.] we make that determination on a case-by-case basis, exas comments and the circumstances under which they occurred. [citation.] thus, the propriety and prejudicial effect of a particular comment are judged by both its content and the (people v. abel (2012) 53 cal.4th 891, 914.) 13 iii. the trial court did not demonstrate bias wheeler offers eight examples of what he contends was judicial bias. we consider each in turn. a. disbelief in the sleep-driving defense? wheeler argues that before any evidence was presented the trial court sleepdriving defense by making for a defendant to avoid testifying and being cross-comments are read in the proper context, it is evident that there was no bias. the portion of the transcript upon which wheeler relies is just a small part of an extended discussion that the trial court had with the parties over whether the defense could present its sleep expert without first having a fact witnesseither the defendant or a family member or friend, someone who had personal knowledge of the or sleepdrivingtestify about habits.3 in the prior trial, before a different judge, wheeler had been able to have his expert testify without another defense witness providing a factual foundation. the judge for the second trial, however, had a different opinion about the 3 ultimately, the trial court ruled that a factual not challenge that evidentiary ruling. 14 sleepdriving defense. the trial court repeatedly tried to e medical opinion of its evidentiary value. [] . . . certainty in this evidence of sleep syndrome . . . deprives it of evidentiary value. s really not the issue. [] the issue is that there is no foundation for [s] the opinion irrelevant. [] . . . [] t believe that this is concocted with this doctor coming down. i believe he really has whatever this disorder is. [] on anybody elseno family, no friends to support it, no defendant to support it, nothing to support it. [] ydo that tactically in my opinion as a defense attorney and evidence. in addition, the trial court repeatedly explained that it was using the term merely as a shorthand description for standard but entirely proper criminal defense tactics, tactics that the judge herself had used for 13 years when she was a defense attorney. throughout this extended discussion about the rules of evidence as they apply to expert testimony, there is nothing in the record before us indicating that the trial court was anything but polite and patient toward all the parties and their counsel. accordingly, we hold that the trial court did 15 not show disbpresentation of evidence. b. improper inquiry into discovery of wheelers whereabouts? interjected herself into the case and aligned herself . . . with the prosecutor by seeking discovery of information concerning [his] whereabouts knowing [he] would not regarding his whereabouts before the doughnutting episode was posed during the extended discussion outside the presence of the jury over the factual foundation necessary for a contextual reading of the trial s clarifies that the trial court was not seeking discovery for the people. rather, it was trying to determine if there was an available fact witness who could provide the necessary foundation for specifically. [] . . . [] the other thing is we have peace officers. we may not have someone that was in a car with him or was with him, you know, two hours before or even five minutes before, but we have 16 where was he before? we have peace officers. this happened? that violating attorney-client privilege here. forward one way or the other. but i have attorney-client privilege. from what i understand your client comes from northern california. he stays with a friend or other people and is not by himself. a record, your honor. even go there. : okay. as the above-cited colloquy makes plain, there was whereabouts. it is firmly established that it is the right and duty of a judge to conduct a trial in such a manner that the truth will be established in accordance with the rules of evidence. . . . the truth when issues are contested, and the final responsibility to see that justice is done rests with the 17 judge. people v. carlucci (1979) 23 cal.3d 249, 255; people v. mendez (1924) 193 cal. 39, 46.) in other words, duty to see that (people v. santana (2000) 80 cal.app.4th 1194, 1206an attempt to help ensure that justice is being done by making sure the defense has the necessary witnesses to support its theory of the case. counsel raised the attorney-client privilege, the trial court appropriately elected not to press the issue. in short, we hold that bias against the defense or an alliance with the prosecution. c. improper mention of wheelers felony probation status? wheeler contends that, at a sidebar conference held , the trial referred to no relevant reason under the circumstances to raise [his] felony probation status other than to further demonstrate and convey her personal [d] odds with the record in two important respects. first, the trial court expressly identified the reason why it mentioned it provided an alternative 18 reason for why wheeler first fled from the police in his car and then, after crashing his car, fled from them listening to all of [zvonkina-having some concerns about the[] how should i put this? []my role in making sure that the jurors hear everything that should be touched upon in making an objective and fair decision here. [] these actions are say consistent with somebody who is in [] . . . [] also consistent with someone who is fleeing the police for a as previously noted and as noted by the to see that justice is done and to bring out facts relevant to people v. santana, supra, 80 cal.app.4th at p. 1206.) accordingly, there was nothing probation status. second, while trial judges in what ths presence, and must avoid comments that convey to the jury that the judge s testimony (people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 12371238), the evidence regarding the purportedly loud tone that the trial court used when , inconclusive. 19 during the sidebar, defense counsel did not complain about the trial court tone of voice. in fact, when the trial instead that regardless of the tone of voice used the mere mention of his improper in the presence of a jurymoreover, during the sidebar, it was the trial court who had to repeatedly caution defense counsel to lower his voice. probation status at another sidebar, defense counsel stated that both his client and his cliecourt defense er took place, if she had heard the discussion; the clerk stated although the trial court advised the jury following there is no evidence that defense counsel asked any of the jurors immediately after the trial concluded if they had probation status.4 4 it should be noted that a few days after the verdict and prior to sentencing, wheeler, pursuant to code of civil procedure sections 206 and 237, petitioned the court for the 20 although the trial court subsequently denied the personal release of juror personal information so that his counsel probation status. any such petition must, among other diligent efforts . . . to contact the jurors through other meanspeople v. rhodes (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 541, 551552; see also people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 990 [rhodessurvived enactment of code civ. proc., petition did not establish that any efforts were made to contact the jurors through any other means. the trial court, without any explanation, denied the petition. on appeal, wheeler makes an off-hand and half-for denying the petition. with a few exceptions (e.g., rulings on demurrers and motions for summary judgment), a trial court is generally not required to set forth the reasons or grounds for granting or denying a motion. (see code civ. proc.,  472d, 437c, subds. (f)(g).) s denial of a petition for access to juror identification information is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 317; townsel v. superior court (1999) 20 cal.4th 1084, 1097.) here, wheeler has not provided any factual grounds or any legal argument explaining how and why the trial court purportedly abused its discretion by denying his petition. accordingly, we decline to consider his claim. (landry v. berryessa union school dist., supra, 39 cal.app.4th at pp. 699700; jones v. superior court, supra, 26 cal.app.4th at p. 99.) 21 information, wheeler declined to challenge that ruling on appeal. in short, on the record before us, we cannot conclude status in the presence of the jury was born of bias. d. sustaining an evidentiary objection as a manifestation of ill will? wheeler maintains that when the trial court improperly sustained an objection by the prosecution to a hypothetical that defense counsel had posed to zvonkina, it disbelief in appeprosecution there is no dispute that the trial court erred when it sustained the objection. as noted earlier (above), the people freely concede that the hypothetical as originally posed to zvonkina was based on facts in evidence. what is in dispute stance when cornered in the backyard is evidence of judicial bias or evidence of something no more sinister that an imperfect memory. the facts strongly suggest the latter. on april 27, 2016, the first witness, officer marco diaz, testified that when cornered in the backyard wheeler ists c[ock]ed . . . arresting officers. later that same day, another one of the 22 arresting officers, christian wecker, testified; he too stated that whe 5 hypothetical question to zvonkina on may 2, 2016, several days had passed since the arresting officers had testified and, moreover, several other witness had testified. critically, the testimony about rather, it was limited to only whether one or both the officers have been exacerbated by the fact that defense counsel argued at the resulting sidebar that both officers had used the wo based on this record, we hold that ruling did not conveyclearly or otherwisedisbelief in -driving defense or alignment with the prosecution. the fact that the eous is of no significance. s numerous rulings against a partyeven when erroneousdo not establish a charge of judicial bias, especially when they are subject to (people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112.) 5 during his cross-examination of officer wecker, 23 e. improper admission of zvonkinas total fees? allowed the prosecution to question the defense expert 6 wheeler further contends that the admission of this evidence was alignment with the prosecution. as a preliminary matter, we note several salient points. first, the trial court is vested with broad discretion with respect to the admission of evidence. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 196197.) second, as otherwise provided by statute, all relevant evidence is admissible 351, italics added) s evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action(evid. code,  210, italics added.) third, [t]he scope of cross-examination of an expert witness is especially broad . . . . [citations.] -examine an expert witness more extensively and searchingly than a lay witness, and the prosecution [is] entitled to attempt to discredit ths opinion. [citation.] . . . the prosecutor 6 the trial court allowed the prosecution to use was not . 24 may properly cross-examine a witness to show bias . . . that (people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 123.) fourth, it is well established that among the ways a prosecutor may impeach a defense expert is by showing the jury how much money the expert earned while testifying on the defendantbehalf. (see people v. gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 215; people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 457.) in fact, evidence code section 722, subdivision (b) expressly provides that the witness by the party calling him is a proper subject of inquiry by any adverse party as relevant to the credibility of wheeler has not directed us to and we are not aware of any california case law holding that, following a hung jury, it is improper when cross-examining him/her at the second trial on the total amount fees billed to the defendant. accordingly, we fees was not the result of judicial bias. f. improper admonishment of defense counsel? wheeler claims that the trial court improperly - (initial capitalization omitted.) wheeler bases his claim on the following exchange during recross-examination: you work a week, officer diaz? 25 [the prosecutor]: asked and answered. three to four days a week. respond to what was brought up. [defense counsel]: well, if the court allows me. , onor? without merit, both factually and legally. during his initial cross-examination of officer diaz, defense counsel asked officer diaz essentially the same in fact, defense -up statement cited above shows that he was been asked and examinationnarrow subject: how long the ferrari and the police vehicle were facing one another in the inters 26 s terse comments indicate a mild frustration with defense counsel failure to focus his examination and a valid desire to move the trial forward as expeditiously as possible. the defense counsel to take a somewhat meandering approach to the presentation of evidence does not indicate bias. (see people v. brown (1993) 6 cal.4th s s conduct did not reasonably suggest he would be biased against counsel or hernandez v. superior court (2003) 112 cabias . . . only frustration and a desire to manage a complex ) respect to the recross examination of officer diaz were not a biased or otherwise improper chastisement of defense counsel. g. unsolicited jury instruction? wheeler argues that when the trial court, sua sponte, conveyed to the jury its his defense expert, zvonkina. we disagree. calcrim no. 360 offers guidance to the jury with regard to out-of-court statements upon which an expert relied in reaching his/her opinion, and provides as follows: conclusions as an expert witness, (he/she) considered [a] 27 statement[s] made by <insert name>. [i am referring only to the statement[s] <insert or describe statements admitted for this limited purpose>.] you may consider (that/those) do not consider (that/those) statement[s] as proof that the the trial court explained to counsel for both parties [s] this instruction. as a result, the trial court, relying on calcrim 360, instructed the jury as follows: : and yesterday we heard from an expert witness. and i wanted to make sure that everybody understands that when an expert witness relies upon the records and statements from other people to form their odd [] the reports and such that the expert is relying upon are not being admitted for the truth of what is in their reports but only as to what the expert relied upon in coming up with their expert opinion. [] so in other words, an opinion is only as good as the facts that go[ ] [in]to how that opinion is created. whether the facts are correct or not. the bench notes to calcrim 360, upon which wheeler relies, the court has no sua sponte duty to give this instruction, it should be given if appropriate under the circumstances. [citations.] [] this instruction should not be given if all of the statements relied 28 on by the expert were admitted under applicable hearsay exceptions.(italics added.) here, zvonkina testified that in reaching her opinion she relied on a number of out-of-court statements, including, among other things, lectures on sleep medicine delivered at professional medical conferences and peer-reviewed articles published in scientific and medical journals. zvonkina also according to her, indicated that he was diagnosed with two separate sleep disorders: parasomnia and sleep apnea. our review of the record indicates that none of the research or medical records upon which zvonkina relied was admitted into evidence. since none of the out-of-court statements were admitted, jury based on calcrim 360 was entirely consistent with the bench notes for calcrim 360. . . . and did not convey to the jury the trial court purported h. improper chastisement during closing? wheeler contends that the following exchange during and/: expert that testified that on these circumstances this person 29 are you to believe that an attorney working for an outfit as send a copy of the police report to a medical sleep medicine expert at ucla or another hospital and get their opinion? [] and then when you get their opinion, you decide for case to put them on the stand. i think it would be nave of this jury to believe that he never sought an opinion, especially once i give him my expert report, and he knows to testify. object to. sustained. as attorneys, we can consult with experts. the subject has already been gone over and over and over. -taken. the comment, at worst, shows, not bias, but irritation only. the sometimes harshly, when that attorney asks inappropriate people v. 30 snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 78.) comment may be seen as a rebuke, it was hardly a harsh one or one that case or the opinion of its expert. comment was not improper. i. cumulative prejudice? wheeler argues that even if each of the purported errors on their own were not sufficient to mandate a retrial, the cumulative effect of the errors so infected the trial that he was denied due process. we are unconvinced. the trial court here did not withdraw material evidence fros consideration, distort the record, expressly or impliedly direct a verdict, or otherwise usurp s ultimate (people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 350.) moreover, none of the jus remarks at issue in this appeal exercise of reasonable control over a judicial proceeding, to keep it within the issues and to keep it moving. (crisci v. sorce (1957) 150 cal.app.2d 96, 99.) in addition, the trial court instructed the jury not to be influenced by bias or sympathy (calcrim no. 200), not to speculate as to why the court made specific rulings (calcrim no. 222), and to determine on its own the credibility and believability of witnesses (calcrim no. 226). the jurors are presumed to have followed these instructions. (people v. harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 350.) 31 furthermore, the evidence against wheeler was overwhelming. there was no dispute that he was the driver of the ferrari. in fact, there was uncontroverted testimony that shortly after his arrest and after being mirandized,7 wheeler confessed and took full responsibility for driving recklessly while fleeing from police and crashing his car and, in the process, damaging real dispute was whether he was asleep at all critical timesthat is, was he asleep when he was doing doughnuts in an intersection; asleep when he stopped doing doughnuts sounded its siren; asleep while he fled from the police in a high-speed chase that involved a number of hard right turns; asleep when he crashed his car; asleep when he fled from the police asleep when he turned and aggressively confronted the police. while there was evidence that wheeler had been diagnosed previously with parasomnia and some evidence that he had engaged previously in some aggressive but limited sleepwalking behavior and possibly one sleepdriving or drowsydriving incident , there was no evidence that wheeler had ever engaged in a such a sustained series of physically-demanding and complicated acts similar to those with which he was charged and remained asleep. moreover, zvonkina testified that all of the documented cases of sleepdriving involved people driving 7 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 32 take essentially day in and day out for their entire liveswheeler had ever done doughnuts in that particular intersection before or that he had ever driven the largely circular route he drove during the police chase or that he had ever ran down the same alley and hopped the same fence before. in fact, there was no direct evidence that wheeler was even asleep immediately before the incident. the best that the defense could do in this regard was show that the incident occurred at a time that was consistent with when wheeler typically falls asleep. under these circumstances, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a different result had the trial court not made the challenged statements and rulings. s comments were improper and conveyed bias, which we conclude they did not, the judgment is still not subject to reversal under either the federal constitutional standard of error (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24), or the state test of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. 33 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. lui, j. 