filed 3/22/18 p. v. benitez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose benitez, defendant and appellant. b275470 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la082565) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric p. harmon, judge. affirmed. renee rich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and analee j. brodie, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury found defendant and appellant jose benitez guilty of second degree robbery. he contends the trial court erred by failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on attempted robbery, and therefore his conviction must be reversed or reduced to attempted robbery. we disagree, and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background 1. facts on january 9, 2016, bernardo ignacio rode his bicycle to his job at a panorama city supermarket. he locked his bicycle with a metal to work. later that morning ignacio was informed that someone was stealing his bicycle. ignacio exited the market and found benitez using bolt cutters to remove a nut from the bike ignacio told benitez, in tagalthis bike is mine. why are you getting it? ignacio used his cellular telephone to photograph benitez and used his key to unlock the bicycle, intending to move it away from benitez. as ignacio began to move the bicycle, benitez grabbed it and the men briefly struggled. ignacio held onto the front grip and seat, and benitez held the other side of the front grip, with the bolt cutters still in his hand. benitez raised the bolt cutters in the air and lunged as if to hit ignacio with them. frightened, benitez placed the bicycle on top of a shopping cart and pushed it away from the supermarket, still holding the bolt cutters. according to ignacio, he followed benitez for approximately three minutes, at a distance of approximately 15 to 20 meters. meanwhile, bystanders were watching the incident. one, michael fontillas, called 911. 3 when ignacio had a chance, he grabbed the bolt cutters and handed them to fontillas. fists in the air in a fighting stance, and cursed at ignacio. fontillas pulled benitez away from ignacio, causing both fontillas and benitez to fall to the ground. ignacio and some bystanders restrained benitez until police arrived. fonthe testified that when benitez first raised the bicycle] and just backed up fontillas, who was calling 911, turned and moved a few steps away to get a better cell phone connection; when he turned back, the bicycle was loaded on a shopping cart. as benitez rolled the shopping cart away, ignacio stayed with the cart, holding on to the bicycle. benitez became angry and raised the bolt cutters a second time when ignacio tried to remove the bicycle from the shopping cart. ignacio grabbed the bolt cutters, and benitez came at him with a closed fist. ignacio backed off los angeles police department officer sarah slavid spoke with ignacio at the scene shortly after the incident, in english. ignacio spoke some english and seemed to understand some of what slavid said. fontillas and other bystanders assisted with translation during portions of the interview. ignacio retrieved the bolt cutters and gave them to slavid. ignacio told slavid that benitez had held on to the bicycle with one hand and held the bolt cutters in his other hand, by his side. ignacio then backed away from the bicycle and benitez took it, placed it in the shopping cart, and walked away with it. neither ignacio nor 4 fontillas stated that the men had struggled over the bicycle, or that benitez raised the bolt cutters or assumed a fighting stance. however, based on , slavid understood that benitez had held the bolt cutters in a threatening manner. ignacio told her he was afraid benitez was going to hit him with them. benitez presented no evidence. 2. procedure a jury convicted benitez of the second degree robbery of ignacio (pen. code,  211, 212.5, subd. (c)).1 in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found benitez had served one prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). it sentenced benitez to the low term of two years, plus one year for the section 667.5 prior prison term enhancement, for a total of three years. it imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole revocation restitution fine, a criminal conviction assessment, and a court operations assessment. benitez appeals. discussion the trial court did not commit instructional error the trial court instructed the jury on robbery and the lesser included offense of theft. when discussing the instructions, the court stated: ve examined the state of the evidence with regard to any other lessersbelieve there is substantial evidence to give any other lessers included than notwithstanding these comments, the defense did not request, and the trial court did not give, an instruction on attempted robbery. 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 5 benitez argues the trial court should have sua sponte instructed on attempted robbery because there was substantial evidence he never gained dominion and control of the bicycle. he evidence supported such an instruction, but the court erroneously failed to give it because the defense did not request it. the error, he insists, violated his rights to due process and a fair trial, requiring reversal of his conviction or its reduction to attempted robbery. 1. applicable legal principles in a criminal case, a trial court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence, including lesser included offenses, whether or not the defendant makes a formal request. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548; people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 517; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) instruction on a lesser included offense is required when there is evidence that indicates the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense but not of the greater. (people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 6869; people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 813.) substantial evidence is evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 102.) the existence of any evidence, no matter how weak, will not justify instructions on a lesser included offense. (whalen, at p. 68; people v. wyatt (2012) 55 cal.4th 694, 698.) in deciding whether there is substantial evidence, we do not evaluate the credibility of the witnesses, a task for the jury. (wyatt, at p. 698; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 585.) we independently review the question of whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense. (people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 181.)6 robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear, with the intent to permanently deprive the victim of the property. ( 211; people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994; people v. gomez (2008) 43 cal.4th 249, 254 (gomez); people v. lopez (2003) 31 cal.4th 1051, 1058 (lopez).) taking has two aspects: achieving possession of the property, knowgomez, at p. 255; lopez, at p. 1056.) t]he theft continues until the perpetrator has reached a place of temporary safety with the property. (gomez, at p. 255.) e asportation red, and it is not necessary that the property be taken out of the physical presence of the victim.enough to satisfy the asportation requirement. [citations.] (lopez, at p. 1060; people v. martinez (1969) 274 cal.app.2d 170, 174 [possession of the loot. it is sufficient if he acquired dominion over it, though the distance of movement is very small and the property is movincluding the victim the asportation element is not satisfied the goods were severed from the possession or custody of the owner, and in the possession of the thief, though it be but for a moment. people v. shannon (1998) 66 cal.app.4th 649, 654.) the force or fear may occur at any point while the property is being carried to a place of temporary safety. (gomez, at p. 257.) attempted robbery is a lesser included offense of robbery. (people v. crary (1968) 265 cal.app.2d 534, 540; see people v. pham (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 61, 67.) 7 in support of his contention that the jury could have found he never acquired dominion of the bicycle, benitez points to the following. fontillas testified that ignacio kept his hand on the bicycle as benitez walked away with it in the shopping cart. officer slavid testified that ignacio initially told her benitez the bicycle from him and carrie steal and gain control of the bicycle or its front tire was benitez urges that the foregoing evidence shows the property was never severed from jury to find he committed only attempted robbery. we disagree. the evidence did not support an attempted robbery instruction. there was undisputed evidence benitez picked up the bicycle and placed it in the shopping cart, after frightening ignacio off by means of his menacing demeanor and display of the bolt cutters. it was also undisputed benitez pushed the shopping cart, containing the bicycle, down the street. this constituted more than to establish asportation. it was also undisputed that the bicycle although in some respects, both testified that ignacio released the bicycle when benitez threatened him. ignacio testified that when benitez raised the bolt cutters in the air, ignacio let go of the bike and ran back. he then followed benitez at a distance for several minutes. fontillas tesjust backed off [and] let go of the handlebolt cutters. officer slavid testified that ignacio told her he backed away from the bicycle and benitez placed it in the 8 shopping cart. none of the witnesses, or any other evidence, suggested that benitez held on and refused to relinquish the bicycle during the entire encounter. that fontillas whether ignacio kept his hand on the bicycle as he followed benitez down the street is immaterial in light of the undisputed evidence ignacio moved away from the bike initially. ignacioofficer slavid that he thought benitez was attempting to steal the tire is irrelevant to the claimed instructional error. for one thing, it matters not whether the bicycle or the tire was the initial target of the robbery; for another, the most reasonable inference from the evidence is that benitez was attempting to remove the tire in order to steal the bike. and, the fact that ignacio and fontillas nterrupted benitez and prevented him from successfully making off with the loot does not mean the crime was only an attempted robbery. it is settled that commission of a robbery does not require the robber to escape with the loot to a people v. pham, supra, 15 cal.app.4th at p. 68.) in sum, there was no substantial evidence benitez committed only an attempted robbery, and therefore no instructional error occurred. in light of arguments regarding prejudice. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: egerton, j. currey, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 