filed 4/28/17 p. v. matthews ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jamall dejuan matthews, defendant and appellant. b275398 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma064958) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, joel l. lofton, judge. affirmed in part; reversed in part. jared g. coleman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant jamall dejuan matthews suffered multiple convictions, only one of which is challenged on appeal. defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support his conviction for false compartment activity, relating to a space in his vehicle where he stored controlled substances and a firearm. following people v. arias (2008) 45 cal.4th 169 (arias), we find no substantial evidence supported the conviction for false compartment activity and reverse that conviction. in all other respects, we affirm the judgment. background deputy sheriffdecember 4, 2014, and december 16, 2014. both times, defendant was the only occupant in the vehicle. after the first stop, deputy sheriff arnold camacho noticed and appeared to be modified slightly or just loose and out of place inside, he found crack cocaine, a loaded firearm, and 100 pills. a torn plastic bag was found in the center console area and $535 was recovered from defendant. the cocaine contained about 500 doses. defendant was arrested and released on bail. on december 16, 2014, defendant was stopped again and deputy camacho found a plastic baggie containing 14 and one-half pills in the driver-side door panel. the deputy sheriff d see it [(the door panel)] was loose again from the bottom of the door. once pulled, the plastic baggie containing the pills fell to the ground. the pills later were determined to be vicodin, a prescription medication often sold illegally. for events occurring december 4, 2014, defendant was convicted of two counts of sale/transportation of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a)), both with a 3 firearm within the meaning of penal code section 12022, subdivision (c). jurors further convicted defendant of one count of false compartment activity (health & saf. code,  11366.8, subd. (a)) and possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)). for the events on december 16, jurors found defendant guilty of one count of transporting a controlled substance for sale and further found that defendant was on bail within the meaning of penal code section 12022.1. the court found that defendant suffered a prior strike conviction. the court sentenced defendant to 15 years for count 1 (transportation of a controlled substance with a firearm enhancement). the court found that penal code section 654 did not apply to the remaining convictions arising out of conduct on december each other the court imposed concurrent sentences on those counts. the court imposed a consecutive four-year, eight-month sentence for the transportation for sale occurring on december 16. discussion as we shall explain, defendant persuasively argues that no substantial evidence supported the conviction for false compartment activity. in reviewing a criminal conviction challenged as lacking evidentiary support, e court must review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] an appellate court must accept logical 4 inferences that the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if the court would have concluded otherwise. people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 419.) health and safety code section 11366.8, subdivision (a) compartment with the intent to store, conceal, smuggle, or transport a controlled substance within the false compartment shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for a term of imprisonment not to exceed one year or pursuant to subdivision included in the definition of iginal factory equipment of a vehicle code,  11366.8, subd. (d)(2).) count 3 with using a false compartment with the intent to conceal a controlled substance in a vehicle in violation of health and safety code section 11366.8. [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] the defendant used a false compartment with the intent to conceal a controlled substance in the false compartment in a vehicle. [] a false compartment is any box, container, space, or enclosure intended or designed to conceal any controlled substance within or attached to a vehicle. a false compartment may be original factory equipment of a vehicle that is modified in arias, supra, 45 cal.4th at page 181, our high court held false compartment e existing compartments or original factory equipment in a false compartments cannot be -created compartments or original factory equipment. (id. at p. 182.) the high 5 reveals the legislative intent to punish the individual who manufactures false compartments or uses false compartments that are fabricated by someone other than the manufacturer of the original vehicle equipmenid. at p. 183.) in arias, the following evidence was held insufficient to support a conviction for use of a false compartment: an officer wiring behind part of the dashboard and [the officer] easily (arias, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 183.) the high court emphasized that determine whether this space, or any other part of the lexus, was standard in that model or whether it had been modified, altered, or changed in any way in order to prevent the discovery of ibid.) because there was no evidence of n to, the original factory equipment of the vehicle,the id. at p. 184.) there is no meaningful distinction between this case and arias. just as in arias, modification of, or alteration to, the original factory equipment of arias, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 184.) deputy camacho testified that the compartment may have resulted from piece in the door panel. while deputy camacho stated that the door panel cou he never testified that it was modified. instead, according to him it may have simply been loose and out of place pictures shown to jurors indicate that the contraband was placed under the window control panel, but fail to elucidate whether the space had been 6 modified, altered, or changed in any way. no other evidence showed that the door compartment was modified from the original factory equipment. although respondent points out that compartment is part of the respondent cites no evidence showing that defendant modified the original factory equipment. because the evidence did not support the conclusion that defendant fabricated, modified or altered a compartment, detion for false compartment activity must be reversed.1 (arias, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 184.) disposition the judgment of conviction for false compartment activity is reversed. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. the case is remanded for resentencing. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 1 because we conclude that no substantial evidence supported the false compartment conviction we need not consider conviction for false compartment activity must be stayed. 