filed 1/10/18 p. v. castro ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arturo castro, jr., defendant and appellant. b275905 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta137932) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. michael j. shultz, judge. affirmed as modified. jeralyn keller, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 a jury found arturo castro guilty of murder, attempted murder, and shooting at an occupied vehicle. the jury also found true the allegations that he used a firearm and committed the offense for the benefit of a criminal street gang. castro was sentenced to a total of 82 years to life. on appeal, he argues the trial court erred in (1) allowing detectives to testify about videos depicting the crime, (2) declining to investigate allegations of juror misconduct, and (3) finding he had served prison terms for prior felony convictions. we find no reversible error and affirm, but also direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment. factual and procedural background 1. the 2014 shooting the victim, davin boone, was a member of a criminal street gang, the cross atlantic pirus. defendant castro was a member of the south side gangsters. his moniker was listo. ctive territories adjoined each other, and both gangs claimed an area just north of mcmillan street in lynwood. the gang rivalry was violent and produced murders and other shootings. the murder for which defendant castro was convicted took place in 2015, but another shooting a year earlier set off a chain of events that had later repercussions. in april 2014, the police responded to a shooting in piru territory. michelle de la crus, individuals shot at them. the police detained multiple members of the piru gang in connection with the shooting. on the day of the 2014 shooting, castro was in police custody on another matter. de la crus called him in jail and said that two individuals at a liquor store on mcmillan street had shot at her 3 streets no more. . . . you -shut up. what drepeated de la crus then friends. the friend told castro that he had told de la crus she should not have called the police about the shooting and then said, more . . . , retaliation because of listo [castro]. . . . i understand you . . . fucki retaliation . . . .nterpretation of this evidence was that both castro and his friend wanted to retaliate for the shots fired at de la crus but because de la crus had notified the police, officers would be on alert for retaliation. 2. the shooting of davin boone approximately a year later, on may 4, 2015, victim boone was shot and killed in his car on mcmillan street, near the site of the 2014 shooting. by the time of the 2015 boone killing, castro had been released from custody. the murder happened in the early morning when boone was driving in his car with christin patton, his girlfriend. it was still dark outside but surveillance footage from several residences in the area captured the events surrounding the shooting. around 5:00 a.m., an suv pulled over to the curb just north of mcmillan street and turned off its lights. boone drove by, and the suv pulled out and followed him. boone turned onto 4 mcmillan street. mcmillan is an east/west street, with traffic separated by a raised median. when boone turned east onto mcmillan street, he drove in the lane designated for east-bound traffic. the suv turned as well but it turned onto the west-bound mcmillan lane but also proceeded east. for a short distance both cars were traveling east separated by the median. maneuver enabled it to approach so that closest showed several flashes of light at that moment, light that a police officer later identified as gunshots. rolled awkwardly into the median and stopped. the and ran away. when the police arrived at the scene, they found boone in his car, dead from a gunshot wound to his head. there were four bullshattered. no shell casings were recovered. 3. castro and de la crus are interviewed after the shooting defendant castro lived a few blocks from where the shooting occurred. the next day, may 5, 2015, police officers aspen. castro was driving with de la crus in the passenger seat. detectives frederick morse and david gunner first interviewed castro at the stop. when asked where he was at the time of from 9:00 p.m. on may 3, 2015, through 11:00 a.m. on may 4, 2015. the detectives then interviewed castro and de la crus together. de la crus said castro was at home on the night of the crime; castro insisted again that he was in downey. castro then 5 again, castro returned to claiming he was in downey. he said he ime. 4. analysis of gunshot residue, bullets, cell phone records, and surveillance footage gunshot residue on the passenger side. a ballistics expert concluded that bullets recovered from the scene werof bullets . . . generally fired revolvers do not expel shell casings. de la crus, or remotely wiped to cause it to be through an application that the service provider will provide to police could not recover the content of text messages. however, cell phone provider records showed that three calls were made in the early morning hours of may 4, 2015: two shortly after midnight and a third around 7:00 a.m. based on cell tower data, a crime analyst concluded that the individual who had used the phone during those calls was not in downey. when home. as part of their investigation, the detectives staged a reenactment of the crime by driving de la crussame streets at night. the police had also arranged for the videotaping of the reenactment using the surveillance cameras that had recorded the boone killing. the detectives then pulled footage from the same surveillance cameras that documented the crime. the suv depicted in the reenactment looked identical to 6 that shown in the original footage. at trial, the prosecutor showed the jury two still photographs of an suv taken from the same location. one photograph was from an original neighborhood video; the other from the reenactment video. the vehicles appeared identical. the detectives also recovered surveillance video from several cameras as part of a for each camera, there were recordings for the dates of may 2, 3 and 5, 2015. there was no recording for may 4, 2015the day of the shooting. 5. the confidential informant castro was arrested on june 10, 2015. he was placed in a cell with a paid informant, and their conversation was recorded. a. resetting the phone the informant told castro that the police could use cell phone records to pinpoint his location at a particular time. cas factory reset them? . . . at . . . she b. surveillance footage had my truck on video passing by the scene . . . . . . house camera. . . . it was on a dark street. police then took castro from his cell and showed him surveillance video of the crime. when castro returned to his cell, the following exchange occurred with the informant: they, when they showed it? 7 me there fool. i know for a fact that they d on the front . . . c. gunshot residue uh, run some tests castro of family that we go out to the shooting range a lot, you know? or, or we go out to the hills . . . i have a history of violence, so, so it could be anything . . . drive-bys d. the revolver castro said a detective told him 8 castro: 6. the detectives interview castro in jail while castro was in jail, detectives gunner and morse asked him again about his whereabouts during the time of the crime. castro first said he was in downey. the detectives then confronted castro with the cell phone records, and castro changed his story. he said he was actually in his own neighborhood driving around in a car. he then said he was, in fact, riding a bicycle. when the detectives told castro gunshot residue had been found on de lhoot when asked whether he shot out of the car, castro we shoot -- we can sho 7. charges are filed 187, subd. (a); count 1),1 the attempted murder of patton ( 187, subd. (a), 664; count 2), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; count 3). the prosecution alleged the crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) it was further alleged that castro personally used a firearm as to counts one and two. ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d).) lastly, the information alleged that castro had suffered five prior felony convictions for which he had served prison terms. ( 667.5, subd. (b).) 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 9 8. additional evidence produced at trial at trial, the prosecution submitted into evidence a piece of paper found ibed2 when given a hypothetical tracking the facts of the shooting, the expert observed, boone was a member of the cross atlantic pirus. 9. judgment a jury found castro guilty of all charges and the enhancements true. castro admitted the prior conviction allegations. the court sentenced him to 82 years to life in prison comprised of the following: 25 years to life on count 1 plus 25 years to life on the firearm use enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)); seven years to life on count 2 plus 25 years to life on the firearm use enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the court ordered the sentence on count 2 to run consecutive to count 1. the court imposed and section 654 and struck the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements under section 1385 in the interest of justice. the court concluded the law precluded an additional enhancement under the criminal street gang statute. castro timely appealed. discussion 1. bout the surveillance videos a. the secondary evidence rule at trial, portions of the surveillance videos were introduced into evidence, and detectives morse and gunner testified as to 2 as a he 13th letter of the alphabet. 10 the events depicted. detective gunner testified that the videos showed flashes of light that represented shots being fired at boone from the ar. detective car on mcmillan street moments swerved and stopped at the median, and patton ran from the car. detective gunner stated that his observations were based on the videos submitted into evidence and other videos detective morse testified that he was able to car based in part on other videos not submitted into evidence. on appeal, castro argues that the admission of this testimony violated the secondary evidence rule. secondary evidence rule, the content of a writing may now be people v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 269.) a video recording is a people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 475.) admitted and not admitted into evidence constituted improper those videosevidence. (people v. skiles (2011) 51 cal.4th 1178, 1187.) at most that testimony was offered to provide context to what the jury was viewing. we conclude the secondary evidence rule was satisfied on that point. (see people v. sloss (1973) 34 cal.app.3d 74, 86.) 11 not submitted into evidence, castro has forfeited his argument by failing to object to the use of secondary evidence at trial. (people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 620.) we also observe that error, which the defendant may not challenge on appeal. (people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 620.) castro has also failed to show prejudice by the admission of .3 the videos introduced into evidence show a car that the detectives identified as belonging to boone was followed by an suv. as the suv were several flashes of light, which detective gunner identified were caused by gunshots. the suv then passed the car which then rolled into the median. several seconds later, patton emerged from the car running from the car was patton. castro does argue that the surveillance videos may not depict the shooting but rather an this suggestion is awkwardly rolling to a stop immediately after the suv passes, 3 we observe that we have found no error but if we were to consider harmless error on this point we would apply the reasonable probabilitypeople v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watsonly one of california evidentiary error. castro has not demonstrated the existence of federal constitutional error such that the chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 standard of prejudice would apply. 12 and patton hurriedly running from the car seconds later. the videos clearly captured the shooting and castro was not brief reference to videos not submitted into evidence. b. expert and lay witness opinion castro next contends that portions of the detecttestimony about the surveillance video constituted improper testimony that the suv pictured in the videos was a grey 2007 chrysler aspen, and the side and rear windows of the suv were tinted.4 we abuse of discretion.5 (people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1291.) in support of his argument, castro cites to the following testimony: detective morse testified that he asked other to have tinted windows. castro does not cite to any testimony by the detectives that the videos showed a 2007 chrysler aspen. 4 castro also claims as error that the flashes of light signified gunfire. however, castro does not develop this argument. we therefore do not address it. (see huntington landmark adult community assn. v. ross (1989) 213 cal.app.3d 1012, neither by argument nor by citation of authority are deemed to be without 5 because we conclude the court did not err in admitting this evidence, we do not reach respondeargument was forfeited because defendant failed to object at trial. 13 accordingly, we review only his challenge to the testimony that the videos showed a grey or silver suv with tinted windows. the prosecution did not purport to qualify the detectives as expert witnesses on color or shading, and they did not claim to have any particular expertise on this issue. their testimony was that of lay witnesses. a lay witness may give opinion testimony people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 601.) helped explain the actions they took in investigating the crime including supervising the reenactment evidence. accordingly, the testimony was admissible lay testimony. castro also argues in his opening brief that detective , pulled abreast, and shot him testified that castro was in the suv in the surveillance videos. nothing in the record reflects testimony by detective gunner that even if the admission of any of the was error, it was harmless. the court properly instructed the we presume . (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 662.) the prosecutor likewise informed lastly, based on our review of the record, the suv in the original footage looked identical to that in the reenactment footage, and no reasonable 14 jury could have found otherwise in light of the totality of the .6 2. the court did not err in declining to investigate allegations of juror misconduct castro contends the trial court erred in failing to investigate allegations of juror misconduct. he cites to juror no. toward him. the complaint was made after the jury had twice informed the court that it could not come to a unanimous verdict; one juror disagreed with the other eleven. the court had instructed the jury to continue deliberations. juror no. 12 then requested to be o remain fair and the following exchange occurred between the court and juror no. 12: antagonistic, disrespectful and derisive both in and out of the jury room. derisive attitude or antagonistic attitude, is this related to the 6 castro attempts to sow doubt about whether it was de la by arguing that a car was white, not grey or silver. however, none of the evidence causing a dent of any sort. the surveillance videos show a median separating the two cars when the shooting occurred. supported by the record. 15 juror no. process has been. . . . room. [] are you telling me that there [were] comments about the facts or more about the deliberation . . . the delib with the agreement of both counsel, the court excused juror no. 12, replaced him with an alternate, and sent the jurors back to deliberate. castro argues the court should have conducted an discussing the case ou however, juror no. 12 did not say other jurors were discussing the case outside the apparently upset that deliberations were taking too long. castro has forfeited this contention. defense counsel did not request that the court conduct any further investigation. (people v. williams (2015) 61 defendant faults the court for failing to conduct a more thorough investigation, the contention is forfeited by his failure to raise it we also conclude on the merits the court did not err in declining to question the jurors further. whether to investigate the possibility of juror bias, incompetence, or misconductlike the ultimate decision to retain or discharge a jurorrests within the sound discretion of the trial court. [citation.] the court does not abuse its discretion simply because 16 it fails to investigate any and all new information obtained about a juror during tripeople v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 290.) under these circumstances, the trial court description of the limited discussion the jury may have had outside the courtroom, the minimal benefits of a more formal did not abuse its discretion in declining to conduct further inquiry. 3. substantial evidence supports the section 667.5 findings the trial court found true allegations that castro had suffered five prior convictions under section 667.5, subdivision (b). castro contends there was insufficient evidence to support this finding. at trial, he admitted the section 667.5 allegations. he argues now that his admissions did not establish he had served prison terms as a result of those convictions, only that he had been convicted. we disagree. 667.5 requires proof that the defendant: (1) was previously convicted of a felony; (2) was imprisoned as a result of that conviction; (3) completed that term of imprisonment; and (4) did not remain free for five years of both prison custody and the commission of a new offense resulting in a felony conviction. (people v. tenner (1993) 6 cal.4th 559, 563.) here, the information alleged that castro suffered five described in penal code section 667.5 for said offense(s), and that the defendant did not remain free of prison custody for, and did commit an offense resulting in a felony conviction during, a period of five years subsequent to the conc in 17 a bifurcated court trial, the court informed castro that the priors castro then admitted each enumerated conviction. limited in scope to the fact of the convictions but extends to all (people v. ebner (1966) 64 cal.2d 297, 303.) that he had served prison terms for those convictions and did not remain free for five years subsequent to the conclusion of those terms. people v. lopez (1985) 163 cal.app.3d 946 is inapposite as the record in that case did not show that the defendant was advised he was charged under section 667.5, subdivision (b). 4. corrections to the abstract of judgment the abstract of judgment contains several inaccuracies that pronouncement. (people v. vega (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 484, 506.) the abstract of judgment should indicate that (1) castro received a total sentence of 50 years to life on count 1; (2) count 2 is to run consecutive to count 1; and (3) castro was ordered to pay $4,999.18 in victim restitution plus ten percent annual interest. 5. there was no cumulative error castro argues the cumulative effect of the evidentiary errors compels reversal. of error were forfeited, invited or meritless. even when we assumed (although ultimately rejected) trial court error by evidence, we found that one error to be harmless. we therefore 18 conclude there is no cumulative prejudicial effect of error. (people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1197.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. we direct the sentencing court to forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment reflecting: (1) castro received a total sentence of 50 years to life on count 1; (2) count 2 is to run consecutive to count 1; and (3) castro was ordered to pay $4,999.18 in victim restitution plus ten percent annual interest. rubin, acting p. j. we concur: grimes, j. sortino, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 