filed 3/28/18 p. v. edwards ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eddie lamar edwards, defendant and appellant. b275747 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na102279) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard r. romero, judge. modified and, as so modified, affirmed. melissa l. camacho-cheung, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant eddie lamar edwards appeals his conviction for second degree robbery. he contends the evidence was insufficient to support the verdict, the trial court committed instructional errors, and the cumulative effect of the purported errors was prejudicial. the parties agree that the abstract of judgment should be amended to correctly reflect custody credits. we order the abstract of judgment corrected as the parties request, and otherwise affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts a. jarrod jones was an undercover loss prevention agent at a obeid was the store manager. on july 27, 2015, at ceiling attempting to remove the security caps from bottles of liquor. jones observed that on one of the bottles, the bottle cap came off with the security cap, and edwards replaced that bottle on the shelf. jones saw edwards place two bottles of liquor in his pants. obeid was on the sales floor near the liquor aisle and heard the sound of security caps being removed. he moved to another aisle where he could view the liquor aisle in the security mirrors. jones was already in the aisle, watching the mirrors. obeid observed edwards attempting to remove the security caps. obeid told jexit, waiting for edwards. jones signaled to obeid that edwards had concealed liquor in his pants. shortly thereafter, edwards headed down the middle aisle and then turned onto the facial care aisle, toward the exit. obeid had a full view of edwards as 3 he walked down the facial care aisle to the exit. jones kept edwards in view from the point jones placed the bottles in his pants until he reached the exit; however, jones could see only head and shoulders, not his hands. neither obeid nor jones saw edwards remove the liquor bottles from his pants or make movements suggesting he had done so. when edwards tried to exit the store, obeid stepped into he bottl chest, and pushed him. edwards was taller and bigger than obeid. edwards exited the store and, as jones and obeid watched, walked quickly toward long beach boulevard. jones and obeid lost sight of edwards when he turned the corner. during the incident, jones called 911. obeid inspected the liquor aisle and found two security caps that had been removed from liquor bottles, one with the bottle cap still inside. jones observed the liquor bottle edwards had put back on the shelf, with the cap off. jones retraced elsewhere in the store. police found edwards at a nearby walgreens shortly thereafter. he did not have the liquor bottles in his possession. both jones and obeid identified edwards as the perpetrator in separate field show-ups. b. defense evidence edwards testified in his own behalf, as follows. he went to cvs to purchase beer but, because the store did not have the brand he wanted, he headed to the liquor aisle instead. he tried alarm from beeping when he exited, but was unsuccessful. when 4 rity cap, he replaced that bottle on the shelf. he put another liquor bottle inside his pocket and another in his pants. he planned to steal them. as he walked down the center aisle, he public address system, ,a change of heart. aisle. when he got to the exit, obeid approached him, putting his hands up and demanding that edwards give back the bottles. edwards told obeid that he did not have any bottles. edwards did not realize obeid was a store employee. obeid put a hand on when arrested, edwards told police officers that he had never been at cvs that day. edwards admitted suffering a felony conviction in 2009. an expert testified that the video from the surveillance cameras was extracted improperly. one of the cameras was unreliable because its frame rate was only two or three frames movements were captured on film. another camera was badly maintained and had a defense investigator testified regarding various distances in the surrounding area. 2. procedure edwards was tried twice. his first trial ended in a mistrial after the jury deadlocked. upon retrial, a jury convicted him of the second degree robbery of obeid.1 (pen. code,  211, 212.5, 1 the jury also found edwards guilty of petty theft, a lesser included offense of robbery. the trial court informed the jury it 5 subd. (c).)2 in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found edwards had suffered two prior convictions for robbery, both 2, subd. (b)), and had served three prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). it motion for a new trial, brought on the grounds of insufficiency of the evidence and instructional error. it sentenced edwards to 15 years in prison, comprised of the upper term of five years for the robbery, plus two 5-year serious felony enhancements. it struck the two prior strike allegations and the section 667.5, subdivision (b) prior prison term allegations in the interests of justice. ( 1385.) it imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole revocation restitution fine, a court operations assessment, and a criminal conviction assessment. edwards appeals. discussion 1. the evidence was sufficient to prove edwards committed robbery edwards contends the evidence was insufficient to prove robbery because there was no showing he possessed the liquor bottles when he shoved obeid. we disagree. was to consider the lesser included offense only if it found edwards not guilty of the felony charge, and therefore dismissed the petty theft conviction. 2 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 6 a. standard of review when determining whether the evidence was sufficient to the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1104; people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 988.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) reversal is not warranted people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 106.) we must accept logical inferences the trier of fact might have drawn from the evidence even if we would have concluded otherwise. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 811-812.) b. law applicable to estes robberies robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear, with the intent to permanently deprive the victim of the property. ( 211; people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994; people v. gomez (2008) 43 cal.4th 249, 254.) taking has two aspects: achgomez, at 7 asportation [citation], the theft continues until the perpetrator has reached a place of temporary safety with the property ibid.) the requisite intent must arise before or during commission of the act of force or fear, and the defendant must apply the force or fear for the purpose of accomplishing the taking. (anderson, at p. 994; people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 555-556.) a defendant who does not use force or fear in the initial taking of the property may nonetheless be guilty of robbery if he uses force or fear to retain it or carry it away in the victis presence. [a] robbery is not completed at the moment the robber obtains possession of the stolen property. the crime of robbery includes the element of asportations escape with the loot being considered as important in the commission of the crime as gaining possession of the property. . . . [a] robbery occurs when defendant uses force or fear in resisting attempts to regain the property or in attempting to remove the property from the owners immediate presence regardless of the means by which defendant originally acquired people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 686-687; people v. williams (2013) 57 cal.4th 776, 787; people v. hodges (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 531, 540 (hodges); people v. estes (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 23, 27-28 (estes).) such use estes miller v. superior court (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 216, 223.) however, a defendant who uses force only after property may be guilty of theft, but not of robbery. (people v. pham 8 n, of course he could be guilty of theft, but not of an estes-type robbery.people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 1158, 1165 & fn. 8; hodges, at p. 543.) thus, to prove robbery in light of the evidence here, the people were required to show edwards took the liquor bottles and used force or fear against obeid in order to carry them away. there was sufficient evidence on these points. jones testified that he observed edwards remove the security caps from liquor bottles and place the bottles in his pants. the videotape shown to the jury showed edwards placing the bottles in his pants, and indeed, edwards admitted doing so. edwards also admitted he intended to steal the bottles; he attempted to remove the caps to avoid triggering the security system and positioned himself in the not be observed by store personnel. moments after placing the bottles in his pants, edwards left the store, travelling down one aisle and then heading down the facial care aisle toward the door. obeid testified he could see edwards the entire time edwards walked down the facial care aisle, and edwards did not remove the bottles from his pants. jones testified that he kept edwards in sight from the point at which edwards attempted to remove the security caps until edwards left the store, although jones could not see edwardsedwards stop, slow, or turn toward the shelves as he made his way out of the store. after edwards left, jones retraced when obeid tried to stop him, edwards did not explain that he had put the bottles back, but instead pushed obeid out of the way. from this conduct, the jury could infer edwards still had 9 the bottles in his pants and did not want obeid to discover them. when apprehended by police minutes later, edwards lied and said he had not been at the cvs store that day, conduct the jury could infer demonstrated consciousness of guilt. from the foregoing evidence, the jury could reasonably find edwards left the store with the bottles in his pants, without paying for them, and shoved obeid while in possession of the bottles in an attempt to carry them away. the evidence was therefore sufficient to prove robbery. edwards nonetheless argues the evidence was insufficient. he points out that he testified he changed his mind and replaced the bottles before he reached the exit; neither jones nor obeid could see his hands as he walked down the center aisle, and his progress down that aisle was not captured on the video; jones and obeid admittedly did not know whether he had the bottles when he left the store; obeid did not see any bulges in his pockets or pants as he left; neither jones nor obeid saw him discard bottles as he walked away; the police officers did not find the bottles in his possession when he was apprehended and he did not smell of alcohol; and jones did not testify that he retraced rial. this we cannot do. the evidence regarding edwards possession of the bottles when he exited cvs was conflicting. but the fact the evidence might have been reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal. resolution of conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181; see, e.g., people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 849-850.) we resolve 10 neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts. (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 41; people v. cortes (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 62, 81 merely reargues the evidence in a way more appropr we are bound by s determination].) here, of course, abandoned the bottles in the store. although it is the trier of s duty to acquit if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the trier of fact, not the appellate court, which must be convinced of ts guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (harris, at pp. 849-850; people v. iboa (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 111, 117.) for the reasons we have discussed, there was no evidentiary deficit. 2. purported instructional errors edwards contends the trial court prejudicially erred by and misleading, and by refusing to give a proposed pinpoint instruction. we conclude that even if the trial court erred, any error was harmless. a. instructions given and requested the trial court instructed on robbery with calcrim no. defendant is charged in count 1 with robbery. [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant took property that was not his own; [] 2. the property was in the possession of another person; [] 3. the property was taken from the other person or his immediate presence; [] 4. the property was taken against that [] 5. the defendant used force or fear to take the 11 property or to prevent the person from resisting; [] and [] 6. when the defendant used force or fear to take the property, he intended to deprive the owner of it permanently. [] the t to take the property must have been formed before or during the time he used force or fear. if the defendant did not form this required intent until after using the force or fear, then he did not commit robbery. [] if you find the defendant guilty of robbery, it is robbery of the second degree. [] a person takes something when he gains possession of it and moves it some distance. the distance moved may be short. [] the property taken can be of any value, however slight. [] a person does not have to actually hold or touch something to possess it. it is enough if the person has control over it or the right to control it, either personally or through another person. [] a store employee who is on duty has possession of the store rty. [] presence if it is sufficiently within his physical control that he the court also instructed with calcrim no. 1800, regarding the lesser included offense of petty theft. that instruction stated that to prove petty theft, the people had to prove (1) edwards took possession of property owned by someone else; (2) when he took the property, he intended to deprive the owner of it permanently; and (4) he moved the property, even a small distance, and kept it for any period of time, however brief.3 3 the trial court read the petty theft instruction, calcrim s not included with the written instructions provided to the jury. 12 over a defense objection, the court instructed with crime of robbery continues until the perpetrator has actually reached a place of temporary safety. [] the perpetrator has reached a place of temporary safety if: [] he has successfully escaped from the scene; [] he is not or is no longer being chased; [] he has unchallenged possession of the property; and [] he is no longer in continuous physical control of the person who is the 4 based on hodges, supra, 213 cal.app.4th 531, discussed in more detail post, defense counsel requested the following pinpoint the property, the people must prove, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the defendant used force to maintain possession of the property against the lawful efforts of the owner to regain it. if the people have not proven that the defendant maintained possession of the property when force was used, he can only be the instruction was necessary to clarify the elements of robbery is whether edwards possessed the bottles when he used force. counsel expressed concern that under calcrim nos. 1800 and 1600, the jury could conclude edwards committed attempted theft when he put the bottles in his pants with the intent to steal, 4 the trial court omitted the first sentence of the pattern instruction, which pertains to proof of an ancillary allegation, such as use of a firearm, during commission of the robbery. 13 the store. alternatively, counsel requested an instruction stating the prosecutor objected that hodges was factually inapposite, and argued that the proposed instruction would confuse the jury and was repetitive of calcrim nos. 1600 and 1800. both the prosecutor and the trial court opined that there could be no theft unless edwards actually left the store with the bottles. the court declined to give either of the proposed instructions, finding the relevant legal principles were adequately set forth in calcrim no. 1600. b. legal principles and standard of review a trial court must instruct on the principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence, and has the correlative duty to refrain from instructing on legal principles that have no application to the facts of the case. (people v. debose (2014) 59 cal.4th 177, 205-206; people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1129; people v. armstead (2002) 102 cal.app.4th 784, 792.) we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. martinez (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 686, 708; people v. ramos (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1082, 1088.) our charge is to determine whether the trial court fully and fairly instructed on the applicable law. (people v. mason (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 818, 825.) the correctness of the instructions is to be determined from the entire charge and the record, not from a consideration of parts of an instruction or from a particular instruction alone. (people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1202.) where reasonably possible, we interpret the instructions to support the judgment rather than defeat it. (martinez, at p. 708; ramos, at p. 1088.) 14 where the claim is that an instruction is ambiguous, we inquire whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury misunderstood and misapplied it. (people v. cross (2008) 45 cal.4th 58, 67-68; people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 963.) we consider the arguments of counsel in assessing the probable impact of the instructions on the jury. (people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1202; people v. martinez, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 708.) the absence of an essential element in one instruction may be supplied by another or cured in light of the instructions as a whole. (people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 328.) c. instruction on the escape rule felony-murder doctrine and certain other ancillary consequences place of temporary safety, whether or not the asportation of the (people v. gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 256, fn. 5; people v. cooper, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1166.) the escape rule originated in the felony-murder contextbeen extended to other contexts requiring proof that an act occurred in the commission of a crime such as inflicting great bodily injury in the course of commission of a crime [citation], kidnapping for purposes of robbery [citation], and use of a firearm in (people v. wilkins (2013) 56 cal.4th 333, 341.) in such felony-purpose of the escape rule is to measure the duration of a robbery, in order to determine whether a killing or some other act has occurred in the perpetration or commission of the robbery.people v. rodriguez (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 1000, 1007.) a narrower principle applies in the 15 estes robbery context; there, the robbery continues only as long as the thief has possession of the loot. (see cooper, at p. 1165 & fn. 8 [citing estes with approval; holding that for purposes of aider and abettor liability, a robbery continues only so long as the ce of temporary safet2 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) crimes against property,  96(4), pp. 134-135.) edwards contends to ancillary consequences of robbery and does not assist a jury in determining whethcase there was no ancillary fact for the prosecution to prove and the duration of the robbery was of no import, he urges, the instruction was irrelevant and misleading. the people urge that calcrim no. 3261 correctly stated the law and was relevant because the evidence showed edwards used force while attempting to escape. they point out that while the escape rule most often applies when an ancillary consequence is at issue, edwards cites no authority expressly limiting it to such instances. in their view, language similar to that used in the challenged instruction has been applied to determine whether a robbery occurred. (see estes, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at pp. 27-28; people v. flynn (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 766, 772.) further, the bench notes for calcrim no. 1600 reference estes and calcrim no. 3261 and if there is an issue as to whether the defendant used force or fear during the commission of the robbery, the court may need to instruct on this point (bench notes to calcrim no. 1600 (2017 ed.).) the bench notes for calcrim no. 3261 state that it should be given whenever the evidence raises an issue over the duration of the felony and another instruction given to the jury has required 16 during the combench notes to calcrim no. 3261 (2017 ed.).) the people assert that the duration of the crime was at issue here and the use of force. challenged instruction is proper only when the ancillary consequences of a robbery are at issue. the principle and language of the escape rule have been applied to the determination of whether an estes or other robbery occurred. in estes, for example, the defendant took unpaid merchandise from a sears store and, when confronted by a security guard outside contention that there was no robbery because his assaultive behavior was not contemporaneous with the taking, the court explained: the crime of robbery is a continuing offense that begins from the time of the original taking until the robber reaches a place of relative safety. it is sufficient to support the conviction that appellant used force to prevent the guard from retaking the property and to facilitate his escape. the crime is not divisible into a series of separate acts. s guilt is not to be weighed at each step of the robbery as it unfolds. the events constituting the crime of robbery, although they may extend over large distances and take some time to complete, are linked by a single-mindedness of purpose. [citation.] whether defendant used force to gain original possession of the property or to resist attempts to retake the stolen property, force was applied against the guard in furtherance of the robbery and can properly be used to sustain the conviction.estes, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 28.) 17 in people v. flynn, purse. even though the manner in which the bag was snatched may not have constituted force, the court upheld the robbery retention of the property afpeople v. flynn, supra, 77 cal.app.4th at p. 769.) flynn robbery remains in progress until the perpetrator has reached a id. at p. 772.) it therefore followed that the willful use of fear to retain the property immediately after the taking constituted robbery. (ibid.) in people v. gomez, the victim arrived on the scene after the defendant committed the initial taking. the victim followed the defendant as he fled, and the defendant shot at the victim. (people v. gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 253.) in rejecting the robbery because the victim was not present during the initial taking, gomez explained: , the elements of larceny are intertwined with the aggravating elements to make up the more serious offense. the issue here is the temporal point at which the elements must come together. the answer lies in the fact that robbery, like larceny, is a contiid. at p. asportation [citation], the theft continues until the perpetrator has reached a place of temporary safety with the property id. at p. 255; contrast people v. williams, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 787 [crime of theft by false pretenses ends the moment title to the property is acquired and thus cannot become the foregoing authorities suggest the escape rule principle that a robbery continues until the perpetrator has reached a 18 place of temporary safety with the loot may be relevant to analysis of an estes robbery, whether or not ancillary consequences are at issue. here, the duration of the robbery was a relevant consideration for the jury. it was undisputed edwards did not use force during caption, that is, the initial taking, but there was evidence he used force against obeid during asportation, that is, when exiting the store with the bottles. the instthe issues and clarified that robbery could be established even if the taking and the force were not simultaneous. but even assuming arguendo that calcrim no. 3261 was given in error, we discern no prejudice. where a trial court gives a legally correct, but inapplicable, is usually harmleother than to add to (people v. lee (1990) 219 cal.app.3people v. cross, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 67; people v. rowland (1992) 4 cal.4th 238irrelevant instruction creates a substantial risk of misleading the people v. rollo (1977) 20 cal.3d 109, 123.) we review such an error under the reasonable probability standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, that is, whether it is reasonably probable defendant would have achieved a more favorable result in the absence of the error. (people v. guiton, supra, 4 cal.4th at pp. 1129-1130; people v. debose, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 205-206.) reasonable probability in this context does not mean more likely than not, but merely a reasonable chance, greater than an 19 abstract possibility. (people v. wilkins, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 351.) in determining whether there was prejudice, the entire record should be examined, including the facts and the instructions, the arguments of counsel, any communications from the jury during deliberguiton, at p. 1130.) edwards contends the jury a path to convict without finding beyond a reasonable doubt that appellant possessed the liquor bottles when he shoved mattered, the jury was led to believe that the undisputed facts the initial taking, the initial intent to permanently deprive cvs of the liquor bottles, and the shoves at the exit were sufficient for guilt since they all occurred before appellant reached a place of tempno. 3261 implied that as long as force or fear was used at any point during the incident, a robbery occurred. we do not think there was a substantial risk the jury could have been mislead in light of the other instructions given and the arguments of counsel. first, calcrim no. 1600 explained that [w]hen the defendant used force or fear to take the property, he intended to deprive the owner of ichanged his mind about committing the theft, removed the bottles from his pants, and left them somewhere in the store, he could not simultaneously have intended to permanently deprive cvs of the merchandise when he exited and shoved obeid. thus, concluded the required element was met; the two findings were mutually exclusive. 20 second, nothing in the language of calcrim no. 3261 authorized the jury to ignore the question of whether edwards language did not suggest such a construction, and we do not believe reasonable jurors would have interpreted it in this fashion. edwards complains that the jury would not have understood how to square calcrim no. 3261 with calcrim no. 1600, but we see no obvious conflict or reason to believe jurors would have chosen to ignore the elements of robbery clearly listed in calcrim no. 1600. to the contrary, we presume jurors are intelligent persons, able to understand and the case. (people v. carey (2007) 41 cal.4th 109, 130; people v. fiore (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1362, 1378.) third, the language of calcrim no. 3261 itself ensured the jury could not have concluded the robbery was ongoing after edwards abandoned the bottles. calcrim no. 3261 stated that edwards no longer had the bottles in his pants, but had left them inside the store, he finally, if the jury had harbored any doubts about the e he arguments. both the prosecutor and defense counsel treated the question of whether edwards had the bottles in his pants when he exited as a key issue in the case. the prosecutor argued that unless edwards exited with the bottles, he had committed no crime. the prosecutor urged: 21 could stick a bottle down your pants, walk up to a register, pull it out and pay for it. not a crime. [] exiting the store with those bottles on him and not paying for them, and in doing that, what happens? there is an individual inside that store who is responsible for that property, mr. obeid, who tries to resistwho tries to prevent the defendant from taking those two bottles without paying for them. [] and the [i]f . . . there is no taking out of [] so one of the things the prosecution has to prove beyond a reasonable doubt . . . is that there was property that was taken out of the store and that there was force used at that time that he had the property. if not . . . you would have to find him not those items. at that point in time, he got rid of those items. getting rid of those items, there is no crime. the fact that he put them in his pocket and took them out of his pocket before he went that the force had to occur while edwards had the bottles: a person would have to use force in order to keep the property, in order to maintain the property, in order for it to be a robbery. happened or whether he took the items or . . . left them on the 5 5 as we discuss post, some cases have held, contrary to the understanding of the parties and the trial court, that a theft can 22 edwards was guilty of robbery if he left the store without the bottles or was not in possession of the bottles when he shoved obeid. in short, given the instructions and the arguments, there is no likelihood the jury would have been mislead as edwards suggests. hodges, cited by edwards, does not compel a contrary conclusion. there, the defendant left a grocery store with unpaid merchandise in a bag. a security guard followed him to his car and asked him to return to the store. the defendant offered to give the goods back, but the guard refused. a second security guard approached and the defendant threw the goods at him. the defendant then began to drive off, hitting one of the guards in the process. (hodges, supra, 213 cal.app.4th at pp. 535-536.) during deliberations the jury sought guidance on whether the the stolen merchandise vis--vis the use of force or fear was relevant to the establishment of robbery. the jury query observed that based on the instructions given, the defendant would be guilty of robbery only if force or fear was used during commission of the theforce/fear was subsequent to the act, in the parking lot, after the defendant had surrendered the goods (throwing them at [the security guard]). [] does the timing/sequence of events theft, then force/fear bear on the applicability of this clause would point 4 [the defendant used force or fear to take the property or to occur even if a defendant does not actually remove items from a store, as long as he or she detaches the property from the store shelves and moves it with the intent to deprive the owner of it 23 id. at p. 538.) in response, the trial court, over a defense objection, informed the jury: d to be continuing until the defendant has reached a point in which he is no longer being confronted by the security guards. thus, item 4 of the instruction [calcrim ibid.) hodges concluded error. (hodges, supra, 213 cal.app.4th at p. 543.) the court conduct to the required id. response that the theft continued until the defendant reached a point in which he was no longer being confronted by security guards was based on the escape rule. but the escape rule was irrelevant in hodges bthe duration of the theft in relation to ancillary consequences, but property was relevant to the force or fear element, a point the d to address. (id. at pp. 542-543.) the the fourth element (requiring the use of force or fear in taking the property or preventing resistance) applied to the parking lot confrontation, the cwas guilty of robbery without regard to whether defendant intended to permanently deprive the owner of property at the id. at p. 543.) and, the fourth element applied to the parking lot ibid.) 24 in its analysis, hodges offered the following hypothetical: goods when confronted by a security guard, and flees; the guard gives chase and at some point during the pursuit, the person uses force to resist the pursuing guarthis hypothetical, the escape rule, concerning the duration of the offense, is not in play because no robbery was committed, there being no evidence that the person intended to deprive the owner of the property at the time hodges, supra, 213 cal.app.4th at p. 543, fn. 4.) in our view, hodges does not hold that the escape rule principle is necessarily irrelevant in an estes robbery. the hodges jury had concluded hodges had abandoned the property before using force, and sought specific guidance on whether he could be convicted of robbery nonetheless. the jury here did not pose a similar query, and there was evidence edwards used force while in possession of the property. nor does the hodges hypothetical demonstrate the escape rule is inapplicable when the ancillary consequences of robbery are not at issue, as edwards suggests. the hodges hypothetical assumed the stolen property was abandoned before the defendant used force. that fact cannot be presumed evidence was credited, there was no abandonment and the hodges hypothetical is inapplicable. because there was evidence showing a robbery was committed, the escape rule was in play. moreover, the instructions given by the trial court in the instant matter did not suffer from the flaws present in hodges. the hodges trial court erred by improperly resolving the factual . (hodges, supra, 213 25 cal.app.4th at p. 543.) no similar error occurred here. the hodges response was also defective because it allowed the jury to find hodges guilty of robbery without regard to whether he had the requisite intent when he used force. (ibid.) here, calcrim no. 1600 correctly instructed on robbery and, unlike in hodges, the court did not undercut that instruction by giving an incomplete response. d. rejection of the pinpoint instruction edwards argues the trial court erred by declining to give his requested pinpoint instruction. he contends it was not argumentative, correctly stated the law, pointed the jury to the relevant legal facts, and explained their legal import. echoing his arguments regarding use of calcrim no. 3261, edwards contends the pinpoint instruction was necessary because the nt instruction violated his due process right to present a defense. upon request, a trial court is required to give a pinpoint instruction, that is, an instruction that relates particular facts to a legal issue in the case or pinpoints the crux of a defecase. (people v. wilkins, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 347, 348-349 sufficient to deserve jury consideration.; people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 975; people v. canizalez (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 832, 856- is entitled to an instruction that of the existence of reasonable doubt.) a trial court may refuse a pinpoint instruction if it is argumentative, unsupported by 26 substantial evidence, potentially confusing, or duplicative. (clark, at p. 975; people v. bivert (2011) 52 cal.4th 96, 120.) the point made by the requested pinpoint instructionthat unless edwards had possession of the property when force was usedwas adequately conveyed by calcrim nos. 1600 and 3261. calcrim no. 1600 expressly stated that to prove robbery, used force or fear to take the property, he intended to deprive the owner of it concluded edwards intended to deprive cvs of the liquor bottles if he had already abandoned them. calcrim no. 3261 stated that a perpetrator reaches a place of temporary safety when he language of that instruction, if edwards left the bottles inside the f them, and the jury could not have concluded the robbery was ongoing after the abandonment. thus, the instructions given adequately informed the jury of the relevant principles. (see people v. canizalez, supra, 197 cal.app.4th at p. 857 [pinpoint instruction unnecessary when other instructions adequately informed the jury of the point]; people v. bolden, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 559 [trial court is required to give pinpoint instruction when the point of the instruction would not be readily apparent to the jury from the remaining instructions].) arguably, the requested instruction would have made the point more clearly. but even assuming it should have been given, there was no prejudice. the erroneous failure to give a proposed pinpoint instruction generally requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable that the jury would have come to a different conclusion had the instruction been given. (people v. earp (1999) 27 20 cal.4th 826, 887; people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 363; people v. larsen (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 810, 830; people v. canizalez, supra, 197 cal.app.4th at p. 858.)6 as with his argument regarding calcrim no. 3261, edwards appellant guilty under the instructions as given without also finding that he maintained possession of the bottles when he instruction. his argument runs as follows. neither the robbery nor the petty theft instruction (calcrim nos. 1600 and 1800) expressly told the jury that he had to possess the property when he used force. a theft may occur even when the defendant does not remove merchandise from the store. (see people v. shannon [o]ne need not remove property from the store to be convicted of theft of the property from the store. [citations.] one need only take possession of the property, detaching it from the store shelves or other location, and move it slightly with the intent to deprive the owner of it permanently. 6 edwards argues that the beyond-a-reasonable-doubt harmless error standard articulated in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24, instructions people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 662-663 [instruction that omits an element of the offense is evaluated under chapman].) we disagree. as we explain, the instructions given did not mislead the jury, remove an element from its consideration, or deprive edwards of a defense. accordingly, the watson standard applies. (people v. earp, supra, 20 cal.4th at pp. 886-887; people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) 28 people v. tijerina (1969) 1 cal.3d 41, 47; people v. khoury (1980) 108 cal.app.3d supp. 1, 4-5.) therefore, the jury could have bottles in the store and, relying on the fact he used force to leave the store, find him guilty of robbery even if he had abandoned the bottles before exiting and shoving obeid. for essentially the same reasons we found no prejudice in conclude no ppinpoint instruction. calcrim no. 1600 correctly and adequately set forth the elements of robbery. (people v. morehead (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 765, 774; see people v. anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 998-999.) element 6 of the instruction covered the principles relevant to an estes robbery, that is, that the force and intent to take the property must be coterminous. as we have explained, the jury could not have convicted edwards of robbery if it concluded he did not have the bottles when he left the store. thus, even if the jury concluded he committed theft by putting the bottles in his pants an unlikely it could not have gone on to convict him of robbery if it believed he had already relinquished the bottles before using force. especially in think it clear under any standard that no better result for edwards would have resulted had the pinpoint instruction been given. deprive edwards of a defense, as he suggests. as noted, calcrim no. 1600 set forth the elements of the crime, and 29 edwards was free toand didpresent his defense. nothing in the instructions given precluded him from presenting evidence that he had abandoned the bottles or arguing that he could not be convicted of robbery because there was insufficient evidence he had the bottles when he left the store. to the contrary, his defense on these points was robust. 3. cumulative error edwards contends that the cumulative effect of the purported instructional errors deprived him of due process. he urgrequested pinpoint instruction, was prejudicial, even if neither was prejudicial on its own. he avers that the failure to give the pinpoint instruction amplified the error in giving the escape rule instruction. but his arguments regarding both purported errors rest essentially on the same analysis and, as we have explained, there is no showing of prejudice. as we have found any assumed errors to be nonprejudicial, we reach the same conclusion with respect to the cumulative effect of any purported errors. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1235-1236; people v. butler (2009) 46 cal.4th 847, 885.) 4. correction of the abstract of judgment at sentencing, the trial court awarded edwards 335 days of the correct total, indicates 293 days of actual credit and 42 days of conduct credit. the parties request that we order this clerical error corrected. 30 where an abstract of judgment differs from the courts oral pronouncement, the abstract does not control. we deem any discrepancy to be the result of clerical error, which may be corrected on appeal. (people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 89; people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185; people v. walz (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 1364, 1367, fn. 3.) accordingly, we order the abstract of judgment corrected. 31 disposition the clerk of the superior court is directed to modify the abstract of judgment dated may 24, 2016, to reflect that edwards is entitled to 292 days of actual custody credit and 43 days of conduct credit. the clerk is directed to forward a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports dhanidina, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 