filed 8/4/17 p. v. anderson ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lance anderson, defendant and appellant. b276741 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa079075) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, hayden a. zacky, judge. affirmed. emry j. allen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and scott a. taryle, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant lance anderson shot and killed his wife and severely disabled sister and told detectives he did so to end their defendant was charged with two counts of murder and several firearm use enhancements. at the ensuing bench trial, the trial court incriminating statements to detectives over his objection that his miranda1 rights were violated. it also argument that he was culpable only of voluntary manslaughter because he was overcome by passionate feelings of helplessness the trial court found defendant guilty as charged and sentenced him to an aggregate term of 100 years to life. defendant now contends that the trial court erred by admitting his statements to detectives. he further argues that the trial court applied an incorrect legal standard for voluntary manslaughter. defendant also challenges his sentence, contending the trial court improperly relied on his statements to detectives and failed to accord appropriate weight to his mental distress as a mitigating factor. and affirm the judgment of the trial court. procedural history defendant was charged by information with two counts of murder. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)2 the information further alleged multiple victim special circumstances ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3)) and personal use firearm enhancements ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d)) as to both counts. the prosecution dismissed the special circumstance allegations upon his right to jury trial. 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 after a bench trial, the trial court found defendant guilty of first degree, premeditated murder on both counts and found true all of the firearms allegations. ( 187, subd. (a), 189.) the court sentenced defendant to 50 years on each count: 25 years to life for the murder ( 190, subd. (a)), plus 25 years for causing great bodily injury and death by personally and intentionally discharging a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (d)).3 the court ran the sentences consecutively to one another, for an aggregate term of 100 years to life. defendant timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution evidence a. maxine defendant was married to his wife, bertha maxine , for approximately 32 years. from a previous relationship, jason king, lived with defendant and maxine throughout much of his childhood and occasionally as an adult. king wanted his mother to leave defendant because he believed defendant was too controlling of her. defendant. , nervous system, and eyesight severely at first, but her condition she did not work outside the home but was a self-sufficient; she was able to feed herself, carry on conversations, leave the home, and drive. when king last saw 3 the trial court imposed and stayed sentences on the lesser firearms enhancements. ( 12022, subds. (b), (c).) 4 in approximately 2011 or 2012, maxine suffered a severe allergic reaction to an antibiotic. when king spoke to her on the when king spoke to maxine on the but not depressed. she told him she had some hormonal imbalances and king testified that phone conversation with her, on thanksgiving day 2013. when he came on the line. maxine never expressed to king that she could not live with the problems she was having or that she wanted to end her own life. b. funeral arrangements elizabeth starrett worked at eternal valley memorial park mortuary for approximately five months in 2013. at the preliminary hearing, she gave the spelling stirrett. in november 2013, she made her first and only large sale of prepaid funeral arrangements, to defendant. starrett testifiedand admitted documents showedthat defendant made full funeral arrangements for himself and maxine, including purchasing a shared cemetery plot and headstone, pre-ordering death certificates, obtaining inurnment rights and services, and submitting photographs for display during their funerals. however, he told starrett, in response to a standard question she asked for purposes of calculating her sales commission, that 5 maxine was not terminally ill. starrett testified that defendant also trawas not in the area at the time of his or her death. defendant purchased that insurance only for himself. defendant also directed starrett to call him exclusively on his cellular phone, not the home phone. defendant paid for the arrangements with approximately $24,000 in cash. starrett personally drove him to the bank the day before thanksgiving so he could withdraw the funds. c. and investigation nave, was a resident of a skilled nursing facility in los angeles. lisa could breathe on her own but used a feeding tube and was unable to care for herself. s caregiver testified that lisa looked at her when she spoke to her, and said words when her husband visited. a taxi driver who worked for yellow cab of santa clarita testified that he picked up a man from canyon country and drove him to s skilled nursing facility on the morning of december 11, 2013. dant, whom she lisa at around 9:00 a.m. on december 11, 2013. with them for about 20 to 25 minutes, tending to lisa and her roommates. when she left, defendant followed her out of the room; she told him she would be back within 20 to 25 minutes. defendant returned to the room. she returned to the room and saw 6 lisa lying in her bed with blood on her left temple. defendant was outside on the patio. morning of december 11, 2013. investigate and saw defendant standing in the doorway the patio. defendant put his hands in the air and told her that he had just shot his sister. he told the occupational therapist to call the police and said he would be waiting in the courtyard. the occupational therapist called 911. she also tried to astemple lisa was pronounced dead when paramedics arrived on the scene. the deputy medical examiner who performed an autopsy on lisa testified that the cause of her death was a gunshot wound to the head. lisa was 59 years old. los angeles police department (lapd) officer rebecca reese responded to the skilled nursing facility at approximately 9:20 a.m. on december 11, 2013. she found defendant sitting calmly on the patio. lapd detective efren gutierrez arrived at the facility at around 10:00 a.m. he testified that he booked into briefcase containing approximately $5,000 in cash and business cards for a funeral home. reese took defendant into custody and transported him to the police station. d. and investigation edward harrold was dispatched to a home in canyon country to perform a welfare check shortly after police respskilled nursing facility. he entered the home through the unlocked front door. he and another responding deputy found 7 maxine lying on the bed in the master bedroom. she had a gunshot wound in her left temple. firefighters who responded to the scene pronounced her dead. the deputy medical examiner who performed an autopsy on maxine testified that the cause of her death was a single, close-range gunshot wound to the head. he further testified that, aside from the gunshot, nothing else appeared to be wrong with her body. he conceded on cross-examination that maxine had a one-inch scar on her breast that was consistent with surgery for breast cancer. maxine was 68 years old. lasd detective ronald duval was assigned to investigate death. he documented several items found near her body, including her birth certificate, a bouquet of three dried roses, a set of clothing, and contact information for eternal valley and various friends and family members. duval also searched other areas of the canyon country home. in the kitchen, he found a nearly full cup of coffee with a handwritten note attached. he testified that the note read, of like drawn in like the shape of a hemorning were drawn to make it look like eyes. and in between it was a line and then like a smile underneath it. so it gave the duval testified that the note you will suffer no more. give everyone my love. in the kitchen trash can, duval found a note with the he also found a receipt dated november 25, 2013 documenting the purchase of a kit to prepare a last will and testament, and a receipt dated november 26, 2013 documenting payment of a 8 in the garage, he found a package containing forms and a cd to prepare a last will and testament. in defendacontaining the title on the dashboard. there was a hold funds for me. i know you may not understand why i did what i did. i pray you do/will (if no4 below on the paperwork was a handwritten note: for your pain. i had to fall on my sword for the family. hope you can understand. and forgive. like this. that she was broken. more. hope to see you soon. love you very very much. again peckham and king returned a second time to ask defendant about the whereabouts of specific items king wanted from the canyon country home. during that visit, defendant told them that he had buried certain items under the porch, peckham and king contacted duval, who accompanied them to the canyon country property. king found the described items buried where defendant told him they would be. e. defendant made two statements while in custody on december 11, 2013, one to each of the law enforcement agencies investigating the crimes. the trial court admitted recordings of both statements into evidence over ds that his 4 of another of s. 9 miranda rights were violated. 1. statement to lapd defendant told lapd detective gene parshall that maxine had a history of serious health problems. shortly after their wedding 32 years earlier, maxine developed toxic cerebral encephalopathy that caused brain damage and fostered in her an . she was diagnosed with breast cancer hormone therapy she had been receiving. maxine beat the cancer, but he described the impact of these afflictions on maxine several times an maxine did not want to take pills, and her doctors kept adjusting her medications and dosages. she defendant was not able to get a job outside the home because maxine was afraid to be home without him, and he had to help her with tasks like bathing. defendant also told parshall that his sister lisa had a heart attack approximately six years earlier. sbrain damage. as a result, she was unable to get out of bed or carry on a conversation, and had to get a feeding tube and breathing tube; she no longer needed the breathing tube at the time of her death. lisa had been in the skilled nursing facility defendant told parshall that lisa had told him, and probably other people, that she neve10 laying around in my own shidirective documenting those wishes. cus, visited her almost every day, which defendant admired. marcus would talk to lisa and could get her to say words, but defendant believed he was in denial about the severity and permanency of marcus her two meaning that she needed to die. defendant apologized for the defendant explained that he originally planned to shoot maxine and then himself he maxine did not know about this plan, and he had not talked to her about a murder-suicide. from the home, because he was afraid she would take her life even though she . defendant woke up at 4:30 a.m. on december 11, 2013. he shot maxine in the left temple while she was asleep in their bed. he did not attempt to shoot himself, however, because he immediately after duval found throughout the home and garage. he put some he put a check for his siblings in the mail, grabbed his briefcase and laptop, and called a taxi. 11 defendant he he then he heard some he unloaded his guna and set it on the table before going outside to the patio with his briefcase and laptop. he explained to parshall that he brought the briefcase because he wanted access to certain personal effects while in custody, including his bible, a joel osteen book, phone books, a notebook, and other paperwork. defendant told parshall he had served in the military for six years during the vietnam war and had been diagnosed with ptsd. he experienced suicidal thoughts previously, when his father, who also had traumatic experiences in the military, committed suicide after being disease. defendant also experienced suicidal thoughts when his daughter was killed by a drunk driver ten years earlier. he persuaded him not to go through with it. 2. statement to lasd a few hours after defendant made his statement to parshall, duval and his partner, frank salerno, came to the jail to speak to him. defend the lasd detectives was similar to his statement to parshall. he told them he and maxine were married in 1981 and raised her son, jason king, together. 12 eight-caused her to develop toxic cerebral encephalopathy. the paint therapy when maxine was diagnosed with maxine did not adjust well, and doctors prescribed various medications to help her hot flashes, depression, anxiety, and panic attacks. at some point, doctors gave her antibiotics . the allergic additionally, she suffered from bulging discs in her back and polyps in her colon. . she never said she was going to kill herself or that she wanted defendant to help her end her life. after attending a funeral for a friend a few weeks earlier, admitted that he had thought about it prior to that. he made funeral arrangements for himself and maxine, using an advance on an expected inheritance to pay for them. he also went to a gun range to practice using the derringer, which he had owned dated ammunition still worked. defendant 13 he explained to prior to her heart attack over the years about not wanting to be, you know, lisa also told him at some point that she had seen their deceased mother and defendant told the detectives he woke up to use the bathroom at around 4:30 or 5:00 that morning and sat in the how i can i help her. what . . . what do you do? what do you do? you fall on your sword for the wrote the notes, tried to do as best i could because i knew i along with the notes, defendant put dried flowers, a set of clothing, and documents information by the bed. he made coffee for himself and maxine, leaving a note on her coffee cup. around 8:00 a.m., he he put the gun in his pocket, and also brought a laptop and a briefcase containing a bible, a joel osteen book, some personal papers, his resume, and about $4,500 in cash. iii. defense evidence dr. richard romanoff, a clinical and forensic psychologist, testified for the defense. investigat dr. romanoff 14 also met with defendant six times, spending more than 13 hours with him. evidence to support an insanity defense as defined in california law. defendant had a high-average i.q., a normal awareness and perception of his surroundings, and was able to control and regulate his behavior. according to dr. romanoff, defendant rational justi impairment in his ability to reason at that time that . . . undermined his ability to understand what he was doing from any perspective other than the one that he was rigidly stuck in at dr. romanoff explained that, in his opinion, which he interacted with people that could be controlling, off putting, at some times incredibly irritating and frustrating for omanoff as moderately to seriously dr. r this impairment stemmed from various tragedies in his life. alcohol and painkillehis father when defendant was very young because she was afraid for her safety and that of the children. father later committed suicide, purportedly after being diagnosed with 15 his daughter died suddenly in an accident. his vegetative state. hpsychological symptoms . . . that kept getting worse and that mr. anderson saw as causing her more and more both physical and defendant had a limited ability to tolerate the pain and suffering of those he cared most about, including lisa and maxine. ure to that pain and suffering wore on him and wore him down and i think resulted in a process that drove him to need to alleviate their suffering. and . . . he came to believe the only way to do that was to act to end their life discussion i. defendant contends the trial court erred in admitting the statements he made to lapd detective parshall (lapd statement) and lasd detectives duval and salerno (lasd statement). he argues that he did not unequivocally and intelligently waive his miranda rights before making the lapd statement, and asserts that he invoked his right to counsel before making both statements. we conclude that both statements properly were admitted. a. legal framework in the seminal case of miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at p. 444, not use statements, whether exculpatory or inculpatory, stemming from custodial interrogation of the defendant unless it demonstrates the use of procedural safeguards effective to secure the privilege against self- the procedural 16 safeguards include warning a defendant, prior to his or her any statement he does make may be used as evidence against him, and that he has a right to the presence of an attorney, either (ibid.) effectuation of these rights, provided the waiver is made voluntarily, knowingly and intelligently. if, however, he indicates in any manner and at any stage of the process that he wishes to consult with an attorney before speaking there can be no questioning. likewise, if the individual is alone and indicates in any manner that he does not wish to be interrogated, the (id. at pp. 444-445.) a defendant seeking to invoke his or her miranda right to counsel must do so unambiguously, unequivocally, and clearly. miranda minimum, some statement that can reasonably be construed to (davis v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 452, 459.) a defendant who has unambiguously asserted his or her right to coununtil counsel has been made available to him, unless the accused himself initiates further communication, exchanges, or (edwards v. arizona (1981) 451 u.s. 477, 484-485.) represent [citation.] police may commence interrogation if he validly waives his people v. mickey (1991) 54 cal.3d 612, 648-649.) 17 if a ambiguous or equivocal in that a reasonable officer in light of the circumstances would have understood only that the suspect might be invoking the right to counsel, our precedents do not (davis v. united states, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 459; see also berghuis v. thompkins (2010) 560 u.s. 370, 381.) indeed, if a defendant makes an ambiguous statement that could be construed as an invocation of his or her miranda rights, the interrogators are permitted to ask follow-up questions to clari understanding of and desire to invoke or waive his or her miranda rights. (people v. sauceda-contreras (2012) 55 cal.4th 203, 206.) standard of review, which by its nature is nondeferential, to a statement under miranda decision entails a measurement of the facts against the law. [citations.] as for each of the subordinate determinations, it employs the test appropriate thereto. that is to say, it examines independently the resolution of a pure question of law; it scrutinizes for substantial evidence the resolution of a pure question of fact; it examines independently the resolution of a mixed question of law and fact that is predominantly legal; and it scrutinizes for substantial evidence the resolution of a mixed (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 730.) b. lapd statement 1. background when lapd detective parshall first came to speak to defendant, he advised defendant of his miranda rights. 18 defendant said he understood each of the advisements and then maki all right. to youparshall or wait and speak with an attorney. assigned first.rshall reiterated that was not a problem and took defendant to a holding cell. less than ten minutes later, parshall testified, another officer came to his office and told him that defendant wanted to speak to him. parshall reconvened with defendant in the interview room. parshall then asked defendant if he told the other officer he wanted to talk to defendant then asked parshall said that he just investigates crimes, and that it is up to the district attorney to decide what, if any, charges to file. pends on what comes from you, in my mind. he get this thing re to listen. i have the parshall explained that defendant would be assigned a public defender at his arraignment a few days later. defender or if you want to call an attorney, then they can perhaps 19 meet you down in van nuys division. phone for you if you want to call anyon parshall also if you want to clear this thing up and tell me why you did what you did, if you did anything. . . hey, joe, we got another one, come on in, and - - statement if theremind. . . . if you unequivocally and intelligently wanted to talk to me about what happened, then i need you to tell me that, and i will listen to what you - - it can be just you and i. you can ask officers to leave. we can get this done. okay? and then you can - - your chance to tell the story - - you would have an opportunity in court he also told defendant that, in his exattorneys will tell you not to say anything. okay? [] parshall then reiterated, - - not t- - of pushing you to thatproblem - - if . . . possibly a reduced sentenced [sic] depending on what the district attorney wants to do. you know, i just - - i just want to parshall then asked if defendant wanted to ppy 20 he then began the trial court arshall to speak to him. it further found that parshall took steps to be that mr. ng or not wamiranda violation based on the totality of the circumstances. 2. analysis defendant first argues that the lapd statement was not admissible because he did not validly waive his right to counsel. he points to a comment he made during his subsequent lasd statementhave someone present during questioning. the guy said that i could go away and you can go to court in two days and then he did not fully appreciate and voluntarily waive his right to counsel. we are not persuaded. defendant, whom a psychologist opined was of high-average intelligence, expressly told parshall that he understood each of the miranda rights when parshall read them during their first encounter. 21 parshall responded by ceasing the interrogation. defendant then asking another officer if he could talk with parshall again. (people v. mickey, supra, 54 cal.3d at pp. 648-649.) in response to defendattorney was responsible for the charging decision and that defendant would be assigned a public defender at his arraignment two days hence. parshall also offered to provide defendant with a phone so he could contact a private attorney, noted that an attorney would probably tell him not to talk, and only then did defendant affirmatively state that he would be we find no error in the and voluntary waiver of his right to counsel. statement to lasd detectives does not change this conclusion. even if we were to assume this statement was before the trial court at the time of its rulingthe record suggests the contrary, and defendant did not mention the lasd statement in his argument to the courtit does not voluntarily waived his rights before making the lapd statement. parshall informed defendant when he would be appointed a public defender, offered to provide him a phone so he could call a private attorney sooner, and reiterated several times that it was miranda does not require that attorneys be producible on call, but only that the 22 suspect be informed, as here, that he has a right to an attorney during questioning and that an attorney would be appointed for him if he could not afford one. (duckworth v. eagan (1989) 492 u.s. 195, 204.) ot provide appointed counsel, miranda requires only that the police not question a suspect (ibid.) that was done here. defendant also contends that his f indicates a clear and unequivocal desire particularly in light of his initial statement that he wanted to speak to an attorney. we disagree. the united states supreme court has must be relatively commonplace for a suspect, after receiving miranda warnings, to ask when (duckworth v. eagan, supra, 492 u.s. at p. 204.) indeed, the third district considered a very similar scenario in people v. simons (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 948 (simons). there, defendant (simons, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 955.) one of the (id. at p. 956.) (ibid.) (ibid.) after the detectives explained that simons would receive an attorney when he made his first court appearance, they asked him if he wanted to continue talking to them. (id. at pp. 956-957.) . (id. at p. 23 957.) as to when he would receive counsel did not amount to an unequivocal assertion of the right to counsel, and the court of appeal agreed. (see simons, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at pp. 953, 959.) the court would take for an attorney to get there if he asked for one would lead a reasonable officer to understand only that defendant might want an attorney if it would not take too long, which is not (id. at p. 958.) the same rationale applies here. defendant asked when a public defender would be available; he did not definitively say that he wanted one. parshall provided accurate and appropriate follow-up information and did not substantively interrogate defendant defendant argues that simons is distinguishable because simons did not previously assert his right to counsel as defendant did during his initial interaction with parshall. defendant interpretation available is that appellant was re-invoking his right to counsel, with a request for clarification of the we disagree. parshall promptly ceased interrogating defendant when defendant said that he and thought he further assuming those statements constituted an unequivocal request for counsel, there is no indication that -up query about how long it would take to get counsel was a reiteration of that request. rather, defendant sought out parshall to continue the conversation and asked him 24 several questions about the process before confirming that he wanted to proceed without counsel. the totality of the circumstances indicates that defendant understood his rights and voluntarily waived them before making the lapd statement. c. lasd statement 1. background lasd detectives duval and salerno came to the police station to talk to defendant later in the day on december 11, 2013. at the outset of that conversation, duval confirmed that the lapd previously advised defendant of his miranda rights, that he understood them, and that he agreed to speak with parshall. salerno then asked defendant if he sure if i should, u salerno advised defendant of his miranda rights defendant said he understood that he had a right to an atthe right to have someone present during questioning. the guy said that i could go away and you can go to court in two days and i remembe salerno reiterated that defendant had a right to an attorney during questioning and asked him if he understood. can you bring one duval problem he hsounded like it was gonna be several days before anybody would 25 attorney present, then you. the d salerno again said asked defendant if he was willing to answer questions about the the detectives moved forward with the interrogation, and defendant made an incriminating statement. the trial court admitted the statement into evidence. relying on simons, suprafor counsel. based on the totality of the circumstances, the court found that the lasd statement was voluntary. 2. analysis defendant one in and salerno were compelled to end the interview. we disagree. not an unequivocal invocation of the right to counsel. in addition to simons, people v. sauceda-contreras, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 219 (sauceda-contreras) is instructive. there, an officer read the defendant his 26 miranda rights arights i just read, the detective would like to know if he can (sauceda-contreras, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 219.) the defendant respondedme a lawyer, that way i[,] i with who . . . that way i can tell you everything that i know and everything that i need to tell you and someone to represent me. (ibid.) the supreme court held that (ibid.) spect was conditional in that it began with an inquiry as to whether a lawyer could (sauceda-contreras, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 219.) it was equivocal in that defendant went on to plainly state his intent and desire to waive tell you everything that i know and everything that i need to tell you, but then ended his response ambiguously with the words and (ibid.) the court also found that the statement was amexpressly asking the officer whether a lawyer could be brought to him, and impliedly asking whether one could be provided right now. (ibid.) the court accordingly concluded that, from an objective officer under the circumstances would (ibid.) the same is true here. conditional in that it asked whether an attorney could be brought to him immediately. it was also made after defendant reported that parshall told him that he would not get an attorney until he went to court in two days. an objectively reasonable officer thus ut 27 whether lasd would follow the same procedures as lapd. the detectives accordingly were permitted to ask follow-up questions (sauceda-contreras, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 219.) they did so, and defendant said he wanted to cooperate and move forward with questioning. his subsequent statement properly was admitted. ii. voluntary manslaughter defendant contends the judgment must be reversed because the trial court erroneously concluded that, as a matter of ot and could not be adequate provocation in a manslaughter. verdict that he was guilty of murder on two bases. first, he argues that the court improperly concludepassive victims could not have provoked him. defendant asserts this was error because e victims provoked him a defense to a charge of murder. (see people v. cleaves (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 367, 375-376.) the product of an emotional response so intense that the reason of the actor was obscrequired to prove a murder charge; and reduce a charge of these arguments are not persuasive. the trial court allowed defendant to present a voluntary manslaughter 28 argument and expressly considered that theory when making its ruling. there is thus no indication that the court rejected the theory as a matter of law rather than on the facts of this case. substantial evidence supports the implicit conclusion that defendant acted with malice when he killed maxine and lisa. a. background at trial, defendant conceded that he killed maxine and lisa after reflecting upon doing so. defense counsel argued, however, that the killings constituted voluntary manslaughter rather than murdhelplessness that he could do nothing to end the suffering of his them suffe in short, the defense or he felt that he was powerless. counsel described a slowly his soul, fester down and kill maxine and lisa. the trial court rejected this argument. before rendering its verdict, it orally explained: motive, if it was based on love, and if mr. anderson had good intentions, does that act to negate malice. and my conclusion to that question is no. it does not act to negate malice. the evidence clearly showed, and based on the argument by [defense counsel], that mr. anderson was overcome by a sense of helplessness. in my world, when somebody feels helpless, they go to counseling or go to a support group to try to get some help and learn how to cope. and kill someone. as we get older in our individual lives, every 29 one of us in this room is probably going to have to deal with the illness and the deaths of loved ones. i know i have dealt with it in my life dealing with people who are terminally ill, and it is terrible to watch that. horrible. but the law this manner. . . . [t]he law specifically does not allow a person to be killed by a lethal injection or a mercy killing, which is what i believe happened here. i believe mr. anderson thought that the court noted that it had read and considered the cases proffered by defendant, including people v. wright (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1461 (wright), and found them factually distinguishable. it explained: accept its position that mr. anderson killed mrs. anderson and ms. nave and that it was based on heat of passion and/or provocation, which under [calcrim no.] 570 must be present to reduce murder to manslaughter. provocation typically is words or conduct that leads to a killing in the heat of passion without reflection or deliberation. in this case, the victims were passive victims. one was sleeping and one was incapacitated. and, hence, they did nothing to provoke the defendant into killing them. if such conduct were allowed, then people would be allowed to go into hospitals and commit mercy killings on a daily in this case, based on the evidence presented, and in light of calcrim instructions 520 and 521, and in light of calcrim instruction 220, which is reasonable doubt, the court has an abiding conviction of the truth of the charges and does find, beyond a reasonable doubt, that mr. anderson is guilty of murder as to 30 5 the court further found that both murders were committed with premeditation and deliberation. it stated that the evidence meticulous preparati was doing the right thing, but his actions simply are not something that a law-abiding society should accept as being b. analysis ( 187, subd. (a).) malice may be express or implied. manifested a deliberate intention to take away the life of a fellow creature. it is implied, when no considerable provocation ( 188.) defendant contends, essentially, that the evidence supported only the lesser-included offense of voluntary manslaughter, which is the unlawful killing of a human being . ( 192, subd. (a).) from murder is provocation. the provocation which incites the defendant to homicidal conduct in the heat of passion must be caused by the 5 calcrim no. calcrim no. lesser 31 victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victim. [citations.] the provocative conduct by the victim may be physical or verbal, but the conduct must be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or (people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 59.) in other words, there is both a subjective and an objective component to voluntary manslaughter. (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1252.) (ibid.) circumstances giving rise to the heat of passion are also viewed objectively(ibid.), as a defendant is not permitted to set his or her own standard of conduct and justify his or her actions by claiming his or her passions were aroused. (id. at 1253.) is not evaluated by whether the average person would act in a certain way: to kill. instead, the question is whether the average person would react in a certain way: with his reason and (people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 949.) the provocative conduct prompting the rash reaction need not be a single incident; it may consist of a series of incidents over a period of time. (wright, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at p. 1481.) evidence that a defendant acted rashly in response to provocation may mitigate[ ] an intentional, unlawful homicide, otherwise murder, to a lesser offense. (people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 459.) (ibid.) 32 killing may have been provoked. . . , it is the obligation to proffer some showing on these issues sufficient to (id. at pp. 461-462.) once a defendant presents such evidence, the prosecution has the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that provocation and an objectively reasonable rash reaction thereto were lacking to establish the malice element of murder. (id. at p. 462.) the trial court found that the prosecution met that burden of proof here, and that conclusion was amply supported by the evidence. there was no evidence of immediate provocation; maxine was asleep when defendant killed her, and lisa was lying in bed, awake but incapacitated. there likewise was no evidence that either victim had a history of long-simmering enmity with defendant, or that the victims actively engaged in any conduct whatsoever. rather, they had the misfortune of being afflicted with medical maladies. the court, as trier of fact, reasonably could have concluded on this evidence that neither victim provoked defendant. (people v. steele, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1254.) suffering was hard on defendant and could serve as a basis for a strong emotional response. indeed, it observed that defendant this observation addressed the subjective component of provocation; to conclude defendant was guilty of voluntary manslaughter, the court also would have had to find that an ordinary person afflicted by similar emotion would react with his or her reason and judgment obscured. but the evidence showed that even defendant did not 33 act in such a wayhe carefully planned and considered both the trial court specifically found that manifestly inconsistent with having acted under the heat of passioneven if that state of mind was achieved after a considerable period of (people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 572; see also people v. peau (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 823, 831-832.) t is not a matter of law but a matter of fact for the jury in each case to determine under the circumstances of the case whether the assault or whether the blow, or whether the indignity or whether the affront, or whatever the act may be, was such as is naturally calculated to arouse the passions, and so lessen the degree of the offense by relieving it from the element of malice. (people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 951-952, quoting people v. jones (1911) 160 cal 358, 368.) the court, his emotional suffering was not objectively reasonable. this was not error on the facts of this case. defendant points to wright, supra, for the proposition that of heat of passion may be deemed supported notwithstanding some evidence of premediatation and planning we have no quarrel with this proposition. in wright, the defendant waited in the parking lot of her ex-boyfriarrived home from work, and then shot and killed him. (see wright, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at pp. 1466, 1477-1478.) at her trial for first degree murder with a special circumstance of lying in wait, the trial court 34 voluntary manslaughter instruction. (id. at p. 1466.) the evidence adduced at trial was sufficient to raise a factual question whether defendant was acting under the heat of passion (id. at p. 1486.) that is, it held that the defendant was entitled to receive a jury instruction on voluntary manslaughter because she presented evidence of a long-simmering provocation supporting the defense; the theory was not foreclosed as a matter of law because the prosecution presented evidence of premeditation and lying in wait. the wright court nonetheless concluded that the error was she also lacked malice because [ in her erson would simply react (wright, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at p. 1497.) though trial in this case was to the court, the record is clear that defendant essentially received the instruction to which he claims entitlement under wright. the trial court permitted defendant to present evidence of provocation and argue that theory. the court also specifically cited calcrim no. 570, a pattern voluntary manslaughter jury instruction that must be given sua sponte when the evidence suggests a defendant may not be guilty of murder but rather the lesser-included offense of voluntary manslaughter. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 159-160.) despite his efforts to cast the issue as an error of lawhe claims the trial court that such a killing could be the product of an emotional response 35 so intense that the reason of the actor was obscured so as to negate the element of malice required to prove a murder charge; and reduce a charge of murdthe record is theory as a matter of fact and did not, as defendant suggest, foreclose its viability as a matter of law. indeed, as defendant s not requiredunder wright to find that he acted under the heat of passion. its rejection of that theory, and contrary factual findings that defendant acted with premeditation and deliberation, were proper on this record. iii. sentence nal contention is that he was improperly this argument rests both on his miranda contentionsthe alleged federal constitutional violationsand an asser appellant, whether accurately or not, as a cold, calculating killer. the trial court relied on this perception to impose consecutive we reject these arguments. as discussed above, the trial court properly admitted both any subsequent reliance by the trial court on those statements accordingly was not error. a trial court generally has broad discretion to tailor a sentence to a particular case. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 349.) discretionary choices include the decision to impose consecutive rather than concurrent sentences. (ibid.) california 36 the trial court indicated at sentencing that it had read and considered rule 4.425, and explained that it found all three consecutive sentences. crimes involved separate acts o (see cal. rules of court, rule 4.425(a).) the court further use of a deadly weapon; and the crime victims in both of the the court properly relied on these factors when exercising its discretion to impose consecutive sentences. defendant asserts that the trial court should have given more weight to he points to california rules of court, rule 4.423(b)(2), which lists among from a mental or physical condition that significantly reduced culpability for the c this and all other relevant factors in mitigation or aggravation. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.409.) the record suggests the court did consider this f we accordingly find no abuse of discretion. 37 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 