filed 6/26/18 p. v. roth ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ryan michael roth, defendant and appellant. b276429 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba417741 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. willoughby & associates and anthony willoughby for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction the street terrorism enforcement and prevention act (the step act) imposes additional prison time on any defendant who commits a felony to benefit a criminal street gang. in 2013, markell thomas and defendant ryan michael rothboth members of the avenue piru gangrobbed two women who were responding to a craigslist ad. neither thomas nor roth sported gang tattoos. they did not wear gang colors, throw gang signs, or membership. no gang members attempted to dissuade the victims from calling the police or from testifying. there is no evidence of bragging or of graffiti taking credit for the crimesand no evidence other avenue piru members knew about the crime or shared in the proceeds. we therefore reverse the true findings on the gang enhancements for insufficient evidence, vacate the sentence, and remand for resentencing. we otherwise affirm the judgment. procedural background this case stems from two related trials about a series of craigslist robberies. by amended information filed august 19, 2015, roth was charged with one count of felony murder (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a), 190.2, subd. (a)(17); count 1), one count of attempted murder ( 664/187, subd. (a); count 2), and six counts of robbery 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ( 211; counts 3, 4, 67, 910).2 the information also alleged various gun ( 12022.53, subds. (b)(e)(1)) and gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) enhancements for all counts. as relevant here, for counts 6 and 7, the information alleged that a principal personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (e)(1)) and that the crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). roth pled not guilty and denied the allegations. after a trial at which thomas testified against roth, roth was acquitted of murder, attempted murder, and four of the six robbery counts. the jury was unable to reach a verdict on the other two robbery countscounts 6 and 7and the court declared a mistrial. at the second trial, a jury convicted roth of the two remaining robberies and found the gang and personal-use allegations true. thomas did not testify in that trial, and although the gang expert relied in pthe court barred the defense from mentioning plea deal. the court sentenced roth to an aggregate term of 19 years 4 months in prison. the court selected count 6 ( 211) as the base term and imposed 15 yearsthe upper term of five years plus 10 years for the personal-use enhancement ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (e)(1)). the court imposed four years four months for count 7 2 the original information filed december 31, 2014, charged thomas with the same crimes and enhancements, as well as five additional counts of robbery ( 211; counts 5, 8, 1113), one of which also carried an armed enhancement ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)). on july 8, 2015, thomas entered into a leniency agreement with the district exchange for a plea to voluntary manslaughter. he is not a party to this appeal. 4 one-third the midterm of three years plus one-third of the mandatory 10-year term for the gun enhancementto run consecutively. roth filed a timely notice of appeal. factual background 1. the robbery on august 22, 2013, april louie responded to an advertisement on craigslist for a $300 iphone. the next afternoon, she drove with her sister cara louie-saito to meet the seller on the 10000 block of crenshaw boulevard in inglewood. the seller chose the location. when they arrived, carathe driverparked the car and turned it off. april sent the seller a text message that they had arrived. he replied that he would be right out. april and cara saw two men, later identified as roth and thomas, standing on the sidewalk and talking about 40 feet behind the car. the men approached the car. roth went to the april asked thomas if he was the one selling the phone. he said yes, then pointed a gun at her head. removed the $300 she brought to buy the phone, and gave it to april handed them over. meanwhile, roth, who was into the car and tried to remove the keys from the ignition. cara thomas told april to tell her friendi.e., cara5 cara roth. she told cara to stop fighting, and cara did. roth took the keys from the ignition. roth and thomas said they would throw the keys in the grass; they told cara and april to count to 100 before getting out of the car or the grass, and continued running. a bystander called 911. in october 2013, los angeles police department detective dean vinluan was assigned to investigate a series of craigslist robberies. he identified thomas as a suspect. the investigation then led him to roth. 2. the gang evidence with a confidential informant and a recording device. the informant asked rothhe replied, jury. inglewood police department detective jose barragan, the members of the avenue piru gang. barragan had never met either defendant and conceded that he had never seen graffiti or moniker on it, that roth was not identified as a gang member in the inglewood police department database, and that he had not been identified as an associate on any other according to barragan, avenue piru claimed a territory bordered by century boulevard to the north, imperial highway to the south, van ness avenue to the east, and crenshaw boulevard to the west. the location of the robbery on the 10000 block of crenshaw boulevard was at the 6 [p]ossessiontheysales of narcotics, possession of firearms, [v]and after being presented with a hypothetical based on the evidence in this case, barragan opined that the crimes were committed in association with and for the benefit of avenue piru. contentions roth contends: (1) the court abused its discretion by discharging a sitting juror following opening statements; (2) there is insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancements; (3) the gang expert testified to case-specific hearsay in violation of state law and the confrontation clause; (4) the court abused its discretion by excluding defense impeachment evidencea photograph of inglewood police officers appearing to throw gang signs her about the robbery; (5) the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during the defense closing argument by loudly objecting to a powerpoint slide and turning off the projector in ; and (6) we should remand to allow the court to exercise its discretion to strike the gun enhancements under senate bill no. 620 (20172018 reg. sess.) (stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2). discussion 1. the court properly dismissed juror no. 4. roth contends the court abused its discretion by dismissing juror no. 4, a college student, after concluding the juror could not focus on the case. we disagree. 7 1.1. standard of review at any time before or after the final submission of the case to the found to be unable to investigate and remove a juror in the midst of trial where it finds that, for any reason, the juror is no longer able or qualified to (people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 621.) than is typical for abuse of discretion review must be made to support such decisions on appeal. [citation.] ... [t]he basis for a determining whether any substantial evidence in the record ... however, in applying the demonstrable reality test, we do not reweigh the conclusion is manifestly supported by evidence on which the court people v. lomax (2010) 49 cal.4th 530, 589590, fn. omitted.) 1.2. proceedings below the afternoon of may 3, 2016, after opening statements, the court told counsel: i saw [juror no.] 4, and 4 was a little more attentive during this argument that was being made. he was drumming on his leg like he said 8 he does.[3] inquiryyet. discharge, the court research during the lunch hour. if a juror is inattentive or sleeps the court called juror no. 4 into the courtroom and told him: i want you to be candid and honest with me. i you were this morning. you were drumming on about, some kind of nervous habit you have? ensued: ct. here is sort of the bottom line: can you be attentive during this trial and watch the evidence and pay attention? or are you going to be 3 throughout this exchange, the court and the parties appear to refer to statements made by juror no. 4 during voir dire that morning. appellate counsel did not move to augment the record with a transcript of those proceedings. (cal. rules of court, rules 8.320(b) [normal unable to evaluate whether this inquiry was or should have been undertaken before trial. 9 distracted by whatever else is going on in your life, in particular your final exams and so forth? j4. your honor. ct. attention to the evidence and all that is being presented? j4. no, i would pay attention, but i would be pretty distracted. this is likei find this actually pretty fascinating, but this is just like not like the right time, with everything that is going on right now. ct. all right. and again, your first final is when, may 12th? j4. yes. ct. are you supposed to also be in classes during this time? j4. juror no. 4 left the courtroom, and the court told counsel: cause to excuse him. he was inattentive this morning [during voir dire], he was sleeping. even this afternoon he was drumming frenetically or with high energy on his leg. someonegoing to be distracted, find good cause. 10 defense counsel objected to the removal of the juror. the prosecutor agreed with the court, noting that juror no. 4 after questioning juror no. 4 again, the court excused him for cause, citing people v. johnson (1993) 6 cal.4th 1 and stating 1.3. the court did not abuse its discretion. the supreme court has held that a abuse its discretion if it discharges a juror who falls asleep during the trial. [citapeople v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 458.) in ramirezdifficulty paying attention during trial and appeared to fall asleep. the judges observations were consistent with the testimony of the jury foreperson that the juror had fallen asleep twice during deliberations. the trial court, therefore, did not ibid.) in johnson, the defendant claimed on appeal that there was no evidence a discharged juror had actually been sleeping. (people v. johnson, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1, disapproved on other grounds in people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 879.) the supreme court rejected this claim, ample evidence indicating that on one or more occasions [the juror] had actually fallen asleep during trial. the court, its two deputies, and the prosecutor each stated on the record that they had observed [the juror] exhibiting various physical indicia of sleep, including eye johnson, at p. 21.) in this case, the court was in the position to observe the jurors demeanor, and the court was persuaded that the juror 11 could not perform his duties. (accord, people v. schmeck (2005) 37 cal.4th 240, 298.) the court saw juror no. 4 fall asleep for 10 minutes during voir dire of the alternate jurorsa fact the defense did not disputeand conducted a thorough inquiry into whether the juror would be able to focus on the case. we conclude people v. lomax, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 590, fn. omitted.) accordingly, the court did not abuse its discretion in discharging the juror. 2. there is insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancements. a criminal defendant may not be convicted of any crime or enhancement unless the prosecution proves every fact necessary for conviction beyond a reasonable doubt. (u.s. const., 5th & 14th amends.; see cal. const., art. i,  7, 15; in re winship (1970) 397 u.s. 358, 364; people v. tenner (1993) 6 cal.4th 559, 566.) tenner, at p. 566) is so fundamental to the american system of justice that cjury irrationality or error by the independent review of the sufficiency of the evidence undertaken by the trial and appellate courts.(united states v. powell (1984) 469 u.s. 57, 67.) here, roth contends there is insufficient evidence he committed the robberies for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) we agree. 2.1. standard of review in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence to support an enhancement, we review the entire record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty 12 beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 5960 (albillar).) record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) deference is not abdication, however, and substantial evidence is not synonymous with any evidence. decision supported by a mere scintilla of evidence need not be affirmed on appeal.although substantial evidence may consist of inferences, those inferences must be products of logic and reason and must be based on the evidence.in re james r. (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 129, 135.) similarly inference and into the realm of speculation in order to find people v. franklin (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 938, 947 (franklin); people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 735 [speculation is not evidence and cannot support a conviction].) evidence that merely raises a strong suspicion of guilt is insufficient to support a conviction. (people v. thompson (1980) 27 cal.3d 303, 324.) 2.2. elements of the gang enhancement section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) imposes various sentencing enhancements on a defendant convicted of a gang-related felony committed with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. [] there are two prongs to the gang enhancementthe gang-13 related prong and the specific-intent prongboth of which must be established franklin, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 948.) the first prong requires the prosecution to prove that the -that the defendant 186.22, subd. (b)(1); albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. every crime committed by gang members is rethe that a criminal offense is subject to increased punishment under (albillar, at p. 60.) put another way, the charged offense itselfnot just the defendantmust be gang-related. gang- albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 64;  186.22, subd. (b)(1).) of course, [r]usually it must be inferred from the facts and circumstances people v. perez (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 598, 607 (perez).) that the defendant intended to and did commit the charged felony with known members of a gang,the jury may fairly infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by those gang members.[citation.]franklin, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 949 quoting albillar, at p. 68; accord, people v. ramirez (2016) 244 14 cal.app.4th 800, 819 [limiting this language to the second prong]; people v. rios (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 542, 570 [same].) because we conclude the evidence was insufficient to support the first prong, we need not reach the second prong. (people v. rios, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 575.) 2.3. the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that the robberies were committed for the benefit of a gang. the facts of this case do not naturally raise an inference that the robbery was committed to benefit avenue piru. (compare people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1171 (livingston) gang member is a prototypical example of a gang-the robbery occurred on the border of tterritory. the victims were not gang members and were unaware . the robbers to their gang during or after the robbery. sport gang tattoos. there was no evidence that the avenue pirus claimed responsibility for the crime, that the robbers bragged about the crime, that they told their gang , or that they gave the gang any of the loot. no one tried to dissuade the victims from calling the police or from testifying. the only support for a finding that the robbery was committed to benefit avenue piru certainly, [e]xpert opinion that particular criminal e sufficient to support the [ ] section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048.) as such, a grown to meet a perceived need to assist juries in understanding 15 all things gang related. while a gang expert is prohibited from the prosecution can ask hypothetical questions based on the evidence presented to the jury whether the alleged crime was committed to benefit a gang and whether the hypothetical (perez, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at pp. 607608.) (perez, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at p. [p]urely conclusory for the benefit of the gang because any violent crime enhances ibid.; accord, people v. ramirez, supra, 244 cal.app.4th at pp. 819820; in re daniel c. (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1350, 1359; people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 853.) here, i question tracking the facts of this case, barragan opined that the robberies would benefit avenue piru in our community with a lesser chance of being caught by law fearful gang. barragan explained that he based his opinion on the facts was committed in avenue piru gang territory. there was a he acknowledged, however, that neither robber said anything about avenue piru, threw up any gang signs, sported any visible tattoos, or said anything related to a gang. 16 any [crime committed] by a gang member is gang related because the community. many courts have soundly rejected such a sweeping generalization untethered, as it is, to specific evidence of both perez, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at p. 610.) we join those courts. first, it is unclear to us how this robbery could generate the sought-after respect, recruitment, and community fear. there was no evidence that roth told avenue piru members about the robbery or that the gang otherwise found out about itan apparently necessary first step in any quest to raise levelin the gang with misdeeds. likewiseactions cannot generate fear in the community to join the gang unless members of the community know the gang has acted. but neither roth nor thomas referred to avenue piru during the robberies. there is no evidence either the victims or the community at large were aware of their gang ties.4 the crime was not a prototypical gang crime such that bystanders could infer it must be gang-related. nor did the prosecution present evidence that avenue piru had such a stranglehold on their territory that residents could assume its members were behind any criminal activity that might occur. to the contrary, barragan testified that the robbery happened on 4 online, and there is no evidence the victims lived in or near avenue piru territory. 17 the border of territories claimed by multiple gangsincluding 18th street.5 second, that robbery is, according to barragan, a primary activity of the avenue piru gang does not mean that every robbery committed by one or more avenue piru members is committed for benefit. gang members sometimes commit crimes for personal gainand robbery can be personally profitable. the prosecution presented no evidence that avenue piru was running a craigslist robbery ring or that this crime had unusual hallmarks that indicated an avenue piru operation. indeed, the prosecution presented no evidence to suggest the gang received a cut of the stolen $300 or any proceeds from the sale or trade of the two older-model mobile phones. wincluding the testimony of an expert, may be sufficient to constitute substantial evidence [citation], when an expert bases conje wise v. dla piper llp (us) (2013) 220 cal.app.4th 1180, 11911192.) here, because there was no evidentiary support for any of the 5 been a third-party witness who feared to come forward, namely the the people cite to two pages of the reindicate that an unknown witness called 911. the people do not cite 18 purported ways in which barragan testified that the robbery would have or could have benefited avenue piru, his opinion to that effect cannot support a finding that the crime was committed for the benefit of a gang. 2.4. the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that the robberies were committed in association with a gang. the lack of evidence roth committed the robberies for the benefit of avenue piru would not be fatal if the evidence instead supported a finding that he street gang. (see albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60 [first prong of  186.22, subd. (b)(1), requires proof defendant committed the but again, the prosecutor produced no evidence on the point.6 barragan opined the hypothetical robbery was committed ad, they both arrive at the scene together, they committed the crime together and then they left together. it shows their yet even agang membership was properly admitted, this evidence 6 the people cite one case for the proposition that such evidence, standing alone, is sufficient to satisfy the second prong of the enhancement. and the published cases that consider the issue explicitly limit albillarsecond prong. (livingston, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1171; franklin, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 949; people v. ramirez, supra, 244 cal.app.4th at p. 819; people v. rios, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 570.) 19 established only that two members of a criminal street gang committed a crime together.7 the prosecutor avoided this shortcoming below by suggesting to the jury that the two prongs of the enhancement were alternatives, and that he only needed to prove one. he explained: so after you have determined that a gang does exist, you need to determine whether the crimes were committed for the benefit of, or at the direction of, or in association with a criminal the gang allegation applies in different situation[s]. so when one gang member commits an act and the evidence shows you that in committing that intent of benefitting and furthering criminal conduct, that one gang member acting alone is enough. but when you have two gang members acting with each other while they commit a crime, 7 because we reverse the enhancements for insufficient evidence, testimony violated people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 and that the court abused its discretion by excluding a photograph of inglewood police officers throwing gang signs. we note, howeverand the people concedethat evidence, it is unclear that there is substantial evidence of 20 meaning both gang members are committing the crime together, that alone supports the gang allegation becausewhy gangs are dangerous, is because of their commit crimes together and outnumber people, the way they did here. and it has to be done with the specific intent to promote, further or assist. not the whole gang, but promote, further and assist criminal conduct by gang members. if their act assists criminal conduct by gang members, then that is enough toand they intended to do that, that is enough to meet the gang allegation. so in this case you have two separate theories of why thisit meets the gang allegation: the first one is there were two gang members committing the crime together, markell thomas and the defendant, both avenue piru gang members. and the other theory is that it was done for the benefit of avenue piru gang members. (emphasis added.) this explanation allowed the jury to find that thomas and together, necessarily acted in association with their gang.8 in so 8 misstatements. (see people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 43 [when a prosecutor relies on alternate theories, some of which are legally correct and others of which are legally incorrect, and the reviewing 21 doing, the prosecutor conflated the requirement of the first prong of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)that roth committed the crimes in association with the gang, a finding having no evidentiary supportwith the requirement of the second prongthat roth specifically intend to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by gang members, a finding arguably supported by the evidence. yet the california supreme court has always carefully maintained the statutory distinction between gang crimes on the one hand and crimes committed by gang members on the other: subdivision (a) punishes the former, while subdivision (b)(1) punishes the latter. (see albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 5556; people v. rodriguez (2012) 55 cal.4th 1125, 11381139.) subdivision (a) targets in concert with other gang members in committing a felony regardless of whether such felony was gang rodriguez, at p. 1138.) while it matter whether the perpetrators acted with a gang purpose, they must be active gang members. (id. at p. 1135; albillar, at pp. 5455; people v. castenada (2000) 23 cal.4th 743, 745749, 752, fn. 3 [ more than nominal, passive, inactive or purely technical ].) subdivision (b)(1), on the other hand, -related conduct, i.e., felonies committed with the specific intent to benefit, further, or promote the gangfelony was committed by gang members. (people v. rodriguez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 1138, id. at pp. 1130, 1139.) while the court cannot determine from the record on which theory the ensuing general verdict of guilt rested, the conviction cannot stand].) 22 perpetrators need not be active gang members, they must commit the crime for a gang purpose. the supreme court illustrated this distinction in albillar. in that case, the active supported the cacted in association with their gang. (albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60.) the gang expert testified that gang members may gain being with other members, committing crimes, so that [as the gang expert in ed within the group that this person is contributing to the gang or is still showing his heart and interest in the gang. ibidassist[ ] each other in committing gang membership ensure[s] that they cooperation in committing these crimes and that they cooperate with the police.id. at pp. 6162.) that these general rules applied in that case. [t]hree 20-something gang members, heavily tattooed with gang signs, assisted each other in raping a 15-year-old girl in their apartment, which was cluttered with gang paraphernalia including gang clothing, photographs of the defendants and fellow gang members wearing gang clothing and flashing gang signs, papers with gang graffiti, and a phone list of fellow gang members. [citperez, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at p. 608.) the victim initially refrained from reporting the crime because she feared the gang would come after her family. after she reported it, girlfriends of members of the 23 gang made threatening phone calls to the victim and her family. (albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 51, 53.) and unlike in this case, in which the prosecution presented avenue piru, the gang members in albillar were deeply enmeshed with tattoo across his chest and abdomen, in very large letters; albert had gang tattoos on his neck, back, and forearm, as well as a misspelled gang tattoo on his stomach; and madrigal had a gang tattoo on his f love for that gang and is continually representing the gang and his affiliation albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 62.) this evidence also aken together, amounted to substantial evidence that defendants came together as gang members to attack amanda m. and, thus, that they committed id. at pp. 6162.) in short, albillar does not support the proposition that alone is sufficient to show the gang.( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) the albillar court did not hold element of the enhancement was satisfied because the sex crimes were committed by three members of the same gang. instead, the court examined the way in which the offense was committed, the the way in which aspects of the offense provided evidentiary support for that testimony, the sbehavior reflecting her fear of gang retaliation if she reported the victim from cooperating in a prosecution. 24 if the perpetrators mere gang membership had been sufficient to establish the crime had been committed have needed to engage in such a detailed and exacting analysis. nor would the court have emphasized that [n]ot every crime committed by gang members albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60), together as gang members id. at p. 62), exceeded that which was necessary to establish that the offenses were committed in id. at p. 61). in this case, on the other hand, the evidence was insufficient to prove that roth and thomas as gang members steal $300 and two older-model mobile phones. barragan did not mention any of the factors emphasized by the albillar crime together, and left together. and unlike the abundant evidence in albillar, the evidence here was no evidence that cara or april knew roth and thomas were gang members; roth and thomas did not refer to their gang or make gang signs; and there was no evidence anyone relied upon the gang or its reputation to attempt to dissuade april or cara from contacting the police or from testifying against them.9 (compare people v. 9 we do not mean to suggest that the prosecution is required to prove the perpetrators of a crime called out or referred to their gang, wore gang colors or displayed gang tattoos or hand signs, or claimed responsibility for or bragged about the crime. these sorts of facts are 25 weddington (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 468, 485 [evidence supported -related where three defendants were active gang members, had gang tattoos, and people v. galvez (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1253, 1258, 12611261 [evidence -related where defendant was active gang member who, with two other active gang members, assaulted victim who was reporting a beating defendant and his cohorts were administering; t; and the crime was committed in a public place in gang territory]; people v. morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 11821183, review den. [in pre-albillar decision, evidence was sufficient where defendant testified that he was dealing drugs to the victims when the shooting occurred, committed the crime with two other gang members, and defendant had gang graffiti in his backyard and multiple gang tattoos].) brief is extremely testimony can constitute proof of a gang enhancement,10 the people cite a single case: livingston, supra, 53 cal.4th 1145. livingston does not assist us. there, a jury convicted livingston of the murders of two security guards and the attempted murder, several months earlier, of a rival gang member. the night livingston shot the security guards, he and two fellow gang relevant but not always necessary, depending on all of the circumstances of the case. 10 people v. vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1048. 26 members had argued with one of the guards about six hours earlier. (id. at pp. 11521154.) livingston had gang tattoos and was well known to the victims. (ibid.) when livingston shot the rival gang member a few months earlier, he was a passenger in a car with two fellow gang members. the victim and his fellow id. at p. 1150.) in affirming the gang enhancement, the supreme court reasoned the jury could have found the shooting of the security guards to be gang related even though the guards were not gang livingston, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1171.) a witness saw one of his fellow gang members nearby after livingston shot the guards. (id. at p. 1154.) the court also noted that same fellow gang member, as well as a third gang member, had been with livingston when he committed the driveby shooting of the rival gang member several months earlier. (id. at pp. 11711172.) the security guards had gang was in charge. (id. at p. 1172.) none of those factors is present in this case. because there is insufficient evidence to support the gang allegations, we reverse the true findings on the gang enhancements, to impose an authorized sentence.11 11 on remand, before resentencing defendant, the court should determine if the personal-use enhancements are supported by sufficient evidence in light of our reversal of the gang enhancements. 27 3. the court properly excluded testimony. roth contends the court abused its discretion by excluding the robbery. we disagree. 3.1. legal principles and standard of review only relevant evidence is admissible (evid. code,  350)and all relevant evidence is admissible unless excluded by the constitution or by statute (evid. code,  351; see cal. const., as discussed, the jury found the personal use allegations in section 12022.53, any person who, in the commission of a felony specified in subdivision (a) [including robbery], personally uses a firearm, shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for 10 years.not personally use a zero allegation that it provided in this section shall apply to any person who is a principal in the commission of an offense if both of the following are pled and proved: (a) the person violated subdivision (b) of section 186.22. (b) any principal in the offense committed any act specified in and thomas were both principals in the offense, and because thomas personally used a firearm within the meaning of subdivision (b), the enhancements could apply to roth ifand only ifroth also violated section 186.22, subdivision (b). as such, at sentencing, the court indicated it was sentencing roth under subdivisions (b) and (e) in addition, because the matter is remanded for reconsideration of the gun enhancements in light of our reversal of the gang enhancements, the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 620. 28 art. i,  28, subd. (d)). evidence is relevant if it has some evid. code,  credibilibid.; see evid. code,  780 [fact finder may consider matters relevant to the truthfulness of the witnesss testimony].) blish material facts such as identity, intent, or motive. people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1166.) a trial court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence, but has no discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (id. at pp. 11661167.) conversely, a matter is collateral if it has no logical bearing on any material, disputed issue. (people v. contreras (2013) 58 cal.4th 123, 152.) a fact may bear on the credibility of a witness and still be collateral to the case. (ibid.; see people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 5052 [holding that an inmate who testified for the prosecution about seeing a prison murder could not be impeached with evidence that he had lied in court about a murder he had been convicted of many years before], disapproved in part on other grounds by people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1216; people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 12911292 [not allowing prosecution witness who described alleged murderers incriminating statements to be impeached with his poor performance on juvenile probation even though it showed lax character]; people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9 [preventing prosecution witness who saw the murder from the roof of his apartment building from being impeached with 29 evidence disputing his claim that he had managements permission to be there].) broad discretion in assessing whether the probative value of particular evidence is outweighed by concerns of undue prejudice, empowers courts to prevent criminal trials from degenerating people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 374375.)12 discretion. (ibid.) 3.2. the court did not abuse its discretion. on cross-examination, counsel asked april who she spoke to about the robbery between when it occurred on august 23, 2013, and when she identified defendant from a six-pack on november 26, 2013. april replied that she had spoken to her sister cara, as well as her because she had to know what happened. i told my co-worker as well because when you get counsel followed up: anybody else? april to impeach this testimony. that april told her about the robbery. yee could not remember when they spokerobbery] happened 12 defendant does not claim that the exclusion of this evidence violated his constitutional right to present a defense. 30 the court excluded the evidence. first, the court ruled that s testimony was irrelevant because the court reasoned that the testimony .and: this is just a collateral matter. it is not anything that goes to their truth and veracity or what they saw and who they second, the court ruled that the probative value of the testimony was substantially outweighed by the undue consumption of time that would be required to recall april to explain her earlier testimony. (evid. code,  352.) we agree with the court below. april testified that she testimony was not inconsistent on this point. as such, the evidence was irrelevant under evidence code section 350. even assuming some relevance, however, the court did not abuse its testimony would be substantially outweighed by consumption of time under evidence code section 352. 4. roth forfeited the prosecutorial misconduct claim. roth argues the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during the defense closing argument by loudly objecting to a powerpoint slide and turning off the projector in we conclude that while the forfeited. 4.1. proceedings below before closing argument, the prosecutor objected to certain among them was a photograph of armond howard, an avenue piru member, 31 little mustache. though the prosecutor insisted the -party-culpability evidence, defense counsel explained the photograph was for illustrative purposes. (the eyewitness identifications were the primary issue in the case.) the court allowed the photograph on that basis. nevertheless, the prosecutor advised the trial court, [s], i have zero confidence that [defense counsel] is going to comply with them. so i am going to be sitting by the projector, and if i see something that your h but the allowed to ring the bell on hearings and rulings that are clearly beenand without any the court replied: let me just give you this small piece of advice, what i need to do about it. [] i will take whatever actions i have to do, including finding him in contempt, notifying the state bar, my job, okay? during the defense closing argument, counsel presented the 32 shut off the projector, and yelledy we party culpability argument here. he set up his argument by saying the girls testified about peach fuzz on the mustache. the court told the prosecutor it would tell tmustache, that is being used for illustrative purposes to show you what a mustache looked like, or a thin one. after excusing the jurors for a recess, the court admonished the prosecutor: i got to tell you that i thought the tone of your know why you have to yell out an objection in hink [defense counsel] crossed the line on that one. i think he was right within as the prosecutor continued to argue the point, defense counsel asked that the record reflect that when the prosecutor got up and shut off the 33 the court [ ] thought i directed you rather clearly not to touch the machine. to find yourself in trouble. i specifically said it is not in your prerogative or your scope of duties to decide what 4.2. forfeits the claim. to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument. a failure to timely object and request an admonition will be excused if doing either would have been futile, or if an admonition would not have cured people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1205.) here, roth concedes that he failed to request an admonition, but argues that an admonition would not have cured the harm. we disagree. an admonishment could have made a difference in this caseduring defense argument was consistent with his own closing argument, the theme of which an argument punctuated with the frequent admonishing the jury that defense counsel had done nothing wrong would not only have signaled to the jury that the prosecutor, not defense counsel, had acted inappropriately during the projector incident, but could also have tempered the that could have appeared to disparage defense counsel. 34 disposition the true findings on the gang allegations ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)) are reversed for insufficient evidence. the sentence is vacated and the matter is remanded with directions to hold a hearing, consistent with the views expressed in footnote 11, to determine whether in light of our reversal of the gang enhancements, there is still sufficient evidence to support the gun enhancements ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (e)). if the court concludes there is not sufficient evidence to support the gun enhancements, it should vacate and dismiss the allegations. the court should then dismiss the gang allegations and resentence roth in accordance with the views expressed in this opinion. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. upon resentencing, the court is instructed to amend the forward a copy of the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the clerk of this court is directed to send a certified copy of this opinion and the remittitur to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.272(d)(2).) not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j. 