filed 7/5/18 p. v. castillo ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus castillo, defendant and appellant. b276773 los angeles county super. ct. no. va121201 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, olivia rosales, judge. affirmed and remanded with instructions. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, shawn mcgahey webb, and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant jesus castillo of two counts of attempted murder. the jury did not find the crimes to be willful, deliberate, and premeditated. the jury found true allegations that castillo personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury to victim jose lopez, that he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm in the attempted murder of victim oscar lopez, and that he committed the crimes for the benefit of or in association with a criminal street gang. castillo challenges his conviction on a number of grounds. we find no error and therefore affirm. facts and procedural background in july 2011, jose lopez was living with his parents on violetta avenue in hawaiian gardens. jose has two brothers, oscar and eduardo.1 jose had known defendant jesus castillo for about five years. castillo had lived across the street with his sister and her husband manuel. about six months earlier, castillo had moved to a residence behind the lopez home. once jumped over the block wall separating the properties every day reet to his him, as were other people. the lopez family called the police several times about castillo and estrada cutting through their yard, and jose spoke with estrada about the problem, but to no avail. on july 1, 2011, jose and his brothers learned that castillo and estrada had thrown a bottle at their father. the three lopez 1 for clarity, we refer to the lopez brothers by their first names. we mean no disrespect. 3 brothers were in their garage drinking beer. jose and oscar decided to go across the street and speak with mabrother-in-law. manuel was outside by his gate; castillo and estrada were behind him. a third man, alexis uribe, was with them. the lopez brothers asked manuel to talk to castillo and estrada about jumping the fence. castillo, estrada, and uribe 2 jose had heard castillo and estrada claim the hawaiian gardens gang. jose had seen castillo and estrada hanging out with gang members with shaved heads and tattoos. garage. castillo, estrada, and uribe left, then returned an hour or two later. the threesome continued to mock the lopez brothers, making hand signs, calling them names, and laughing at them. the lopez brothers got in their car to go to the liquor store. when they returned about 20 minutes later, castillo and the lopez brothers parked and got out of the car. again, castillo, estrada, and uribe began to mock the lopez brothers, calling them names, making hand signs, and claiming hawaiian gardens. estrada began to challenge oscar, saying, down,oscar walked toward each other in the street. oscar hit estrada in the face. uribe moved from the sidewalk into the street, going toward oscar with his fists up. jose then ran toward uribe and hit him. neither jose nor oscar had any weapons. oscar started 2 an immigrant who does not speak english. 4 walking toward castillo, who was approaching the lopez brothers. jose was behind oscar. participated in the fighting up to that point. oscar then shouted castillo fired from about five feet away. jose lost feeling in his legs and fell to the ground. castillo and his two companions ran off. doke, one of the first to arrive, saw jose lying in the street and car said he and his brother had fought with three hispanic men and that he knew two of them. oscar told doke castillo had yelled, ,firing his gun. oscar showed doke two bullet holes in his shirt. detective kasey woodruff also spoke with oscar at the once oscar told woodruff that he knew who the perpetrators were, woodruff had oscar taken to the station to be interviewed. paramedics arrived, treated jose at the scene, then took him to the hospital. jose stayed in the hospital about a month, then spent two months in a rehabilitation facility. at the time of trial nearly five years later, jose still had no feeling in his left leg; he limps and needs a brace to walk. after jose and eduardo identified castillo and estrada in photographic linewants system. castillo and estrada eventually were apprehended in tulare county. while in tulare county, castillo 5 committed another crime. he was convicted and sentenced to life in prison in that case. the case proceeded to trial in may 2016. los angeles county hhawaiian gardens gang, on the back of his forearm. based on these tattooestrada has gang tattoos and, in his opinion, is a hawaiian gardens gang member. castillo testified on his own behalf. he admitted he fired a nine-millimeter at oscar and jose on july 1, 2011. when asked why, he answered, s, testified, okay. they were upset. we were not so upset. . . . when we turned away and decided to walk away, by the time i turned around [jose was] already punching s me. at that time is when i did feel scared at the time, so i reacted, pulled out the gun, fired four sestrada. 6 castillo testified he was a member of the hawaiian gardens gang rival gang members, but he did not throw gang signs at oscar and jose that day. castillo denied having called oscar and jose names. on cross-examination, castillo admitted he had told he was high on meth, that he did not have a gun, and that only oscar was coming at him while jose was still fighting uribe. castillo admitted he never told police, [l]ook, two guys oscar nor jose had a weapon. when asked by the prosecutor, castillo answered, the jury found castillo guilty of the attempted murder of jose and oscar. the jury found the allegation that the attempted murders were committed willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation to be not true. the jury found the gang allegation true as to both counts. it also found true allegations that castillo personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury to jose, and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm in the attempted murder of oscar. the court sentenced castillo to 40 years to life in the state prison, to be served concurrently with his life sentence in his tulare county case. castillo raises a number of issues on appeal. first, he contends the trial court should have modified calcrim no. 3472 on self- 7 -defense claim is not supported by substantial evidence. second, he argues the trial court should have modified calcrim no. 625 to permit the jury to comethamphetamine intoxication on the issue of imperfect self-deputy doke just after the shooting violated his confrontation clause rights. fourth, he contends the trial court should have dismissed two jurors who heard another juror make comments about the evidence. fifth, he asks us independently to review in camera brady3 rights to discovery were violated. sixth, he argues cumulative error requires reversal of his conviction. finally, castillo requests a limited remand under people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261 (franklin) so he can make a record of mitigating factors for a future youth offender parole hearing. we address each contention in turn. discussion 1. the trial court did not err in instructing the jury on contrived self-defense, and substantial evidence not act in actual or imperfect self-defense a. the instructions and closing arguments as noted, castillo admitted shooting at the lopez brothers but, he said, he acted in self-defense. at its jury instruction conference with counsel, the trial court stated it would give calcrim nos. 3470, 3472, and 3474. the court also said it manslaughter: imperfect self- 3 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83. 8 did he request any additional instructions. the court read those four instructions to the jury, along with all of the other applicable instructions, including calcrim no. 200. that instruction tells jurors that some instructions may not apply depending on their factual findings, that the court is not suggesting anything about the facts, and that jurors should follow the instructions that apply to the facts as the jurors find them. the elements of the crime and the respective credibility of the these in the prosecutor argued castillo was backing up estrada, his fellow gang member. the prosecutor continued, , is he doing it because of self-defense or did he do it because he was engaging in this provocation early on? and so i will submit to you he was in it from the get-go. there to inflict damage, especially when one of your homeys has the district attorney turned to the jury instructions, entitled to use that amount of force that a reasonable person would believe is necessary in the same situation. if the defendant used more force than was reasonable, the defendant did not act in lawful self- the prosecutor then moved on to calcrim no. 3472, arguing that because castillo, e 9 could not later say self- lcrim no. detectives in which jose said he and oscar went after castillo: e counsel reminded the jurors the people had to prove beyond a counsel said, castillo was high on methamphetamine. referring again to iyou provoke this from the get-- b. the trial court did not err in giving calcrim no. 3472 as written castillo contends the trial court was required to modify cal-self-defense if he or she provokes a fight or quarrel with the plain how the court should have modified the instruction. our caljic no. 5.55, correctly stated the law. (people v. enraca self-defense cannot be invoked by a defendant whose own 10 wrongful conduct created the circumstances in which the ; see also people v. eulian (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1324, 1332-1334 (eulian) castillo relies on people v. ramirez (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 940 (ramirez). there, two justices of the fourth district court of appeal concluded calcrim no. 3472 misstated the law under the facts of that case. in ramirez, three gang members decided to go and confront rival gang members who had been harassing them, driving by their house and shooting at it. at trial, some witnesses testified a rival gang member threw the first punch; [rival] group ramirez, at p. 944.) double- looked like had something black in his hand he reacted in self-id. at p. 945.) the appellate court concluded calcrim no. 3472, coupled sclosing arguments, misled the jury into believing that armando had no right to self-defense even after his adversary, rivera, (ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 945.) the third justice on the ramirez panel dissented. in his view, the trial court properly instructed the jury and substantial evidence showed armando rival gang members[;] he specifically intended, through the provoked fistfight, to have the 11 (id. at p. 956.) our colleagues in division five of this court considered the meaning and scope of ramirez in eulian. there, a shouting match between the defendant and the victim escalated. the victim slapped the defendant, raised her leg to kick him, and threw cat food at him. the defendant then grabbed the victim, yanked her from her car, threw her to the ground, and punched her several times. (eulian, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at pp. 1327-1328.) the jury convicted eulian of battery with serious bodily injury. (id. at pp. 1325-prejudicial error to instrucciting ramirez. (eulian, at p. 1326.) the court of appeal ramirez, [citation], we believe the opposite is true. calcrim no. 3472 is generally a correct statement of law, which might require modification in the rare case in which a defendant intended to provoke only a nondeadly confrontation and the victim responds with deadly (eulian, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1334.)4 this is not that rare case. here, the people presented substantial evidence that castillo and his fellow gang members mocked the lopez brothers (who were not gang members), provoking a fistfight, initially between estrada and oscar. 4 the bench notes for calcrim no. 3472 now instruct trial courts in precisely this language, citing both eulian and ramirez. (judicial council of cal. crim. jury instns. (2018) bench notes (bench notes) to calcrim no. 3472, p. 1007.) 12 castillo was not fighting anyone. according to his own testimony, when oscar and jose began to approach him, he pulled out his gun and fired at least four shots. this is not a case in which the victims resorted to deadly force, and castillo then used deadly force in response. the trial court properly instructed the jury with calcrim no. 3470; that instruction told the jurors castillo was allowed to use no more force than necessary and that, if he used more force than was reasonable, he did not act in lawful self-defense. the prosecutor argued this point in his closing: -defense instructions. and the -defense. . . . but where those instructions fall flat, ladies and gentlemen, are in the following two slides [apparently referring to a powerpoint presentation]: 1., the judge amount of force that a reasonable person would believe is necessary in that same situation. if the defendant used more force than was reasonable, the defendant did not act in lawful self- what does that mean? here, you oscar lopez going to roberto estrada and throwing one punch. roberto estrada is not completely knocked out per jose right? mr. uribe gets a quick one-two to himself. again, fisticuffs. . . . so even then you still have three gang members on two, but again we are talking about fists. and mr. castillo has just pulled out the ultimate weapon, a gentlemen. he has elevated the force. and because of that, 13 -defense -examination of castillo in which castillo admitted his devotion to his gang and conceded he had brought a gun to a fistfight. the questioning included this exchange: [the prosecutor]: you are using a weapon, a firearm, on two guys who have no weapons? castillo]: yes. [the prosecutor]: you, yourself, have elevated the level of force? [castillo]: yes. [the prosecutor]: right? because you are now bringing a gun to what has been a fistfight? castillo]: yes. while the prosecutor did argue in his closing that castillo was not entitled to claim self-defense because he, estrada, and uribe provoked the fistfight by mocking the lopez brothers, we conclude the trial court properly instructed the jury in light of the specific facts and circumstances of this case.5 while the lopez 5 calcrim no. instruction addresses situations in which the defendant engaged in mutual combat or was the initial aggressor who started the asked the court to give that instruction. the court nevertheless substantial evidence supporting it and either the defendant is bench notes, supra, to calcrim no. 3471, p. 1005.) while, again, the evidence showed and the prosecutor 14 brothers may have been approaching castillo to fight with him, they did not initiate the use of deadly force, and substantial the level of force beyond what was reasonable and necessary, did not act in lawful self-defense. c. substantial evidence -defense castillo also contends no reasonable jury could have -defense. when determining whether the evidence was sufficient to suse record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. salazar (2016) 63 cal.4th 214, 242.) we presume the existence of every fact the trier of fact reasonably could deduce from the evidence in support of the judgment. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) argued that the threesfistfight, there was no evidence that castillo hit anyone or that he engaged in mutual combat. instead, the evidence was that, as the lopezes began to approach him to fight him, he pulled out his gun and fired. 15 as we have discussed, substantial evidence supports the imperfect self-on direct and cross-examination, and judged his credibility. it was undisputed that neither of the lopez brothers had a weapon of any kind. castillo fired his nine-millimeter at the brothers from about five feet away. the jury reasonably could find an intent to kill from these facts. the jury also reasonably could find that castillo escalated the level of force beyond what was reasonable in a fistfight and that he did not sincerely believe in the need to defend himself when he shot at the lopez brothers at close range. 2. evidence of castiadmissible on the issue of imperfect self-defense as noted, castillo testified he was high on meth when he shot at the lopez brothers. the trial court instructed the jury effects on people v. soto (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 884 (soto). however, as castillo acknowledges in a letter submitted on may 4, 2018, on april 30, 2018, our supreme soto. (4 cal.5th 968.) in that case, the defendant soto killed the victim in a knife fight. soto testified he had been smoking methamphetamine all day. the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 625. 16 the jury from considering evidence of voluntary intoxication on the question of whether he believed he needed to act in self-[he] (soto, supra, 4 cal.5th at pp. 970, 973.) the supreme court rejected that contention. the court noted that penal code section 29.4 defendant did not harbor implied malice . . . because he actually but unreasonably believed in the need to act in self-d(soto, at p. 978.) decided, for policy reasons, that evidence of voluntary intoxication is irrelevant to proof of certain mental states. the (id. at p. 981.) for those reasons, the court held, the trial court in soto (ibid.) accordingly, the trial court here did not err by giving calcrim no. 625 as written. 3. sometime between the shooting in july 2011 and the trial in may 2016, oscar lopez moved to mexico. accordingly, he did 6 as noted, 6 generally, but he never asserted that oscar was available, nor did 17 the trial court permitted first responder deputy doke to testify doke testified he spoke with oscar first as, or just after, oscar was yelling for help while standing over his brother, who panicked during the second conversation. in response to defense shot as well . . . . there. he was ahead of his brother, who was shot, and he just ened statements to doke qualified as spontaneous declarations under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36. castillo contends 240 before or during trial. in any event, the evidence that oscar had left california for mexico was uncontroverted; thus he was code,  240, subd. (a)(4).) 18 davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813 (davis). we disagree.7 oscar, on his own, began to tell him. for our purposes, it does not matter. an assailant, accompanied by two other men, had shot the victim a number of times, then had run away. possible assailants on the loose with a nine-millimeter semiautomatic weapon.8 asking oscar if he knew any of the assailants or if they said anythingtherefore apprehend the shooter. our facts are similar to those in michigan v. bryant (2011) 562 u.s. 344. there, officers were called to the scene of a shooting. police found the wounded victim lying on the ground. they asked him what had happened and who had shot him. (id. at p. 349 rickhad shot him, and he described the shooting. the conversation lasted five t primary purpose 7 castillo also contends oscar was the sole witness who said subject to cross-had claimed hawaiian gardens in the past and that they threw hand signs and claimed their gang on the afternoon and evening in question. 8 deputy gary goodban testified he found four 9-millimeter bullet casings at the scene. 19 davis. (bryant, at p. 349.) justice sotomayor noted, when police arrived and found the wounded victim, they did not know where the perpetrator was or whether he was still armed. (id. at p. 372.) with the victim occurred in a public place, in an informal setting, id. at p. 360.) (see also people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1288-suspects and relating events shortly after shooting were not testimonial; conversation took place outside store where shooting one of whom presumably was still armed with a gun, remained at large and posed an immediate threat to officers responding to the people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 420-necessary for them to assess and deal with the situation, including taking steps to evaluate potential threats to others by people v. nelson (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1453, 1467 description of events to officers answering 911 call and identification to firefighter of defendant as assailant were not danger from the shooter, there was still a possibility that the unidentified shooter could pose an immediate threat to other 20 testimonial and therefore their admission at trial did not violate lause rights. 4. the trial court did not violarights by declining to discharge two jurors or declare a mistrial a. two jurors report overheard remarks and the trial court investigates for estrada. during the defense case, the lunch recess and told the judge they had heard three white, male, elderly jurors talking about the case in the hallway. the court questioned the two reporting jurors separately. blue juror about the case, about the tattoos, mention[ed] hawaiian gardens. asked exactly what the men had said, blue juror no. 2 replied, the juror [t]the juror said one man made that statement and the other two of them were having a discussion amongst themselves and they conversing jurors appearance. (as noted, castillo has gang tattoos on his face.) . . . in particular he was just hawaiian gardens gang. . . . i felt he already came to a 21 had not said that castillo was guilty. blue juror no. 11 said she time based on how court permitted counsel to ask questions of blue jurors nos. 2 and 11. based on further questioning, the court determined the juror who had been making these statements in the hallway was red juror no. 12. the court then questioned red juror no. 12. he denied having spoken with other jurors about the case. juror no. 12 hawaiian gardens gang. next, the judge questioned blue jury alternate no. 2. when asked if the three jurors had talked about just kind of complaining about the case. . . going to take been no mention of tattoos or the hawaiian gardens gang. the about whether they believe mr. castillo had been in a gang the court next questioned red juror no. 11. he said there had been no talk about the facts of the case, tattoos, the that he had left the gang. the court . . . what was the , lk about old times where 22 recall talking to blue jury alternate no. 2 about anything. the after discussing the proposed process with counsel, the court then questioned each remaining juror and alternate juror individually.9 red jurors nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, and 10 and alternate jurors nos. 1 and 2 said they had not heard anyone talking about the facts of the case, tattoos, or hawaiian gardens, nor had they heard anyone imply that he already had made up his mind. three jurors said they heard the men talking about cars. several jurors said they had been down the hall or listening to a podcast. red juror no. 6, when asked if he had heard any jurors justtoday, but nothing as far as any of the facts or any of that kind of juall kind of questioning the two-jury thing. seems to know 9 the court questioned each of the blue jury jurors individually as well. blue jurors nos. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 12 and alternate juror no. 1 all confirmed they did not hear anyone talking about the case. 23 no. 12 had said anything about hawaiian gardens, tattoos, or asked who was talking about cars, juror no. 6 said he had talked about his 1964 chevelle, then the other juror (again, apparently, no. 12) had talked about a 1969 ford pickup. when the court again asked if juror no. 12 had said anything about tattoos, juror in a gang anymore whyyou know you can get tattoos taken off. [10], why or something like that. and how comewonder why he g[t]here was another gentleman there, but he was just kind of sitting on the same bench with -in-law had a good friend who was a bailiff in downey and the juror had asked his son-in-law if he had ever heard of a two-jury trial. the those once in a whor anything. . . . the court admonished juror no. 6 and instructed him not to speculate as to why . judge they had no questions for juror no. 6. after questioning all of the jurors, the court told counsel it was inclined to dismiss juror no. 12 because he had violated a 10 prison. 24 enying having made not excuse the jurors who were with him because i think they for the most part were talking about other things and never nse, they t say anything, so and the entire, almost the entire jury did not hear that. i think juror no. 6 was the only one that heard that. jurors [no.] 6, [blue jury alternate no.] 2, and [no.] 11 were the only ones who heard those kinds of comments. i think the rest of the jury, including . . . [red] juror no. 6 . . . appear to be able to be fair and about juror no. 11. the court listed the four jurors in question: red jurors nos. 6, 11, and 12 and blue jury alternate no. 2. denied the motion. the court then replaced red juror no. 12 with an alternate and the trial proceeded. b. analysis e (people v. loker (2008) 44 cal.4th 691, 746-747 (loker), quoting people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269, 302 (danks (loker, 25 at p. 747, quoting danks at p. 303.) (lokermisconduct is a mixed question of law and fact. we review legal (ibid.) before opening statements, the trial court instructed the te about this case with anyone. do not talk about this case with anyone, including your close loved ones, including each other and anyone that is outside in the hallway. if anyone tries to speak with you while you are out there waiting or downstairs or leaving the building or coming to the building, please do not talk to them about the facts of the case. do not let them talk to you either. and let us know if someone does try to tattoos and gang membership, red juror no. 12 plainly violated the court then conducted an extensive inquiry, questioning each member of both juries separately, even permitting counsel to question the jurors directly.11 the trial court looked at, listened to, and judged the credibility of each of the jurors. while red juror no. 6 was not immediately forthcoming about what juror no. 12 had said, he eventually gave the court a full account. neither juror no. 6 nor juror no. 11 said anything in response tcomments, nor did either of them express any views of their own about the tattoos or gang evidence. having reviewed the entire 11 a court has no obligation to permit counsel to question jurors during an investigation of possible misconduct. (people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466, 485.) 26 people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 809), we conclude the trial court did not err in finding no substantial likelihood of juror bias. (cf. loker, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 748-749 [jurors committed misconduct by ption of prejudice likelihood that defendant suffered actual harm].) 5. our independent review of the in camera hearing reveals no brady or discovery violation on may 6, 2016, as jury selection was beginning, the trial court conducted an in camera proceeding (in two parts) with the deputy district attorney. the court ordered the transcript of the asks us independently to review the proceedings to determine if tutory rights. we have done so. we conclude castillo was not entitled to the information the prosecutor presented to the court during the in camera proceeding. 6. castillo argues that the cumulative effect of all the errors he claims requires reversal. as discussed above, we have found analysis] is whether the defendant received due process and a fair trial. accordingly, we review each allegation and assess the cumulative effect of any errors to see if it is reasonably probable the jury would have reached a result more favorable to defendant 27 (people v. kronemyer (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 314, 349.) we have done so, and conclude castillo received a trial that was fair and comported with due process. 7. limited remand for franklin hearing castillo was 19 years old when he committed these crimes. the jury returned its verdicts on may 19, 2016, and the court sentenced castillo on august 4, 2016. in the interim, on may 26, 2016, the california supreme court decided franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 261. there, the court held that a youth offender, as opportunity at sentencing to make a record of mitigating evidence (franklin, at p. 269.) the attorney general argues here that castillo had a sufficient opportunity to make a record for his parole hearing 25 years hence. the attorney general notes use in asking for a concurrent sentence. but, as castillo points memorandum or any documencharacter and circumstances. the record does not reflect whether the court received or considered a presentence report from the probation department. given that franklin had been decided only two months earlier and it lawyer was aware of his right to present information relevant to an eventual youth offender parole hearing, we remand this case the kinds of information [the statutes] deem relevant in a youth id. at p. 284.) 28 disposition the case for the limited purpose of a franklin hearing. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 