 filed 5/29/18 p. v. vuong ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hung si vuong, defendant and appellant. b276627 los angeles county super. ct. no. ka110002 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed with directions. maggie shrout, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and victoria b. wilson and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant hung si vuong of first degree residential burglary and found true an allegation that another person was present in the residence at the time. that the trial court erred in denying his last minute oral motion to continue the trial so he could fire his lawyer and retain new counsel. we find no error and therefore affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the charges, pretrial proceedings, and readiness for trial in 2015 the people charged vuong with first degree residential burglary in violation of penal code section 459. the people alleged another person was present in the residence when the crime was committed. the people also alleged vuong had suffered four prior strike convictions within the meaning of in california in 2004, and three burglaries in hawaii in 1995 and 1996. 2015. his privately-retained attorney michael k. jones represented him at the hearing. at the conclusion of the hearing, the court held vuong to answer and set his arraignment for october 1, 2015. on october 1, vuong appeared with jones and orally moved to continue the arraignment. the court granted that motion and continued the arraignment to november 3, 2015. on november 3, vuongrepresented by jonesentered a not guilty plea. the court set a trial date of january 5, 2016. on december 21, 2015, jones filed a motion to dismiss the burglary charge under penal code section 995. vuong and jones appeared that same day for a readiness hearing. the docket [b]oth parties announce[d] ready to proceed to 3 on january 5, 2016, the parties appeared in department f proceed. by order of the supervising judge, this court, acting as a master calendar court[,] hereby transfers this matter to department east h for jury trial and all further proceedings. all the prosecutor, jones, and vuong then appeared in department h. the court gave a tentative ruling on the motion to dismiss, the parties submitted on the tentative, and the court denied the motion. 2. to delay his trial after the court denied the section 995 motion, it broached the subject of settlement. at that juncture, the parties and the court believed the case to be a third strike case, in which vuong was facing a possible sentence of 25 years to life or more.1 the 3 years.2 the prosecutor and jones then explained the status of the disposition discussions. the parties found true, would require vuong to serve 85 rather than 80 1 in post-trial proceedings, the court determined the people 2 jones explained the calculation of the 13 years: vuong would receive the midterm of four years for the first degree burglary, doubled because of one strike prior, plus a five-year prior under penal code section 667(a)(1). 4 percent of his sentence. the court thenpermissionaddressed vuong directly. the court explained there be limited if vuong were found guilty and his strike priors were found true. the court asked vuong if he understood and vuong the court then asked that now that the court ha[d] vuong did not immediately answer that question and the court explained again, in slightly different words, what it had told vuong. the and you have a constitutional right to have a trial. both sides are ready to go. i am ready to go. we have jurors that we can begin calling so we can talk to them and see which 12 are going to like to have something to say to the witness and the d.a. i am 50 years old. now, i wasall these years, i was very ignorant of the law. all my life i have been incarcerated twice. my first conviction all of my life . . . . the court interrupted vuong, seemingly concerned that he might say something incriminating. the court reiterated that vuong would be wise to confer with his counsel and consider his the few minutes that i have had an opportunity to exchange with our own decision and do that with an open mind. and if we march on with the trial, you are knowing that you made the right decision to move 5 open until jurors were called into the courtroom. she added that the prosecution had its offer; she had believed 17 years to be an appropriate offer, she said, but jones had persuaded her to reduce that offer to 13 years. she the court jury trial and the importance of the decision he had to make. the vuong i am trying to express my feelings to you as a d.a. reminded vuong that he (jones) had conveyed to the prosecutor had rejected that counteroffer. jones reminded vuong that the 3 jones asked the prosecutor if said, o. the court then asked vuong about the nine-year sentence he had received in his earlier residential burglary case. vuong 3 that counteroffer presumably would have required the s well as 6 suggesting a time-served counteroffer was not realistic given my consideration. i am asking for your consideration regarding my last offense. the last offense was that i have the max. everything was wrapped up in one month withoutbecause i put completely trust in my lawyer. and that was a 6-year offer with half to me by the public defender. the very first offer. now my lawyer concealed that offer to me [sic the court responded, the interview room and have a little bit more conversation with i am ready to go to at the same time, i would like to fire my lawyer. so if you can give me some time to obtain another lawyer. is that all right vuong repeated, time ready to go to trial, sir. you are asking this right onand you disagree with your attorney or [are] vuong responded[y]ou have a right to an attorney, and you can fire your attorney, i think, pretty much at any time except if it interferes with the orderly process of the proceedings. but your attorney is not here to tell you what you want to hear, sir. the attorney is here to tell you what he feels is his experience, and i have to believe that 7 probably almost any attorney is gonna tell you something the court reiterated it was trying to ensure vuong aware of this. i would like to take take me to trial. thatvuong if he had the money to hire another lawyer and vuong said, es. in response to twould talk to another attorney; then he said he had talked to another attorney, one of his prior lawyers named joe. jones then told the court that joseph gutierrez had been involved in the case at some point before vuong hired jones. was a decision made to have me come on the case. and i have had regular contact. i spoke with him this morning about this actually referenced something with the people perhaps mr. gutierrez acting as co-counsel, and as we got closer and closer to this event that became unrealistic because he was tied up in in that court. the court said it understood gutierrez was engaged in another matter; jones responded that gutierrez was the court asked the prosecutor her position. she said the people objected to delaying the trial. after a short break, the defendant is represented by a retained counsel, the court must allow a great deal of leeway in allowing the defendant to be represented by counsel of his choice. however, the right of a defendant to appear and defend with counsel of his own choice is not absolute. [a] [c]ontinuance may be denied if the accused is 8 unjustifiabl[y] dilatory in obtaining counsel or if he arbitrarily chooses to substitute counsel at the time of trial. [] just so that the record is clear, this case came on calendar in . . . department f. [the] [m]atter was set previously for trial on this date. both sides announced ready to go to trial. at no time was there mention by mr. vuong that he wanted to substitute counsel. more importantly, the court reviewed the file. defendant was arrested on april 30, 2015, nearly eight months ago. mr. joseph gutierrez, the attorney you mentioned earlier, appeared once, [] that was [on] june 30th, 2015. that was the one and only e court continued: the court noted jones had handled the preliminary hearing as well as hearing had been more than three months earlier and jones had made three appearances in the case since then. the court stated, bstitute counsel. today is job by giving vuong his evaluation of the case. the court said, think, buy more time for know what the reason is[.] i good faith effort in hiring another attorney. this has been your attorney from the beginning. you had plenty [of] opportunity to substitute attorneys. and you have had months to do that, sir. and now you are choosing to do this on the date of trial when 9 witnesses and inconvenient to the court and the orderly process the court asked vuong if he would like to say anything. vuong said he had been about his case. the court then stated it was because it was untimely and was prosecution to accept something that the prosecution is not going 3. the trial, new trial motion, and sentencing the trial went forward. because vuong does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence or any rulings at the trial itself, we summarize the evidence only briefly. on april 30, 2015, around 11:00 a.m., armand vargas left his townhome to take his mother to the hairdresser. he returned home less than an hour later. vargas drove into his garage, walked across his covered patio, and went into the townhome through a sliding glass door. vargas noticed the glass door was open about 12 inches. he heard footsteps upstairs. vargas walked quietly around the kitchen and living room for a few minutes. he went to the base of the stairs where there was a mirror to see if he could see anything, but he could not. then he went back outside, into the alley, and called 911. as vargas was talking to the 911 operator, vuong came vuong to see vargas. seeing that vargas was on the at 10 townhome that was under construction. after this brief exchange with vargas, vuong started to walk briskly around the corner. officer davis reyes arrived and found vuong in a white van near the show up and vargas identified vuong as the man he had seen coming out of his patio. vargas did not find any of his property missing. on january 12, 2016, the jury found vuong guilty of first degree true. after a priors trial, the jury found the allegations of vuong retained antony myers to represent him in post-trial proceedings. on june 2, 2016, myers filed a motion for a new motion for a continuance. on july 7, 2016, the trial court denied the motion and sentenced vuong to state prison for 18 years, calculated as the upper term of six years, doubled because of the california strike prior, plus a five-year prior under penal code section 667(a)(1)4, plus a one-year prison prior for the hawaii case under penal code section 667.5(b). 4 indicate the court imposed the five years under penal code section 667.5(a). this appears to be an error. the information filed october 1, 2015, alleged five-year priors under section 667(a)(1) for the 2004 california burglary and the hawaii burglaries, as well as one-year prison priors under section 667.5(b). section 667.5(a) provides for a three-year, not five-year, prior. we will remand for clarification and correction of the sentence. 11 discussion eal is that the trial court violated his federal and state constitutional rights by denying his request on the day of trial to fire jones and hire gutierrez or another lawyer. a criminal defendant has a due process right to appear and defend with retained counsel of his choice. (people v. lara (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 139, 152 (lara).) confidence in his lawyer is vital to his defense. his right to decide for himself who best can conduct the case must be people v. courts (1985) 37 cal.3d 784, 789 (courts).) california has long recognized the right of a criminal defendant who is not indigent to discharge his retained attorney, with or without cause. (people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983 (ortiz).) osubstantial importance to trial courts, including the speedy determination of criminal charges,the state should ke [citation.] (id. at p. 982.) s retained ortiz, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. [citation], or if it is not timely, i.e., if [citations.]ibid.) 12 interest against which the sixth amendment right provides explicit protection: the interest in proceeding with prosecutions on an orderly and expeditious basis, taking into account the assembling the witnesses, lawyers, and jurors at the same place at the same time. id. at pp. 983984, citation omitted. see also people v. verdugo (2010) 50 (citation omitted)]; people v. keshishian (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 425, 428 (keshishian).) continuance to permit a defendant to be represented by retained people v. jeffers (1987) 188 cal.app.3d 840, (courts, supra, 37 cal.3d at pp. 790791.) the denial of a continuance was so arbitrary as to violate due process, the reviewing court looks to the circumstances of each particularly in the reasons presented to the trial judge at the time the request [was] denied. [citations.]id. at p. 791; see also people v. blake (1980) 105 cal.app.3d 619, 624 (blake) whether a defendant shall be granted a continuance to obtain private ather each case ) lawyer, coupled with his request for a continuance, was untimely. it was made on the day trial was to commence. nothing in the record suggests vuong had made a good faith, diligent effort to substitute retained counsel in the months leading up to trial. vuong had the opportunity for many weeks to substitute retained 13 counsel if he wished, but he did not. nor did he ever present the trial court with any reasons for waiting until the day of trialafter settlement negotiations had failedto ask to delay the and continue the case so he could hire gutierrez or someone else was made in the midst of a failed plea negotiation, after he extraordinarly low-ball offer of one year in custody or credit for time served. (cf. people v. lau (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 473, 477replace his retained counsel as jury selection was to begin; court noted defendant was unhappy with his lawyer who urged him to accept plea deal].) under these circumstances, the trial court properly found vuong unjustifiably delayed his request to substitute retained counsel until the day of trial, after both parties repeatedly had answered ready, witnesses had been subpoenaed, a trial court had been assigned (thereby rendering that court unavailable for other ready trials), and jurors ordered. (see blake, supra, 105 cal.app.3d at pp. 623his own counsel is required to act with diligence and may not demand a continuance if he is unjustifiably dilatory or if he arbitrarily desires to substitute counsel at the time of the the trial court was properly concerned about the untimeliness of obvious inability of new counselwho had not even been retained, much less appeared in the courtroomto step in without delaying the trial. we agree with t continuing the trial under the circumstances would have adversely affected the orderly administration of justice. (see people v. johnson (1970) 5 cal.app.3d 851, 859; cf. keshishian, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at 14 pp. 428429 [court properly denied defendant-minute was made on day set for trial; defendant said only that he had identified nor retained new counsel; witnesses whose appearances already had been scheduled would be inconvenienced by delay].) constitutional rights to counsel of his choice or to due process.5 5 on april 23, 2018, the day this case was submitted for submitted a letter brief bringing to our attention people v. lopez (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 40, issued april 11, 2018. lopez applied existing law, including lara and keshishian, and does not change our result here. in that case, the defendant, charged with nine felony counts of sexual assault against two minor victims, asked at a final readiness conference to replace his retained attorney and continue the trial. (idhis attorney told the court he had had difficulty meeting with his client because of counsel said he had not been retained for trial. (id. at p. 180.) a settlement offer was pending, and the court of appeal noted (id. at pp. 181, 184.) the prosecutor did not object to lo (id. at p. 185.) and the trial court did not believe lopez had any (id. at p. 184.) here, by contrast, the parties had exhausted settlement discussions and vuong appeared annoyed that his lawyer had not been able to obtain the time-served or minimal-custody-time offer he wanted from the prosecutor or the court. the prosecutor did object to postponing the trial. and the trial court found vuong was not acting in good faith. 15 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. we remand to the trial court for correction of the code section under which the court imposed the five-year prior. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 