filed 10/30/17 p. v. hernandez-ochoa ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos hernandez-ochoa, defendant and appellant. b276257 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va137169) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. roger t. ito, judge. affirmed. john a. colucci, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted carlos hernandez-ochoa (defendant) of first degree murder for stabbing his cousin near the bank of the los angeles river. on appeal, he argues that his conviction must be overturned because (1) the trial court erred in limiting his (2) the prosecutor mischaracterized the law in her closing argument, and (3) the trial court may have erred in conducting an in camera hearing regarding a prosecution witness. we conclude there was no error, and affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts in the early morning hours of july 30, 2011, someone stabbed francisco rivera approximately 40 times in the head, neck, and chest and left him to die in a pool of his own blood on a bike path beside the los angeles river. more than three years the pool of blood, and on cigarette butts near his body to defendant. surveillance video also showed a truck like ene the night of the killing. when defendant was arrested and placed in a jail cell with two undercover police officers, he told the officers that he used that he also cut himself a few times with the knife during the attack. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),1 and further alleged that he 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)). the jury found defendant guilty as charged and found the weapon allegation to be true. the trial court sentenced defendant to 26 years to life, comprised of 25 years to life for the murder plus an additional year for the weapon enhancement. defendant filed this timely appeal. discussion i. limitation on expert witness testimony defendant argues that the trial court violated his constitutional right to present a defense by precluding his forensic expert from testifying that there may have been two right to present a defense is not violated if a trial court adheres to the rules of evidence (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 305), his claim turns on whether the court abused its discretion in excluding this testimony (people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 426). evidence code section 801 limits the opinion testimony an expert witness may offer: to be admissible, an expert opinion nd common experience that the opinion . . . would assist the trier of fact,on matter . . . that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject . . . . (evid. code,  801.) this section operates to make sargon enterprises, inc. v. university of southern california (2012) 55 cal.4th 747, 770.) here, the trial court issued a pretrial ruling permitting the 4 with the use of two different knives, but precluding her from testifying that there was more than one assailant. absent evidence that wounds from the two different knives were inflicted simultaneously (and thus by two different people wielding the two different knives at the same time), the court ruled, an opinion that there was more than one assailant was pure speculation because it was cope of anybody in so ruling, the court did not abuse its discretion. wounds seeming to come from two different knives could have been inflicted by one person with two knives or by two people with separate knives; without more, selecting between the two scenarios is guesswork. the soundness of the further confirmed by ubsequent acknowledgment, during cross-examination, that the two different types of wounds she relied upon to opine that there was more than one knife could, in fact, be inflicted by the same knife. ii. prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct during her closing argument by (1) mis-describing the everyday examples to explain the concept of deliberation and premeditation underlying the first degree murder instruction. we review claims of prosecutorial misconduct for an abuse of discretion. (people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 792-793.) prosecutorial misconduct can violate federal or state guarantees of due process. federal due process is denied if the conviction a denpeople v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 568.) due process under state law is denied 5 se of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the trial ibid.) a prosecutor may commit misconduct during closing argument, but only when context of the whole argument and the instructions, [citation], there was a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner.people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 130.) although defendant did not properly preserve his claims of prosecutorial misconduct because he did notas to either alleged instance of misconductmake a timely objection and request an admonition ( (2016) 62 cal.4th 944, 1010), we have the discretion to overlook this forfeiture and reach the merits of his claims.2 we consider each claim separately. a. mis- during her closing argument, the prosecutor explained that abiding conviction that the charges are true. it is not proof beyond all possible doubt, but beyond a reasonable she then turned to a discussion of how witness testimony is to be hen we talk about witnesses, you are going to focus on how reasonable the testimony is considering all the evidence. how well those witnesses could see. how consistent or inconsistent the statements were. was the testimony influenced standard jury instructions pertaining to proof beyond a 2 this obviates any claim of ineffective assistance of counsel for not properly preserving the error. 6 reasonable doubt and evaluation of witness testimony (see calcrim nos. 220 [reasonable doubt], 226 [witness testimony]), defendant argues that her discussion of the law governing witness testimony immediately after the law defining proof beyond a reasonable doubtand, in particular, her use of the garding witness testimonycould be construed as telling the jury that a finding evidence standard, in contravention of people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 672-674. although centeno id. at p. 672, italics omitted; accord, people v. ellison (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 1342, 1353), the such suggestion. the prosecutor how after telling it that she was reasonable likelihood that the jury misconstrued her comments about reasonable assessment of witnesses as committing the sin condemned in centenoequating a reasonable view of all the evidence with proof beyond a reasonable doubt. what is more, the prosecutor prefaced all of her comments with the proviso that oint that is different from the law and the instructions the court has given you, you follow what the law, what there was no error.3 3 for the first time in his reply brief, defendant asserts that [a]ll those elements lead you to only one reasonable verdict in this case, and that is that 7 b. use of improper analogies during her closing argument, the prosecutor argued that d premeditated (and hence first degree murder). in so doing, she parroted the instruction that can be reached quicklythe speed with which a calculated decision can be made. first, -premeditation and deliberation when deciding whether and how e if you go at the stop sign. you go. you look. you think about whether or not you can go without getting hit by any other vehicles, and you move forward. for the defensive lineman. he has to look for [the] safety. he has to look for who is he going to throw the ball at. is he going to throw left? right? is he going to go far? is he going to just run and it takes a lastly, she saidou can also think of it in terms of baseball. when that [batter] gets that ball . . . he has to decide defendant asserts that the stop sign and baseball analogies run afoul of cases barring prosecutors from telling jurors that the that arguments raised for the first time in a reply brief are waived (people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 197), this argument lacks merit because there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury would somehow equate any mention of the word 8 customarily use in deciding making people v. nguyen (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 28, 36; people v. johnson (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 976, 984-986; people v. johnson (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 1169, 1172; see generally people v. brannon (1873) 47 cal. 96, 97.) we reject this assertion for two reasons. first, the g them to define the concepts of premeditation and deliberation. accordingly, the cases defendant citesand the principle they embodyare inapplicable. second, the analogies are not improper on their own merits. careful weighing of considerations (people v. salazar (2016) 63 cal.4th 214, people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 424). the process of premeditation and deliberation does not require any extended period of timethe extent of the reflection, not the length of time.salazar, at p. 245; people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767, overruled in part on other grounds in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 390.) each of the analogies the prosecutor offered involve an actor who was carefully weighing considerations in advance of making a decision; none of the actors was making a reflexive decision. in ument that paraphrased comments if they conflicted with the instructions, we conclude it was not error for the prosecutor to use the analogies she used. 9 iii. in camera hearing prior to trial, the prosecutor advised defen attorney that one of the two undercover officers who had been placed in the jail cell with defendant when he incriminated himself had been relieved from duty but subsequently reinstated. pitchess [v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess) motion]recording and because the officer wrote no reports that could be impeached, but nevertheless asked the trial court to conduct an in camera hearing with the officer to ascertain whether the reason for the relief from duty constituted impeachment evidence under brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady). the court . . . brady type discovera we independently review whether a so-called brady violation has occurred. (people v. letner and tobin (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 176.) brady impeachment evidence, (2) material to the outcome of the trial, and (3) not disclosed by the prosecution (or, in this case, the court). (people v. superior court (johnson) (2015) 61 cal.4th 696, 709-710 (johnson).) we have examined the transcript from the in camera hearing, and independently conclude that the reasons underlying the officers temporary relief from duty do not fall within the definition of brady material. defendant invites us to conduct a far broader inquiry, asserting that the prosecutor was effectively making a pitchess motion in encouraging the trial court to conduct an in camera hearing for brady material. we decline this invitation. to begin, it is 10 pitchess motion. more to the point, pitchess motions are governed by the statutory procedures for examining and disclosing the personnel records of law enforcement officers set forth in evidence code sections 1040 through 1047; those procedures are mandatory and must be followed. (davis v. city of sacramento (1994) 24 cal.app.4th 393, 401, these records].) further, a motion by the prosecutioneven if one had been made in this casewould not have entitled the defense to the fruits of that motion. (johnson, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 719.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst _________________________, j. chavez 