filed 2/7/18 p. v. bai ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. xiao ye bai, defendant and appellant. b276076 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga075332) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jared d. moses, judge. affirmed and remanded. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 xiao ye bai appeals from his judgment of conviction of murder and attempted murder. appellant argues that the court abused its discretion in ordering him restrained during trial and failed to instruct the jury on voluntary and attempted voluntary manslaughter. appellant also argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct. in his supplemental brief, he asks that we remand the cause for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike or dismiss the firearm use enhancements. we remand the cause for that purpose; in all other respects we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural summary around 10 p.m. on december 4, 2008, the victims, zhe li and xiao ming liu, were at a private party at a restaurant in san gabriel. at the party, liu received a phone call, during which he at the other end of the line. afterwards, meng zhang, another partygoer who had met appellant before, saw him outside the restaurant with three other men. appellant told zhang it was his birthday and he had been drinking. he also said he was looking --- appellant moved a gun from the front to the back of his belt. back inside the restaurant, zhang passed liu, who was heading out with a glass in his hand. liu looked angry, and zhang took the glass away from him. there were many individuals outside the restaurant, including some from the party the victims were attending. the victims argued with a group that included appellant and between two and five other individuals. some of those present tried to stop the argument. a brief fight, lasting seconds, broke out between appellant stood a 3 short distance away and was not involved in the fight, but started shooting nevertheless. liu was wounded twicein the arm and pelvic area. li was shot nine times, resulting in ten wounds, and died at the scene. some of his wounds were consistent with shots fired from behind and from above, after li had turned and fallen face down on the ground. the lack of residue was consistent with shots fired from a distance. the bullets were smith & wesson caliber .40. a beretta pistol and ammunition clips capable of firing such bullets were recove in las vegas, but the barrel of the gun had been replaced. photographs and videos found on imilar handgun and posing with guns. (some photographs also showed a lobster holding handguns and appellant holding the lobster.) three witnesses, who were at the party with the victims and had met appellant before, identified him as the shooter. in 2015, appellant was charged with the murder of li (pen. code,  187,1 count 1) and the premeditated attempted murder of liu ( 187, 664, count 2). personal use and discharge of a firearm, as well as discharge causing great bodily injury, were alleged as to both counts. ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d).) a separate enhancement for causing great bodily injury was later stricken. ( 12022.7.) a multiple murder special circumstance, based on a 2012 murder conviction in nevada, was alleged as to count 1. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(2).) 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 4 mother and godmother presented an alibi. the godmother testified that on the evening of the shooting, appellant had been at her house to celebrate his birthday and had mother confirmed th and testified appellant had stayed at her house the rest of the night. yet, godmother previously had told police that appellant left her house with a friend, and his mother had not previously mentioned the alibi. the defense also elicited testimony from a witness at the restaurant, who had told police that he had seen four or five people fight one asian man, but the witness did not know if appellant or the victims had been involved in the fight, or whether the fight had anything to do with the shooting. according to the witness, he heard shots about five seconds after he saw the fight. the jury convicted appellant of first degree murder and premeditated attempted murder, and found the firearm allegations ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)) to be true. appellant admitted his prior murder conviction. he was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d) (count 1), and life with the possibility of parole, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under the same subdivision (count 2). the enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c) were stayed.2 appellant was credited 2 the abstract of judgment does not reflect the enhancements imposed under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). we correct this clerical error on our own motion. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 186187.) 5 with 1,498 days of presentence custody and assessed fines and fees. discussion i appellant argues he was prejudiced by the unjustified use of physical restraints during trial. a defendant may not be (people v. duran (1976) 16 cal.3d 282, 290291.) such need mor planned nonconforming conduct which disrupts or would disrupt the judicial process if unrestrained . . . (people v. cox (1991) 53 cal.3d 618, 651.) the decision to restrain a defendant during a jury trial is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 841.) that decision may not be delegated to security or law enforcement personnel. (ibid.) the unjustified use of restraints has been deemed harmless where the restraints were either not visible at all or only briefly visible to the jury, and where they did not prevent the appellant from testifying or participating in his own defense. (people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 596; people v. tuilaepa (1992) 4 cal.4th 569, 583584.) a stealth belt was made on the recommendation of a deputy, who had security concerns because appellant already was serving a life term without possibility of parole for his nevada murder conviction, in ruling oobjection, the court agreed appellant had not disrupted the 6 the court stated that it generally epartment on matters of security, but made its own independent evaluation, and concluded the use of a stealth belt was appropriate a. appellant wore a stealth belt during the morning jury selection on the first day of trial, but refused to come out of court considered the case law requiring a finding of a manifest need for restraints to be ambiguous and restated the safety concerns, to which it added its own concern about defense counsel relayed belief that jurors seated in the audience could see the stealth belt. that no jurors sat directly behind appellant, and a desk obstructed the view of the back of his chair. the court acknowledged the belt may have made noise even if that noise was not audible in the front of the courtroom. the prosecutor then-girlfriend and codefendant in the nevada case had solicited the murder of the prosecutor in that case. which he expressed his wish to rejoin the trial. outside presence, the court acknowledged it had been under the mistaken impression that a finding of a manifest need was not necessary because the stealth belt was not visible; it then explicitly found there was a manifest need for restraints based on the available information. appellant again complained the belt made noise, and claimed to have seen two jurors try to look at his back. the 7 court explained the deputies had placed a necktie around the belt to muffle any noise. appellant agreed, i have no problem. the next day, the court stated that the belt was not appellant acknowledged he had no continuing problem with the belt. a manifest need for the use of restraints was justified in light of appellthe we find these rationalizations questionable. it is clear from the record that the court did not come up with the idea of using restraints on its own, but initially considering whether they amounted to a manifest need. (cf. people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 391 [use of restraints was not suggested to court].) the record also indicates that the court tolerated in pretrial proceedingsit allowed appellant to speak out freely, engaged him in conversation, and called having him in the court pleasure,despite the gravity of the charges against him. arly hearing had given the court any concern. the only time the court warned appellant not to speak out was immediately before jury selection began, and when appellant raised his hand, the court directed him to talk to defense counsel. appellant complied. thus, there is no indication appellant had engaged in 8 nonconforming or disruptive conduct that had caused any real concern to the court before the use of restraints was proposed by . the use of physical restraints may not be justified by evidence of disruptive conduct while in custody. (see people v. hawkins (1995) 10 cal.4th 920, 944, overruled on another ground in people v. lasko (2000) 23 cal.4th 101, 110, and people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 89.) here, there was no evidence that appellant had been violent or physically disruptive while in custody, and his brief refusal to come out of lockup was in direct . nor was the court presented with evidence that a violent organization or codefendant in the nevada case could disrupt the california proceeding. (cf. people v. bryant, smith and wheeler, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 391392 [defendant was member of violent organization that had previously disrupted court proceedings].) that defendant was physically fit and capable of inflicting harm with his limbs alone does not show that he presented a safety concern absent evidence that he had engaged in violence or other disruptive conduct while in the courtroom or in custody, or that he, or individuals connected to him, posed a threat of violence or disruption. nevertheless, assuming that on the record before us the use of physical restraints was unjustified, any error is harmless since there is no evidence the jury knew he wore a s were that the belt made noise during the morning session of jury selection, that it may have been visible from the audience, and that two jurors may have tried to look at his back. 9 admission, the problem was resolved in the afternoon session. there is no evidence that any member of the jury as finally approved heard the noise of which appellant complained, realized its source, or saw the belt for any extended period of time. nor is defense. the use of the stealth belt, therefore, does not amount to a reversible error. ii appellant contends the court should have instructed the jury on voluntary and attempted voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion and imperfect self-defense. the trial court has a duty to instruct on any lesser included offense of that charged when the evidence raises a question as to whether all the elements of the charged offense were present, but not when there is no evidence that the offense committed was less than that (people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 664.) the duty arises only when substantial evidence supports a not the greater, was committed [citation]; it does not arise when there is merely any (ibid.) offense of murder, is an unlawful killing without malice. [citations.] malice is provocation is sufficient to cause an ordinarily reasonable person to act rashly and without deliberation, and from passion rather than judgment. [citation.] similarly, when a defendant kills in the actual but unreasonable belief that he or she is in imminent danger of death or great bodily injury, the doctr 10 self-people v. cruz, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 664.) appellant relies on cases in which the manslaughter theory was based on substantial evidence that the defendant was provoked, intimidated, or apparently attacked by the victim with excessive force likely to cause death or great bodily injury. (see people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163164 [evidence of mob armed with weapons trespassing challenging him to fight supported heat of passion instruction]; people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 192193, 202203 [defendant testimony onted about road rage and appeared to threaten defendant with knife supported both heat of passion and unreasonable self-defense instructions]; but see people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 553554 testimony that victim attacked him with bat may have supported imperfect self-defense instruction, but not heat of passion]; see also people v. vasquez (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 1176, 11791180 [defendant was entitled to imperfect self-defense instruction for shooting victim who was choking him]; people v. viramontes that someone shot at defendant first supported instruction on self-defense and imperfect self-defense]; people v. baker (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 243, 25intent to engage in fistfight supported voluntary manslaughter instruction where victim used baseball bat].) appellant argues that the jury could have reasonably inferred that appellant argued with the victims and was then duct that provoked him to 11 shoot in the heat of passion or imperfect self-defense. however, the evidence does not indicate who initiated the argument or physical confrontation outside the restaurant, what was said during the argument, or whether appellant actually believed he was in danger of death or great bodily injury during the several seconds of physical altercation that preceded the shooting. is not supported by substantial evidence. rather, the evidence indicates appellant arrived with between two and five companions, who argued with the two victims. the sole witness who told police that he saw four or five individuals attacking an asian male did not identify appellant, or any of his companions, as the person under attack. nor is there evidence that appellant went to the restaurant in order to celebrate his own birthday. although his birthday was on the day of the shooting, and the at the restaurant for a party, there is the evidence shows solely that appellant went to the restaurant looking for liu after an argument on the phone. the jury would have had to speculate that the victims, rather than appellanthe phone or at the restaurant, or initiated the fight. without any evidence of what was said during the argument and with physical evidence suggesting appellant shot from a distance, a jury could not reasonably conclude that the words were sufficient to provoke a reasonable person to act rashly, or that a momentary fight of unknown origin, nature and severity, in which appellant was not involved, constituted sufficient provocation or actually made appellant fear death or great bodily injury. 12 the court had no duty to instruct the jury on lesser included offenses on a speculative manslaughter theory based on weak or no evidence. iii appellant identifies three instances of prosecutorial misconduct in rebuttal and argues that all were prejudicial. prosecutorial misconduct violates due process if the prosecutor engages in a pattern of misbehavior so egregious as to render the trial fundamentally unfair. (people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 594595; people v. espinoza (1992) 3 cal.4th 806, 820.) use of deceptive or reprehensible methods in an attempt to persuade the jury that is not so systematic or pervasive as to render the trial fundamentally unfair results in error under state law. (ibid.) prosecutorial misconduct does not require reversal absent prejudice to the defendant. (people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 733.) reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 12021203.) a. misrepresentation of the law concerned that the jury might hang between first and second degree murder on count 1, in rebuttal the prosecutor told so you find the second and then you discuss the first and try to get to the first, but make sure we get that second in there and then think about was contrary to the relevant jury instruction. after argument, 13 the court told the prosecutor that his argument was problematic because it could be interpreted as requiring the jurors to reach a formal verdict rather than a tentative decision on second-degree murder before considering first degree. the jury was then instructed in terms of caljic no. 8.75, which informed the jury that it may deliberate in any order and reach tentative conclusions on all charged and lesser included offenses, but before returning a final verdict it must either find defendant guilty of first-degree murder or unanimously acquit him of that crime, and then proceed to a verdict on second-degree murder. this instruction correctly reflected the principle that the jury may deliberate on the greater and lesser included offenses in whatever order it chooses, but that it must acquit the defendant of the greater offense before returning a verdict on the lesser offense.people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 608.) will abide (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1336.) here, the jury argument as contrary to the jury instruction, and then was correctly instructed on how to reach a verdict on the murder charge. on this record, it is not reasonably likely that the jury b. comments about appellant and victim li the prosecutor played the video of appellant taking out the barrel of the gun and switching it and commented that commented that the picture with the lobster holding the guns prosecutor posited as a possible motive. defense counsel did not 14 and was shushed by the court. after argument, the court asked defense counsel if he wanted the court to address what appeared with the video. counsel responded it was better not to draw attention to it. the prosecutor ended the rebuttal with a series of questions, to which defense counsel did not object. the questions were about what li was thinking when he involved himself in the argument, when appellant pulled a gun out, when li felt the first shot, when he fell to the ground, when he felt the last shot, when some of the witnesses ran up to him before he died, when he could not talk, and when he died. appellant argues that the prosecutor committed appellant also argues that the questions about what li must have thought improperly encouraged the jury to empathize with the victim and view the crime through his eyes. a claim of prosecutorial misconduct may be forfeited for lack of a timely objection and request for admonishment. (people v. lopez (2008) 42 cal.4th 960, 966.) recognizing that his claims of prosecutorial misconduct may be forfeited for lack of objection, appellant alternatively argues that counsel was ineffective for failing to object. to establish ineffective assistance of counsel based on the failure to object to prosecutorial misconduct, a defendant must reasonably probable the verdict would have been more favorable people v. hernandez 15 (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1052rendered adequate assistance and exercised reasonable professional judgment in making significant trial decisions. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703) to the extent the record on appeal fails to disclose why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, we must affirm the judgment unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there could be no satisfactory explpeople v. gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 207.) defense counsel made it clear he did not want to draw comments concerning evidence of his infatuation with guns. counsereasonable since it was based on evidence already admitted at trial, which showed appellant repeatedly posing with guns. even had appellant does not challenge the admissibility of the evidence on appellant was infatuated with guns and took pride in handling them was a fair commentary on the evidence and his inference of a possible motive from that evidence was reasonable. (see people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 712, fn. 13 for indiscriminately killing two people on the other hthe jurors appealed to their sympathy. (see people v. shazier (2014) 60 cal.4th 109, 146 [prosec 16 sympathy for the victims by exhorting the jurors to step into the victims shoes and imagine their thoughts and feelings as crimes people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1344 [prosecutorprejudicial]; people v. fields (1983) 35 cal.3d 329, 361363 [same].) excessive because they did not explicitlthoughts. but inviting the jurors to consider those thoughts necessarily asked them failure to object prejudicial. conthe brief series of questions at the end of the rebuttal cannot be said to have rendered his entire trial fundamentally unfair. (cf. people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823835, 845846 [reversing conviction due to cumulative prejudice from numerous instances of prosecutorial misconduct and other errors throughout trial].) nor is a more favorable verdict reasonably probable. the jury was instructed not to be influenced by sympathy, and nothing in the record suggests that it was. the prosecutor did not appeal to liu, the other victim; yet, the jury still found appellant guilty of his attempted premeditated murder based on the same shooting. that indicates the jury alibi and concluded the shooting was premeditated. on this record, we find neither reversible prosecutorial error nor ineffective assistance of counsel. 17 iv in a supplemental brief, appellant asks that we remand the case to permit the trial court to exercise its discretion in respect to striking the firearm enhancements imposed in this case. we agree that remand is appropriate. at the time appellant was sentenced, section 12022.53, subdivision (h) precluded a trial court from striking an allegation or finding of firearm use. senate bill 620, effective january 1, 2018, amends this statute to allow the sentencing court discretion to strike or dismiss a firearm use enhancement imposed under court may, in the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may a change in the law which lessens punishment applies to all cases that are not yet final. (in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 745.) respondent concedes the amended statute is applicable to this case. proceeded with sentencing on the erroneous assumption it lacked discretion, remand is necessary so that the trial court may have the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion at a new people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 530, fn.13; people v. myers (1983) 148 cal.app.3d ing 18 cannot exercise its informed discretion. [citation.]people v. brown (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1213, 1228.) court lacked discretion to strike the firearm use enhancements; former section 12022.53, subdivision (h) prohibited the court from doing so. rather, contrary to the argument of respondent, the trial court made no discretionary sentencing decision that might obviate the need for a remand. under the amended statute, the court has discretion to strike the enhancements, and remand is necessary so the sentencing court may exercise its discretion. we express no opinion as to how the trial court should exercise its discretion on remand. we conclude only that it is the instance. 19 disposition the matter is remanded for the trial court to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect the enhancements imposed under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and (should the court not file it) to forward a certified copy of the amended abstract to the department of corrections. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. manella, j. 