filed 6/4/18 p. v. king ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. thomas king, jr., defendant and appellant. b276024 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma049522) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, shannon knight, judge. affirmed in part, modified in part, reversed in part, and remanded. joseph s. klapach, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and pamela c. hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 this is defendant , third appeal from a judgment of conviction. we reversed the prior two judgments because defendant was precluded from cross-examining the victim and only percipient witness. (people v. king (june 5, 2012, b229834) [nonpub. opn.] (king i); people v. king (dec. 5, 2014, b246794) [nonpub. opn.] (king ii).) both times, we concluded defendantconfrontation clause had been violated. following his third jury trial, defendant was convicted of felony dissuading a witness from reporting a crime by use of a deadly weapon (pen. code,  136.1, subd. (b)(1)), misdemeanor battery (pen. code,  242), misdemeanor false imprisonment (pen. code,  236), and misdemeanor recklessly causing fire to the property of another (pen. code,  452, subd. (d)). on appeal, defendant raises numerous challenges, most of which lack merit. the following two claims of error are undisputed and are persuasive: (1) defendantjeopardy principles, and (2) errors in the abstract of judgment should be corrected. except for the battery conviction and a minor sentence modification, we affirm the judgment. we custody credits. background 1. 1 d.n. and defendant defendant-girlfriend. defendant at the time of the incident underlying defendantconviction, d.n. was taking xanax, lotrimin, and risperdal. the 1 parts 1, 2, and 5 of the background are heavily based on king ii. 3 medication helped her sleep because it prevented her from hearing voices. it did not affect her memory. on june 23, 2010, defendant knocked on bedroom window because he wanted to watch a movie of a funeral. she let him inside. d.n. pretended to call her insurance agent to inquire how much money she would receive if she cashed in the life insurance policies on her daughter and other family members in order to recover her jewelry from a pawn shop. d.n. did not actually speak to her insurance agent. when defendant heard d.n. suggest she would cash in her defendant repeatedly called d.n. defendant to leave, and he took her cell phone and keys against her will. defendant then two of her televisions, telling her she did not deserve them. defendant threaten d.n. snuck in the bedroom and called 911. d.n. asked for help and then put the phone down and walked away. the 911 operator disconnected the call. when d.n. told defendant she would call the police, defendant to chop off her head. defendant dragged d.n. through the house with the hedge clippers for about four minutes. defendant cut her. that same evening, defendant lit a broom on fire and told d.n. he would burn her face to make her ugly. when d.n. tried to leave the house defendant slammed the door shut, preventing her from exiting. defendant moved the broom in circles, and d.n. fell to the floor to avoid the flames. defendant4 broom over d.n. resulted in several injuries including scars on her face, a singed eyebrow, burnt hair, and a burnt shoulder. under a ruse to get to a phone, d.n. requested defendant and she go to a store and purchase beer. d.n. drove defendant to the store, where d.n. called 911 and stated that defendant took her keys, phone, and burnt her with a broom. d.n. told the operator that defendant ran when he saw her on the phone. d.n. retrieved her cell phone and keys from defendantday. 2. defendant this differed from her -boyfriend. brown came to her house on june 23, 2010. d.n. had been hiding from detective berry for a week. defendant knocked on her window and asked d.n. to let him inside. defendant was angry with d.n. because d.n. would not allow her daughter to live in her house, and because he thought d.n. was cheating on him with brown. defendant cell phone and keys. defendant retrieved a knife from the kitchen and started cutting various cords. defendant so that she could not locate it and said that god should have burnt down her house. defendant put hedge clippers around . . . [] . . . ugly stuff. he [defendant . . . [] . . . all i according to d.n., defendant never touched her and never 5 touched the hedge clippers. although d.n. previously testified that defendant was responsible, when she thought about it more she realized it was brown. brown lit the broom on fire, not defendant. d.n. testified her prior testimony was not true. she testified that brown was upset because d.n. did not want a relationship with him. d.n. testified that she suffered from posttraumatic stress disorder and was diagnosed as having schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder with psychotic features. she testified she did not remember anything from the prior proceeding due to stress. d.n. did not complete her testimony because, after allegedly threatening to kill the prosecutor, she invoked her fifth amendment right to remain silent. 3. rom the third trial during the third trial, d.n. testified that on june 23, 2010, she was intimately involved with defendant. she and defendant had a disagreement and defendant the house by [her] ne defendant warned d.n. th started to bleed as a result of being carried with hedge clippers. using the hedge clippers, defendant cut the cord to two televisions and a dvd player. defendant . he also took her car keys and house keys. using the house phone, d.n. called 911. she begged for help, but the 911 operator disconnected the phone. defendant heard d.n. speaking. d.n. tried unsuccessfully to leave her house. defendant lit a broom on fire. d.n. assumed a fetal position, lying on the floor to try to stop defendant from burning her face. using the broom, 6 arm, and hair. defendant also burnt sing her to lose her eyebrows. going to make your ass ugly. . . . d.n. and defendant went to a liquor store where d.n. again called 911. defendant fled. an officer came to the liquor store to assist d.n. . in it she burned me with a broom in the house and he begged me to forgive . . . my house and my car d.n. identified defendant as the person who burned her with the broom. d.n. also said that defendant ran when he saw her on the phone. d.n. acknowledged that she had been convicted of criminal threats, stemming from threatening the former prosecutor in this case (which occurred during the second trial). she testified that she did not remember threatening the prosecutor but had been told that she did. d.n. admitted that she suffered from bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, and posttraumatic stress disorder. to treat these illnesses, d.n. took zyprexa, xanax, ativan, and temazepam (different medications than those identified in her first trial). d.n. testified that at the time of the incident with defendant, d.n. had a caretaker who would ensure d.n. took her medication. d.n. testified that she needed [b]ecause i took too much one time and so they asked the person to control my medicmostly what i tried to do d.n. testified that when she 7 threatened the former prosecutor in 2013 she had a different provider, day. . . . it was a day off d.n. testified that she could not determine whether her behavior was different when she failed to d.n. acknowledged that she sometimes heard voices. she testified that she did not experience hallucinations. during cross-examination, d.n. testified that sometimes nd she feels out of control. she acknowledged that she had been admitted to the hospital. she testified that she was admitted because someone believed that she had been suicidal, but according to her she was not suicidal. she had had too much alcohol. d.n. denied that she tried to hurt herself (possibly in conflict with her above quoted testimony that she tried to kill herself). defense counsel did not ask whether she suffered from delusions or hallucinations. 4. deputy sheriff jason goedecke deputy goedecke testified that on june 23, 2010, he responded to a call, went to a liquor store, and saw d.n. crying. he observed that d.n. had been burned and her index finger was cut. later he observed an injury to her thumb. when deputy goedecke drove d.n. home, he observed ash on the ground in her house and cut wires to both the telephone and television. deputy goedecke went to he hear . he found defendant crouched inside a cabinet. 8 5. dr. jack rothberg dr. jack rothberg, a psychiatrist, testified for the defense in the second trial. his testimony was read to jurors in the current case. dr. rothberg had never met or evaluated d.n. he reviewed a hospital record identifying her diagnosis. according to him, schizophrenia is a major mental disorder characterized by problems in perception. persons suffering from schizophrenia may have delusions, or may hear voices. sometimes a person suffering from schizophrenia may remember his or her actions during an episode, and sometimes the person will not. a schizophrenic may hear voices. some patients respond well to medication and others do not. on cross-examination, dr. rothberg admitted he did not interview d.n. or anyone else who testified in this case. dr. may have been delusional even if she appeared to give specific details of an incident to a 911 operator. according to dr. was not indicative that the event actually occurred. a person may be coherent and still be delusional. dr. rothberg m not really commenting specifically about miss dr. rothberg acknowledged he did not know if d.n. was delusional on june 23, 2010, or on any date she was interviewed or testified. dr. rothberg did not swas not aware of any medication that she took. 9 procedure 1. pretrial faretta (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806) motions were withdrawn on august 5, 2015, prior to the third trial, defendant indicated that he wanted to represent himself. on september 30, 2015, defendant again requested to represent himself. when the [d] on december 8, 2015, defendant renewed his previously abandoned request to represent himself. defendant, however, did not complete the form provided by the court to waive his right to counsel. -appointed attorney or i just need anyone in this building. period going pro per so you could sweep this under. i had enough time now when asked [y]es, your honor 2. defense counsel was permitted to cross-examine d.n. regarding her mental illness before trial, in a motion in limine, the prosecutor argued . defense counsel responded that he believed d.n. would admit to suffering from schizophrenia and that he would question her about her symptoms. he agreed not to introduce her medical records. as expected, d.n. testified during direct examination that she suffered from schizophrenia. defense counsel was permitted to cross-examine d.n. during his cross-examination, only one 10 objection was sustained as described in the below colloquy between defense counsel and d.n.: admitted there a number of times, somebody thought that you were suicidal. am i stating that correctly? a. the only time that i went to the hospital because i all this time to explain all these situations. years ago my job was working with kids. [prosecuto the court: sustained. the witness: i had friend tookie kill someone and they killed him. the court then instructed defense counsel to ask more specific questions. defense counsel continued cross-examining d.n. 3. defendantmarsden (people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118) motion was withdrawn on june 10, 2016, the court held a marsden hearing. defense counsel indicated that he refused to ask all of the questions defendant had requested. the court asked defendant if he wanted a different lawyer. nue to let [sic] me to the best ability or keep on sandbag [sic]. if he leaves doorways open for the district attorney, i have no choice 11 but to fire him eventually, defendant stated t. 4. faretta motion made at the conclusion of trial dr. rothburg was the last witness to testify (through readback of his second trial testimony). during his testimony, defendant [e]xcuse me, your honor. this is illegal say after the court excused the jurors, defendant informed the court that he did not want his counsel to represent him anymore. defendant expressed frustration that a transcript from a prior trial was read. defendant believed that it suggested that he had suffered a prior conviction. the court asked if defendant was prepared to represent himself that day. defendant respondehave no choice . . . i have to do what i have to do just to have a basic trial again; so , co-counsel, however. i just want a fair trial defendant was concerned that his counsel to tell you when we were in there. okay? you keep keep dropping the ball. . . . . . . represent himself. 12 5. conviction and sentence jurors convicted defendant of felony dissuading a witness from reporting a crime by the use of a broom, misdemeanor battery, misdemeanor false imprisonment, and misdemeanor causing fire to the property of another. the court sentenced defendant to consecutive sentences of four years for dissuading a witness using a weapon (i.e. a broom), six months for battery, one year for false imprisonment, and six months for causing fire to the property of another. the court noted that defendant had already served this sentence and ordered him to report to parole. custody or his custody credits.2 discussion argument that (1) the trial court violated his right to confront d.n.; (2) the prosecutor engaged in misconduct; and (3) the trial -representation. with one exception, we also reject the argument that defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance of counsel. however, we conclude that counsel was deficient in failing to enter a plea of double jeopardy to the battery charge. further, we find that the sentence for false imprisonment should have been stayed, and that the trial court shouand his custody credits. 2 record in the prior appealsfile third party medical records under seal. 13 1. the trial court permitted defendant to cross-examine d.n. as noted, we reversed two prior judgments of conviction because defendant was denied the opportunity to fully cross-examine d.n. we explained that her medical history indicating that she suffered from delusions was probative of her ability to perceive the events involving defendant. in this appeal, defendant again argues that he was denied the opportunity to fully cross-examine d.n. this time his argument lacks merit. the court sustained d.n. volunteered nonresponsive testimony regarding her work years earlier, which was also irrelevant to her ability to perceive the incident with defendant. defendant demonstrates no error in the trial court sustaining this sole objection. the fact that the court sustained one objection does not show the court precluded defense counsel from cross-examining d.n. defendantpremise therefore lacks merit, and his legal argument based solely on that premise must fail. 2. with one exception, defendantassistance of counsel lack merit in order to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must first show counselrepresentation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional [citations.] second, he must also show prejudice flowing from counsels performance or lack thereof. [citation.] prejudice reasonable probability that, but for s unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a 14 probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 436-437.) s trial tactics or strategic reasons for challenged decisions do not appear on the record, we will not find ineffective assistance of counsel on appeal unless there could be no s acts or people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 926.) reviewing courts will reverse convictions on the ground of inadequate counsel only if the record on appeal affirmatively discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose for his act or omission. in all other cases the conviction will be affirmed and the defendant relegated to habeas corpus proceedings at which evidence dehors the record may be taken to determine the basis, if any, for counsels conduct or omission. [citation.] people v. orloff (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 947, 955.) in this case the appellate record does not reveal whether counsel had a legitimate reason for his litigation choice. accordingly, ineffective assistance claims are better considered in a possible petition for writ of habeas corpus. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 95.) for example, defendant argues that failure to impeach d.n. with statements from her medical records constituted deficient conduct. on appeal we cannot evaluate whether any expert would havaffected her perception at the relevant time. without the proffered expert testimony, it is impossible to determine whether defendantevidence, or whether defendant suffered prejudice from its absence. defendant15 been provided with these medical records, he could have testified that d.n. was suffering from a severe form of paranoid schizophrenia characterized by paranoia, delusions, obsessive ideations, and hallucinations at the time of the june 23, 2010 witness would have so testified. based on the record on appeal, defendant has additional unpersuasive claims of ineffective assistance of counsel. for example, he argues that his counsel should have cross-examined d.n. and deputy sheriff goedecke with their second trial assailant. defendant also argues that d.n. should have been impeached with prior inconsistent statements related to whether she took medication on the night of the incident. we need not decisions. defense counsel was not asked for an explanation, and defendant there simply could be no satisfactory explanation . . . evidence. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) further defendant-called exculpatory evidence from his second trial may be overstated because jurors in the second trial convicted him. in short, on appeal, defendant fails to establish either deficient conduct or prejudice necessary for his ineffective assistance of counsel claim. 16 3. defendant demonstrates his counsel was ineffective for failing to file a plea of double jeopardy to battery in the first trial, jurors acquitted defendant of assault with a deadly weapon (to wit, hedge clippers). jurors also acquitted him of the lesser offenses of battery and simple assault.3 defendant argues that his conviction for battery must be reversed because it was entered in violation of principles of charge based on the use of hedge clippers was barred under forfeited. as respondent acknowledges, the prosecutor urged jurors to convict defendant of battery for attacking d.n. with hedge clippers. specifically, t, many instances in which the defendant touched ms. n[.] in a harmful or offensive way: several times with the hedge clippers we agree with respondent that the issue is forfeited. (people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 821.) however, the failure to raise a plea of double jeopardy was deficient conduct and prejudiced defendant by resulting in a conviction for battery. from this record we cannot divine any tactical reason for failing to plead double jeopardy and avoid the conviction.4 (people v. 3 battery is [sic] a lesser crime of assault with a deadly weapon . . . 4 assuming arguendo that defense counsel failed to initially plead double jeopardy under the theory that defendant used a burning broom to inflict a battery on d.n., once the prosecutor argued that the use of the hedge clippers supported a battery conviction, defense counsel had a duty to object and seek a judicial remedy for this improper argument. d17 morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 1185 jeopardy].) it is undisputed and the record shows that jurors were asked to relitigate an issue necessarily decided in people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 123.) 4. defendant demonstrates no prosecutorial misconduct under the federal constitution, a prosecutor commits misconduct when his or her infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conv [citation.] under california law, a prosecutor commits reversible deceptive or when attempting to persuade either the trial court or the jury, and it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] to preserve a claim of prosethe defense must make a which he had already been acquitted. although we do not minimize the stigma of defendant incurring a misdemeanor criminal conviction that should have been precluded under double jeopardy principles, we note that defendant, at the time of sentencing, suffered no additional incarceration period as a result of the error. notwithstanding the ition of a six-month consecutive sentence for the offending battery count, at the time of sentencing the defendant had already accrued sufficient presentence custody credits to satisfy the entirety of the incarnation portion of the judgment. as discussed post, following imposition of sentence the trial court ordered defendant to report to parole; the defendant was not remanded for any additional custody period. 18 timely objection at trial and request an admonition; otherwise, the point is reviewable only if an admonition would not have cured the harm caused by the misconduct. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 576-577.) m of prosecutorial misconduct is forfeited because he did not object or request an admonition in the trial court. (people v. clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 577.) in any to consider evidence outside the record, evidence defendant believes that his counsel should have presented at trial.5 defendant cites no support for his claim that the prosecutor is bound by evidence outside the well-established rule that the prosecution is required to limit its argument to evidence admitted in for a prosecutor to make arguments based on facts not in evidence that are not matters of common knowledge.people v. zurinaga (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 1248, 5 for example, although defendant argues that his counsel should have impeached d.n. with her second-trial testimony identifying brown as her assailant, the prosecutor correctly she made in the past that is inconsistent with her statement here in court . . . similarly, defendant argues that the prosecutor becau an outright lie designed to make d.n. appear more credible and less delusional than but as explained, defendant presented no expert testimony supporting , argument did not misrepresent the evidence at trial. 19 1259.) in short, defendant demonstrates no prosecutorial misconduct. 5. defendant shows no error in request to represent himself made at the conclusion of trial almost at the end of the evidentiary portion of trial, defendant requested to represent himself. defendant indicated assistance. the court denied defendant as follows: onsidered your request to go pro per. the court is considering the fact that this request is made . . . beyond the 11th hour. . . . [t]he defense case is nearly over. the trial is expected to conclude today. this request came after you had an outburst here in open court in front of the jury where you apparently have disagreed with the tactical decision made by your attorney. [] your statements that you made during the course of your outbursts were somewhat nonsensical, but it seems to me that this request is not coming really out of a true desire to represent yourself on previous occasions that you are unable or unwilling to conform your behavior to what would be required of you the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying defendantpeople v. lawrence (2009) 46 cal.4th 186, 192 [trial court has discretion in considering midtrial request for self-representation and must consider totality of the circumstances]; see people v. bradford during self-20 discretion to deny motion for self-representation made before that the trial court should have allowed him to represent himself to afford him the chance to present exculpatory evidence. at the time defendant requested to represent himself, no additional witnesses were scheduled to testify and he did not argue that anyone else should be permitted to testify. defendant could not present the exculpatory testimony during his closing argument. people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, relied on heavily by defendant, supports the conclusion that the trial court acted well within its discretion. in windham, our high court concluded that when a defendant seeks to proceed pro se after trial has sound discretion of the trial court to determine whether such a defendant may dismiss counsel and proceed pro se.id. at p. 124.) in windham, the defendant was concerned that his attorney did not elicit evidence that he had been acting in self-defense, and on the final day of testimony, sought to represent himself. (id. at p. 125.) the court concluded pretrial request by defendant that he be permitted to represent himself. the absence of such a request amounts to a waiver of the unconditional right to proceed by way of self-representation. consequently the midtrial motion for self-representation was addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court.(id. at p. 129.) the high court no abuse of discretion in the trial defendant to support his request was the claim that his admittedly competent counsel had been unable to present a stronger case on the theory of self-def(ibid.) as relevant defendant21 an exceedingly late stage of the trial. denial of the motion for self-representation resulted in nothing more than preventing defendant from addressing the jury d (id. at p. 130.)6 this case is like windham. defendant was concerned that his attorney did not present certain evidence. his request was made just before closing argument. at most, it prevented him from delivering the closing argument. additionally, it was made after he started speaking in front of jurors. as in windham, defendant demonstrates no abuse of discretion in denying his motion to represent himself. 6. minor sentencing modifications are required defendant argues that his misdemeanor convictions should have been stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. penal an act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the 6 windham emphasized the following factors in reviewing a midtrial faretta the defendants reasons for the motion, the quality of defense counsels representation, the defendants proclivity to substitute counsel, the length and stage of the proceedings, and the disruption or delay that might reasonably be expected to follow if the motion were granted. (people v. bradford, supra, 187 cal.app.4th at p. 1353.) contrary to windham did not set forth specific, exclusive factors for evaluating a belated request to proceed in pro per. (bradford, at pp. 1354-1355.) windham required the trial court to untimely request to proceed in pro per, but did not require the trial court to expressly state each factor in denying a motion. (bradford, at p. 1354.) 22 act or omission be punished under more than one provision. an acquittal or conviction and sentence under any one bars a prosecution for the same act or omission under any other. than one statute and thus constitutes more than one crime, a defendant may not be punished multiple times for that single act. [citations.] the act which invokes section 654 may be a continuous course of conduct . . . comprising an indivisible transaction . . . [citation.] the divisibility of a course of conduct depends upon the intent and objective of the defendant. . . . [i]f the evidence discloses that a defendant entertained multiple criminal objectives which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, the trial court may impose punishment for independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of (people v. akins (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 331, 338-339.) according to defendant, all of the crimes were based on a continuous course of conduct to prevent d.n. from contacting the police. respondent argues that only the sentence for battery should have been stayed. putting aside the conviction for battery (count 1), which as previously explained violated principles of double jeopardy, defendant could have harbored different intents and objectives with respect to the crimes of recklessly setting a fire (count 5) and dissuading a witness from testifying (count 4). there was evidence that defendant lit the broom on fire to deface d.n. and this is a criminal objective separate from dissuading her not to testify and supported the consecutive sentence for recklessly causing a fire by lighting the broom. 23 (count 3) in her house with the lit broom cannot be distinguished defendant prevented her from reporting the crime when he grabbed a broom and prevented her from escaping . . . was unable to actually escape or actually leave from her home because of what the defendant was doing to her, attacking her with this flaming broom the sentence for false imprisonment should have been stayed. (see e.g. people v. galvez (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1253, 1263 [pen. code,  654 precluded punishment for both robbery and dissuading a witness because the victim could not contact the police]; see also people v. mendoza (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 1333, 1346 [terrorist threat incidental to objective of dissuading witness from testifying and should have been stayed under pen. code,  654].) accordingly, imprisonment. 7. errors in the abstract of judgment should be corrected. the parties agree and persuasively show that the abstract of judgment should be corrected to reflect defendantcustody credits. they also agree that the record contains conflicting information regarding the number of credits and that the trial court should make a definite calculation.7 7 because we find only one error, we need not consider of his convictions. 24 disposition the judgment is affirmed in part, modified in part, and reversed in part. the conviction for battery is reversed. the sentence on misdemeanor false imprisonment is stayed. the case is remanded for the trial court credits. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect credits. upon issuance of remittitur, the clerk of this court is directed to forward a copy of the opinion to the state bar of california. rogan, j.* we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 