filed 7/24/17 p. v. vidriofuentes ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan felipe vidriofuentes, defendant and appellant. b276988 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na103451) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. judith l. meyer, judge. affirmed. debbie m. page, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 defendant and appellant juan felipe vidriofuentes was convicted by jury of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211)1 and two counts of attempted second degree robbery ( 664/211.) the jury also found that defendant used a deadly and dangerous weapon (a taser) in the commission of the robbery ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). in a separate proceeding, the trial court found defendant served a prior prison term ( 667, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced defendant to the upper term of five years on the robbery conviction and imposed concurrent three-year terms on the attempted robbery counts. as to the weapon use and prior prison term findings, the court stated it ng, under 1385 power, the 12022(b)(1), for sentencing only, and the 667.5(b) 2 defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. this court appointed counsel to represent defendant on appeal. on 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 2 the power under section 1385 is unclear. section 1385 permits a court to enter a dismissal in furtherance of justice, prosecution did not object to the absence of a statement indicating how dismissal of the allegations was in furtherance of justice or seek clarification of the meaning of the issue further, except to note that any error inured to t. 3 june 15, 2017, appointed counsel filed a brief raising no issues, and requested this court to independently review the record for arguable contentions under the procedure set forth in people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). defendant was advised of his right to file a supplemental brief within 30 days. the time to file the supplemental brief has elapsed. we have completed our review of the record and find no arguable contentions. defendant was represented by competent counsel at trial. the jury was selected in the manner prescribed by law. all three victims testified consistently to offenses and his capture immediately thereafter. each victim made an in-field identification of defendant, identified him at the preliminary hearing, and again at trial. the sentence imposed was within the discretion of the trial court. we are satisfied that appointed counsel fulfilled her obligation by filing a brief under wende. 4 the judgment is affirmed. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259.) kriegler, acting p.j. we concur: baker j. dunning, j. judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 