filed 3/24/17 p. v. saavedra ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gilbert isidro saavedra, defendant and appellant. b276327 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma064806) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction following a group fight at a park, defendant gilbert i. saavedra pled no contest to felony mayhem under penal code section 203,1 and was sentenced to 13 years. we have conducted an independent examination of the entire record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), and conclude that no arguable issues exist. we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background at the preliminary hearing, miguel g.2 testified that he and three friends went to a park in palmdale on the afternoon of october 11, 2014. miguel and his friends were sitting in a car in the parking lot when another car with five men in it pulled up next to them. defendant was driving. one man, co-defendant jesus abarca, got out of the front passenger seat and approached this is our hood. with a screwdriver, sitting in the rear passenger seat of the car. all of the men then got out of their respective cars and began to fight. miguel testified that as the men were fighting, defendant from the trunk of his car, defendant picked up a piece of metal that was silver, about two feet long, and three to four inches wide. an z. had arrived in another car and was standing nearby. defendant hit ryan in the face with the piece of metal. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 we refer to the victims by their first names to protect their privacy. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) 3 defenda, breaking the windshield. including m defendant, abarca, and their companions then got in their car and left. deputy sheriff and gang expert daniel welle testified that in his opinion, the type of crime miguel described was committed for the benefit of or in association with a criminal street gang. the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant with one count of felony mayhem under section 203 for hitting ryan in the face with the piece of metal. the information further alleged that the offense was committed for the benefit of or in association with a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) in addition, the information alleged that defendant had a strike prior ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and a previous conviction for a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). defendant initially pled not guilty. he moved to dismiss the charges pursuant to section 995, arguing that section 203. he also moved to sever his before the court ruled on his motions, defendant pled no contest to mayhem pursuant to a plea agreement. he admitted the allegations regarding his prior convictions, and the gang allegations were dismissed. defendant was sentenced to the agreed-upon sentence of 13 years, calculated as the four-year midterm doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court awarded defendant 580 days of custody credit, which was erroneous; the court later amended the abstract of judgment to award defendant 602 days of custody credit. defendant timely appealed. 4 wende review requesting that we independently review the record for error. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) we directed counsel to send the record and a copy of the brief to defendant, and notified defendant of his right to respond within 30 days. defendant sent a letter, which pre-dit, asking that his custody credit be corrected. defendant raised no additional issues on appeal. we have examined the entire record, and are satisfied no arguable issues exist in the appeal before us. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278; people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 110; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 