filed 7/27/17 p. v. devore ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jason e. devore, defendant and appellant. b276539 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va135565) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mildred escobedo, judge. affirmed with directions. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 jason devore (defendant) was convicted after a jury trial of 14 counts of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211)1 and five counts of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (d)(2)). the jury found true the firearm allegations related to the assault charges. the trial court found that defendant had suffered one prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law. ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12.) the court sentenced defendant to a total of 111 years four sentence for the assault convictions pursuant to the three strikes law. defendant appeals, contending there is insufficient evidence to support the count 8 robbery conviction and also contending that the sentences for his assault convictions are not authorized because the prosecutor did not allege that those convictions would be subject to increased punishment pursuant to the three strikes law. defendant contends, and respondent agrees, that the pronouncement of judgment concerning the section 12022.53 enhancement imposed to counts 25 and 26. there is substantial evidence to support the robbery conviction. defendant received adequate notice that his assault convictions were subject to sentence under the three strikes law. we agree that the abstract of judgment must be corrected, as set forth in more detail in our disposition. the judgment of conviction is affirmed in all other respects. background defendant committed a series of robberies at eight different commercial locations between may 23 and june 9, 2014. the robberies involved a total of 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 conviction in count 8 for the may 23 robbery of a subway restaurant and one of its employees, eboni sadler. we discuss the facts related to that conviction in section a below. defendant committed a series of assaults on june 10, 2014, when law enforcement officials came to a mobile home park in norwalk to arrest him. defendant drove up to an empty lot between two trailers in the park, saw law enforcement personnel and cars and ran into a mobile home. law enforcement personnel on the scene established a perimeter around the home. the team used a public address system in an attempt to persuade defendant gunshots. the shots seemed to be coming from the home. although no deputies were hit, five deputies were near areas where bullets hit. defendant was initially charged with the attempted murder of the five deputies in counts 1 through 5 of the information. on the day jury selection began, the prosecutor amended the information to add counts 22 through 26, which contained five counts of assault against a peace officer using a semiautomatic weapon. these charges involved the same five deputies as did the attempted murder charges and involved the same june 10 incident. ultimately, the jury deadlocked on the attempted murder charges but convicted defendant of all five assault charges. discussion a. substantial evidence supports the count 8 conviction defendant robbed a subway restaurant on may 23, 2014. two employees were present in the restaurant at the time, and defendant was convicted of one count of robbery for each employee. defendant contends the 4 evidence is insufficient to support his conviction for the robbery of eboni sadler, who was not present during the entire robbery. defendant contends such a conviction violates his state and federal constitutional right to due process and a fair trial. 1. sufficiency of the evidence review light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty esume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence and to spsimply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a o not reweigh evidence or reevaluate a people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 210.) 2. elements of robbery of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, employees may be in constructive possession of the property of the store. . . . hus a store employee may be the victim of a robbery even though he is 5 not its owner and not at the moment in immediate control of the stolen whatever their functionhave sufficient representative capacity to their employer so as to be in necessary that an employee have specific responsibility for handling cash in (people v. gilbeaux (2003) 111 cal.app.4th 515, 520-ibid.) sufficient fear to cause the victim to comply with the unlawful demand for explicitly testify that he or she was afraid in order to show the use of fear to facilitate the taking [citations], there must be evidence from which it can be inferred that the victim was in fact afraid, and that such fear allowed the people v. davison (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 206, 212.) 3. analysis sadler did not testify at trial; her involvement in the robbery was shown through the testimony of her coworker, collin knight. knight was at the front counter when defendant entered the subway. defendant ordered a sandwich, ate the sandwich and returned to the counter to order a second sandwich. as knight was ringing up the sale, defendant said that he wanted all the money in the register. defendant said that he had a gun, but did not display one. knight was afraid and gave the money in the register to defendant. defendant told knigh 6 had come out to the front area, and he asked her to was standing about 10 to 15 feet away from knight. knight was able to extract change from the safe, which he gave to defendant. defendant left. sadler fear in sadler, and that she did not part with any property. defendant bases his conclusion that sadler did not feel fear on knighter movement away from the front counter. he the cambridge dictionary defines wander 2 this is the definition which defendant espouses. the free dictionary, however, defines wander 3 that definition does not suggest relaxation or lack of care. it is impossible to know precisely what knight intended to convey by his use of the word wander. even without parsing the meaning of wander, defendant demanded that she open the safe, and to stay in the back of the store, supports an inference that she was afraid of defendant. absent fear, why leave? 2 (http://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/wander.) 3 (http://www.thefreedictionary.com/wander.) 7 wander strengthens the inference. a decision to go by an indirect route could reasonably indicate a desire to move unobtrusively, that is, to move without being noticed. such movement, particularly when undertaken after learning that a robbery was in progress, could reasonably support an inference that the wanderer was afraid and did not want to be noticed as she left. this inference is store when defendant left. defendant also contends sadler did not part with any property. sadler was a subway employee, and as such could be deemed in constructive people v. gilbeaux, supra, 111 cal.app.4th at p. 521.) she did not need to directly give up the property to defendant. in gilbeaux, the court affirmed two robbery convictions which identified a gin a storeroom while the robbers took the assistant manager to the front of the store and forced him to open a safe and give them the contents. (gilbeaux, at pp. 518-519.) although sadler did not directly give up any property to defendant, she did abandon the safe and knight. it is reasonable to infer that her departure initially told defendant that he could not open the safe. after sadler said she could not open the safe and left, defendant used the button mechanism on the response to defendant, and her effective abandonment of knight to defendant an additional $20. 8 b. defendant had fair notice of his potential sentence defendant contends his three strikes sentences for the five assault convictions are not authorized because the people failed to comply with the five convictions. defendant was entitled to fair notice that his assault convictions were subject to increased punishment under the three strikes law. he received such notice. 1. procedural background this matter involved two informations filed about six months apart. the amended information was filed on the day jury selection began, and added five counts of assault on a peace officer. a. original information in an information filed in january 2016, the people charged defendant with five counts of attempted murder (counts 1 through 5) and 16 counts of robbery (counts 6 through 21). the first three pages of the information summarized the charges, with six columns of information for each charge. reading from left to right, the columns were labeled: potential term with sentencing allegations. that information was found in pages 4 through 11 of the information contained the factual allegations for each count. following count 5, the people alleged that all five attempted murders involved the personal use and discharge of a firearm under section penal code section 1192.7(c)(8) and a violent felony within the meaning of 9 penal code section 667.5(alleged that the above offense was a violent felony within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (c) and a serious felony within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c). at the end of all the ccommission of the offense or offenses alleged in counts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21, the defendant, jason edwin devore, had been convicted of the following two or more serious and/or violent felonies, as defined in penal code section 667(d) and penal 18 usc 2113(a) and a july 9, 2016 conviction for robbery in violation of section 211. the peo14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 is a serious and/or violent felony, thus subjecting the defendant to sentencing pursuant to the provisions of penal code section 667(b)-(j) and penal b. amended information the people filed an amended information on june 9, 2016, which added counts 22 through 26 to the information charging five counts of assault on a peace officer. the only allegations listed in assault counts were firearm allegations pursuant to sections 12022.53 and the detailed factual allegations for counts 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26, the information stated, to became a serious felony pursuant to penal code section 1192.7(c)(8) and a violent felony within the meaning of penal code section 667.5(c)(8). 10 the allegations at the end of all counts remained unchanged from the of the offense or offenses alleged in counts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21, the defendant, jason edwin devore, had been convicted of the following two or more serious and/or violent felonies, as defined in penal code section 667(d) and penal code section a july 9, 2016 conviction for robbery in violation of section 211. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 is a serious and/or violent felony, thus subjecting the defendant to sentencing pursuant to the provisions of penal code section 667(b)- c. subsequent proceedings when the prosecutor moved for leave to file the amended information, defense counsel confirmed he had received a copy of the amended following a marsden4 hearing and a hearing on several evidence code section 402 matters, defense counsel made a motion to bifurcate the trial of court granted the bifurcation. in response to an inquiry by the court, the defendant waived his right to a jury trial on the prior conviction allegations. 4 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 11 d. court trial of priors stated it would conduct a court trial on the prior conviction allegation as previously agreed. the prosecutor announced he was unable to proceed on the alleged prior federal conviction for violating 18 united states code section 2113(a), and the court dismissed that strike. the trial on the single prior was brief. the prosecutor submitted two section 969(b) packets containing abstracts of judgment for five prior convictions. the trial court admitted the documents into evidence. defense counsel submitted the matter without argument. as relevant here, the court found that defendant had suffered a conviction for robbery in case no. ga049244, and that the conviction was a prior strike conviction, and also a serious felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a). the court asked both parties to submit sentencing memoranda, specifyinghat i want and what i am interested in is with the strike, the 2. notice under the three strikes law several sections of the three strikes law provide that prior convictions must be pled and proved. most relevant here is subdivision (c)(1) of section f a defendant has one prior serious and/or violent felony conviction as defined in subdivision (b) that has been pled and proved, the determinate term or minimum term for an indeterminate term shall be twice the term otherwise provided as punishment for the current 5 5 related general provisions include section 1170.12, subdivisions (a)(1) and (d)(1). subdivision (aif a defendant has been convicted of a felony and it has been pled and proved that the defendant has one or more prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, as defined in subdivision 12 under the three strikes law, each sentence for a subordinate term must be computed separately (people v. nguyen (1999) 21 cal.4th 197, 207). instead, it defines the term for the crime itself, supplanting the term that would apply but for the prior serious or violepeople v. martin (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 656, 667, overruled on another ground in people v. deloza (1998) 18 cal.4th 585, 593.) defendant contends the pleading and proof provisions of the three ual computation procedure, create a strict statutory requirement that the prosecutor specifically allege the people are seeking to impose punishment pursuant to the three strikes law for every count in which such punishment is sought. we see no such specific requirement. defendant relies on people v. haskin (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 1434 (haskin), people v. arias (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1009 (arias), and people v. mancebo (2002) 27 cal.4th 735 (mancebo) to support his argument that a specific allegation of increased punishment is required for each count of an information. these cases do not involve allegations under the three strikes law and so are not directly applicable to this case. in haskin, the court found inadequate notice was provided by the enhancement allegation concerning a particular prior conviction admitted by the defendant. the information alleged the prior conviction involved a prison (beligibility and the requirement that he or she be committed to state prison. subdivision (dthis section shall be applied in every case in which a defendant has one or more prior serious and/or violent felony convictions as defined this section. the prosecuting attorney shall plead and prove each prior serious and/or violent 13 term within the meaning of section 667.5, but after the defendant admitted the conviction, the trial court found that it was a serious felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a). (haskin, supra, 4 cal.app.4th at pp. 1437-1438.) in arias, the court found a lack of notice due to the failure to allege that the attempted murders charged were willful, deliberate and premeditated, an allegation related to the circumstances of the commission of the crime. (arias, supra, 182 cal.app.4th at p. 1017.) in mancebo, the court considered the omission of an allegation that defendant was subject to increased punishment under section 667.61 (the one strike law) because his convictions involved multiple victims. defendant had been charged with and convicted of crimes with different victims, but a multiple victim circumstance pursuant to section 667.61, subdivision (e)(5) had not been pled. (mancebo, supra, 27 cal.4th at pp. 738-739.) as our (d) or (e) which are required for the punishment provided in subdivision (a) or (b) [are] pled and proved mancebo, at pp. 744-745.) the three strikes law contains no provision comparable to section 667.61, subdivision (f). these three cases cited by defendant do stand for the general proposition that a defendant is entitled to fair notice of the factual allegations that will be invoked to impose a sentence enhancement or otherwise increase the punishment for a charged crime. (see mancebo, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 747.) that notice requirement was satisfied here. the circumstances show defendant was aware he was subject to punishment under the three strikes law for any assault conviction. the 14 information clearly alleged the prosecutor would seek to impose punishment under the three strikes law for the original attempted murder charges. the assault charges were added as a lesser related offense to the attempted murder charges. the amendment followed a vigorous attempt by defendant to have the attempted murder charges dismissed. the prosecutor had clearly believed that defendant deserved the maximum penalty for shooting at the deputies under whichever statute defendant was convicted. the prosecutor sought 20-year firearm enhancement terms for the assault counts, dispelling any reasonable possibility that a lesser punishment was being sought for the lesser related assault charges. assault on a peace officer is a serious felony, making that offense eligible for punishment under the three strikes law. the factual allegations for each assault count specifically state that the offense is a serious felony under section 1192.7, the only fact required for imposition of sentence under the three strikes law. the issue of punishment does not appear to have been discussed during the jury trial, or during the court trial on the priors. at the conclusion of the priors trial, the court requested sentencing memoranda, and expressly stated sentencing memorandum sought a doubling of the sentences for the assault convictions pursuant to the three strikes law. defense counsel did not object or express any surprise at this request during the sentencing hearing. although defense counsel raised questions about the imposition of firearm enhancements, he did ndoubling of the base terms he understood all along that the prosecutor was seeking three strikes 15 notice was not violated. c. the abstract of judgment must be corrected at the sentencing hearing, the trial court stated it was imposing one-third the midterm of seven years for the section 12022.53, subdivision (c) firearm enhancement to counts 25 and 26. this corresponds to the verdicts in the case and to the midterm sentence for that enhancement. the abstract of judgment states that the enhancement is imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (b). the parties agree that is not the correct subdivision and should be corrected. we agree as well. as a general rule, the oral pronouncement of the court must prevail over the abstract of judgment. (see, e.g., people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185.) accordingly, we order the abstract of judgment corrected. (people v. zackery (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 380, 385-386.) disposition the clerk of the superior court is instructed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment showing that the firearm enhancement to counts 25 and 26 is imposed pursuant to subdivision (c) of section 12022.53, and to deliver a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports. goodman, j.* we concur: ashmann-gerst, acting p.j. hoffstadt, j. * retired judge of the los angeles superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 