filed 9/20/18 p. v. raouf ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph pierre raouf, defendant and appellant. b276258 los angeles county super. ct. no. sa089323 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark e. windham, judge. affirmed. elizabeth k. horowitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction defendant joseph pierre raouf was charged with numerous crimes stemming from two robberies. following a bench trial, the court found defendant guilty of nine counts, including one count of making criminal threats and two counts of resisting an executive officer. the court also found true several firearm and prior conviction allegations and sentenced defendant to 27 years in prison. on appeal, defendant contends: (1) the court erred in admitting statements he made to investigating officers during a post-arrest interview conducted at the hospital and which form the basis for his criminal threats conviction; (2) insufficient evidence supports his conviction for criminal threats; and (3) insufficient evidence supports one of his convictions for resisting an executive officer. we affirm. procedural background in july 2015, the people charged defendant with the following crimes: three counts of second degree robbery (pen. code,1  211; counts 1, 6, and 7); three counts of resisting an executive officer ( 69; counts 2, 3, and 132); one count of battery by gassing of an officer ( 243.9, subd. (a); count 4); one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 5); one count of attempted second degree robbery ( 664/211; count 9); one count of assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm ( 245, subd. (c); count 10); one count of criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a); count 11); and one count of misdemeanor battery 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the people amended the information during trial to add count 13. 3 ( 243, subd. (b); count 12). as to counts 1, 6, 7, and 9, the people alleged a principal in the robbery was armed with a firearm ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)), and, as to counts 6 and 9, the people alleged defendant personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)). as to counts 1 through 7 and 9 through 11, the people alleged defendant had served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)) and had suffered two prior serious or violent felony convictions ( 667, subds. (b)-(j)), one for a criminal threats conviction in california in 2011 and the other for a terrorist threat conviction in new york in 2014. in january 2016, the court found defendant incompetent to stand trial. he was transferred to metropolitan state hospital, where he remained until march 2016, when the court found his competency had been restored. in may 2016, the court dismissed count 2 pursuant to section 995. the court also struck the prior strike allegation relating to 14 terrorist threat conviction in new york. in june 2016, defendant and the people waived their rights to a jury trial. defendant changed his plea from not guilty to a dual plea of not guilty and not guilty by reason of insanity. defendant also agreed to submit some of the evidence for the guilt phase of trial based on portions of the transcript from the preliminary hearing, and he waived his right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses whose testimony would be admitted through the preliminary hearing transcript. prior to trial, the people dismissed count 9. a bench trial commenced on june 22, 2016. after the count 4 pursuant to section 1118. the court found defendant 4 guilty of counts 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, and 13. as to counts 1 and 7, the court found true the allegations that a principal was armed with a firearm during the robberies; the court found not true the firearm allegations as to count 6. the court also found true the prior strike, prior serious or violent felony, and prior prison term allegations. following a bifurcated bench trial on the issue of sanity, the court found defendant was sane at the time he committed the charged offenses. the court sentenced defendant to a total term of 27 years, consisting of the following consecutive terms: 11 years for count 1; 1 year and 4 months for count 5; 2 years for count 6; 2 years and 4 months for count 7; 2 years and 8 months for count 10; 1 year and 4 months for count 11; 1 year and 4 months for count 13; and 5 years for the prior strike conviction under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court stayed the sentences for counts 3 and 12 under section 654. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal.3 factual background 1. the robberies on november 18, 2014, mohammed rahmin was working at a convenience store in los angeles when defendant approached the counter with another man. defendant displayed a 3 defendant also filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, arguing the trial court coerced him into waiving his right to a jury trial when he entered his dual plea of not guilty and not guilty by reason of insanitysame time as this appeal. we have denied the petition in a separate order. 5 gun and told rahmin to give him money. rahmin gave defendant on december 1, 2014, defendant entered a bank in beverly hills. he passed a bag to one of the tellers along with a note that worth of bills and a gps tracking device in the bag. around 4:00 p.m. on december 1, 2014, sergeant robert maycott and officer matthew stout of the beverly hills police department received a tip that one of the robbery suspects had entered a hotel about a block and a half away from the bank. as he entered the hotel, officer stout saw defendant standing near the registration desk. defendant turned and began to run toward officer stout followed. as defendant ran, he tripped and fell to the ground. when defendant landed on his back, officer stout saw what he believed to be a semi-defendant then reached toward his waist, at which point officer stout fired one round from his own gun, striking defendant in the right side of his chest. after defendant was placed in handcuffs and treated for his was a pellet-gun replica of a semi-automatic handgun. the officers also recovered a .38-shirt pocket and a magazine containing two rounds of live arrested and taken to the hospital for additional medical treatment. 6 2. the hospital interview on december 2, 2014, shortly after undergoing surgery for his gunshot wound, defendant was interviewed in his hospital room in the intensive care unit by detective george elwell, a detective coulter, and another officer from the beverly hills police department.4 defendant was receiving pain medication throughout the interview,5 and, at the beginning of the interview, he was wearing an oxygen mask. a nurse was in the hospital room attending to defendant during parts of the interview. the interview started with detective coulter asking defendant if there was anyone he wanted to call. defendant asked defendant whether he and the person he wanted to call really s detective elwell then told defendant that the officers would 4 we have read the transcript, and listened to the audio recording, of 5 there is no evidence in the record showing what type of pain medication defendant was receiving at the time the officers interviewed him. there is also no evidence of any specific dosage of medication defendant was receiving, other than a statement by an 7 detective elwell explained that he needed to advise defendant of his miranda6 rights and started to read defendant those rights of the how about that[?] [] and have you guys killed. how about as detective elwell continued to read defendant his miranda the cop that shot me sthe fuck outta my face before i have your mother rapedbefore i have your daughter rapedyour fucking daughter raped, and your mother raped. get them raped when detective coulter asked record it. the judge killed. have his dau detective elwell then started to re-advise defendant of his miranda rights. after detective elwell advised defendant that he has the right to remain silent and the right to an attorney, detective coulter started asking defendant questions about the bank robbery, the altercation with officer stout, and whether 6 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 8 defendant had committed any other robberies. defendant claimed that he robbed the bank to fund terrorist organizations in saudi arabia, and he continued to threaten the officers and their families. after the officers asked defendant at least seven questions about the crimes they were investigating, defendant told them the officers continued to try to discuss the underlying crimes and the shooting involving officer stout, asking defendant about 30 more questions before defendant again threatened officer stout and his familygonna havehis mother raped and killed. make sure you have questions about the robbery and the altercation with officer stout before concluding the interview. while defendant was detained in the hospital, officer defendant testified that he did not want officer handlos in his room, so he asked the officer to leave. when officer handlos refused to leave, defendant grabbed a bed pan and vomited into it. he then threw the pan at officer handlos, which struck officer handlosvomit onto officer handlos at trial, officer stout testified that he had been informed s officer stout was aware that defendant was in the hospital and being treated for his gunshot wound when he made the threats, but officer stout did not know how long defendant had been out of surgery when the officers interviewed him or whether 9 defendant was on pain medication throughout the interview. according to officer stoutstatements , and he was concerned for the safety of his child and wife as well as his own safety. officer stoutwife sought psychological counseling, and officer stout paid over $3,000 to install new security equipment at his home. officer stout started to drive different routes to work and to take his child to school. officer stout inal record as well as his 7 people. as of the time of trial, officer stout remained concerned for the safety of his family and had maintained the security equipment at his home. discussion 1. defendant contends the court erred in admitting the statements he made at the hospital, which form the basis for his criminal threats conviction. specifically, he argues the statements were obtained in violation of miranda because he invoked his right to remain silent when he told the officers he did not want to speak to them, and the officers never obtained a valid waiver of those rights before they continued questioning him. defendant further contends his statements were involuntary because he had recently come out of surgery, was on pain medication, and was still being treated in the intensive care unit at the time of his interview. although we agree that some of defen 7 according telephone calls or some means of communication that cause great 10 harmless. voluntary. 1.1. relevant proceedings during trial, the people sought to admit the recording of prove the criminal threats charge. defense counsel objected to the admission of the recording, arguing any incriminating statements defendant made during the interview were inadmissible because he invoked his miranda rights when he told the officers he did not want to speak to them, and the officers never obtained a valid waiver of those rights before they continued questioning him. the people argued any incriminating statements defendant made with respect to the criminal threats charge were not protected by miranda because they were spontaneous, did not incriminate defendant with respect to any crimes the officers were investigating, and were not made in response to any questions likely to elicit incriminating answers. the court , reasoning his statements were admissible because they were spontaneous and could form the basis for a new crime unrelated to any of the crimes the officers were investigating. later, the court clarified e extent that he uttered criminal threats when he threatened to kill officer stout and his family. the court stated it would not consider any in the robberies of the convenience store and the bank. defense counsel never objected to the admission of involuntary. 11 1.2. standard of review the prosecution bears the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that, under the totality of the miranda rights was knowing, intelligent, and voluntary, and that incriminating statements were voluntarily made. (people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1176 (linton).) appeal, the trial courts findings as to the circumstances surrounding the confession are upheld if supported by substantial evidence, but the trial courts finding as to the voluntariness of the confession is subject to independent [citation.] considers a claim that a confession has been improperly coerced, if the evidence conflicts, the version most favorable to the people must be relied upon if (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 993.) 1.3. although two sets of statements defendant made during the hospital interview were obtained in violation of mirandaadmission of those statements was harmless. defendant argues the court should have excluded the statements he made during his hospital interview because he unequivocally asserted his right to remain silent before the officers extracted those statements. he argues that once he told the officers he did not want to talk to them, they were required to cease their interrogation, and any statements he made after that point in the interview were obtained in violation of miranda. under miranda, police may not subject a suspect to custodial interrogation unless the suspect knowingly and intelligently waives the right to remain silent, the right to the 12 presence of an attorney, and, if indigent, the right to appointed counsel. (people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 751.) the prosecution is prohibited from using any statements, whether exculpatory or inculpatory, that stem from the custodial interrogation unless it shows the suspect has been advised of his miranda rights and has knowingly and intelligently waived them. (people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 179180.) warnings have been given, the subsequent procedure is clear. if people v. case (2018) 5 cal.5th 1, 20 (case)ibid.) express questioning, or likely to elicit an inpeople v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 387.) interrogation, therefore, includes investigation-related questioning initiated by the police or its functional equivalent, not statements or conversation volunteered by the defendant. (ibidsuspect constitutes interrogation. the police may speak to a suspect in custody as long as the speech would not reasonably be construed as calling for an ins(people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 198.) spontaneous statements are not the product of interrogation and therefore are not violative of miranda. people v. mobley (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 761, 791792 (mobley), disapproved of on other grounds by people v. trujillo (2006) 40 cal.4th 165.) in addition, defendant has not invoked his or her right to silence when the defendants 13 statements were merely expressions of passing frustration or animosity toward the officers, or amounted only to a refusal to discuss a particular subj[citationspeople v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 433 (williams).) as a preliminary matter, we note that defendant does not separately address each of the statements he made during the hospital interview that form the basis for his criminal threats conviction. instead, he claims generally that the court should have excluded all of the statements he made during that interview on miranda grounds.8 this approach makes it difficult made numerous threatening statements directed at officer stout and the interviewing officers before and after he stated he did not want to speak to the officers, and before and after they asked him any questions concerning the crimes they were investigating. and statements are reflected in a 13-page transcript. nevertheless, we have separately analyzed the statements defendant made during the hospital interview. as we explain below, the court erred in admitting two sets of statements defendant made after the officers asked him numerous questions right to remain silent. we conclude, however, was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt because the statements that should have been excluded were nearly identical to, and therefore cumulative of, other statements that were properly admitted. 8 at best, defendant contends the interview should have ended the first was given his miranda rights. 14 with respect to the statements defendant made at the beginning of the interview, when he told the investigating officers that the officer who shot him that the officer hands, they were made in response to routine questions. that is, those threatening statements were made in response to questions that were akin to booking questions, such as whether defendant wanted to call anyone and whether he spoke farsi. consequently, those statements are not protected by miranda. (see people v. honeycutt (1977) 20 cal.3d 150, 159 [police may ask a suspect routine booking questions before advising the suspect of his miranda rights]; see also williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 433 [spontaneous expressions of frustration or animosity toward miranda rights].) similarly, the statements defendant made toward the beginning of the interview in which he threatened told saying, were not obtained in violation of miranda. to be sure, defendant invoked his right to silence before making these threatening statements, when he told the officers he did not want to talk to them and demanded get the fuck outta [his] face. but none of these threatening statements were made in response to any questions likely to elicit incriminating responses. for example, defendant made the first statement threatening to slaughter officer stout immediately after detective elwell told defendant he needed to advise defendant of his miranda rights and that defendant could refuse to speak to the officers after detective elwell had finished reading the advisement. and 15 defendant spontaneously threatened to rape mother and daughter, and told the officers to record what he was saying, immediately after detective elwell finished advising defendant of his miranda rights. (see mobley, supra, 72 cal.app.4th at p. 792; williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 433.) the other two sets of statements defendant made threatening to harm officer stout and his family were, however, obtained in violation of miranda. those statements came later in the interview, after the officers had explicitly refused to honor interrogation. defendant made the first of those statementsagain stating he was going to have after the interviewing officers had asked him about 18 questions related to the crimes stout. defendant made the second of those statementsthat he would have the officer who shot him killed, that he would have , and that he hoped the officers were recording his statementsafter the interviewing officers had asked him about 20 additional questions related to their investigation (or nearly 40 total questions concerning their investigation). all of these statements were made after defendant had unambiguously invoked his right to silence, after the officers interview, and in response to questions related to the crimes the altercation with officer stout, questions that were likely to elicit incriminating responses. consequently, the court should have excluded those statements under miranda. although the court erred in failing to exclude the last two sets of threatening statements defendant directed toward officer 16 stout and his family, that error was harmless beyond a statements obtained in violation of the fifth amendment is reviewed for prejudice under the beyond a reasonable doubt standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. that tethat the error complained of did not contribute to the verdict case, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 22.) the two sets of statements the court should have excluded were nearly identical to other statements defendant made that the court properly admitted. for example, the court properly admitted the statements defendant made immediately before and after detective elwell advised defendant of his miranda rights. in those earlier statements, like the later statements that should have been excluded, defendant because the statements the court should have excluded were virtually identical to earlier statements, they were cumulative of other evidence that the court properly admitted. as a result, any error in admitting was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 709 [erroneous rights may be deemed harmless beyond a reasonable doubt if that evidence is cumulative of other evidence that was properly admitted].) 1.4. defendant alternatively contends his hospital interview should have been excluded because his statements were 17 involuntary. specifically, he claims pain metime the officers questioned him. defendant forfeited this argument because he did not seek to exclude the statements on that basis in the trial court. (see people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 482; people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 667.) nevertheless, defendant claims his counsel was ineffective by failing to raise this issue in the trial court. to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must show: (1) counsels performance was deficient, such that it fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing a reasonable probability that, but for counsels deficient performance, the outcome of the proceeding would have been different.(people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009.) s failure to make a futile or unmeritorious motion or request (people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 836.) the fourteenth amendment to the united states statement obtained from a criminal suspect through state people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1086.) a statement is involuntary if it is not the product a rational intellect and free will. the test for determining whether a confession is voluntary is whether the will was overborn [citations.] [] a confession may be found involuntary if extracted by threats or violence, obtained by direct or implied promises, or secured by the exertion of improper influence. [citation.] although coercive police activity is a necessary 18 predicate to establish does not itself compel a finding that a resul [citation.] the statement and the inducement must be causally linked. [citation.][citation]. a confession is not rendered involuntary by coercive police activity that is not the s confession. (linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1176.) here, defendant relies on mincey v. arizona (1978) 437 u.s. 385 (mincey), to contend the statements he made to the officers at the hospital were involuntary. in mincey, the defendant was shot during a raid of his apartment. (id. at p. 387.) the defendant was rushed to the emergency room, where he received treatment for his wounds. (idin his hip, resulting in damage to the sciatic nerve and partial paralysis of his right leg. tubes were inserted into his throat to help him breathe, and through his nose into his stomach to keep him from vomiting; a catheter was inserted into his bladder. he received various drugs, and a device was attached to his arm so that he could be fed intravenously. he was then taken to the intensive ibid.) a detective went to the hospital about four hours after the shooting to talk to the defendant. (mincey, supra, 437 u.s. at p. 396.) the detective told the defendant that he was under arrest for the murder of a police officer, advised him of his miranda rights, and asked him questions about the raid. (ibid.) the defendant could not talk because he had a tube in his mouth, so pieces of paper. (ibid.) although the defendant repeatedly requested counsel, the detective questioned him for almost four hours. (ibid.) 19 the united states supreme court concluded the (mincey, supra, 437 u.s. at p. 398.) the court described the of conscid. at p. 401.) the defendant had arrived at mere hours earlier, was seriously wounded and still in the intensive care unit, and was evidently confused and unable to think clearly about either the events of that afternoon or the circumstances of his interrogation, since some of his written answers were on their id. at pp. 398399.) the court also on a hospital bed, encumbered by tubes, needles, and breathing idinterrogation to retain counsel. (ibid.) according to the court, wanted not to answer [the detective]. but [the defendant] was weakened by pain and shock, isolated from family, friends, and legal counsel, and barely conscious, and his will was simply (id. at pp. 401402.) although some of the circumstances surrounding surrounding the interview in mincey, there are critical distinctions between the two cases. first, unlike the interview in minceyrelatively short, lasting only about thirty minutes. second, although defendant sought to terminate the interview in its early stages, he reinitiated the conversation on multiple occasions, frequently berating and threatening the 20 officers without provocation, and he never requested the assistance of an attorney. third, the record is devoid of any evidence that defendant was in debilitating pain. although he was receiving pain medication at the time of the interview, the attending nurse defendant never complained that he was in pain nor did he request to cease the interview because of his physical condition. finally, the record contains no evidence that the officers used physical or psychological pressure to elicit statements from defendant. (see people v. whitson (1998) 17 cal.4th 229, 248249.) we also reject defendant contention that his bizarre statements during the hospital interviewfor example, that he sold white women to saudi arabia or that he could have government officials killeddemonstrate that they were involuntary. while bizarre, many of these statements are consistent with other statements defendant made at various court hearings occurring months after the hospital interview. for example, defendant claimed at the preliminary hearing that he thus, there is nothing in the record indicating any of the statements defendant medical treatment or condition. in short, the record does not support a finding that conviction were involuntary. consequently, defendant cannot show he was prejudiced by any failure of his trial counsel to seek to exclude those statements on that basis. 21 2. su convictions for criminal threats and resisting an officer defendant next contends insufficient evidence supports his convictions for criminal threats and resisting an officer. as we explain below, substantial evidence supports both convictions. 2.1. standard of review when a defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the evidence proved the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) we draw all reasonable inferences in favor of the judgment and do not resolve credibility issues or evidentiary conflicts. (ibid.) 2.2. criminal threats to support a conviction for criminal threats under section 422, the people must prove: (1) the defendant willfully threatened to commit a crime which would result in death or great bodily injury; (2) the defendant made the statement with the intent that it be taken as a threat; (3) the threat, on its face and under the circumstances in which it was made, was so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat; and (4) the threat caused the other person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his own safety or for the safety of his immediate family, regardless of whether the defendant actually intended to carry out the threat. (people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 753 (butler).) 22 t is the circumstances under which the threat is made that give mbutler, supra, 85 cal.app.4th at p. 753.) thus, [t]he determination whether a defendant intended his words to be taken as a threat, and whether the words were sufficiently unequivocal, unconditional, immediate and specific they conveyed to the victim an immediacy of purpose and immediate prospect of execution of the threat can be based on all the surrounding circumstances and not just on the words alone. the parti history can also be considered as one of the relevant circumstances. (id. at p. 754.) section 422 does not require that a threat be personally communicated to the victim by the person who makes the threat. (in re ryan d. (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 854, 861here the accused did not personally communicate a threat to the victim, it must be shown that he specifically intended that the threat be conveyed to the victim. (ibid.) in this casefinding that defendant violated section 422 when he threatened officer stout and his family. first, defendant threatened to commit a crime that would result in death or great bodily injuryhe threatened to kill officer stout and rape officer daughter and mother. second, there is evidence that defendant intended his statements be taken as threats and that the interviewing officers communicate those threats to officer stout. defendant made the threats against officer stout less than 24 hours after officer stout shot him, at a time when defendant was still upset about that altercation. (see in re ryan d., supra, 100 cal.app.4th at p. 23 authority figure are made when the threatener is in a rage, is under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or is attempting to serve when the officers asked defendant to clarify what he meant when he said officer stout was going to have a lot of problems on his hands, [] he intended to carry out the threats. in addition, immediately after telling the interviewing officers that he would have officer the officers to record his statements, which supports an inference that defendant intended the officers to relay those statements to officer stout. third, defclearly unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific. this is not a case where defendant used only cryptic, equivocal, or ambiguous language or some form of non-verbal communication. rather, defendant explicitly threatened to kill officer stout and rape members of his family. the circumstances surrounding the threats and the history between defendant and officer stout further bolster the immediacy eats: at the time defendant made the threats, less than 24 hours had passed since officer stout shot him. defendant argues his threats toward officer stout lacked immediacy and a gravity of purpose because it appears the officers who interviewed him did not take the threats he directed at them seriously. but defendant was not charged with issuing criminal threats against those officers. thus, whether those officers were concerned for their own safety is irrelevant in threats toward officer stout 24 carried the requisite specificity and gravity of purpose. in any event, the evidence supports an inference that the interviewing officers officer ements to officer stout. finally, there was sufficient evidence to conclude officer stout reasonably to be in officer stout testified that he was concerned safety after the other threats. and officer stout acted on that fear by installing new security equipment at his home and by changing the routes he drove to work and to officer reasonable because defendant had a motive to carry out his threats: officer stout had shot defendant less than 24 hours before defendant was interviewed by the police. 2.3. resisting an officer , by means of any threat or violence, to deter or prevent an executive officer from performing any duty imposed upon the officer by law, or to , by the use of force or violence, the officer, in the performance of his or her dutya police officer is included in (people v. orloff (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 947, 952.) to violate section 69, the defendant . ibid.) defendant violated section 69 when he threw a pan full of vomit at officer handlos. officer handlos testified that he was assigned 25 defendant testified he asked officer handlos to leave his room because he did not want a police officer present. defendant also testified that he decided to throw the pan of vomit at officer handlos when the officer refused to leave the room. this evidence amply defendant intended to deter officer handlos from performing his official dutyi.e., by throwing the pan of vomit at the officer. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, acting p.j. we concur: egerton, j. kalra, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 