filed 6/25/18 p. v. givens ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. deleon f. givens, defendant and appellant. b276541 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba431742) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, sam ohta, judge. remanded for resentencing; judgment of conviction otherwise affirmed. donna l. harris, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury found defendant and appellant deleon givens guilty of kidnapping for robbery and second degree robbery and found true gun and gang allegations. on appeal, he contends there was insufficient evidence to support the gang allegations, that the trial court abused its discretion by denying his marsden1 motions, and that remand is necessary for the court to exercise its discretion under newly enacted senate bill no. 620. we agree that remand is necessary for reconsideration of the sentence under that new law, but we otherwise affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. background a. the kidnappings and robberies on november 12, 2014 at approximately 11:00 p.m., officer at 2641 manhattan place, which was a known hangout for rolling 20s gang members. once there, officer schneider saw four people (givens, marvin carroll, jumanee buard and woodysha pilcher) in a green ford explorer. officer schneider, who knew carroll from prior encounters, asked carroll if he was still hanging out with the rolling 20s, and carroll answered yes. approximately four hours later, at 3:30 a.m. on november 13, 2014, maryuri melendez and fatima baires were at the 7-eleven on washington and western, which was just two miles from 2641 manhattan place and was also in territory. carroll and givens were also at the 7-eleven. surveillance footage from the 7-eleven showed them arriving at 1 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 3 the store in the green ford explorer.2 baires noticed carroll watching her and melendez, and baires scolded melendez for publically displaying her money, $400 or $500 in cash. the women left the store and got into baires car. video surveillance showed carroll leaving the 7-eleven in the ford explorer at the same time and turning out of the parking lot in . unbeknownst to melendez and baires, givens was hiding in the backseat of b. givens held a gun to head and told her to follow his instructions and not to turn, he made baires drive to an alley, . asking if the women liked black men, givens touched breasts as if to see whether they had anything hidden. another person was with givens in the alley, but it is unclear whether the person was male or female and whether that person had also hid in the backseat area.3 after taking property from baires and melendez, givens and the other person ran. melendez heard but did not see a car drive off. 2 officer schneider recognized givens and carroll from the video. 3 melendez identified givens as the man in the backseat but she could not identify carroll as the other man in the alley who robbed her. baires could not tell if the second person in the alley was a man or woman, but melendez thought it was a man. 4 b. gang expert testimony los angeles police department officer john thompson testified for the people as a gang expert. during his two and one-half years assignment to gang enforcement, he monitored the rolling 20s neighborhood blood gang. the 7-eleven at washington and western is in the territory. gang commit crimespower and to intimidate the community. member puts in, the more respect the gang gets. s primary activities include robberies, and it is one of the crimes its gang members commit regularly to instill fear in the community and to get money. officer thompson knew givens and carroll, having encountered them in the field. both self-admitted that they were rolling 20s gang members to him, and both had gang tattoos. s a1, and re time bomb and twin. officer thompson opined that both givens and carroll were active gang members in november 2014 and, based on a hypothetical modeled on the facts of this case, the officer opined that such a crime was committed for the benefit of and in association with the rolling 20s gang. ii. procedural background givens and carroll were jointly tried by a jury. on may 12, 2016, the jury found givens guilty of counts 2 and 3, kidnapping to commit a robbery (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1))4 and of counts 4 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 5 4 and 5, second degree robbery ( 211). as to all four counts, the jury found true firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) and gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) enhancements. as to carroll, the jury deadlocked and the trial court declared a mistrial. on july 27, 2016, the trial court sentenced givens, on count 2, to life for the kidnapping, 10 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and 10 years for the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the court imposed the same, but concurrent, sentence on count 3. on counts 4 and 5, the court imposed five years, 10 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and 10 years for the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the court stayed the sentences on counts 4 and 5 under section 654. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence to support the gang allegation the jury found true allegations that givens committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang (the gang-related prong), with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members (the specific intent prong). ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1); people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59 (albillar).) he now contends there was insufficient evidence to support the gang related and specific intent prongs of the enhancement. we disagree. in reviewing a sufficiency of the evidence challenge to support an enhancement most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact 6 could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a c(albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60.) the gang-related element of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), may be proven in three distinct alternatives. the crime was gang related if the offense is committed either (1) for the benefit of a gang; (2) at the direction of a gang; or (3) in association with a gang. since the gang related prong is in the disjunctive, even in the absence of evidence that the commission of the crime benefited the gang or was directed by the gang, liability may be imposed if there is substantial evidence that the crime was committed in association with a gang. (people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149, 162.) givens challenge to the first prong is based on the sufficiency of the evidence to show that he committed the crimes in association with another gang member. our supreme court has recognized that not every crime committed by gang members is gang-related. (albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60.) but, together as gang membersalternative is met. 5 (id. at p. 62.) in albillar, for example, the three defendants (two brothers and their cousin) raped the victim in concert. a gang expert testified, among other things, that 5 here, tprincipal theory under the first prong was that givens and carroll committed the crimes in association with the gang. 7 gang members commit crimes together because it increases their chance of successfully completing the crime. the evidence showed that the defendants relied on each othand loyalty to commit their crimes. (id. at pp. 6162; see also people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048 [expert testimony about gang culture and habits is the type of evidence a jury may rely on to reach a finding on a gang allegation].) similar to the gang expert in albillar, detective thompson testified here that robbery is one of the crimes that rolling 20s gang members regularly commit, and two gang members will work together, with one acting as the lookout. what happened here fits that scenario. givens and carroll were self-admitted rolling 20s gang members. the carroll had, just hours before the crimes, been together in a green ford explorer. givens and carroll arrived together at the 7-eleven in the same green ford explorer. after givens exited the vehicle, carroll remained seated in the explorer for seven and a half minutes, before following baires and melendez into the 7-eleven, during which time, givens entered and hid in . inside the market, carroll watched baires and melendez, when melendez indiscreetly displayed her money. carroll then covered his face with his hands when melendez looked in his direction. when the women drove out of the parking lot, video surveillance showed that carroll followed them in that same ford explorer. both victims were certain that there was someone else in the alley assisting givens but they were unable to identify that person. when the suspects ran off, melendez heard a vehicle drive off. 8 although givens concedes that there is substantial evidence that carroll was at the 7-eleven, givens, nevertheless, asserts that there is insufficient evidence that he came together with carroll as a gang member to commit the offenses. in support of this assertion, givens focuses on the absence of direct evidence that carroll was the person in the alley with givens. givens seems to suggest that the crimes started and ended in the alley. that is not the case. the crimes started in the 7-eleven, where givens entered bai and did not end until givens reached a temporary place of safety after he fled from the alley. thus, even if we assumed that carroll was not with givens in the alley, there was substantial direct and circumstantial evidence that givens and carroll came together as gang members to commit the robberies and kidnappings. the evidence shows that carroll transported givens to the 7-eleven, he waited until givens had successfully secreted himself within bairesbefore entering the 7-eleven, he closely watched melendez and baires while inside the 7-eleven, and then he followed vehicle out of the parking lot. this evidence is consistent with carroll coming together with givens, his fellow gang member, by 7-eleven. this evidence is also members help facilitate robberies by having one gang member act as a lookout while the other gang member commits the taking. in addition, after the women were robbed and givens and his accomplice fled, melendez heard a car, which raises a reasonable inference that carroll or another accomplice was nearby in a getaway car. in other words, substantial evidence indicates that givens and carroll acted together as gang members when givens committed the offenses here. 9 givens also places importance on carroll guilty of the offenses. inconsistent, the is not a sufficient reason to set aside a verdict as to givens. (see people v. palmer (2001) 24 cal.4th 856, 860861.) instead, where there is substantial evidence to sustain the conviction, it will be upheld despite an apparently inconsistent verdict as to another defendant. (id. at p. 861.) givens relies on a similar argument to attack the specific intent prong of the gang enhancement. albillar, however, held further or assist criminal conduct by gang membersalbillar, supraestablishes that the defendant intended to and did commit the charged felony with known members of a gang, the jury may fairly infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, (id. at p. 68.) as we have explained, such substantial evidence existed here. we therefore also evidence challenge to the specific intent prong of the gang enhancement. ii. marsden next, givens argues that the trial court6 abused its discretion by denying his requests to appoint new trial counsel under marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. 6 the honorable c.h. rehm presided over both marsden motion hearings. 10 a. additional background givens made two marsden motions. at the first, on october 29, 2015, givens expressed disappointment that his counsel had not filed a section 995 motion to set aside the information, had not presented givens transcripts of his police interview, had not played the recorded interview for givens, had to identify givens at a lineup, and had not shown givens the surveillance video from the 7-eleven market. counsel, who detailed his extensive criminal defense experience, responded that he had to get a court order to bring his computer into county jail to show givens the surveillance video, was in the process of having a transcript made , had just received that morning additional jail cell phone calls, that he would raise the lineup issue at trial, and that there was no basis for a 995 motion. the trial court denied the marsden motion. thereafter, givens made a second marsden motion on february 4, 2016. this time he argued that his counsel was ineffective because counsel wanted him to take a deal. counsel, although counsel did tell givens to consider any offer, given the potential sentence givens faced. givens was also unhappy because he still had not seen the 7-eleven video or heard audio of his police interview and added that counsel had not shown him anything that incriminated him. counsel replied that he had provided givens with copies of all the police reports. counsel explained that there was a technical problem with the discs that contained the video and audio so the prosecutor had to provide him with a flash drive and he was preparing a transcript of 11 counsel then detaile the trial court again denied the motion. however, back in open court, givens asked why his request had been denied, given his discomfort in the court repeated presentation is not a ground to relieve your counsel and explained that a client can dislike his attorney but that attorney is still the best person to represent she talked to counsel about hensel told her to counsel denied [ing]tell her that she was not his client and would not get into an argument with her. he denied using profanity. the court noted that foul language is not a reason to relieve an attorney. b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying the marsden motions. the constitutional right to assistance of counsel includes the right to discharge or substitute appointed counsel, if the failure to do so would substantially impair the rights. (marsden, supradefendant seeks substitution of appointed counsel . . . court must permit the defendant to explain the basis of his contention and to relate specific instances of inadequate performance. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 599.) whether to permit a defendant to discharge his or her appointed counsel and substitute discretion. (ibid.) the court does not abuse its discretion in denying a marsden that a failure to replace counsel would substantially impair the defendants right to (ibid.) substantial 12 impairment of the right to counsel can occur when the appointed counsel is providing inathe defendant and the attorney have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is likely to result. (people v. smith (1993) 6 cal.4th 684, 696.) applying these principles, we conclude that givens fails to show the court abused its discretion in refusing his requests to substitute counsel. to show that his right to counsel was substantially impaired and that an irreconcilable conflict existed between himself and his counsel, givens principally focuses on his delay in sharing evidence with him and his overall feelings of discomfort with couns. counsel was appointed to represent givens in november 2014. by october 29, 2015, when givens made his first marsden motion, counsel had yet to play the 7-eleven video surveillance or statement for givens. counsel explained that he had to obtain a court order to bring his computer to jail. also, counsel indicated that he until it was transcribed. by february 4, 2016, counsel still had not reviewed these items with givens, who cited that failure as a basis for the second marsden motion. counsel represented that the , and that it was easier and faster for givens to read the transcript than to listen to the audio. as to the video surveillance, counsel indicated there was a problem with the disc, so the deputy district attorney gave counsel a flash drive. counsel added that although givens had seen the critical portions of the surveillance video at the preliminary hearing, counsel fully intended to play all of the 13 video and audio recordings for givens prior to the trial date, which had yet to be set. therefore, counsel was addressing his the trial court was entit for any delay in showing givens the entirety of the video evidence and playing the audio recordings. (people v. taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 600.) moreover, the trial court was also in a position to discount givensprovided him with anything that incriminated him since counsel had provided givens all of the police reports. counsel was preparing to review the requested items with his client, and that vens wanted does not show that counsel was ineffective. in any event, the record shows that ormance was more than adequate. general sense of discomfort as a basis for replacing counsel, long standing supreme court authority has rejected this rationale. in people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 860,7 our high court explained why a loss of faith alone does not establish a conflict that would warrant substituting appointed counsel: [i]f a defendants claimed lack of trust in, or inability to get along with, an appointed attorney were sufficient to compel appointment of substitute counsel, defendants effectively would have a veto power over any appointment and by a process of elimination could obtain appointment of their preferred attorneys, which is certainly not the law. in people v freeman (1994) 8 cal.4th 450, 481, our high court specifically 7 abrogated on other grounds by people v. crayton (2002) 28 cal.4th 346, 364365 14 suggested considering a plea agreement did not justify removing appointed counsel. unsel was justified. counsel did ask to continue trial and, it appears, did not pursue trial. but [t]actical disagreements between the defendant and his attorney do not by themselves constitute and (people v jackson (2009) 45 cal.4th 662, 688.) rather, those were matters within ial impairment them. iii. senate bill no. 620 when givens was sentenced in 2016, the trial court lacked discretion to strike the enhancements found true under section 12022.53, subdivision (b). givens contends that he is now entitled to the benefit of a new amendment to section 12022.53 giving trial courts discretion to strike an enhancement under that section. ( 12022.53, subd. (h).) newly amended section 12022.53, subdivision (h), which became effective january 1, 2018, provides: pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may oc although the people correctly concede that the amendment generally people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080; in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740), the people argue that remand is unnecessary. the people point out that the trial court did not exercise its discretion to strike the gang enhancement. based on 15 this, the people argue that the court would not have exercised its discretion to impose a lesser sentence. (people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896 [remand to consider striking a prior conviction pursuant to romero unnecessary when the record demonstrated the court would not have exercised its discretion to impose a lesser sentence].) however, the court also imposed concurrent rather than consecutive sentences on the aggravated kidnapping counts and stayed the sentences on the robbery counts. it is therefore unclear to us that the court would not have exercised its sentencing choices differently. the matter must be remanded so that the trial court can exercise its informed discretion. we offer no opinion as to how its discretion should be exercised. 16 disposition the sentence is vacated and the matter is remanded for reconsideration of the sentence in light of senate bill no. 620. the judgment of conviction is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kalra, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. egerton, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 