 filed 5/4/18 p. v. hollis ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. chauncey alexander hollis, defendant and appellant. b276667 los angeles county super. ct. no. la078996 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard h. kirschner, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. rachel lederman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant chauncey alexander hollis of one count of leaving the scene of an accident that resulted in permanent, serious injury and two counts of reckless driving causing great bodily injury. the jury found true allegations that hollis had a prior conviction for reckless driving and that he personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victims in the commission of the crimes. the jury also found two prison priors true. the trial court sentenced hollis to 12 years and four months in the state prison. 1 is faretta2 motion to represent himself because it did not tell him the maximum possible sentence if he were convicted. we find no error and therefore affirm . we remand the case for the trial court to strike the great bodily injury enhancements on counts 2 and 3. factual and procedural background 1. the charges and pretrial proceedings in 2014 the people charged hollis with leaving the scene of an accident that caused permanent, serious injury to another person in violation of vehicle code section 20001, 1 hollis, acting in propia persona, has filed two petitions for writs of habeas corpus. we previously denied his february 2018 separate order filed concurrently with this opinion. 2 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 [95 s.ct. 2525, 45 l.ed. 562] (faretta). 3 subdivision (a).3 the people also charged hollis with two counts of reckless driving causing great bodily injury to randy douglas in violation of vehicle code section 23104, subdivision (b). the people alleged hollis had a prior conviction for reckless driving. the people also alleged, as to each count, that hollis had personally caused great bodily section 12022.7, subdivisions (a) and (b) respectively. finally, the people alleged hollis had two prison priors under penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). hollis was apprehended in illinois on a warrant and extradited to california. . when counsel arrived in the courtr privately-retained witnesses were in court, waiting to testify. the court denied umably, postpone the preliminary hearing), noting that hollis could replace his attorney for any further proceedings if he were held to answer. 3 the information alleged in count 1 the crime of leaving the section 20001, subdivision (b)(2). but the information alleged a violation of vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (a). whether or not this was a typographical error, the people later moved to amend count 1 to conform to proof and to allege hollis violated vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (b)(2), rather than section 20001, subdivision (a). 4 the court held hollis to answer and he was arraigned on february 18, 2015. hagop kuyumjian of geragos & geragos approximately 11 pretrial conferences followed, from march 2015 to january 2016. on january 5, 2016, the parties appeared for another pretrial conference. the court ordered some witnesses on call and dealt with a bail issue. offer was eight years in the state prison (with a waiver by hollis of any custody credits he had accumulated).4 this exchange followed: matter? [the prosecutor]: i would have to calculate, your honor, [defense counsel]: i thought it was in the range of 13 years, your honor. but -- [the prosecutor]: could be. [defense counsel]: i could be wrong as well. [pause in proceeding] [the prosecutor]: 14 years, four months. anyway, between one-year priors. there [are] g.b.i. allegations. there is a g.b.i. allegation of causing a coma, which is an enhancement, a five-year g.b.i. it depends on what the judge does. [] but he will 4 hollis had been out on bail for most of 2015. because of an issue with his bail bond company, the court remanded him on january 5, 2016. 5 get high term, i believe, and full consecutive. it will probably be around 10 to 15 years. [] the reason i asked the prosecution, mr. hollis, is that i want you to be here so that you have an absolute understanding as to what the potentials are in this case. and i urge you, absolutely urge you, to listen to your lawyer and to make a decision that you believe is in your best interest. . . . [] and, again, you actually have two lawyers here today. listen carefully to what they have to say. . . . you have a lot at stake here. look at it very, very carefully and make a judgment call that makes sense for you, in 2. the parties appeared again before the court for a final readiness conference (a so-called zero of 10 date) on january 26, 2016. defendant does not pro per status [si the docket states hollis said he did not want kuyumjian to continue to represent him, nor accordingly, the trial court ordered geragos to remain counsel of record and trailed the case to february 1, 2016. two days later, on january 28, 2016, the trial court advanced the matter . the parties appeared before the court and hollis completed, initialed, signed, and filed an advisement and waiver of right to counsel (faretta waiver).6 disadvantages of self-acknowledgements of what hollis was giving up by choosing to represent himself hollis initialed each box on the form. above the signature line, hollis hollis the trial court questioned hollis about his faretta request. yourself the court is a bad idea to represent yourself. [] so i want to be sure that with hollis continued for some time. eventually the court said, hat the warnings and advisements hollis already had initialed, including his right to appointed counsel at no cost and the fact that he would face an experienced prosecutor and would not receive any special treatment. many dangers and disadvantages to self-representation. first of t the court also cautioned hollis that he could lose his court asked hollis if he had any questions and hollis said, o. 7 motion. appointed an investigator for him. 3. the trial after five more pretrial conferences, the case finally went to trial in late april 2016. the court appointed stand-by counsel. proceedings on april tri-by counsel represent him or assist him during jury selection. on april 26, before the prospective jurors entered the courtroom, the court asked hollis if he had a witness list and if he wished to wear civilian clothing rather than his jail uniform. hollis refused to respond, stating the appointed for you to represent you at this point? do you wish to reli, o. as the sufficiency of the evidence is not at issue in this appeal, we summarize it briefly: friend randy gluck on the evening of july 13, 2014 in her honda cr-v. they left a yogurt shop around 9:15 or 9:30 p.m. and were both front passenger, were wearing seat belts. ios. that is the last thing she remembers before waking up in the hospital. nicholas sacks also was driving north and west on the 101 that night. sacks was going about 70 miles per hour in the number two lane8 sacks did not see any car chasing or following the bmw. the bmw changed lanes and collided honda cr-v. the honda . investigating officers later honda had rolled about 290 feet after it was hit. sacks pulled to the side of the freeway. he saw an african american man running; the man jumped over the guardrail. sacks looked into the bmw but no one was in the car. paramedics and police arrived within about 10 or 15 minutes. curtis thompson was working that night at castle park, a miniature golf and game arcade near the freeway. thompson a few minutes later, thompson saw an african american man coming over a wall into the castle park parking lot. the man fell over and landed on his back. thompson approached and asked the man if he was alright. the followed the man through the complex, building, and through the golf course. the man then jumped over a barbed-wire-topped fence. at trial, thompson identified hollis as the man he had seen that night. castle park surveillance video also showed hollis walking through the arcade toward the golf course. department of motor vehicles records showed that hollis bought a 7-series bmw in 2009 and that he was still its registered owner in july 2014. the bmw that hit the 9 honda on the night of july 13, 2014 had that same license plate. dna testing of blood on the armrest of the well as the air bag of the bmw matched a swab taken from hollis. california highway patrol officer jeffrey wadsworth testified the condition of the seat belts and air bags in the bmw showed the driver was the only occupant at the time of the collision. stayed in the hospital for about nine days. she had a fractured skull, a fractured clavicle, and fractured ribs. a laceration than ran about five inches down her scalp behind her right ear. her left hand also was badly injured. nearly two years after the collision the collision left gluck in a persistent vegetative state. doctors had to remove part of his skull and brain. nearly 22 months after the collision, gluck remained in a subacute facility that cares for patients who need aggressive pulmonary care. unable to breathe on his own, gluck was connected to a breathing machine. he had no quality of life and his physician did not expect him to improve. hollis testified at his trial. he said the bmw belonged to his son. hollis testified that a woman named meisha libine was driving, someone named jennifer was in the front passenger seat, and hollis was in the back seat. hollis said following him, chasing the bmw and shooting at it. according to hollis, the honda made an unsafe lane change that caused the collision. hollis testified he was not wearing a seatbelt and upon 10 hollis denied knowing hollis testified he and the two women h hollis and libine eventually found one another and got a ride to pasadena with an unknown motorist who asked if they needed help. hollis also called jeffrey kolody as a witness. hollis and kolody had been housed in the same dormitory at the county jail. hollis and kolody denied knowing each other but hollis admitted kolody hollis testified he had posted on facebook asking if anyone had information about the collision. kolody testified he saw the post kolody told the jury he was on the 101 freeway on his motorcycle that night and saw a white or tan car trying to change lanes. then, kolody said, a car hit the tan or white car. kolody stopped his motorcycle. he testified he kolody sa at the conclusion of the evidence, the people moved to amend count 1 to conform to proof and to allege a violation of section 20001, subdivision (b)(2) (failure to stop at accident resulting in permanent, serious injury or death) rather than section 20001, subdivision (a) (failure to stop at accident resulting in injury or death) of the vehicle code. the trial court granted maximum exposure by one year. 11 4. the verdicts and sentence the jury convicted hollis on all counts. the jury found true the allegations that hollis personally inflicted great bodily injury reckless driving, and that he had served time in prison and not remained free of prison custody for five years before committing the crimes in this case. the trial court sentenced hollis to 12 years and four months in the state prison, calculated as the upper term of four years on count 1 for leaving the scene of an accident resulting in permanent, serious injury in violation of vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (b)(2), plus five years under penal code section 12022.7, subdivision (b) for the infliction of great bodily injury that caused the victim (gluck) to become comatose due to a brain injury, plus two eight-month terms (one-third the midterm) on counts 2 and 3, to be served consecutively, for reckless driving causing injury with a prior reckless driving conviction in violation of vehicle code section 23104, subdivision (b), plus the two one-year prison priors. the court imposed and stayed the great bodily injury enhancements on counts 2 and 3. discussion because the sixth amendment grants to the accused personally the right to present a defense, a defendant possesses the right to represent himself. (faretta [ ], supra, 442 u.s. [at p.] 819.)people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1069.) order to make a valid waiver of the right to counsel, a defendant - [citation.] (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 835.)koontz, at 12 p. 1070.) he test of a valid waiver of counsel is not whether specific warnings or advisements were given but whether the record as a whole demonstrates that the defendant understood the disadvantages of self-representation, including the risks and complexities of the particular case. (people v. bloom (1989) 48 cal.3d 1194, 1225.)(people v. conners (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 443, 454 (conners).) on appeal, we independently the entire recordincluding proceedings after the purported invocation of the right to self-representationand determine de novo whether the defendant knowing and [citation.] (people v. sullivan (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 524, 547; see also people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 453.) the burden is on the defendant to demonstrate he did not knowingly and intelligently waive his right to counsel. (sullivan, at p. 547.) hollis contends his waiver of his right to counsel was not knowing ansplit of authority in california as to whether the court [in addition to satisfying itself that the defendant understands the nature of the charges against him] must also specifically advise (people v. ruffin (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 536, 544 (ruffin). compare people v. bush (2017) 7 failure to advise defendant of maximum potential fine did not invalidate faretta waiver where court did tell defendant of self-representation, made his choice with eyes open, and would 13 have done the same even if the court had advised him conners, supra, 168 cal.app.4th at pp. 447448, 454455; people v. harbolt (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 140, 149151 with people v. jackio (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 445, 454represent himself at trial of the maximum punishment that could be imposed if the defendant is found guilty of the crimes, with enhancements, alleged at the time the defendant moves to .) after the parties filed their briefs in this case, division four of our court decided ruffin, supra, 12 cal.app.5th 536. inquiry of the defendant, ruffin. the court had asked ruffin only if the signature on the faretta waiver form was his and if he had any questions. (idcourt did not affirmatively ascertain on the record whether [ruffin] actually read and understood the advisements contained in the waiver form, and whether, with such understanding, [ruffin] wished to waive his right to counsel and represent id. at p. 546.) moreover, even though ruffin was not charged with strike offenses, because one of his two prior strikes was for forcible rape, he faced a sentence of 27 years to life. (id. at p. 541, fn. 5.) the trial court did not tell him this. justice willhite referred to the split in california authority on this point, extent a trial court is required to advise of possible penal consequences, because even if such an advisement is not mandatory, its total absence is certainly a factor to consider in made, and in this case we rely on the entire record to conclude 14 that the faretta (id. at p. 544.) justice collins concurred. presiding justice epstein concurred in the judgment. (ruffin, supra, 12 cal.app.5th at p. 552.) justice epsteand signed a certification that he had read, considered, and was not required to remonstrate with [ruffin] about his choice so long as it was reasonably satisfied that [he] understood what he was giving up and the risks of self-ibid.) to what extent a trial court is required to advise of possible penal ruffin. in any event, the facts of our case are quite different from those in ruffin. after hollis initialed each box on the faretta waiver form and signed it, the trial court engaged in a lengthy colloquy with him. as noted, the court emphasized, again and again, the risks and dangers of self-representation. the court confirmed that ,that he had discussed it with his attorney, and that he understood it. the charge. hollis again confirmed he understood this. the court repeated the advisements on the form that hollis would not receive any special treatment, that he would have to follow the rules, that he would have limited access to research materials, and that if convicted he would not be able to claim ineffective 15 assistance of counsel. the court told hollis that it could not advise him on the elements of the offenses, available defenses, or appropriate trial strategy. hollis repeatedly said he understood. the court then read to hollis from the faretta decision and warned him that the court could terminate his self-representation if he engaged in serious misconduct. hollis said he understood, and confirmed again that he had no questions. while the trial court did not expressly advise hollis during that exchange of his maximum potential sentence, some three weeks earlier the court and counsel had discussed that very issue was either 11 years, eight months or 12 years, eight months.5 the prosecutor stated holl, four as noted, the trial court urged hollis to talk with his attorneys possible disposition. moreover, at the conclusion of the faretta hearing, hollis was given his own copy of the information; as 5 as noted above, the information filed on february 18, 2015, alleged a violation of vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (a), in count 1. the sentencing triad for that offense is 16 months, two years, or three years in the state prison. however, the be two, three, or four years in the state prison. that is the triad for a violation of vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (b)(2). as noted, the people moved to amend the information to conform to proof. whether this was a typographical error and the people meant to allege a violation of subsection (b)(2) rather than that the upper term on count 1 was four years rather than three. 16 had hollis had any question about this, he could have raised it at any of the subsequent five pretrial conferences or on the trial date.6 and, as noted, the trial court asked hollis again, as the trial was about to commence, if he wanted to give up his status and have counsel appointed. hollis said, o. a case with similar facts is conners, supra, 168 cal.app.4th 443. there, division eight of our court rejected the was] required because the [court below] erred in allowing him to represent himself at trial without first advising him of the penal conid. at p. 446.) the court had faretta id. at pp. 448.) but about two weeks later, when both sides announced ready for trial, the court and counseldiscussed whether the case was a second strike case. the court asked what the offer was, exposure as a second strike . . . would be seven years, four id. at pp. 448449.) when conneassigned to a trial court a few days later, the trial court asked conners again if he still wanted to represent himself. conners said, es. (id. at p. 449.) 6 cf. people v. fox (2014) 224 cal.app.4th 424, 435 [trial s erroneous statement to defendant that charge of assault with a deadly weapon was not a strike did not render his faretta of the accusatory pleading with charged offense]. 17 the court of appeal stated that, even though the court had not told conners of the potential penal penalties when it granted his faretta nners knew what they were conners, supra, 168 cal.app.4th at p. stated in people v. bloom [citation]: the test of a valid waiver of counsel is based on the record ibid.) the validity of conners. while conners was told of his maximum exposure after he had asked for and received the right to represent himself, hollis learned of his potential exposure several weeks before he made his motion. accordingly, he proceeded to file his faretta motion and exercise his constitutional right to represent himself knowing full well that he faced in excess of 12 years in the state prison. 18 disposition conviction. we remand the case for . the people concede the trial court must strike the great bodily injury enhancements on counts 2 and 3 because the infliction of great bodily injury is an element of the offense, a violation of vehicle code section 23104, subdivision (b). the abstract of judgment correctly does not list any enhancements for counts 2 and 3. accordingly, no correction to the abstract is necessary. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. kalra, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 