filed 5/8/18 p. v. colbert ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. brandon lee colbert, defendant and appellant. b276969 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066931) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. andrew e. cooper, judge. affirmed in part and reversed in part with directions. mary jo strnad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant brandon lee colbert of one count of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a); count 1),1 two counts of assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b); counts 4 & 5), one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)), and one count of possession of ammunition ( 30305, subd. (a)(1)). as to counts 1 and 4, the jury found true the great bodily injury enhancement ( 12022.7). as to count 1, the jury also found true various firearm enhancements ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)). as to counts 4 and 5, the jury found true one firearm enhancement.2 ( 12022.5, subd. (a).) defendant admitted three prior prison allegations. defendant was sentenced to a determinate prison sentence of 22 years eight months and an indeterminate prison sentence of life plus 25 years to life. he was awarded 397 days of custody credit. various fines were also imposed. defendant timely filed a notice of appeal. he argues that the trial court erroneously denied his batson/wheeler3 motion. in his supplemental appellate brief, he asks that we reverse the three firearm enhancements imposed and remand the matter back to the trial court with directions to 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 defendant was acquitted of count 2 charging attempted murder. counts 3 (attempted murder), 6 (assault with a semiautomatic firearm), and 9 (mayhem) were dismissed. 3 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 89 (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 276277 (wheeler). 3 exercise its discretion under amended sections 12022.5 and 12022.53. (people v. robbins (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 660; people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080.) we conclude that the trial court did not err in denying his batson/wheeler motion and therefore affirm the judgment. however, defendant is entitled to a new sentencing hearing at which the trial court can consider whether to strike the firearm enhancements pursuant to the discretion conferred by section 12022.53. we therefore reverse the sentences on the enhancements and remand the matter to the trial court for the sole purpose of allowing the trial court to exercise its discretion as to whether to strike the firearm enhancements under sections 12022.5 and 12022.53. factual background on september 9, 2015, into the early morning hours of september 10, britisher, a bar in lancaster. patrons at the bar included royce gresham (gresham)gabelman was socializing, drinking, and playing pool. daniel gray (gray) arrived at the bar at around 9:00 or 9:30 p.m. ashley huerta (huerta) and her african-american companion, identified in court as defendant, were also at the bar. two female customers got very drunk. when one of them started a the kicked-stopped serving alcohol to her. the woman got into an argument with back. gresham tried to split them apart. another customer, scott, jumped in 4 front of landed on the floor. gresham aggressively pushed huerta multiple times. defendant came between huerta and gresham. at some point, defendant held a gun and was pointing it. defendant approached gresham in a threatening manner. to avoid getting hit, gresham dropped defendant on the floor. defendant squeezed out from under gresham and ran out of the bar. gresham followed him to the back patio. feeling like the situation was getting out of control, gabelman headed out the back patio of the bar. he saw people outside. at around 12:45 because he heard s rear parking lot. defendant said something to gabelman, who might have replied, dant. gray heard the *** hot gabelman in the stomach. he also shot gresham, who was next to gabelman. everyone scattered. gresham ended up on a gurney. gabelman needed emergency surgery for his life-threatening injury. on september 10, 2015, after 10:00 p.m., a police officer spotted defendant. when the officer illuminated defendant with his patrol lights, defendant rode off on his motorcycle. he subsequently got off of his er ran after defendant, who ended up on top of a roof. he eventually came down. a gun was recovered nearby. defendant stipulated that he was the shooter. 5 discussion batson/wheeler motion in his opening brief, defendant contends that he is entitled to a new trial on the grounds that the trial court applied an erroneous legal standard to his batson/wheeler motion and wrongly concluded that he had not met the low threshold to initiate a batson inquiry. i. procedural background during voir dire, the prosecutor exercised six peremptory challenges removing prospective jurors, including the two prospective jurors at issue, prospective juror no. 7696 and prospective juror no. 6716. a. prospective juror no. 7696 prospective juror no. 7696 said that she was a retired nurse married to an electrician. in response to question no. 13 of a questionnaire that the trial court gave to all of the prospective jurors, she indicated that one of her two sons was in jail for one month and on probation for three years for growing mushrooms because a neighbor reported hearing a shot, even though no shot had been fired. the responding police officers said untruthfully that of money. but, she knew that her son only had a few mushrooms, which she documented with photographs, and he worked as a supermarket assistant manager. he had to be in jail for one month because he could not afford to be released. when asked if this experience would affect her ability to be fair and or any member of your family or close personal friends ever been the victim of ears ago, two men 6 broke into her home and fought with the same son. one of the men had a knife. the son removed a big sword from a wall and ran after the invaders. the following day, defense counsel asked prospective juror no. 7696 to assume the following: she felt the prosecution did not prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt, but it was a friday and she was tired and wanted to go home, where she expected family guests. counsel then asked whether she would hold strong and vote not guilty. she replie- later prospective juror no. 7696 answered in the affirmative to the be fair to the law enforcement that testifies in this officers to prove that they are truthful. the prosecutor told the prospective jurors as a group that she wanted to be held to the standard of proof required by law, which she explained was that she had to prove that defendant was guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. the prosecutor asked if any of the prospective jurors would hold her to a higher standard than the law requires. addressing prospective juror no. 7696, the prosecutor noted that instruction defining reasonable doubt and invited the prosecutor to ask her question again. she did, asking prospective juror no. 7696 whether she 7 other words, do you feel that reasonable doubt is beyond all imaginary doubt based on yo. . . of what happened to my the prosecutor then asked if prospective juror no. 7696 could set aside already put that. the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge to remove prospective juror no. 7696. b. prospective juror no. 6716 prospective juror no. 6716, an african-american woman, said that she was single and childless. for the past 15 years, she worked for the antelope valley transit authority. previously, she worked for six years at a civil law firm, where she was first a receptionist and eventually a paralegal. in response to question no. reported that her parents told her that four years earlier, her brother had -was knew enough about the case to have an opinion as to whether her brother was treated fairly, prospective juror no. 6716 replied that she did not know was a little 8 the trial when the trial court asked if she could think of any reason that she could not be fair and impartial in this case, she repli the prosecutor asked follow-up questions about prospective juror no. courthouse as the instant matter. she believed that he received probation. the following colloquy occurred: [the prosecutor]: [d]o you feel he was treated fairly? [prospective juror no. 6716]: like i said, initially, i felt like the one strike was too much. with the judge explaining that some charges are just strike charges, now i understand. so [the prosecutor]: charges are either strikes or not strikes. [prospective juror no. 6716]: now i understand. prior to that, no. [the prosecutor]: ultimately do you think he was wrongfully arrested or mistreated in any way by law enforcement? [prospective juror no. 6716]: that is kind of hard to tell because you kind of get two different stories. [] and i heard the storyhe was detained by loss prevention. i heard that [] . . . [] because, obviously, i want to believe my brother, but i want to believe the reports. [the prosecutor]: yeah, you want to believe your brother because it is your brother, obviously. you feel a sense of loyalty, and that 9 makes sense. [] either it was lancaster or palmdaldo you remember which one it was that was involved? [prospective juror no. 6716]: i believe it was palmdale. [the prosecutor]: i believe it is all lancaster in this case. there is movement between the two departments. [] do you feel you would hold it against any [prospective juror no. 6716]: absolutely not. [the prosecutor]: do you feel like you could be fair to both sides in this case, knowing [prospective juror no. 6716]: one hundred percent. c. other prospective jurors removed by the prosecution exercise of peremptory challenges: (1) prospective juror no. 0693 had a brother-in-law convicted of the offense of driving under the influence, and this juror had been charged with the same offense three or four years earlier; (2) domestic violence, and she believed that one, whose case had been in the same courthouse as the instant case, was treated unfairly because he told her so; (3) prospective juror no. 4110 stated that she held a grudge against law enforcement or prosecutors because she had a 10-year-old conviction for driving under the influence that she felt she did not deserve; and (4) prospective juror no. 0567, who had been convicted of driving under the influence more than eight years before, indicated that when deciding the issue of guilt, the question of punishment would be in the back of his mind t i 10 d. african-american jurors accepted by the prosecution the prosecutor accepted two african-american prospective jurors. e. batson/wheeler motion s peremptory challenge against prospective juror no. 6716. at a sidebar conference, defense counsel specified that he was making a batson/wheeler objection that the prospective juror, an african-american, was a member of a cognizable group. defense counsel argued that the previously removed prospective juror no. 7696 appeared to be hispanic and had a heavy hispanic accent, and that she therefore also belonged to a cognizable group. the trial court noted that it could not tell prospecti ethnicity, though she had an accent, and that the trial court wrote the letter the trial court instructed defense counsel that to make his record, he likelihood that the person challenged, which is in this case [prospective juror no. 6716], was challenged for a group association rather than for a specific defense counsel noted that defendant and prospective juror no. 6716 were african-american, and he thought that prospective juror no. 7696 was hispanic; the entire venire appeared to have six to seven african-americans. the trial court asked counsel if he wanted to state anything further. he replied that he did not. the trial court then invited the prosecutor . . . as to any argument or evidence for the record as to whether the defense has made the prosecutor responded that the defense did not 11 to state anything for the record. the prosecutor said that she did not know the ethnicity of prospective juror no. 7696. acknowledging that prospective juror no. 7696 appeared to have an accent, the prosecutor thought prosecutor said that the prospective juror did not rise to the lefair. the prosecutor said that she clearly had concerns about this law enforcement. regarding prospective juror no. 6716, the prosecutor noted that she been prosecuted in the same courthouse as this case. the prosecutor thought it was unclear to the prospective juror if her brother was currently on probation out of this courthouse. the trial court noted that the prosecutor accepted two african-american prospective jurors. it then announced its ruling as to prospective consideration, the court is not finding a prima facie case. the court is convinced that the moving party has failed to overcome the presumption that the peremptory challenge to [prospective juror no. 7696] was exercised upon constitutionally-permi n of the issue with [prospective juror no. 6716] was her concern over the issue of a strike . . . my office, her 12 evaluation that, essentially, my office deemed him appropriate for a strike. [] she did acknowledge not understanding of what that meant after the court explained that certain charges are strikes, and certain charges are not. but i do also have a concern that that is something that will weigh on her during her batson/wheeler motion based on the statements already made by the court. f. final jury composition after the jurors were selected, the trial court noted for the record that four african-americans were seated on the final jury panel. it did not comment on how many hispanic jurors were on the final jury panel. as is relevant to the issues raised in this appeal, we note that prospective juror no. 3750 remained on the jury. he stated that he had been convicted of second degree robbery 18 years earlier and of evading law enforcement eight or nine years earlier. he fought his first conviction for four-and-one-half years, resulting in its dismissal. while he felt that he was treated unfairly, he blamed the victim for wrongdoing. regarding his second conviction, he felt no animositenforcement; he said that he felt that his evading offense was deserved and that the police had been doing their job. ii. batson/wheeler motions the exercise of even a single peremptory challenge solely on the basis of race or ethnicity offends both our united states and california constitution. (people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1157 (gutierrez).) impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural error, gutierrez, supra, at p. 1158.) 13 a rebuttable presumption exists that a peremptory challenge was exercised properly. the burden rests on the party opposing the peremptory challenge to demonstrate impermissible discrimination. (people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 341.) a peremptory challenge of a juror need not be supported by cause; it may be based on even trivial reasons or hunches, including body language, the manner of answering questions, or demeanor. (people v. reynoso (2003) 31 cal.4th 903, 917; people v. cornwell (2005) 37 cal.4th 50, 70, disapproved on other grounds in people doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) a claim that an opposing party improperly discriminated in exercising peremptory challenges is analyzed in a three-step process. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) first, the party asserting the claim must demonstrate to an inferencibid.) the moving party satisfies the first step by producing sufficient evidence permitting the trial judge to draw an inference that discrimination has occurred. (ibid.) in meeting the first step of showing an inference of discriminatory excusal of a prospective juror, the party making the batson/wheeler motion must make as complete a record as feasible. (people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4twhether a defendant has carried his burden of showing an inference of discriminatory excusal, such as whemost or all of the members of the identified group from the venire, or has used a disproportionate number of his peremptories against the excused jurors had little in common other than their membership in the group, and whether the prosecutor engaged people v. cunningham (2015) 61 cal.4th 609, 14 664; see also people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 834835.) other facts batson/wheeler motion are that the defendant is a member of the excluded group and the victim is a member of the group to which the majority of the remaining jurors belong. (people v. harris, supra, at p. 835.) where only a few members of a cognizable group have been excused and no indelible pattern of discrimination appears, it is impossible as a practical matter to draw the requisite inference that discrimination occurred. (people v. garcia (2011) 52 cal.4th 706, 747.) moreover, in analyzing if the party asserting discrimination has established a prima facie case, the trial court may consider nondiscriminatory apparent from and clearly established in the record . . . that necessarily dispel any inference of bias. (people v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 43.) second, if the trial court finds that the movant met the threshold for demonstrating a prima facie case, the burden shifts to the opponent of the motion to give an adequate nondiscriminatory explanation for the challenges. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. ethe challenges.ibidpurkett v. elem (1995) 514 u.s. 765, 768.) third, if the opponent of the batson/wheeler motion gives a neutral explanation for exercising a peremptory challenge, the trial court must then decide whether the movant has proved purposeful discrimination. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) to prevail, the movant must show that it was (johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 170.) this inquiry focuses on the 15 subjective genuineness of the reason, not the objective reasonableness. (people v. reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 924.) batson/wheeler motion for substantial evidence. (people v. mcdermott (2002) 28 cal.4th 946, 970.) strong likelihoodin ruling that a defendant failed to make out a prima facie case of discrimination in review the record de novo to determine whether the record supports an inference that the prosecutor excused the prospective juror on the basis of race. (people v. zaragoza, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 4243.) where a trial court denies a batson/wheeler motion after finding no prima facie case of discrimination, the reviewing court should uphold the denial where the record suggests grounds on which the prosecutor might reasonably have challenged the jurors in question. (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1101, disapproved on another point in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 114.) iii. analysis applying de novo review, we conclude that the totality of the relevant facts did not give rise to an inference that the prosecutor removed the two prospective jurors for a discriminatory purpose. in questioning the removed jurors, the prosecutor delved into a topic of relevancepossible bias against the prosecution as a result of their stated beliefs that their close relatives were harshly treated by the criminal justice system. a xperience with the criminal justice system is a race-neutral reason for a peremptory challenge. (people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 167, fn. 13; see also people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 628.) given this record, defendant did not meet the first step of making 16 a prima facie case of discrimination. it follows that the trial court was correct batson/wheeler motion. moreover, the appellate record indicates that the prosecutor removed only one african-american prospective juror (prospective juror no. 6716) at batson/wheeler motion, and four african-americans remained on the jury. this type of evidence is relevant in deciding whether a defendant carried his burden in establishing a prima facie case of discrimination. (people v. cunningham, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 664.) where only a few members of a cognizable group have been excused, and no indelible pattern of discrimination appears, it is difficult to draw an inference of discrimination. (people v. bell (2007) 40 cal.4th 582, 598, disapproved on other grounds in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 686 as a practical matter . . . the challenge of one or two jurors can rarely suggest a pattern of impermissible exclusion defendant finds fstate her reasons for exercising her peremptory challenges of prospective juror nos. 7696 and 6716. but, it is established that trial courts occasionally find no prima facie case but still ask the prosecutor to state reasons for exercising a peremptory challenge. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 612.) the fact that both prospective juror no. 6716 and defendant are african-american does not itself establish a prima facie case of discrimination. (people v. kelly (2007) 42 cal.4th 763, 780.) for the first time on appeal, defendant asserts that his case involved a -on-well-documented and well-defendant made no such argument to the trial courthe did not assert that the victims were 17 white or that the area suffered from racial tensions. regardless, even if the victims were the same race as the majority of the jurors, that fact does not establish a prima facie case of discrimination. (people v. kelly, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 780.) in support of this argument, defendant asserts that he was accompanied by a white woman at the britisher and that he was the only nonwhite patron at the bar. defendant offers no record citation in support. in fact, the record appears to indicate otherwise. gabelman testified that gray is black, and gray was at the britisher on the night of the shooting. citing miller-el v. dretke (2005) 545 u.s. 231, 240241 (miller-el), defendant argues that statistical disparity alone can give rise to an inference of discrimination, and that while the sample was small in this case, the statistical disparity was high. in miller-el, the united states supreme court held that if a pros-american prospective jurors applied to an otherwise-similar nonafrican-american juror left on the jury, that evidence was to be considered at the third step of the batson analysis. (miller-el, supra, at p. 241.) as defendant acknowledges, miller-el is inapplicable here, where we are considering the first step (prima facie case) of the batson analysis. defendant next juror no. 3750, presumably a nonminority, and her removal of prospective juror no. 6716, an african-american, creates a reasonable inference that the prosecutor had an improper motive for removing prospective juror no. 6716. this argument ignores the fact that prospective juror no. 3750 never expressed any suspicion or feeling that law enforcement officers or prosecutors unfairly treated him or his family members. in fact, prospective juror no. 3750 said that he deserved his conviction for evading police, and 18 that his robbery conviction had been the fault of the victim, not anyone else. in contrast, prospective juror no. 6716 specifically blamed the prosecutor who had charged her brother with what she thought was an overly aggressive strike offense. finally, we note that the prosecutor removed most of the prospective jurors who either themselves or their family members had had bad experiences with the criminal justice system. she removed prospective juror no. 6459 after she shared that she thought her cousin had been treated unfairly by the criminal justice system. she removed prospective juror no. 4110 after she said that she held a grudge against law enforcement and prosecutors because of a drunk driving conviction that she felt that she did not deserve. and, she removed prospective juror no. 0567 after he shared that the prosecutor had a proper motive for dismissing prospective juror nos. 6716 and 7696. resentencing on firearm enhancements in his supplemental opening brief, defendant requests that we remand the matter to the trial court to exercise its discretion under sections 12022.5 and 12022.53 to strike any or all of the firearm enhancements. the people do not object to his request. as set forth in people v. woods, supra, 19 cal.app.5th at page 1090: . . . section 12022.53 . . . trial courts . . . have the power under subdivision (h) of the statutpursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, [to] strike or dismiss people v. robbins, supra, 19 cal.app.5th at p. 679.) we agree that defendant 19 is entitled to a new sentencing hearing on the enhancements. the matter is remanded to the trial court to consider whether to strike any or all of the firearm enhancements. disposition the sentences for the firearm enhancements are reversed. the trial court is directed to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). if the trial court elects not to strike or dismiss the enhancements, then the trial court is directed to resentence defendant for the firearm enhancement(s). ( 12022.53, subd. (d).) in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ______________________________, p. j. lui ______________________________, j. chavez 