filed 5/9/18 p. v. lammers ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert al lammers, defendant and appellant. b276229 los angeles county super. ct. no. ta132247 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, pat connolly, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction defendant robert al lammers, a bipolar methamphetamine addict, was convicted of three counts of premeditated attempted murder and one count of assault after he went on a three-day spree in which he approached hispanic men in public places, stabbed them with a folding knife, and fled in his car. though a defense expert testified defendant was delusional at the time, the jury was instructed that it could consider only when deciding whether he acted with intent to kill. defendant contends this was error because his mental illness was also relevant to whether he premeditated and deliberated the attempted killings. we agree and conclude the error was prejudicial as to count 1 but harmless as to counts 2 and 5. we therefore reverse count 1. we also hold indeterminate sentences for counts 1, 2, and 5imposing two indeterminate terms for each count subject to a life sentencerather than doubling the minimum period of incarceration as required under the three strikes law. sentence is unauthorized, we vacate the sentence and remand for resentencing. procedural background by information dated april 2, 2014, defendant was charged with three counts of premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,1  664/187, subd. (a); counts 1, 2, 5), one count of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 3), and one count of criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a); count 4). the information also 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 alleged defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) in counts 1, 2, and 5; that he used a knife ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) in counts 1, 2, 4, and 5; and that he had suffered one strike prior ( 667, subd. (d);  1170.12, subd. (b)), one serious-felony prior ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and two prison priors ( 667.5, subd. (b)). defendant pled not guilty and denied the allegations.2 on june 5, 2014, defendant was found incompetent to stand trial under section 1368. he was remanded to patton state hospital on august 19, 2014. on february 25, 2015, after patton certified defendant as mentally competent, the court reinstated proceedings. on june 30, 2015, defendant changed his plea to not guilty by reason of insanity. after the guilt phase of a jury trial at which he did not testify, the jury found defendant guilty of all remaining counts and found the remaining allegations true. after the sanity phase, the jury found defendant sane. strike and sentenced him to an aggregate determinate term of 17 years followed by six consecutive indeterminate life terms. for count 1 ( 664/187, subd. (a)), the court imposed two indeterminate life sentencesthe mandatory term of life in understanding of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)(i);  1170.12, subds. (a)(d)). the court added three years for the great-bodily-injury enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) and one year for the deadly-weapon enhancement ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)), 2 dismiss count 4 and one of the prison priors. 4 to run consecutively. the court imposed the same sentence for counts 2 and 5 ( 664/187, subd. (a)), then added five years for the serious-felony prior ( 667, subd. (a)), to run consecutively.3 the strike conviction for purposes of count 3 ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) only and sentenced him to the midterm of three years, to run concurrently. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. factual background 1. defendant stabs alberto robles at a car wash (count 1). on july 28, 2013, at around 4:30 p.m., witness armando perez saw a small, dark-colored sedan pull into a car wash on alondra boulevard in bellflower. the driver, later identified as defendant, parked and got out of the car. at some point thereafter, alberto robles was stabbed once in the stomach.4 robles approached brenda cuevas, who was washing her car, and told her he had been stabbed. he was holding his stomach and pointed towards defendant. defendant got in his green honda and drove off. he appeared to be fidgeting and trying to conceal something. cuevas called 911. 3 after the time for normal briefing had elapsed, we asked the parties to submit letter briefs addressing whether the six life sentences were authorized under the three strikes law. 4 robles did not testify at trial. 5 2. defendant stabs isidro silva and assaults marco lauzano at a 99 only store (counts 2 and 3). the next day, july 29, 2013, isidro silva and his brother-in-law marco lauzano were walking toward the entrance of a 99 store in artesia. defendantparking lot, got out of his car. he took three or four steps towards then started walking back toward the entrance. as he walked, he watched silva and lauzano proceed through the parking lot. silva and lauzano split up to walk on opposite sides of a parked suv, and defendant slowed his gait until he was next to silva. defendant asked silva if he spoke english, then immediately stabbed him in the arm with a knife.5 silva ran, and defendant headed back to his car. lauzano yelled after defendant, who turned to face him; defendant started calling lauzano names and approached him with the knife. lauzano and silva fled in their car. defendant also drove off. silva later identified defendant from a six-pack photographic lineup. 3. defendant is apprehended after stabbing oswaldo reynoso at a bus stop (count 5). the next day, july 30, 2013, at about 5:00 p.m., oswaldo reynoso was waiting for a bus at a bus stop in compton when defendant pulled his dark-colored honda up to the curb, parked, and got out. defendant approached reynoso and asked if he spoke english. reynoso ignored him. suddenly, reynoso felt a 5 a surveillance camera captured aspects of this incident, but the stabbing itself was obscured by an awning near the store entrance. 6 to ooze out. reynoso tried to flee, but when he fell after a few steps, defendant grabbed the backpack reynoso was wearing, pulled it aside, and stabbed him in the back. reynoso lost consciousness and ultimately awoke at a hospital where he was treated for two stab wounds and significant blood loss. sharann gomez witnessed the stabbing while she was stopped at a red light and called 911. deputy ricardo garcia responded to the call. after searching the areaarmed with a description of a bald, white male driving an older two-door honda or toyota with a partial license plate numberhe pulled defendant over and detained him pending a field identification. garcia thought defendant seemed calm, not intoxicated or mentally impaired. after gomez identified defendant as the person who attacked reynoso, deputies arrested him and impounded the car. reynoso later identified defendant from a six-pack photographic lineup and at trial. numerous interior bloodstains and a folding knife covered in blood. blood was discovered on headrest. the knife was recovered from under the center console. dna extracted from the blood samples in the car matched n the knife was linked to defendant and to a fourth stabbing victim, fernando caballero of orange county. 4. other crimes evidence at 6:00 p.m. on july 30, 2013an hour after defendant stabbed reynosofernando caballero waited at a bus stop in orange county with his roommate, william ross. defendant 7 pulled up alongside them and parked, then got out of the car and looked under the hood as if he were checking something. he approached the two men and asked for directions. caballero and ross turned away momentarily to show defendant where to go, and when caballero looked back, defendant lunged at him. caballero leaned back, but defendant was able to stab him in the left arm. as defendant pulled his arm back, caballero saw that he was holding a knife. caballero fled, but defendant pursued him, swinging the knife at his chest. after failing to make contact a second time, defendant stopped, returned to his car, and drove away. detective david hermann of the anaheim police department testified that he obtained a warrant to search car in connection with a june 2007 stabbing. the search of the apartment revealed a pin that said, found a department of corrections identification card belonging to defendant, a cream-colored shirt covered in blood, a white shirt bearing pipe used to smoke methamphetamine. 5. defense evidence dr. gordon plotkin testified in both the guilt and sanity phases as a defense psychological expert.6 plotkin opined that defendant has a mental disease, disorder, or defectnamely, episodes are irritable, not euphoric, and his auditory 6 because the evidence presented during the sanity phase is not relevant to this appeal, we limit our discussion to evidence presented during the guilt phase. 8 hallucinations and paranoid delusions are consistent with that irritability: he believes people are after him. defendant forms ideas of reference, which cause him to misperceive the actions of others and infer alternative meanings from situations filtered through his delusions. he interprets other people as conspiring against him and as out to get him, which leads to poor judgment and insight. time and have been documented in prison, by police, and during psychiatric holds under welfare and institutions code section 5150. in short, during a manic episode, defendant becomes irritable, suspicious, and paranoid. these symptoms impair his thinking, functioning, and judgment, and can affect his ability to control his impulses and frustrations. plotkin believed defendant was in a manic state at the time of the stabbings, and the attacks were motivated by his delusions that the victims were mocking and threatening him. plotkin explacommitted those crimes. he was delusional, hallucinating, and at the car wash, defendant believed robles was talking about him and laughing at him, so he stabbed robles and fled. at the 99 store, defendant got out of his car and saw a couple of men laughing at him and making fun of him, so he stabbed silva in the arm. in compton, defendant saw reynoso walk across the street to the bus stop with his hands in his pockets. defendant sending signals to defendant and publically humiliating him by 9 plotkin resistthreateningbecause a psychotic person cannot distinguish between provoking behavior and threatening behavior. here, plotkin explained, reatened by the people making fun of him, that were talking about him, that they were and his actions were a product of the paranoia and delusions. discussion defendant argues that the court committed prejudicial error by instructing the jury, in effect, that it could not consider his mental illness in deciding whether he acted with premeditation and deliberation. in response to our request for letter briefs, defendant also argues that the court imposed three unauthorized life sentences. 1. the jury instruction on mental impairment was erroneous. 1.1. defendant has not forfeited his claim of instructional error. as a preliminary matter, the people failure to object to the instruction on this ground at trial forfeited the error. the people are mistaken. jury instructions on the general principles of law relevant to people v. cruz (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 1178, 1183.) although instructions relating mental state evidence to charged offenses need not be given sua sponte, do so correctly. [citation.] an instruction not erroneous, deficient, 10 or misleading on its face people v. townsel (2016) 63 cal.4th 25, 58 (townsel).) the record before us does not include a transcript of any instruction conference at which the specific modifications to calcrim no. 3428 were discussed, but it appears from comments in the general instruction and the prosecution edited it to include the language at issue here. (see townsel, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 59.) defendant does not appear to have objected that the edited instruction was incomplete or unclear. instructional error, even absent objection, to the extent his substantial rights were (townsel, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 5960 [considering erroneous instruction with precursor to calcrim no. ;  modified, even though no objection was made thereto in the lower court, if the substantial rights of the defendant were affected ;  1469 [same].) whether a defendants substantial rights were affected, of course, can only be determined by deciding if the instruction as given was flawed and, if so, whether the error was prejudicial. (people v. hudson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1002, 10111012 [forfeiture rule does not apply to incorrect statements of law].) that is, if claim has merit, it has not been forfeited. thus, we must necessarily review the merits of his claim. we review instructional errors de novo. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) 11 1.2. the mental impairment instruction was erroneous. we begin by reviewing the relevant instructions given below. first, the court instructed the jury that to convict defendant of attempted murder in counts 1, 2, and 5, the people had to prove: ineffective step toward killing another person; and 2. the defendant intended 600.) the court then elaborated on the direct step element. nextif you find the defendant guilty of attempted murder under counts 1, 2, or 5, you must then decide whether the people have proved the additional allegation that the attempted murder was done willfully, and with deliberation and premeditation. [] the defendant acted willfully if he intended to kill when he acted. the defendant deliberated if he carefully weighed the considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. the defendant premeditated if he decided to kill before acting. [] careful consideration of the choice and its consequences is not (calcrim no. 601, emphasis added.) after instructing on assault with a deadly weapon (count 3) and the prior-if you find the defendant guilty of the crimes charged in counts 1, 2, or 5, you must then decide whether, for each crime, the people have proved the additional allegation that the defendant personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon during 12 (calcrim no. 3145, emphasis added.) then, the court people proved the personally inflicted great bodily injury on a non-accomplice. (calcrim no. 3160.) finally, the court instructed the jury: have suffered from a mental disease or defect or disorder. you may consider this evidence only for the limited purpose of deciding whether, at the time of the charged crime, the defendant acted or failed to act with the intent or mental state required for that crime. reasonable doubt that the defendant acted or failed to act with the required intent or mental state, specifically: intent to kill. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of attempted murder. (calcrim no. 3428, emphasis added.) the people, citing townsel, argue these instructions in townsel, the court instructed the jury that it could consider evidence solely for the purpose of determining whether or not the defendant element of the crime charged in counts 1 and 2, to wit, murder. (townsel, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 59.) earlier instructions had 13 described premeditation and deliberation as elements of the charged crime of first-degree murder. (id. at pp. 6263.) because these mental states were embedded within the murder instruction itself (ibid.) here, by contrast, the attempted murder instruction, calcrim no. 600, did not encompass premeditation and deliberation. unlike the jury in townsel, the jury in this case was instructed to determine first whether defendant was guilty of attempted murder and then the additional allegation that the attempted murder was done willfully, and with deliberation anno. 601.) by explicitly identifying premeditation and deliberation ibid.), the instructions separated those concepts from the id., no. 3428) attempted murder itself. other instructions, which used identical language to describe the deadly-weapon and great-bodily-injury allegations, reinforced that division. the mental impairment instruction, calcrim no. 3428, simply applied the distinction between crimes and allegations that the earlier instructions had set up. the first paragraph told only for the limited purpose of deciding whether, at the time of the charged crimestate required for that crime(italics added.) then, the second paragraph clarified that the charged crime of attempted murder was the instruction in townsel did not contain such clarifying language. 14 thus, taken together, the court instructed the jury that to convict defendant of the charged crime of attempted murder, the people needed to prove intent to kill. to decide whether the people met their burden, the jury could consider defendanmental illness. if it found defendant guilty of attempted murder, the jury then acted with premeditation and deliberation, (2) personally used a deadly weapon, and (3) personally inflicted great bodily injury. in making those decisionsillness.7 the evidence of his [mental illness] solely on the question whether he formed the mental state required for the [attempted] murder charges, the instruction effectively told the jury it must not consider that evidence on any other question before it. we presume the jury followed the instruction. [citation.] therefore, if defendant was entitled to have the evidence considered on any other charge or allegation (townsel, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 63.) premise that he actrational thought, a planning process, or a weighing of the 7 of the instructtalk now about once you find the defendant guilty of counts 1, 2, and 5, special allegations to look at. one of them is that he did it willfully, deliberately, and with 15 consequences. because the trial court effectively instructed the jury not premeditation and deltownsel, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 6364.) 1.3. we evaluate prejudice under chapman v. california. although we conclude the trial court committed instructional error, we will not reverse the judgment unless we also determine the error was prejudicial. defendant contends the error violated his federal due process right to have the jury consider his defense at trial, therefore requiring the people to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the error was harmless. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 2324 (chapman).) the people assert the error is one of state law, which requires defendant to establish that it is reasonably probable he would have achieved a more favorable result absent the error. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) in townsel, the supreme court applied chapman to the the trial court effectively instructed the jury not to consider that evidence on the charge and allegation, it erred under both state townsel, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 64.) then, citing chapman, the court held that the people the dissuading charge and the true finding on the witness-killing special-consider the [mental disorder] evidence in relation to that charge and atownsel, at p. 64.) 16 following townsel, we apply chapman to the instructional error in this case and assess whether the people have proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the error was harmless. (chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at pp. 2324.) the people, however, do not address any individual count. instead, they contend coordinated actions involving the sudden use of a concealed knife at an opportune moment and unprovoked attacks on the victims demonstrated premeditation. his statements before stabbing two of the victims asking whether they spoke english along with related racist belongings found during a prior search provided a mo defense theory centered on a complete rejection of any requisite counsel did not mention premeditation or deliberation during closing argument, and instead emphasized how the only issue before the jury was whether appellant meant to kill the victims 8 8 the people also point out that the court gave other, correct instructions on premeditation, intent to kill, and specific intent. be that as it may, those instructions did not tell the jurors they could premeditated and deliberated the stabbings. as such, they have no bearing on whether the instructional error here was prejudicial. 17 1.4. the instructional error was prejudicial as to count 1. the evidence of premeditation and deliberation for count 1, the robles carwash stabbing, was exceedingly weak. while the prosecution established that robles was stabbed and that defendant stabbed him, the record reveals little else about the incident.9 (see people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 2627 [premeditation and deliberation assessed by examining evidence of planning, motive, and manner of killing].) perez testified that he saw defendant park and get out of his car. but he did not specify whether defendant drove in to the car wash itself, which could suggest that he planned to wash his car, or parked at the curb, which could support an inference that he stopped for another purpose. cuevas testified that robles told her he had been stabbed and pointed towards defendant as the perpetrator. but since the witnesses did not see the stabbing and robles did not testify at trial, there was no testimony about whether defendant spoke to robles or arrival the stabbing occurred. the jury could, perhaps, have inferred premeditation and deliberation from the other crimes, but even that inference was subject to justifiable suspicion. the car wash incident was the first of the three stabbings. than those of the other victims. and unlike the victims of the 9 as defendant does not contend there was insufficient evidence to no opinion on that question. 18 other stabbings, robles was surrounded by bystanders. all of these factors suggest impulsivity and lack of planning.10 in short, the evidence that defendant premeditated and deliberated before stabbing robles people suggest. there is no evidence that this was an knife at an opportune moment the record simply does not reveal what occurred between defendant and robles. contention that in closing argument mitigated the prejudicial impact of the instructional error for this count. to be sure, din the guilt phase was that he lacked intent to killand to focus on premeditation and deliberation would have undermined that defense. but defendant offered evidence that would have supported a not-true finding on the allegation. plotkin testified at length that dehis thinking, functioning, judgment, and impulse control. he suggested the attacks were motivated by threatening him, and that without those delusions, he would not have committed the crimes. those opinions were consistent with an impulsivebut not premeditateddecision to kill. on this record, then, kill does not establish appellantor deliberating. 10 as sane when he stabbed robles does not change our conclusion. as the people acknowledge, in the sanity phase, the defendant has the burden of showing that he was legally insane when he committed the crimes. 19 accordingly, we conclude the people have not established beyond a reasonable doubt that the error was harmless. (see people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, 376, overruled on other grounds by people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896 1.5. the instructional error was harmless as to counts 2 and 5. unlike count 1, however, there was ample evidence from which the jury could conclude that the acts charged in count 2 (99 store) and count 5 (bus stop) were premeditated and deliberate. we therefore conclude that for those counts, the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at pp. 2324.) at the 99 store, defendant got out of his car, took a few before heading back toward the store. the jury could reasonably have inferred that defendant returned to his car to retrieve his folding knife. (see people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 577578 [evidence that defendant left and returned with murder weapon supported a finding of premeditation and deliberation].) the surveillance video from the 99 store showed defendant watching silva and lauzano walk through the parking lot, then slowing his gait until he was next to silva. this, too, could be evidence of planningand notably, the jury asked to re-watch this portion of the video. defendant asked silva if he spoke english, then immediately stabbed him in the arm. according to plotkin, defendant believed the men were laughing at him and making fun of him, which gave him a motive to act. because silva and lauzano were only walking next to each 20 other while defendant stood and watched them, defendant must have formed his belief at that point, because by the time defendant slowed down to wait for silva, silva and lauzano had split up. as to count 5, the reynoso stabbing at the compton bus stopcar and got out so that he could stab reynoso based on his delusion that reynoso was mocking him for masturbating. and this incident was the first time defendant continued to pursue a victim who was fleeing or injured. moreover, ainfer that defendant was growing increasingly violent with each stabbing. finally, this does not appear to have been a close case: after a week-long trial, the jury deliberated for only two hours before reaching a verdict. (compare people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897, 907 [six hours of deliberations is evidence of a close case].) 2. as discussed, the court sentenced defendant to six life terms for the three counts of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder. the court arrived at this sentence by imposing one indeterminate life sentence for each count and doubling it under the three strikes law. we requested supplemental briefing on whether this sentence was unauthorized, and conclude that it was. (see people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 354 [court may correct unauthorized sentence on appeal].) the three strikes law providesprior serious and/or violent felony conviction that has been pled and proved, the determinate term or minimum term for an 21 indeterminate term shall be twice the term otherwise provided as punishment for the current felony convict 667, subd. (e)(1);  1170.12, subd. (c)(1), emphasis added.) under the plain language of this provision, only two types of sentences are doubled: a determinate term and the minimum term of an indeterminate term. sisting of a specific people v. jefferson (1999) ibid.) current felony is punished by an indeterminate term of imprisonment, the three strikes law requires a doubling of the example, a defendant who has a prior strike and who is convicted of a felony punishable by a term of 15 years to life in prison will id. at pp. 8990.) although section 664, subdivision (a), does not explicitly specify a minimum parole term, it is governed by section 3046, which provides that anyone sentenced to life with the possibility pursuant to any other section of law that establishes a [greater] minimum period of confinement. people v. jefferson, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 96.) here, there is no other statute that establishes a greater minimum confinement period. therefore, the seven years. thus, the court was authorized to impose, for each 22 offense, no more than a single life term with a minimum parole period of 14 years. (id. at pp. 8990.)11 11 enhancements were included in the determinate sentence, and as such, are irrelevant to the minimum parole eligible date for the indeterminate sentence. ( 669, subd. (a) [term for consecutive, determinate enhancement served first and not credited toward indeterminate mepd].) 23 disposition count 1 is reversed and remanded for retrialsentence is vacated and the matter is remanded for resentencing in accordance with the views expressed in this opinion. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j. 