filed 6/5/17 p. v. natta ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ian estatoy van natta, defendant and appellant. b276186 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya093260) the court:* ian estatoy van natta (defendant) appeals from a judgment sentencing him to four years, four months in state prison after he pleaded no contest to three sex offenses involving a minor. we affirm. background in march 2015, defendant was charged with six sex offenses involving a minor. he pled nolo contendere to one count *ashmann-gerst, acting p. j., chavez, j., hoffstadt, j. 2 of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor (pen. code,  261.5, subd. (c))1 and was placed on probation for a five-year term with a condition that he serve 365 days in county jail. the remaining counts were dismissed. in july 2015, defendant failed to report as ordered, and a petition to revoke probation was filed. in november 2015, defendant was charged with 10 sex offenses involving a minor. defendant represented himself throughout the preliminary hearing, at the end of which he was held to answer on all 10 counts, and was found to have violated his probation. declared a conflict, and the court appointed the alternate public defender to represent defendant. on march 3, 2016, prior to trial, defendant requested that he be allowed to represent himself. the court admonished defendant at length regarding the dangers of self-representation, advising him that it was not a very wise decision to give up a defendant that he was facing 10 counts, all of which were strikes. defendant repeatedly confirmed he wanted to represent himself, and the court granted his request and appointed standby counsel. on april 7, 2016, defendant withdrew his initial plea of not guilty and, after consulting with standby counsel, entered a no contest plea to two counts of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor ( 261.5, subd. (c)) and one count of oral copulation of a minor ( 288a, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court advised defendant of his statutory and constitutional trial rights, confirmed by oral exchange that defendant understood those rights and that 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 defendant agreed to waive his rights by resolving his case by plea bargain. pursuant to the plea agreement the trial court imposed a sentence of four years, four months in state prison; dismissed the remaining counts; and imposed a concurrent three-year term for the probation violation. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal and checked all the boxes to indicate the type of appeal from a guilty plea: on the sentence or other matters occurring after the plea; based on the denial of a motion to suppress evidence; and halleng[ing] the validity of the plea or admission. [o]ther defendant requested a certificate of probable cause under section 1237.5, stating that his plea was unlawful because da [had] [hid] all the evidenceand he [sic] the trial court denied the request for a certificate of probable cause. discussion -appointed counsel has filed a brief raising no issues, but seeking our independent review of the record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436. at the invitation of the court of appeal, defendant filed a supplemental brief in which he argues there was insufficient evidence to support the charges against him and that the victim committed perjury. however, defendant entered a guilty plea and did not obtain a certificate of probable cause. as a result, we may only entertain an appeal based on (1) g]rounds that arose after entry ,(2) [t]he denial of a motion to suppress evidence under penal code section 4 1538.5.people v. maultsby (2012) 53 cal.4th 296, 299, fn. 2.) the issues specifically identified by defendant on appealeither in his supplemental brief or in his request for a certificate of probable causefall outside this permissible scope of appeal. we are required to apply the certificate of probable cause in a strict manner.people v. mendez (1999) 19 cal.4th 1084, 1097-1098 [rejecting appellate courts approach of granting dispensation[] to defendant not in compliance with section 1237.5 under rationale that defendant may seek same relief by habeas corpus petition]; people v. panizzon (1996) 13 the purposes behind section 1237.5 will remain vital only if appellate courts insist on compliance with its procedures].) we have also reviewed the record for other error cognizable on appeal and did not find any reasonably arguable appellate issues. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. 