filed 9/8/17 p. v. canales ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. matthew aaron canales, defendant and appellant. b276487 los angeles county super. ct. no. pa065777 appeal from a post-judgment order of the superior court of los angeles county, monica bachner, judge. affirmed. mary jo strnad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction matthew aaron canales appeals from the denial of a post-judgment motion to seal and destroy the arrest records from a criminal case that the people dismissed at the complaint stage. our independent review of the record has revealed no arguable appellate issues, and we affirm. background canales lives with his mother, linda fisher. they both struggle with mental health issues. canales suffers from bipolar disorder, for which he takes medication. fisher takes anxiety medication and was addicted to that medication at the time of the events in this case. according to the police report admitted into evidence below, on december 3, 2009, deputy sheriffs charles weathers and chris craft responded to a disturbance . when they arrived, fisher was present, but canales was not. fisher told the deputies that she had been arguing with canales because she wanted him to get treatment for his bipolar disorder. during the argument, canales threatened to strangle her in her bed while she slept or, if he could find a long enough knife, stab her. canales ran out of the house when fisher threatened to call the police. weathers reported that fisher told him canales had tried to choke her in the past, crushing her windpipe. fisher also told weathers she believed canales would try to kill her again and after searching the area, weathers found canales standing on a nearby corner and arrested him. in his pocket, canales had 3 though he acknowledged quarreling with his mother over the proceeds denied threatening her. on december 8, 2009, fisher spoke with detective r. welch by phone. fisher repeated that she and canales had a heated argument over treatment of cana. in the course of the argument, canales threatened to strangle fisher in her sleep or, if he could find a long enough knife, stab her. she said that while canales had choked her in the past, he had never crushed her windpipe. fisher explained that she had called the police in an effort to get help for her son and did not want him arrested. welch also spoke with canales, who said he made the statement only because he was angry. he could not recall any previous occasions on which he had assaulted his mother. welch referred the case for prosecution. canales was charged by felony complaint dated december 18, 2009, with one count of criminal threats (pen. code,  422).1 on may 21, 2010, he pled not guilty. on june 23, 2010, fisher prosecute canales and would not sign a complaint. she wrote: he would not harm me or anyone else in his family. he loves his n july 27, 2010, the people dismissed the case in the interest of justice ( 1385). on january 8, 2016, canales petitioned the superior court under section 851.8 to seal and destroy the arrest record in the 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4 case. following a contested hearing at which fisher testified that she had been addicted to medication at the time of the incident and was not afraid of her son, the court concluded charged offense and denied the petition. ( 851.8, subd. (b); people v. adair (2003) 29 cal.4th 895, 903.) canales filed a timely notice of appeal and we appointed counsel to represent him. on april 10, 2017, appellate counsel filed a brief in which she raised no issues and asked us to review the record independently. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436.) later that day, we notified canales that his attorney had failed to find any arguable appellate issues and that he had 30 days to submit by brief or letter any arguments he wished this court to consider. we have not received a response. discussion we have examined the entire record, and are satisfied appellate counsel has fully complied with her responsibilities and no arguable issues exist in the appeal before us. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278284; people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 443.) 5 disposition the post-judgment order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. stone, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 