filed 8/22/17 p. v. howard ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. sonya devon howard, defendant and appellant. b276136 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta140233) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john j. lonergan, judge. conditionally reversed and remanded with directions. james m. crawford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and colleen m. tiedemann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________ 2 introduction pursuant to an agreement, sonya devon howard pleaded no contest to possession of a firearm by a felon. the trial court sentenced her to 16 months in county jail. because the trial court and the prosecutor misled howard into believing she could challenge her conviction on appeal, however, she is entitled to withdraw her plea. therefore, we reverse. factual and procedural background a. the charges howard was sitting in her car outside a medical marijuana clinic. a passerby told security guards that howard had a gun, and the guards detained her until the police arrived. officers searched howard and found a loaded revolver in her waistband. after the officers advised her of her rights to remain silent, to an attorney, and, if indigent, to appointed counsel, howard made incriminating statements. the people charged howard with one count of possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of penal code section 29800, subdivision (a).1 the people also alleged howard had served two prison terms for felonies within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). b. the plea at her arraignment, howard was represented by appointed counsel. when the proceedings began, the prosecutor acknowledged howard wanted the court to replace her attorney, 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 but he urged her to consider his upon your record, i would give you 16 months at 50 percent . . . . now, i want you to understand something. court asked the prosecutor to advise howard of her maximum possible sentence in the case. the prosecutor told howard her maximum sentence was seven years, which he later revised to five years. attorney. howard responded by stating my question at hand is, it was supposed to have been a motion for [an] instructed howard to discuss that issue with her attorney. the ci go any without answering, howard asked where she would be serving the 16-month jail term. the prosecutor understand me? county jail. . . . the prosecutor responded. the prosecutor began to advise howard of her constitutional rights and the nature and consequences of her plea, but he stopped when it appeared howard had a question. the prosecutor asked howard if she wanted to say something. howathe prosecutor all right. you can appeal all you want. 4 but what i need for you to understand is, we have to communicate now. so all. all howard subsequently acknowledged that no one had coerced her to enter her plea and that she was pleading no contest freely and voluntarily. in response to inquiry whether howard had any questions about her constitutional rights, defenses, or uested a copy of the transcript from d you to focus howard that, after the court had entered her plea, she could talk to her attorney ppealing or whatever you wish. howaandand said she was that, in order for the court to enter her plea, the court stated was right now. so, just listen to [the prosecutor] and just answer his questions. then you will have an opportunity to talk to your athe prosecutor apologized for you asked [about receiving copies of the preliminary hearing can talk to your lawyer about whatever you need, transcripts, copies of things, 5 the court entered howardplea of no contest to possession of a firearm by a felon. after conferring with her attorney and receiving clarification from the court, howard admitted she had suffered one prior felony conviction within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court told howard that, although the people had alleged she had suffered two prior felony convictions, one of them had been reduced to a misdemeanor under proposition 47 ( 1170.18). thus, the court stated that maximum prison sentence was four years, not five years. howard informed the court she still wanted to accept the offer of a 16-month county jail sentence. counsel for howard stipulated to a factual basis for the plea. question at hand is, it was told by him these items were hearsay. the security guard is an unsworn security guard, right, first and the court interrupted and prevented howard from making any further statements about the underlying facts of the case the offer of 16 months. howard said she wanted to accept the offer but she als was willing to fight for me. i would like that legally advise you, but your attorney can advise you regarding proceeded with the hearing and found howard had knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently waived her constitutional rights and entered her no contest plea and admission. other than 6 conferring with his client and volunteering he would file a notice of appeal os behalf, counsel for howard was virtually silent during the discussion among the court, the prosecutor, and howard. the trial court sentenced howard in accordance with the plea agreement to a 16-month term to be served in county jail. the court awarded howard presentence custody credits of 64 days and imposed statutory fines, fees, and assessments. the court dismissed the prior prison term allegations pursuant to the plea agreement. at the conclusion of the hearing, howard told the trial court she worked with children and wanted to know if there was a way to remove the conviction from her record. the court again advised howard to discuss any appellate rights and issues with her attorney and suggested she look into expunging the conviction from her record. howard answered that would not be possible because the conviction involved a gun. the court acknowledged howard might not be successful, but noted she had successfully petitioned to reduce, and possibly expunge, her two prior felony drug conthe same thing. you can attempt to do the same thing with this c. the appeal howard filed a timely notice of appeal on which she checked the prep plea the trial court s request for a certificate of probable cause, which asserted her appointed counsel was constitutionally ineffective for, among other things, 7 failing to file a motion to suppress and make hearsay objections to the evidence against her. we appointed counsel to represent howard on appeal. after reviewing the record, counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues. (see people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441-442.) after independently reviewing the record, we asked the parties to submit briefs on whether howard is entitled to an opportunity to withdraw her no contest plea because the trial court and the prosecutor improperly induced her to plead no contest by misrepresenting the scope of her ability to appeal. the parties submitted briefs in response to our request. howard argues in her brief that consequences of her guilty plea. howard also argues that her a promise [her] conviction could be appealed when it could not as advised that her [appellate] rights could be preserved, and she thereafter preserved such rights by filing a notice of appeal and discussion a. the governing law hen a defendant pleads guilty or no contest and is convicted without a trial, only limited issues are cognizable on appeal. a guilty plea admits every element of the charged offense and constitutes a conviction [citations], and consequently issues that concern the determination of guilt or innocence are not cognizable. [citations.] instead, appellate review is limited to 8 jurisdiction of the court or the legality of the proceedings, including the constitutional validity of the plea. (in re chavez (2003) 30 cal.4th 643, 649.)2 the issuance of a certificate of probable cause pursuant to section 1237.5 does not operate to expand the grounds upon which an appeal may be taken as thprocedure in perfecting an appeal from a judgment based on a plea of guilty.people v. voit (2011) 200 cal.app.4th 1353, 1364; see people v. palmer (2013) 58 cal.4th 110, 114 nder section 1237.5, a defendant may appeal from a conviction on a plea of guilty or no contest only on grounds going to the legality of the proceedings; such a plea precludes appellate consideration of issues related to guilt or innocence, including the sufficiency of the evidence to support the ; people v. kaanehe (1977) 19 cal.3d 1, 9 [o]btaining a certificate of probable cause does not make cognizable those issues which have been waived by a plea of guilty]; see also people v. devaughn (1977) 18 cal.3d 889, 893 errors in failing to suppress the extrajudicial [incriminating] statements are not cognizable on appeal after guilty pleas, and . . . the trial court 2 section 1538.5, subdivision (m), which governs search and arising prior to entry of a guilty plea are waived, except those which question the jurisdiction or legality of (people v. lilienthal (1978) 22 cal.3d 891, 897; see people v mcnabb [o]ther than search and seizure issues specifically reviewable under section 1538.5, subdivision (m), all errors arising prior to entry of plea of guilty or nolo contendere are waived by the plea, except those based on reasonable constitutional, jurisdictional, or other grounds going to the legality of the proceedings 9 could not bargain to preserve such issues on appeal by issuance of certificates of probable cause.) in contrast, an argument that the court or the prosecutor improperly induced the defendant to plead guilty or no contest challenges the legality of the proceedings resulting in the plea and is cognizable on appeal. ( 1237.5; people v. devaughn, supra,as a bargain that is beyond the power of the trial court, a people v. hollins (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 567, 574.) the trial court does not have the obligation to advise a defendant that his or her appellate rights after pleading guilty or no contest are limited. (see people v. bloom (1989) 48 cal.3d dyet this court has never suggested that a defendant indicating a willingness to enter a guilty plea should or must be advised of in re chadwick c. (1982) 137 cal.app.3d 173, consequences of the ].) nevertheless, if the trial court makes inaccurate or misleading statements appellate rights, the defendant may be able to withdraw his or her plea. (see people v. devaughn, supra, 18 cal.3d at p. 896 [a defendant may challenge a plea based on trpromise the defendant could appeal prior ruling that confession was voluntary]; people v. bowie (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 1263, 1266 plea or admission which is improperly is misrepresentation purporting to preserve for appeal issues waived by such plea or 10 admission may bin re david g. (1979) 93 cal.app.3d 247, 255 [minor was entitled to withdraw his plea because it was based on his misunderstanding, shared by the court and the prosecutor, that an order denying a motion to suppress was appealable after the court had declared the minor a ward of the court].)3 b. d by the illusory promise she had unrestricted appellate rights at the hearing, howard raised concerns about, and expressed dissatisfaction over, how her attorney was handling her defense. she indicated to the trial court that her attorney was going to file or should have filed a motion to suppress and that statements by a security guard were inadmissible. howard also asked for a copy of the preliminary hearing transcript. the trial court responded by asking her several times whether she wanted the court to relieve her attorneya question howard never answered and raising an issue the court never ruled onand whether howard wanted to accept the plea offer or proceed to trial. each time howard confirmed she . in addition, the prosecutor advised howard of her constitutional rights, which howard waived, and advised howard of the consequences of her plea, which howard said she understood. had this been the 3 the legislature has since enacted welfare and institutions code section 700.1, which provides for a motion in juvenile proceedings to suppress evidence obtained from an unlawful search or seizure, and section 800, which authorizes appellate is predicated upon an admission of the allegations of the in re joseph b. (1983) 34 cal.3d 952, 957-958.) 11 entirety of the discussion, there might not be an issue about the validity of lea. but there was more. whenever howard voiced her concerns over the handling of her defense, she also expressed a desire to appeal, which both the court and the prosecutor told her she could do. informed howard she and wanted to appeal. after the court accepted her admission of the prior prison term allegations, but before the trial court found there was a factual basis for the plea, howard asked about the ad. prompted the trial court to advise her that she offer and had the right to proceed to trial. howard said she wanted to accept the offer but also wa and she asked for appointed counsel on appeal. the court told howard she howard replied the transcript of the hearing reflects that howard had lost faith in her appointed counsel (who did not verbally participate in the hearing) and had decided to deal directly with the prosecutor and the court. and, while howard said she wanted to accept the she simultaneously made it clear she wanted to vindicate her belief that the evidence against her was unlawfully seized or otherwise inadmissible. moreover, as howard revealed to the trial court following the pronouncement of her sentence, her ultimate goal in prevailing on appeal was to continue working with children. howard explained to the court that, because her prior drug-related convictions had either been reduced to misdemeanors or expunged, she was able to work with 12 children (although howard never stated in what capacity). howard also indicated she understood that, because the conviction in this case involved a gun, expungement was not likely. she therefore wanted the conviction sodoand both the court (appellate rights that everybody else does) and the prosecutor (o) said she would be able to exercise her full appellate rights to attempt to achieve that goal. which was not really true. as the court and the prosecutor undoubtedly knew, howard, by pleading no contest, would not be able to appeal all or anything she wanted, nor would she have the she would only have the same appellate rights as who pleads guilty or no contest has, which is a much smaller set of rights than everybody has. unlike everybody who does not plead guilty or no contest, howard would not be able to pursue her stated purpose of contesting the admissibility of the evidence against her and challenging her conviction. (see people v. palmer, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 114 a defendant may appeal from a conviction on a plea of guilty or no contest only on grounds going to the legality of the proceedings; such a plea precludes appellate consideration of issues related to guilt or innocence, including the sufficiency of the evidence to support the convictionpeople v. voit, supra, 200 cal.app.4th at p. 1364 [s guilt or innocence are not cognizable on appeal from a guilty plepeople v. thurman (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 36, 43 guilty plea concedes that the prosecution possesses legally admissible evidence sufficient to prove defendants guilt beyond a waives any right to raise questions regarding the evidence, including its sufficiency or 13 ].) the statements the court and the prosecutor made to howard as she was deciding whether to accept the plea offer advised howard she would have rights that she would not have after the court entered her plea. this case is not that different from people v. coleman (1977) 72 cal.app.3d 287, and perhaps an even stronger case for allowing the defendant to withdraw a plea of guilty or no contest. in people v. coleman, the defendant agreed to plead guilty after adverse rulings on pretrial motions. although his guilty plea precluded acquiescence of the prosecutor, . . . informed the court that the bargain included the preservation of [id. at p. 292.) rather than advising the defendant he would not be able to appeal the issues he intended to appeal, the trial court statedthe record can indicate the representations you are making. as far as the legal effect of it, that will be up to the court of appeal. (ibid.) the court of appeal in coleman held the defendant was entitled to the opportunity to withdraw his plea because it material mistake in which the trial couid. at p. 293.) was induced by statements by the prosecutor (uncorrected by the court) and by the court that howard could raise issues on appeal they probably knew she would not be able to raise.4 and here the trial court did not by failing to correct a misunderstanding, the court made an affirmative misstatement ate rights. 4 although the court and the prosecutor told howard she should consult her attorney about her appellate rights, they did so only after the court had entered her plea. 14 finally, the record shows a direct causal relationship between the statements by the court and the prosecutor and decision to plead no contest. (see people v. archer misadvisement only if the defendant establishes that he or she was prejudiced by the misadvisement, i.e., that the defendant would not have entered the plea of guilty had the trial court the record shows howard wanted to fight, not fold, and she would not have pleaded no contest had the court and the prosecutor not assured her she could fight her conviction on appeal . howard was induced to plead no contest by court-sanctioned statements about her appellate rights that were inaccurate and misleading. howard is entitled to an opportunity to withdraw her plea. (see ricki j. v. superior court (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 783, 792 improperly induced by unenforceable promises that issues have been preserved for appeal the defendant . . . is entitled to an ]; people v. hollins, supra, 15 cal.app.4th at pp. 574-575 [illusory promise that the defendant had the right to appeal ruling on a motion to dismiss under section 995 was an and required remand to allow the reevaluate his guilty plea and withdraw that plea and proceed to ]; people v. truman (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 1816, 1820 [defendant was entitled to the opportunity to withdraw his plea because it was induced by the false promise of appellate review of the denial of his motion pursuant to penal 15 disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed and remanded with directions to allow howard to make an appropriate motion, within 45 days of the issuance of the remittitur, to withdraw her no contest plea. if howard files such a motion to withdraw her no contest plea, the trial court shall grant the motion and reinstate the charge and special allegations. if howard does not file a motion to vacate her no contest plea, the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. menetrez, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 