 filed 4/10/19 p. v. dixon ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony dixon et al., defendants and appellants. b277759 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta136291) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael j. shultz, judge. reversed and remanded with directions. janyce keiko imata blair, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant anthony dixon. jeralyn keller, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant kevone earl. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, yun k. lee and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 introduction anthony dixon and kevone earl appeal their convictions on one count of second degree murder, three counts of attempted murderdwelling. dixon and earl contend (1) the trial court erroneously denied two motions under batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler) (batson/wheeler motion), (2) substantial evidence did not support two of the convictions for attempted murder, (3) trial counsel for both defendants provided ineffective assistance by failing to object to the admission of evidence concerning the injury of one of the attempted murder victims, and (4) the trial court erred in excluding evidence tending to show a third party committed the crimes. earl separately argues the trial court made several errors in his sentence. we conclude that the trial court erred in denying one of batson/wheeler motions and that substantial evidence supported the two challenged attempted murder convictions. therefore, we reverse the judgment and remand for a new trial and do not reach the other issues dixon and earl raise. factual and procedural background a. the shooting the south side compton crips is a criminal street gang in compton. was the santana blocc crips. on the evening of may 19, 2014 dixon, a self- 3 of a south side compton crips clique, drove keyshawn evans,1 a fellow gang member, and earl, an associate of the gang, in an suv to a l- on spring avenue, where terrence sims, a member of the santana blocc crips, and his family resided. sims had just left on his bicycle to go to a store. cordell ricks, a member of the santana blocc crips, was sitting in the front passenger seat of a car parked in a carport by the house, and joseph daniels was standing on the porch. dixon stopped the suv in front of the house. evans and earl got out of the car and fired approximately 20 shots at the house and the property. family were home, including his older sister, candice barcenas. one of the bullets hit and killed barcenas while she was inside the house. another bullet hit daniels, who sustained a gunshot wound to his ankle. ricks was not injured. as sims rode his bicycle down spring avenue, he heard gunshots coming from the front of the house. when he looked back, he saw a dark blue suv. sims got off his bicycle and ran to the side of a nearby mortuary. sims saw the suv drive past the mortuary and heard four or five more gunshots. sims believed he a surveillance video of the mortuary on the night of the shoosuv. 1 the people charged evans as a codefendant in this case but tried the charges against him to a separate jury. 4 b. the investigation detectives recovered 20 expended cartridge cases from the scene. detectives observed bullet damage to the cars parked on the front lawn and the driveway of the house. detectives also found bullet holes in the windows, the interior walls of the house, the kitchen cabinets, and the screen door. detectives subsequently learned that on may 5, 2014, two was a shooting that resulted in the deaths of omar williams and jesus pena, two members of the south side compton crips. detectives also learned that on may 19, 2014, a few hours before the shooting on spring avenue, dixon attended . through a series of wiretaps on the cell phones of various members of the south side compton crips, detectives obtained evidence inculpating dixon, earl, and evans in the may 19, 2014 shooting. for example, in one call earl discussed with a fellow gang member knowledge of and involvement in the shooting. in another call, dixon said to a fellow gang member, on interpreted to mean members had retaliated against members of their rival gang for the deaths of williams and pena. dixon also stated, igo back home,interpreted to mean the retaliation involved . . . shooting the enemy until the police eventually arrested dixon driving a blue suv with a monitor affixed to the radio of the car. in a recorded jail conversation, dixon told evansand evans responded, 5 c. the charges the people charged dixon and earl with the murder of barcenas and the attempted murders of ricks, daniels, and sims, and evans with shooting at an inhabited dwelling. the people alleged dixon and earl committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, within the meaning of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b).2 the people alleged dixon and earl committed the murder and attempted murders willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. the people also alleged as to the murder of barcenas and the attempted murder of daniels that earl personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (d), and that a principal discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (e)(1). the people alleged as to the attempted murders of sims and ricks that earl personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c), and that a principal intentionally used and discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (e)(1). d. the trial, verdicts, and sentences ricks testified the car in which he was sitting faced the -ricks stated that, after sims left on his bicycle, he talked to daniels and then used his cell phone as daniels 2 statutory references are to the penal code. 6 walked the at some point someone told ricks to look up, and he saw a tr[him]and a black and white bandana on the face of one of the passengers in the truck. ricks heard gunshots and ducked. ricks stated he heard approximately three gunshots before the car stopped at the house and a total of while the car was in front of the house. ricks testified he felt the shooters fired at daniels did not testify at trial, but deputy sheriff miguel garcia, who assisted in the investigation, testified he received a call to attend to , who turned out to be daniels. deputy garcia spoke to daniels and observed he had a gauze and bandage around his ankle and walked with a limp. daniels gave the officer a bullet fragment. another officer testified that hospital records reflected daniels suffered a gunshot wound to his ankle on may 19, 2014 and that doctors had removed a foreign object from under his skin. a gang expert testified that members of a gang gain status by committing crimes for the benefit of the gang and that, if a rival gang member commits an act of disrespect, the act justifies the gang expert testified that a gang expects its members to retaliate in order to preserve the reputation and that gang members value respect and have ull the trigger if in attempting to avenge the deaths of their fellow gang members the retaliating gang members cannot find their primary target, they the gang expert also testified that a house can become known 7 that community will assume that everybody that comes and goes from that house is gonna based on a hypothetical mirroring the facts of the case, the gang expert testified the gang members committed the shooting for the benefit of or at the direction of the south side compton crips because the shooting . the jury found dixon and earl guilty of second degree murder for the killing of barcenas and the attempted murders of sims, ricks, and daniels. the jury found dixon committed the attempted murders willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation, but earl did not. the jury also found earl guilty of shooting at an occupied dwelling. the jury found true the allegations dixon and earl committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b). finally, the jury found earl personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (e)(1). the trial court sentenced dixon to life in prison with a minimum parole eligibility of 140 years. the trial court sentenced earl to life in prison with a minimum parole eligibility of 210 years. dixon and earl timely appealed. 8 discussion a. the trial court erred in denying one of the two batson/wheeler motions 1. procedural background a. the first batson/wheeler motion prospective juror no. 4 was a retired beverage company employee. on the first day of jury selection, after answering the preliminary questions the court had asked all of the prospective jurors, prospective juror no. 4 responded to several questions from the court and counsel for dixon. prospective juror no. 4 stated that his sister was a retired department and that his got stabbed to deathan incident that required him to speak to the police and to testify in court. prospective juror no. 4 stated that the delay in apprehending the person who had stabbed his brother would not cause him to be unfair in this case. prospective juror no. 4 also stated that the grandson of his pastor had been killed in a gang-related shooting and that, although gang relationships did not sto him, could be fair. on the second day of jury selection, the prosecutor questioned the prospective jurors about circumstantial evidence and used an incident prospective juror no. 18 had shared about a burglary at her home to explain the concept. the prosecutor stated that, even though prospective juror no. 18 did not witness the burglary, she had locked her home when she left and returned to find prosecutor explained that prospective juror no. 18 used circumstantial evidence her house had been burglarized and that, 9 that every circumstantial evidence. after confirming with a few prospective jurors they could use circumstantial evidence to draw a conclusion about what had happened in the case, the following exchange occurred with prospective juror no. 4: [the prosecutor]: how about you, prospective juror no. 4? quiet this morning. would you also be comfortable making those same logical inferences? want me to do it again? [prospective juror no. 4]: yes. [the prosecutor]: so, [prospective] juror no. 18 came home. she had locked her house before she left and she came home. her room, her bedroom, was a mess, and there were items missing. the logical conclusion being, what, that she was burglarized? [prospective juror no. 4]: right. [the prosecutor]: we could come up with a possible , reasonable is, because of all of these steps, the house was locked, the room was a mess, things were missing, the police were called, the conclusion is, she was burglarized. would you be comfortable making those same types of logical inferences in a courtroom, or are you a i-have-to-see-it-to-believe-it kind of guy? [prospective juror no. 4]: i had a problem a couple days out of my truck. [the prosecutor] [prospective juror no. 4] [the prosecutor]: but you know its missing? [prospective juror no. 4]king, did i put it in the truck? and i know i put it in there, and i wonder did i leave 10 it on the side. that happened the day before i came to court, and , how did this come up missing. rosecutor] [prospective juror no. 4] [the prosecutor]: so, could you make those same reasonable inferences in a courtroom, like just hearing based on the evidence that you hear in here? [prospective juror no. 4]to. rosecutor], [prospective juror no. 4] the prosecutor exercised eight peremptory challenges, four of which were against african american prospective jurors. the attorneys for dixon and earl made a joint batson/wheeler motion,3 arguing the prosecutor had bwhether dixon and earl had established a prima facie case of that half of the prosecutoreight peremptory challenges had been against african american jurors and the jury box included three african american prospective jurors. 3 although counsel for dixon cited only wheeler when wheeler motion is treated as a motion under wheeler and batson(people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1309, fn. 14.) 11 [the prosecutor]: i will start with the probation officer who was [prospective juror no. 8]. . . . in my experience, probation officers who work at the juvenile camps tend to have unrealistic views of these juveniles [and] particularly law enforcement friendly. in addition, her demeanor when she came in . . . she sat there with her arms crossed over her chest, looking downward, and the expression on her face was clearly annoyance. . . . with respect to . . . [prospective] juror no. 12, . . . she talked about her grandson being convicted for a crime that she . . . [prospective] juror no. 4 who i just kicked, when i was asking him questions on voir dire about circumstantial evidence and would he be able to follow that, he launched into a story about how he had the same experience with question as to if he could make the same logical inferences. he just went off on a tangent. i noticed that he did that as well yesterday. when [the court] would ask questions and when [prospective] juror no. 9, he felt that the d.a. and the judge suppressedt very clear on what that meant, but that his son was convicted of a crime he felt that he did notwas not treated fairly. the trial court asked the attorneys for both defendants for argureason for excusing prospective juror because juvenile probation officers were some of the most harshest people on gang membersr 12 african american jurors, and counsel for earl did not make any arguments regarding for excusing prospective juror the experience some juvenile probation officers could be found prospective juror no. 9 and prospective juror no. 12 system as a whole,strikes against them. the trial court did not address the prospective juror no. 4. instead, after stating its findings regarding prospective juror se factors, as well as the current makeup of the jury, the court does not find that a prima facie [case] has been made. to the extent that one b. the second batson/wheeler motion another prospective juror sat in seat number 4. the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge against that prospective juror, and the prospective juror who had occupied seat number 19 moved into seat number 4, whom we will refer to as the second prospective juror no. 4. the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge against this prospective juror too. counsel for dixon made a second batson/wheeler motion, arguing the second prospective juror no. american male,anything that exercise of a peremptory challenge. the prosecutor responded, reason for kicking [the second prospective juror no. 4] is because 13 i noticed him in the audience earlier. he was smacking gum. he was chewing gum. when he was seated up in the box, he was still chew[ing] his gum. when asked questions, he had his arms folded, threw his head back. he clearly did not want to participate. when they come to the courtroom and they language. again, the way he responded, threw his head, one point was leaning back . . . . he was clearly and visibly annoyed counsel for dixon argued that several prospective jurors folded ,did not have time to look at people in the audience to see if anyone had been chewing gum. the trial court found the defendants had made a prima facie showing. the court observed that the prosecutor had used five of her 10 peremptory challenges against african americans and that four out of the 12 prospective jurors in the jury box were african american. the court stated that it did not see the second prospective something that i think i would have seen, something i look for. i justification about the second prospective belief about his desire to be here, expressed by his body language. he did not appear at all interested in participating as a juror in his case. . . . so, although i find a prima facie case, i do not believe that [the second prospective juror no. 4] was struck based upon his race. i believe he was struck based upon the 14 2. applicable law and standard of review states and california constitutions prohibit people v. hardy (2018) 5 cal.5th 56, 75.) peremptory challenge solely on the basis of race or ethnicity offends the guarantee of equal protection of the laws under the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution [citations] . . . from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 1(people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1157 (gutierrez).) peremptory challenges, the defendant must first make a prima facie showing of impermissible challenges. if the trial court finds a prima facie case, the prosecutor must then state nondiscriminatory reasons for the challenges. at that point, the trial court must determine whether the reasons are credible and whether the defendant has shown purposeful discrimination under all of the relevant circumstances. the defendant has the (people v. hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at pp. 75-76.) in this case, in ruling on the first batson/wheeler motion, the trial court found dixon and earl had not made a prima facie case, but only after the prosecutor stated directly to review of the ultimate question of purposeful dpeople v. hardy, at p. 76; see people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 387, fn. 1.) becomes pertinent. to assess credibility, the court may consider, 15 among other factors, the prosreasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and . . . whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted trial strategy.jfantastic . . . may (and probably will) be found to be pretexts for gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at pp. 1158-1159; see synder v. louisiana (2008) 552 u.s. 472, 485 [t]naturally gives rise to an miller-el v. dretke reason does not hold up, its pretextual significance does not fade because a trial judge, or an appeals court, can imagine a reason that might not have beepeople v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, exercising peremptory challen wpresume the prosecutor has exercised the challenges in a distinguish genuine reasons from sham excuses.people v. hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 76; see people v. smith (2018) 4 c[a]t the third stage of batson, the critical for his peremptory strike,typically defer to the trial court awhether substantial evidence supports ]; people v. winbush (2017) 2 reasons nd must be upheld if it is .) 16 accord great deference to the trial we do so only when the trial court has made a sincere and reasoned attempt to evaluate each stated reason as applied to each [citation.] inherently plausible and supported by the record, the trial court need not question the prosecutor or make detailed findings. but the record, inherently implausible, or both, more is required of the trial court than a global finding that the reasons appear people v. hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 76; see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal. 5th at pp. 1159, 1171 [same]; people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1068 [and sincerity, we can only do so when the court has clearly expressed its findings and rulings and the bases therefor.) explanations [citation] requires the court to address the challenged jurors individually to determine whether any one of them has been improperly excluded. in that process, the trial court must determine not only that a valid reason existed but people v. fuentes (1991) 54 cal.3d 707, 720; see id. at p. 721 [the the . . . necessary step of asking whether the asserted reasons actually applied to the particular jurors whom the prosecutor ; people v. gonzales (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 620, 631, 632 [ 17 people v. allen (2004) 115 cal.app.4th by the prosecutor, additional inqupeople v. smith, suprawas entitled to deference].) 3. the trial court erred in denying the first batson/wheeler motion the prosecutor explained she challenged prospective juror no. 4 because he could not give a direct answer to her question whether he could make logical inferences based on circumstantial evidence and because he by giving an example from his personal life. both explanations are unsupported by the record; in fact, prospective juror no. 4 did the opposite. he stated he could make logical inferences, and his example of a situation in which he used circumstantial evidence so closely tracked prospective after the prosecutor described a hypothetical that involved using circumstantial evidence to conclude a burglary occurred, she asked several prospective jurors whether they could make logical inferences from certain facts to reach a conclusion. when the prosecutor began questioning prospective juror no. 4, she asked him two questions (those same logical inferences?), to which prospective juror no. 4 responded the prosecutor retold the hypothetical and asked prospective juror no. 4 whether the logical conclusion was that there had been a burglary. prospective juror no. 4 replied, 18 the prosecutor then asked prospective juror no. 4 whether he could make the -have-to-see-it-to-believe-it kind of guy? prospective juror no. 4 responded by giving the example of the burglary of his truck. upon hearing this example, the prosecutor did not give any indication the response strayed, tangentially or otherwise, from the topic they were discussing, nor did the prosecutor steer the juror back to her hypothetical. instead, because prospective juror so aptly illustrated the concept of circumstantial evidence, the prosecutor immediately seized on the example to further highlight how jurors used the concept of circumstantial evidence in their personal lives, as she had previously discussed with the jury. the prosecutor asked prospective juror no. 4prospective juror no. 4 answered each question directly, and in response to the , whether he needed to see an event to believe it had occurred, prospective juror prospective juror were not only not y were so directly on point that the prosecutor -in to question other prospective jurors about the concept of circumstantial evidence. for example, when questioning prospective juror no. 15, the prosecutor referred to an experience that the prospective juror had shared about an incident when someone had broken into his car, and the prosecutor used the incident as an example to illustrate the concept of circumstantial 19 the facts are that you left your car, you left the doors unlocked, and when you came back outside, things were missing. so you could reasonably infer, using circumstantial evidence, that e same example in questioning another prospective juror, [prospective] juror no. 18: -sense logic, that circumstantial evidence that [prospective] juror no. 15 used to deduce that his car had been, someone took something out of his car, could you do that in nice guy, but i actually have to see it to believe it. i have to see responses left no doubt he could make logical inferences to draw a conclusion about an event he did not witness. indeed, he not only stated he understood and could use circumstantial evidence to reach a conclusion, he demonstrated his facility with the concept by coming up with an excellent example. thus, texercising her peremptory challenge, that prospective juror no. 4 about whether he could use circumstantial evidence, was unsupported by, and indeed directly contrary to, the record of her questioning of the prospective juror. faced with a reason that contradicted the record, the trial court had an obligation to question the prosecutor about her explanation and make a specific credibility finding. (see people v. hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th record, inherently implausible, or both, more is required of the trial court than a global finding that the reasons appear 20 ; people v. silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 385 court recognizes as such is generally insufficient to demonstrate discriminatory intent [citation], it is another matter altogether when . . . the record of voir dire provides no support for the ; accord people v. arellano (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 1139, 1167.) the trial court, however, did neither.4 nor did the trial court question the prosecutor or assess her credibility regarding her passing reference to prospective juror the first day of jury selection. the trial court did not ask the prosecutor about this comment, even though it lacked the requisite specificity. (see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th 4 the people do not point to the failure of counsel for dixon (although counsel for dixon did respond in general to the in people v. hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th 56 noted the failure of defense counsel to point out a mistake by the prosecutor was in that case was minor (the prosecutor misstated a word), and the record supported the ing the juror. (id. at pp. 80-83.) here, the only reason the prosecutor gave for challenging prospective juror no. 4 was a mischaracterization of the prospective s. at that point, the trial court should have inquired further ltimate responsibility of safeguarding the integrity of jury selection and our justice gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1175.) 21 batson/wheeler motion], the opponent of the motion must provide people v. long (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 826, 847 [trial court should have inquired devoid of any mention . . . of what was distur]; people v. allen, supra, 115 cal.app.4th at pp. 551, 553 [satisfy its batson/wheeler the prosecutor stated he challenged a prospective juror because of her her demeanor,which ].) moreover, prospective juror no. 4 answered more than 40 individual questions from the court and counsel for dixon on the first day of jury selection. the record shows that prospective juror no. 4 answered each question asked of him and that he gave direct answers, even when the questions were compound or less than clear. indeed, the trial court erfect,prospective juror no. 4 s, and ganswers. thus, because the trial court did not reasonto deference. (see people v. hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 76 [we e trial court has made a sincere and reasoned attempt to evaluate each people v. gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159 [ 22 conclusions are entitled to deference only when the court made a ; people v. long, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. judge makes a general, stated demonstrably false within the limitations of the appellate because the record contradicted the sole reason for exercising a peremptory challenge against prospective juror no. 4, the conclusion that dixon and earl had not met their burden of proving intentional discrimination was unreasonable and . (gutierrez, at p. 1172; see people v. silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. [b]ecause the trial unsupported . . . [the] defendant was denied the right to a fair . . . .) therefore, judgment must be reversed and the case remanded for a new trial. (see gutierrez, at p. 1172; people v. cisneros (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 111, 120; people v. arellano, supra, 245 cal.app.4th at p. 1169.)5 5 batson/wheeler motion with respect to prospective juror no. 4, we do not reach whether the trial court erred in denying the second batson/wheeler motion. (see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1172.) 23 b. substantial evidence supported the attempted murder convictions dixon and earl contend substantial evidence did not support their convictions for the attempted murders of ricks and ricks nor [daniels] was visible to the there was substantial evidence, however to support both convictions. (see people v. morgan ]lthough we have concluded that the . . . conviction must be reversed . . . we must nonetheless assess the sufficiency of the evidence to determine people v. garcia (2012) 204 cal.app.4th 542, 5; people v. long, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. 831 [reversing the judgment under batson and wheeler for a n the record and determining that substantial evidence supported the defendant.)6 record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution 6 earl does not argue substantial evidence did not support his conviction for shooting at an inhabited dwelling. 24 and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evi [citation.] a reversal for insufficient evidence upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial people v. penunuri (2018) 5 cal.5th 126, 142.) prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial evidence. [citation.] finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which must be convinced of the defendants guilt beyond a if the circumstances reasonably justify the tricircumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a verdict, one unreasonable and the other reasonable, we will assume, absent a contrary indication in the record, that the jury people v. ghobrial (2018) 5 cal.5th 250, 277-278; accord, people v. jones (2018) 26 cal.app.5th 420, 442.) 25 the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward people v. snchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 457; see people v. perez (2010) 50 cal.4th 222, 229; people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 739.) thus, the people had to prove dixon and earl acted with specific intent to kill ricks and danielsjudged separately as to each alleged victi [citation.] [t]his is true whether the alleged victim was particularly targeted or randomly chosen.people v. perez, at p. 230; see people v. stone (2009) 46 cahe mental state required for attempted murder is the intent to kill a human being, not a (people v. snchez, at p. 457; see people v. smith, at p. 741.) the evidence showed that evans and earl opened fire on and that, when they did so, ricks and daniels were still outside, which supported the reasonable inference that evans and earl targeted them when they shot at the property. ricks testified that he heard and saw shots as suv arrived at the house and that when he looked up from his phone he saw the suv and the bandana-covered face of one of the shooters. if ricks could see the face of one of the shooters, the jury could reasonably infer the shooter could see ricks. ricks may have ducked down after hearing additional shots, but it was a reasonable inference from his testimony the shooters had already seen him. 26 the evidence also showed daniels was visible to the shooters. sims testified that he saw daniels on the porch before sims left on his bike to go to the store and that he heard the sound of gunfire as he pedaled away from the house. the jury could reasonably infer that only a matter of seconds had elapsed before the shooting began and that daniels had not moved from the location on the porch where sims had seen him. ricks although ricks also testified daniels talked to him and then went of the car, as opposed to the porch (where sims placed daniels), the jury reasonably could credit moments before the shooting. (see people v. gomez (2018) 6 n deciding the sufficiency of the evidence, a reviewing court resolves neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflictsand the evidence evans and earl fired their the inference that the shooters intended to kill ricks and daniels. (see people v. perez, supra[t]he act of firing toward a victim at inflicted a mortal wound had the bullet been on target is sufficient to support an inference of intent to kill testimony from the gang expert further supported the inference that dixon and earl intended to kill ricks and daniels. the gang expert testified the intercepted telephone calls showed dixon participated in the shooting in retaliation for the murder of his fellow gang members. the gang expert also testified the shooting benefitted the south side compton crips in multiple ways. (see people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th motive is shown, such evidence will usually be probative of proof 27 ; people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 626 [he ].) as part of their argument the evidence was insufficient to support their convictions for the attempted murder of daniels, dixon and earl contend their respective counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object to certain evidence that in particular, they argue their attorneys should have objected to deputy testimony he received instructions from a dispatcher to investigate to the admission of dixon and earl suggest that, had the trial court not admitted this the evidence there would not have been substantial evidence to support their convictions for the attempted murder of daniels. but in determining whether to remand for a new trial, we consider evidence the trial court excluded. (see people v. story hen reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence for purposes of deciding whether retrial is permissible, the reviewing court must consider all of the evidence presented at trial, including evidence that should not have been admitted]; people v. jones, supra, 26 cal.app.5th at p. 443, fn. 15 [where the evidence offered by the state and admitted by the trsufficient to sustain a guilty verdict, the double jeopardy clause does not preclude retrial.) in any event, even without deputy as discussed there was substantial evidence to support their convictions for the attempted murder of daniels. 28 disposition the judgment is reversed and the case is remanded for a new trial. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. feuer, j. 