filed 4/6/17 p. v. hartfield ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. doris hartfield, defendant and appellant. b277344 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta139334) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john j. lonergan, jr., judge. affirmed. kent d. young, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 in an information filed by the los angeles county district attorney, defendant and appellant doris hartfield was charged with two counts: (1) first degree residential burglary in violation of penal code section 459,1 and (2) petty theft in violation of sections 484, subdivision (a), and 490.2. it was further alleged as to both counts that defendant had been convicted of a serious or violent felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (d), and section 1170.12, subdivision (b). it was further alleged as to count 1 that defendant had served nine prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b), and that defendant had been convicted of a serious felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. defendant waived her right to a jury trial and agreed to a court trial on her prior conviction allegations. a jury found defendant guilty of first degree residential burglary. defendant admitted her prior serious felony and prior section 667.5, subdivision (b), allegations. pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, the trial sentenced to seven years in state prison, consisting of the low term of two years for the burglary offense and five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 defendant timely filed a notice of appeal, arguing that her sentence must be vacated because the trial court failed to advise her of rights pursuant to in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857 (yurko). we affirm. procedural background before jury selection, the trial court granted the defense riors. on may 26, 2016, after the jury was dismissed to begin its deliberations, the trial court noted that it needed to address . [] ], the people have alleged you suffered a prior believe nine including the 211there [were] eight other priors alleged as far as the information sheet. jury make their finding on whether or not the people have proved beyond a reasonable doubt that you have been convicted of these charges and you have a right because those priors could enhance any future sentence should you be convicted on count 1 here. they only become relevant should you be convicted. if you are relevant should you be convicted. then you would have a right to have this same jury that just convicted you sit as the trier of fact and decide whether or not the people have proved you have suffered those priors. the people usually prove it by what they call a 969(b) packet and other documentation. 4 rstanding that you would waive your right to have this jury make that decision. if you are convicted, then we could set a court trial up. the court could either be the trier of fact on that immediately after the verdict or we can set a future date at whatever your attorney requests for that. then ultimately i would decide instead of this jury. your priors should it become relevant and allow the court to do a defendant and her attorney then conferred, and defendant later, the jury returned a verdict of guilty. defense counsel requested that sentencing be set for june 9, 2016. the that day. the trial court then stated in open court, out of the convenience provide him with the 969(b) packet and any other june 9th also. on june 9, 2016, the matter was continued to july 7, 2016. at the july 7, 2016, hearing, the matter was called, and the following discussion occurred: are you going to proceed? 5 attorney that they are prepared to admit. [] may i take the admission, your honor? in count 1 by the jury. as to count 1, there is an allegation that you suffered a prior conviction within the meaning of 667(d) and 1170.12(b) as well as 667(b) through (j) and 1170.12. and that conviction is in case number ta113338 for penal code section 211 otherwise known as robbery, a felony, conviction date may 20th, 2011, in the los angeles superior court. [] do you admit or deny that after a conference between defendant and her attorney, defendant admitted the prior conviction. the colloquy then continued: case number, charge and conviction within the meaning of penal code section 667(a)(1)? do you admit or deny? admission, stipulate to a factual basis? rosecutor]: the people join, your hon the trial court then proceeded with sentencing. the people requested a nine-year sentence. defense counsel requested probation; alternatively, defense counsel asked the trial court to strike the prior strikes and be sentenced to the low term without the prior strike that had been alleged and that defendant admitted. the trial court declined to grant probation because 6 failed her. i think she failed herself by continuing to commit crimes even though she has been incarcerated and convicted a number of times and nothing seems to have worked. indicated, the court has considered those in mitigation and, therefore, based on my knowledge of the facts of this case and hearing of the facts of her strike conviction, the court for sentence her to the low term of two years striking the strike so it will not be doubled and then the five-year prior adds five years for seven years. give a lower sentence, then i would but that is legally the lowest and o going to stay the nine one-lowest sentence i feel i can give legally without giving her a probationary sentence, but she is beyond probation because she continues to discussion before a defendant admits the truth of a prior conviction allegation, the trial court must ensure that the defendant is advised of and waives her constitutional rights, including the right to a jury trial, the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses, and the privilege against self-incrimination, known as boykin-tahl2 advisements. (people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 359360 (mosby); yurko, supra, 10 cal.3d at pp. 861863.) the trial court must also advise the defendant of 2 boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238 and in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122. 7 the penal consequences of her admission. (yurko, supra, at pp. 864865.) when reviewing a claim of yurko error, the inquiry is not whether the trial court expressly advised and obtained waiver of all three boykin-tahl the record affirmatively shows that [the admission was] voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances.mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 360; people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, 1175.) advisements and waivers, the reviewing court must examine the admission of the prior conviction was intelligent and voluntary in mosby, supra, at p. 361.) considering the record in its entirety here, defendant voluntarily and intelligently admitted the prior conviction allegation. although the trial court did not advise her of her right to jury trial, the right to confront witnesses, and her right to remain silent at the time of the admission, she was advised of and waived her right to a jury trial before she admitted, and she participated in a trial where she exercised her right to confront witnesses and remain silent a mere six weeks earlier. (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 364.) moreover, after the trial court set a date for her priors court trial, the trial court referred to a subpoena for witnesses, in open court, and instructed the prosecutor to provide all documentation to defense counsel. thus, defendant was aware that the prosecution could call witnesses and present supporting documentation; it follows that she would have understood that she had the right to confront witnesses and remain silent. last, and significantly, the 8 admission was made after defendant consulted with her trial counsel. people v. lloyd (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 49 is misplaced. in that case, the court declined to find that an admission made seven months after trial reflected knowledge of the specified constitutional rights where nothing else supported a conclusion that the defendant was intimately familiar with them. (id. at pp. 5960.) in contrast, in this case, rather, only six weeks lapsed between the time the jury returned a guilty verdict (may 26, 2016) and the date of the court trial (july 7, 2016) on her priors. furthermore, in this case the record is more than sufficient nal justice system sophistication. (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 365.) citing people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, 170171 (cross), defendant also objects on the grounds that she was never advised oimposed, the effect on parole eligibility, and the possibility of preliminarily, by failing to object at the sentencing hearing on this ground, defendant has forfeited this challenge on appeal. (people v. wrice (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 767, 770771 advise of the penal consequences, the error is waived if not raised .) setting that procedural issue aside, while defendant was not told the exact increase in prison term that could have been imposed, the trial court did expressly advise her that the priors 9 could enhance any future sentence. and, her attorney so recognized when he asked that defendant be sentenced to the low term without the prior strike; why else would counsel have asked for defendant to be sentenced without the prior strike? further, as stated above, defendant is experienced with the penal system. (cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 180 [previous experience in the sophistication regarding his or her legal rights and thus relevant to whether the plea was voluntary and intelligent].) and, the admission was made after consultation with her attorney. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ______________________, j. chavez ______________________, j. hoffstadt 