 filed 5/22/19 p. v. smith ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dion andre smith, defendant and appellant. b277974 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta140087) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael j. schultz, judge. reversed and remanded for new trial. barbara a. smith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 dion andre smith appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after the jury found him guilty of two armed robberies and two counts of possession of a firearm by a felon. he contends the trial court erred in denying his batson/wheeler1 motions four black jurors. we conclude smith made a prima facie case as to the first excused black prospective juror, and the prosecutor did not offer a credible race-neutral justification for the strike. we reverse the judgment and remand for a new trial. factual and procedural background a. the amended information the amended information charged smith with five felony counts arising from three separate robberies, including the second degree robberies of alfonso contreras (count 1) and samuel hernandez (count 2) (pen. code,2  211, 212.5, subd. (c)); the first degree robbery of oscar ayala ( 211, 212.5, subd. (a); count 4); and two counts of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); counts 3 & 5). the amended information specially alleged firearm enhancements as to counts 2 and 4, and that smith committed the offenses charged in counts 4 and 5 while out of custody on bail ( 12022.1). the amended information also alleged smith suffered a prior felony conviction that constituted a strike within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and a serious felony within 1 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 89 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 276-277 (wheeler). 2 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and smith served two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). smith pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. b. the evidence at trial on february 8, 2016 contreras, an employee of a hardware store in lynwood, was outside the store cleaning a water heater. someone hit him in the head and ribs from behind and yanked the chain from his neck, leaving a mark. contreras stumbled onto the water heater and fell. when he got up, he saw the back of the retreating hooded robber. video surveillance footage from a nearby tire store showed the robber was a black man, wearing a red shirt, black shorts, and a black hooded sweatshirt. the robber got into the passenger side of a waiting black lexus, driven by another black man, and the car left the area. on february 22, 2016 hernandez, a mechanic at an automobile glass store, was outside the store helping a customer. a black man wearing beige shorts, a t-shirt, and a gray cap approached hernandez and the customer, and pointed a gun at and wallet, which contained his identification card and $300 in cash. the robber entered the passenger side of a black lexus, was driving a black lexus. hernandez later identified the gold was noa gray cap and a hidden .40-caliber semiautomatic handgun with an attached magazine that had several bullets in it. 4 on february 26, 2016 ayala was on the sidewalk outside a tire store when smith and another black man stopped in front of him. ayala was wearing two gold chains, with the larger one hanging outside his shirt. one of the men tried to pull both ayala punched one of the men; the other man hit ayala; then the his pocket. as ayala was calling 911, a car pulled up, and smith and the other robber got out of the car. ayala ran towards an apartment unit behind the tire store. smith pointed a gun at . . . after ayala handed over his gold chain, smith ran out of the apartment. c. the verdict and sentence the jury found smith not guilty of the robbery of contreras (count 1). they found smith guilty of the robberies of hernandez (count 2) and ayala (count 4), and of possession of a firearm by a felon (counts 3 and 5). in addition, the jury found true as to count 1 a principal was armed with a firearm in the commission of the offense and as to count 4 that smith personally used a firearm. smith later admitted the prior conviction allegations. the trial court found true that smith committed the offenses in counts 4 and 5 while out of custody on bail. the trial court sentenced smith to an aggregate state prison sentence of 29 years four months. 5 discussion a. the challenged jurors the prosecutor exercised peremptory challenges to excuse four prospective black jurors: henry c., t.n., l.e., and rodney c. smith contends all four challenges were made for a discriminatory purpose, and the trial court erred in denying his three batson/wheeler motions.3 1. prospective juror henry c. henry c. was single and lived in compton. he worked as a ramp agent for delta airlines. henry c. said he had never been a victim of a crime and had no prior jury experience. when the trial court later asked the first 20 prospective jurors whether they had ever been a victim or witness to a crime, henry c. did not raise his hand.4 to explain circumstantial evidence, the prosecutor questioned henry c. about a hypothetical involving his three-year- 3 because we conclude the trial court erred in finding smith had not made a prima facie showing as to henry c., we focus on henry c.responses to the voir dire questions. we will also briefly discuss the other jurors for background. 4 the trial court commenced voir dire with the first 20 prospective jurors. as each prospective juror was excused from the jury box, the next juror in the first group of 20 took that seat and seat number. once there were fewer than 12 jurors in the jury box, questioning continued as to the remaining jurors in the courtroom. 6 there are also some cookies on the coundo not eat up on sugar. he says, [] and you turn around and you walk out of the room, and you hear a crash. you go back to the kitchen. the cookie jar is broken on the floor, munching like that. [] henry c. okie? henry c. the prosecutor asked henry c. no further questions. she exercised her third peremptory challenge to excuse him from the batson/wheeler motion, arguing there was no reason to exclude henry c. hypothetical about the cookie the way the people wanted, despite seems, in all senses, a good prosecution juror, other than the factfor the record, he is african-asked the prosecutor if she wanted to be heard on whether smith in terms of that the trial court denied the motion, finding smith had not -american jurors left on the panel and that this was a peremptory challenge exercised against one african-american male. [] [t]here are 7 others as well in the pool yet to be called. so the court finds there5 2. prospective juror t.n. t.n. was single and lived in carson. she had no previous jury experience. she was a full-time nursing student working as an unpaid intern at a medical center. t.n. reported witnessing was assaulted, and we caught the man, but . . . when my brother got a copy of the report, the police falsified everything that my brother was saying. he was saying my brother was the aggressor and he was the one that was attacking the person who punched her brother was not arrested or charged with assault. t.n. did not think that experience would make her an unfair juror to either side. when the prosecutor asked the prospective jurors whether they had a problem with someone not reporting a crime, t.n. responded: about it. if the anything, i feel like prosecutor exercised her fifth peremptory challenge to excuse t.n. 5 henry c. was the first prospective black juror excused from the jury panel. at the time of the peremptory challenge, there were two other black jurors among the first 20 prospective jurors who were being questioned: t.n. and juror no. 1748, who was later sworn in as juror no. 6. juror no. 1748 was retired from the united states postal service and lived in compton. he was married and had three adult children. he served on a jury that reached a verdict in a criminal case 15 years earlier. he had been a victim of robbery and burglary. 8 3. prospective juror l.e. l.e. lived in long beach, and was a single parent of three children. he worked as a united states postal service clerk and had never served as a juror. l.e. was a victim of a shooting in 2004. he called the police, but no one was caught. he did not think the police did a good job to convince me . . . that i provoked the shooting, you know, and it was at my house . . . in moreno valley at the time. i just told there was anything about the experience that would make him he also l.e. had a brother and cousins who had been convicted of crimes. they were not currently incarcerated, but his cousin experiences would make him unfair to either side, l.e. responded the prosecutor initially accepted the panel with l.e. on it. however, after defense counsel excused another prospective juror, the prosecutor exercised her sixth peremptory challenge to batson/wheeler have utilized six peremptory challenges. three of those peremptory challenges have been utilized against african- 9 americans. one of them has been utilized against an african-american female. the panel consists of 11 prospective jurors, two of which are african-american males.6 there [are] no other african-the final peremptory challenge utilized by [the prosecutor], the court will note [l.e.] was a juror who was a victim of a pretty serious crime, was pretty upset with how the police behaved in job of trying, . . . that they treated him as if he were a suspect, even though he was a victim. [] he also has cousins and a brother who was convicted of some serious crimes. none of that went to cause. that is, it certainly did not rise to the level of cause, but i can understand why the people would exercise their peremptory challenge against him. [] the court finds that t [a] prima facie 4. prospective juror rodney c. rodney c. lived in downey and was married with two adult children. he taught video production as a part-time high school 6 the two black male jurors were juror no. 1748 and juror no. 9510. as noted, juror no. 1748 was in the first panel of 20 prospective jurors; juror no. 9510 was added in the next group of prospective jurors. juror no. 9510 lived in the athens area of los angeles and worked as an energy technician. he was married and had five daughters. he served on a jury that reached a verdict in a criminal case three years earlier. he had no. 9510 stated he was a victim of a home burglary, but no one was home at the time. juror no. 1748 and juror no. 9510 were the only two black jurors who served on the jury panel that tried smith. 10 teacher; his wife was a teacher. he had served on three or four juries that reached verdicts in criminal cases. rodney argument, and the friend accidentally shot his sister-in-law. the friend was arrested and charged with assault with a deadly weapon. rodney c. testified as a witness at the trial. rodney particular case was unfairly obfuscating what happened and attempting to confuse me by asking me about things out of time sequence and trying to confuse me. i felt it was a deliberate c. indicated he would not hold these feelings against the prosecutor and did not think the experience would make him unfair to either side. when the court asked if anyone had an experience with law enforcement that was profoundly negative or positive, rodney c. in which he was repairing his vehicle at a gas station with several young black men. the gas station owner called the police, and the police officewere obviously intending to harass us to get us to leave this gas station when we were just simply trying to fix our however, rodney c. no opinions about law enforcement officersand had enrolled in the police academy, but could not complete it health reasons. rodney c. said the experience would not make him unfair to either side. the prosecutor used her seventh peremptory challenge to excuse rodney c. made his third batson/wheeler motion. 11 5. batson/wheeler motion seven peremptory challenges against black prospective jurors. ed against african-american males. although, clearly, some things said about [rodney c.establishment guy, a retired teacher. the wife is a teacher. and see any legitimate reason the trial court found smith made a prima facie showing of group bias as to rodney c., and asked the prosecutor to provide her reasons for excusing him. the prosecutor negative experience as a witness being questioned by another prosecuand that as a teacher he might have sympathy for young men, including defendant. facie case, explaining that rodney c. provided a narrative about having a profoundly negative experience with the police, about when his car broke down in the gas station, he was trying to fix it, and he thought that the police were, quote, harassing him. and yeah, it happened many, many years ago, both of these him. the court only needs to find that the reason they excused him was . . . permissible and she was not exercising group bias. and i find that . . . she has rebutted the prim to give her reasons for excusing the prior black male jurors because it had found a prima facie case as to rodney c. the 12 holds to the contrary, that once a trial court finds a prima facie bias as to one prospective juror, . . . it is not required to ask for race neutral explanations for the others. [] with that said, [the prosecutor is] welcome to explain . . . the reasons for excluding the other african- discussed how she witnessed an assault on her brother. when law enforcement came, they falsified the report, in her opinion, and shifted the blame from who[m] she perceived to be the assailant and the aggressor to her brother. that is why i used a peremptory as to henry c., the [] the court asks the multiple times. i was looking out to see what his responses [] when i thoughti thought would have been a different way when i perceived in the community, there was another juror that i ended up speaking with about that. he was unresponsive to that. [] i frankly felt like he probably had information just or feelings the topic and was particularly looking to see what sort of feedback i would get from him on that in either direction, pro or anti prosecution and law enforcement. [] t get decided to use a peremptory cha 13 who were both victims and convicts. he, himself, was upset that the police think he also felt that the blame had been shifted from the assailant to him in a situation. [] . . . [] also, he washis demeanor was a little bit erratic, in my opinion. he was kind of talka b. batson/wheeler analysis challenges to excuse four black prospective jurors deprived him of his federal constitutional right to equal protection (batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 88) and state constitutional right to a trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-277). as a restrial court erred in failing to find smith made a prima facie showing of an inference of discriminatory purpose. ercise a peremptory challenge for any peremptory challenges solely on the basis of race offends the laws [citations]. such cjury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community (people v. smith (2018) 4 cal.5th 1134, 1146 (smith); accord, people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 433 (winbush) [state and federal constitutions prohibit the use of peremptory 14 challenges to remove prospective jurors based on their race or striking even a single prospective juror for a discriminatory people v. hardy (2018) 5 cal.5th 56, 76 (hardy); accord, people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1158 (gutierrez) impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural a three-step procedure governs the analysis of batson/wheeler motions. (people v. armstrong (2019) 6 cal.5th 735, 766 (armstrong); smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. rst, the defendant must make a prima facie showing that the prosecution exercised a challenge based on impermissible criteria. second, if the trial court finds a prima facie case, then the prosecution must offer nondiscriminatory reasons for the challenge. third, the trial court must determine whether the of all relevant circumstances, the defendant has shown purposeful race discrimination. [citation.] of persuasion regarding [discriminatory] motivation rests with, smith, at p. 1147; accord, armstrong, at p. challenge was i the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of armstrong, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 766; accord, people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 384 (scott) 15 review, certain types of evidence are especially relevant. these include whether a party has struck most or all of the members of the venire from an identified group, whether a party has used a disproportionate number of strikes against members of that group, whether the party has engaged those prospective jurors in only desultory voir dire, whether the defendant is a member of that group, and whether the victim is a member of the group to people v. reed (2018) 4 cal.5th 989, 999-1000 (reed); accord, people v. snchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 434 (snchez); scott, at p. 384.) discrimination at batsonreed, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1020; accord, scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 384.) as the united states supreme court explained in johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 170intend the first step to be so onerous that a defendant would have to persuade the judgeon the basis of all the facts, some of which are impossible for the defendant to know with certaintythat the challenge was more likely than not the product of purposeful discrimination. instead, a defendant satisfies the requirements of batson first step by producing evidence sufficient to permit the trial judge to draw an inference that discrimination has reasjustification need not support a challenge for cause, and even a prospective juror may be excused based upon facial expressions, 16 gestures, hunches, and even for arbitrary or idiosyncratic winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 434; accord, hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 76.) [c]redibility can be measured by, ; by how reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted trial armstrong, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 767; accord, smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. d on whether the proffered neutral reasons are subjectively genuine, not on hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 76; accord, gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. . . . inquiry focuses on the subjective genuineness of the reason, not juror are sincere, we typically defer to the trial court and consider smith, at p. 1147; accord, armstrong, at p. 768.) if a trial court concludes a defendant has made a prima facie showing in a later batson/wheeler motion, it is not obligated to revisit its rulings on earlier batson/wheeler motions. (armstrong, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. obligated to revisit their rulings on earlier wheeler/batson motions when they conclude the defendant has made out a prima facie case in connection with a later mopeople v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 549 (avila[w]hen a trial court determines that the defendant has made a prima facie showing that a particular prospective juror has been challenged because of such bias, it need not ask the prosecutor to justify his or her challenges to other prospective jurors of the same group for which 17 the batson/wheeler motion has been denied.armstrong, at p. 767; avila, at p. request, trial court may revisit earlier batson/wheeler protected class in a new light, such that it gives rise to a prima the supreme court in scott addressed the circumstances justifications for a challenge to a prospective juror as part of a first-stage batson/wheeler appellate court properly reviews the first-stage ruling if the trial court has determined that no prima facie case of discrimination exists, then allows or invites the prosecutor to state reasons for excusing the juror, but refrains from ruling on the validity of scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 386.) although a excusing a juror to support the trial couroffered by the prosecutor is not used by the reviewing court to defeat a prima facie case of discriminationid. at pp. 390.) as the scott c batson and wheeler emphasized that the purposeful exclusion of identifiable groups from participation on juries undermines public respect for our criminal justice system. [citations.] when discriminatory intent is in the explanation offered by the prosecutor [citation], the confidence in the rule of law suffers, 18 regardless of whether the defendant was able to make out a prima facie case of discrimination. in these circumstances, reviewing courts, therefore, should not blind themselves to the scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 390-391; see snchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 435-437 [considering nondiscriminatory reasons for excusing discernable on the record-stage analysis of the totality of the circumstances where prosecutor stated reasons for challenges but trial court did not evaluate reasons].) -stage finding as to henry c. legal question whether the on a prohibited discriminatory people v. parker (2017) 2 cal.5th 1184, 1211 (parker); accord, snchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 434; scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 384; see armstrong, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 766 [citing snchez for standard of review for first-stage ruling].)7 7 the courts in parker, snchez, and scott applied an independent standard of review both because the trial preceded johnson v. california, supra, 545 u.s. 162, and because it was not clear from the record whether the trial court analyzed the batson/wheeler motion under the more stringent standard applicable prior to johnson. (parker, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1211; snchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 434; scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 384.) we apply an independent review standard here because the trial court did not make clear the standard it applied and appeared to apply a 19 c. smith made a prima facie showing of group bias as to henry c. after the prosecutor used her third peremptory challenge to excuse henry c.batson/wheeler facie showing of jurors on the panel and other black jurors in the jury pool. but exclusion; rather, the issue is whether a particular prospective avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. ibid.; see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158 batson/wheeler motion is whether any specific prospective juror is challenged on account of bias against an identifiable group ) we review the entire voir dire record as of the time smith made his batson/wheeler motion as to henry c. (scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. the existence of a prima facie case depends on consideration of the entire record of voir dire as of the time the motion was people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th courts finding is reviewed on the record as it stands at the time the wheeler/batson both smith and henry c. are black. at the time the prosecutor excused henry c., there were two other black jurors more stringent standard than that applicable under supreme court precedent, requiring smith to make a prima facie showing of systematic exclusion. (see avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 549.) 20 among the first 20 prospective jurors: t.n. and juror no. 1748, who was later sworn in as a juror. henry c. stated he was single, lived in compton, worked for delta airlines, had never been a victim of a crime, and had no prior jury experience. in response -year-old cousin, henry c. made clear from his response he understood the concept of circumstantial evidence in that he concluded the cousin ate the cookies although henry c. did not see him do it. the prosecutor did not conduct further direct questioning of henry c. because the trial court later allowed the prosecutor to state her reasons for excusing henry c., we also consider the scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 391-392; see snchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 435-437.) the prosecutor described henry c. she focused on the fact the trial court asked the panel multiple times whether any of them had been a victim or witness to a crime, and henry c. when she asked the panel their views on people in the community probably had information just or feelings about that that he which is why i brought up the topic and was particularly looking to see what sort of feedback i would get from him on that in either direction, pro or anti prosecution and law enforcement. [] want to single him out further, but i decided to use a peremptory the people contend the prosecutor was justified in excusing henry c. based on her belief that he was not forthcoming about 21 being a victim or witness to a crime or disclosing his feelings about whether someone should report a crime, citing to people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 114-115. in dehoyos, the juror is not forthcoming or is not paying sufficient attention to the proceedings is a race-neutral basis for a peremptory challenge . . . .id. at p. 114.) dehoyos is distinguishable. in dehoyosshe or anyone close to her had been a victim of a crime in the jury questionnaire, but under direct questioning during voir dire, she stated her cousin, with whom she was close, had been murdered. (id. at pp. 113-response to a question about whether she or a relative had been arrested; however, during voir dire, she stated she forgot her older brother had been arrested several times for minor offenses. (id. at p. 114.) here, there is nothing in the record to support the henry c. was a victim or witness to a crime notwithstanding his statement to the contrary. to the extent the prosecutor was relying on the fact henry c. was a young black male living in compton, a city with a significant low-income black and hispanic population,8 this would support 8 on our own motion, we take judicial notice of the 2017 census data for compton. (evid. code,  452, subds. (c) & (h), 459; sanchez v. city of modesto (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 660, 666, fn. 1 [taking judicial notice of 2000 census data]; moehring v. thomas (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1515, 1523, fn. 4 [taking judicial notice of 2000 decennial census data for siskiyou county].) according to the 2010 census data, compton is a city of approximately 96,455 residents, 66.8 percent of whom identify as 22 henry c. based on a group biasthat a black male living in a predominantly black and hispanic community must be a victim or witness of crime. moreover, the prosecutor assumed henry c. was concealing information, yet did not directly question him about his or his henry c. directly about his views on people in the community reporting crime to the law enforcement. the prosecutor admitted she did not get feedback from henry c. pro or anti we conclude the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. d. the prosecusincere because the trial court did not make a batson/wheeler third-for excusing henry c., there are no findings to which we give deference on appeal. (cf. armstrong, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 768 a reasoned examination of [defendant] had not proven discrimination, its findings became .) as part of our third-stage analysis, credible and whether, in light of all relevant circumstances, the hispanic or latino, and 30.9 percent of whom identify as black or african-american with a 23 percent poverty rate. (see united states census bureau, data for 2010 census <https:// www.census.gov/quickfacts/fact/table/comptoncitycalifornia/ pst045218> [as of may 22, 2019].) 23 smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1147; accord, gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. . . . may (and probably will) be found to be a pretexts for purposeful the prosecutor did not offer permissible race-neutral justifications for excusing henry c. the prosecutor thought henry c. was hiding information because she assumed as a young black male from compton, henry c. must have been a victim or witness to a crime. she also assumed henry c. would have such strong feelings about crime reporting and his voluntarily offered his opinions about these topics during voir peremptory strike of henry c. (see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. lived in wasco based on her unawareness of gang activity was not race-neutral].) moreover, if the prosecutor genuinely believed henry c. was not forthcoming, she could have asked him additional questions during voir dire. (see gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. dire of this panelist . . . at least raises a question as to how interested he was in meaningfully examining whether her unawareness of gang activity in wasco might cause her to be .) instead, the want to singl we conclthan not that the challenge was im 24 (armstrong, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 766; accord, gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. on the basis of race or ethnicity is an error of constitutional magnitude,trial court erred in denying the batson/wheeler motion as to the other black prospective jurors. (gutierrez, at p. 1172.) we fair trial in violation of the equal protection of the federal constitution (batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 88), and a right to a trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under the state constitution (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-277).9 disposition we reverse the judgment of conviction and remand for a new trial. feuer, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. 9 we therefore do not reach whether we should remand to the trial court to allow it to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm-use enhancements imposed pursuant to sections 12022.5 and 12022.53. 