 filed 4/4/18 p. v. delgado ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel delgado, defendant and appellant. b277801 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba445599) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall, judge. affirmed. carlo andreani, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, joseph p. lee and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted appellant daniel delgado of assault with a deadly weapon and attempted robbery, based on evidence that he belongings. appellant claims the trial court erroneously admitted two pieces of evidence: a prior misdemeanor conviction of an eyewitness and police officer testimony about a statement from a paramedic at the scene. we conclude that the court did not abuse its discretion in permitting the prosecution to impeach the witness by asking about misdemeanor misconduct. on the other hand, we find the was in error. however, any error from the admission of either piece of evidence was harmless. we therefore affirm. procedural history appellant was charged by information with one count of assault with a deadly weapon, a car (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1); count one) and one count of attempted second degree robbery (pen. code,  664, 211; count two). the information further alleged as to both counts that appellant personally used a car as a deadly weapon (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), and that he had a prior strike conviction (pen. code,  667, subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b)), prior serious felony convictions (pen. code,  667, subd. (a)(1)), and several prior prison terms (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)). the jury found appellant guilty as charged and further found the deadly weapon allegation true. appellant waived trial on his prior convictions and subsequently admitted one prior strike conviction, one prior serious felony conviction, and two prior prison terms. 3 the court struck the prior prison terms and deadly weapon enhancements. the court sentenced appellant to a term of 13 years on count one and stayed imposition of the sentence on count two pursuant to penal code section 654. appellant timely appealed. factual background the following evidence was adduced at trial. a. timony on march 11, 2016, u.s.c. student randy p.1 was riding his bicycle near the campus. around 3:00 that afternoon, he rode to a nearby bank of america to cash his paycheck. as he was getting his money inside the bank, he noticed two men watching him in a way that made him nervous. randy identified one of the men at trial as appellant. he was no longer comfortable taking his money home, so he went to an atm outside the bank and deposited the cash into his account. randy then rode his bike across the street to get something to eat. after about 15 minutes, he began to ride home. as randy neared the intersection of raymond avenue and 37th place, he was struck by a car and knocked off his bike. he fell to the ground, hitting his elbow. he testified that he did not see the car approach from behind; afterward, he sat on the ground shocked and in pain. he became frightened when he saw the driver emerge from the car that had hit him and he recognized the driver as appellant, one of the men who had been watching him in the bank. appellant approached randy. 1 pursuant to california rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4), we refer to victim randy p. by his first name. no disrespect is intended. 4 and he admitted that he did not remember all of the details on direct, he testified that once he recognized appellant, he felt an reached him either when he was still on the ground or getting up. randy testified that appellant made contact with him but he did not remember the details; he did remember that he took out his phone intending to call the police and appellant said something appellant tried to get the phone away from randy but randy resisted. randy also attempted to record the incident on his phone. after that, appellant called to the passenger in the car and said something about pulling out a gun. get randy saw the passenger begin to exit the car and recognized him as the second man from the bank. randy testified, [t] after the prosecutor showed randy the police report to refresh his recollection, randy also recalled that appellant reached as randy after randy began to run away, appellant started to run after him, but then stopped, went back to his car and bent its license plate up. appellant then got back into the car and left the scene. randy called 911. the recording of his 911 call was played for the jury. in the call, randy told the operator that he he 5 me as well . . . i was trying to pull up my phone to call the cops he try to hit me or fight me when i try to take a picture of his car the prosecutor played surveillance footage from a nearby home, which showed some of the incident, including the initial collision. he also played the video randy took with his phone. showed appellant getting back into his car and driving in reverse people just crashed me right now. and they tried to do . . . to run randy also stated he was going to call the police. a few days later randy identified appellant from a photo lineup as the driver who hit him. a few weeks later, he identified gregory saldivar as the passenger from another photo lineup.2 on cross-examination, randy acknowledged that he did not tell the 911 operator that appellant tried to rob him. he told the he also did not mention a robbery on his cell phone video. randy acknowledged that he told the officers that he through his pockets. however, at trial, he denied that he blacked out. he confirmed that he told the police that appellant was going through his pockets and trying to rob him. according to randy, he told the police that appellant was wrestling with him 2 saldivar was charged together with appellant but they were not tried together. saldivar is not a party to this appeal. 6 b. testimony from eyewitness vivas luis vivas testified that he owns a nearby property equipped with surveillance cameras, and he was on the street at the time of the incident. he saw randy on the ground and the driver, whom he identified as appellant at trial, get out of the car. vivas saw appellant trying to lift randy from the ground and it seemed to him at that moment that appellant was trying to help the victim. vivas testified that when he came to court for the preliminary hearing a few months before trial, he saw someone pointing a cell phone at him and he thought that person might be taking pictures of him. he told the investigating detective that he was concerned for his safety. he left without testifying that day. he claimed that the second time he came to court, he saw the same person who had been trying to take his picture. vivas also said he had concerns for his safety at trial. vivas acknowledged he told the officer at the scene that he saw the entire incident. however, at trial, vivas said he did not see the impact, but heard it and saw randy on the ground. the prosecutor impeached vivas with prior misdemeanor and felony misconduct, which we discuss more fully below. the prosecutor also confronted vivas with his prior statements to the police that he saw the vehicle swerve into the victim from behind, the collision appeared intentional, and the victim was not in the way of traffic. he denied these statements, but then claimed he concluded that the collision was e that he saw was on the ground, vivas said he saw appellant trying to grab although he claimed at trial that he thought 7 appellant was trying to help the victim, he admitted that he had not included this in his statement to the police at the scene. he explained, [that appellant was helping], but at the beginning what i thought was what i vivas ibe but seeing the things that happened, i saw that he was grabbing. vivas also testified that randy was trying to take out his phone and appellant was vivas testified pockets, the passenger in the car grabbed the bicycle and placed it out of the way of traffic. gun, while reaching for his waistband, which caused randy to run. vivas then saw appellant folding the front license plate on his car in half, obscuring the plate number. c. police officers los angeles police department officer rosie powers testified that she and her partner, officer claudia benitez, when they arrived, randy was in an ambulance being treated by rescue personnel. powers testified that she was told by a paramedic that randy had been robbed, so she upgraded the crime broadcast from a hit and run to a robbery. we discuss this evidence further below. power next spoke with vivas, who said he had seen the entire incident and also had surveillance footage from his residence. vivas told powers that the victim was riding southbound on raymond avenue on his bicycle. vivas saw the 8 west which is to the right and struck [randy] causing him to vivas stated that the collision appeared to be intentional. he told powers that the driver according to powers, vivas heard -- and he was vivas saw appellant reaching for his vivas did not tell powers that appellant was trying to help randy up or that he powers later spoke to randy while he was being treated in appellant was going into his pockets. randy did not report that appellant had asked officer john hackman ran the license plate number from the car. it was registered to appellant. on april 6, 2016, he and his partner found the car while searching near an address associated with appellant. the car had paper license plates, but the officers verified that it was the same vehicle using the vehicle identification number. when appellant approached the vehicle, the officers arrested him. saldivar also was arrested at the scene. discussion appellant raises claims of error regarding admission of two pieces of evidence: prior misdemeanor conviction and officer testimony relatiincident was a robbery. 9 evidence for abuse of discretion. (see people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 725; people v. poggi (1988) 45 cal.3d 306, 318319.) [a] judgment is not required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1004.) i. admission of misdemeanor conviction appellant asserts that the trial court erred in allowing the prosecutor to impeach vivas with a prior misdemeanor conviction. we find no abuse of discretion and further, that any error would be harmless. a. factual background after vivas testified that appellant was trying to help randy up from the ground, the prosecutor asked whether vivas had a criminal record. defense counsel objected under evidence code section 352.3 at sidebar, the prosecutor indicated he planned to offer evidence of two prior convictions as crimes of moral turpitudea 2010 felony conviction for hit and run causing death or injury (veh. code,  2001, subd. (a)), and a 2002 misdemeanor conviction for corporal injury to a spouse (pen. code,  273.5). denies that he committed - - 3 all further statutory references herein are to the evidence code unless otherwise indicated. 10 defense counsel again objected under section 352, aact involving moral turpitude and the people are entitled to r2002, did you commit a misdemeanor violation of penal code section 273.5, inflicting corporal injury on a spouse or when asked whether he committed the felony hit and run, he - - i never asked whether vivas had been convicted of the felony, which he confirmed. during closing argument, the prosecutor said that vivas defense counsel did not object. b. no error in admission of prior misdemeanor appellant contends the trial court erred in admitting evidence of prior misdemeanor conviction to impeach his testimony. he argues that the evidence of conviction was inadmissible hearsay. further, even if admissible, appellant asserts that the evidence should have been excluded as more prejudicial than probative under section 352. including conduct underlying a misdemeanor conviction. (people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 288 (wheeler), superseded by 11 statute on other grounds, as stated in people v. duran (2002) 97 misdemeanor remains inadmissible under traditional hearsay the witness committed the (wheeler, supra, at pp. 288, 297.) as an initial matter, the attorney general asserts that appellant did not raise a specific hearsay objection in the trial court and therefore has forfeited his ability to do so on appeal. we find that appellant did not forfeit his hearsay objection. trial court, he did identify the hearsay issue by objecting that the prosecutor could admit evidence of the underlying misdemeanor offense, but not the conviction. as such, this case is distinguishable from those in which counsel forfeited an objection by raising entirely different grounds below. (see, e.g., wheeler, supra, 4 cal.4th at pp. 297, 300 [finding forfeiture where defendant argued for first time on appeal that even if misdemeanor offense was admissible, the conviction was inadmissible hearsay]; people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 22 [objection that questions were leading does not preserve argument that the evidence was impermissible evidence of other crimes], overruled on other grounds by people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225, 234; people v. escobar (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 1085, 1103, fn. 11 [hearsay objection did not preserve objection under section 352].) appellant sufficiently raised the specific ground of his objection so as to preserve it for appeal. (see  353; people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 666-667 [a claim of the erroneous admission of evidence is preserved for appeal if the timely objection alerted the trial court to the nature of the 12 anticipated evidence and the basis on which exclusion was sought and afforded the opposing party an opportunity to establish its admissibility].) next, we conclude that the trial court did not err in permitting the prosecution to ask vivas about his commission of the underlying misdemeanor offense. appellant acknowledges that evidence of prior conduct was admissible. (see wheeler, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 295.) however, he contends that did you commit a misdemeanor violation of penal code section 273.5, inflicting corporal injury on suggested that vivas had been convicted of that conduct. he cites no authority supporting that contention.4 we are not persuaded. the question posed to vivas asked whether he committed certain criminal conduct. it did not suggest vivas was convicted of that crime. after vivas answered affirmatively, the prosecutor moved on to asking about his prior felony conduct. finally, the prosecutor specifically asked whether vivas had been convicted of the felony; he did not pose the same question with respect to the misdemeanor. appellant also argues that the trial court failed to exercise its discretion to exclude the prior conviction as more prejudicial than probative under section 352. with the prior crimes, appellant concludes that the court did not properly weigh all due considerations under section 352. [a] court need not expressly weigh prejudice against probative value or even expressly state that it has done so, if the record as a whole shows the court was aware of and performed its 4 we also note that appellant did not object to this question during trial. 13 balancing (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 438.) here, we are satisfied from the record that the court properly performed its balancing functions under section 352. the court heard arguments from both parties at sidebar and expressly value of the misdemeanor conduct as an act involving moral belief that it did not have discretion to exclude the evidence. appellant also suggests that the misdemeanor conduct had but there was ruling, that conduct was accidental; vivas declared as nor would a claim by the witness of accidental misconduct necessarily mean that conduct was irrelevant. thus, we conclude that the ed its discretion under evidence code (wheeler, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 297; see also people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1237 and we properly may infer that the court determined that the in sum, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the conduct underlying prior misdemeanor conviction to impeach his credibility.5 5 the admission of the misdemeanor conviction violated his due process rights. (see people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439 (partida14 c. harmless error additionally, any error on this issue was harmless under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson). fundamental unfairness, state law error in admitting evidence is subject to the traditional watson test: the reviewing court must ask whether it is reasonably probable the verdict would have been more favorable to the defendant absent the error. (partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 439.) defense with randy was accidental and appellant tried to help, not rob, randy afterward. on appeal, appellant suggests that testimony at trial was critical to this argument, as vivas stated he thought appellant was trying to help randy get up from the ground and was pleading with randy not to call the police. impeachment of credibility damaged his argument. appellant has not demonstrated prejudice. first, even absent misdemeanor conduct, the prosecution impeached vivas with his prior felony conviction. thus, any effect of prior misconduct on credibility would have remained regardless of the asserted error vivas was not to discredit him entirely, but to suggest that his original statements at the scene of the collision were more truthful than his testimony at trial. to this end, during closing argument, the prosecutor discussed purported fear of testifying repeatedly, but mentioned his prior convictions only state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair. 15 once. absent use of the misdemeanor, this argument would have remained largely unchanged.6 finally, there was significant evidence supporting theory of the case. randy testified unequivocally and consistently that he recognized both appellant and saldivar as the men watching him in the bank. the collision itself and parts of the following scuffle were recorded and played for the jury, allowing the jurors to determine whether they agreed with initial assessment that it appeared appellant intentionally hit randy. and although vivas claimed at trial that he initially thought appellant was trying to help randy, he also admitted to key statements he made to the police officers, , and said that he had a gun. these statements were confirmed by the officers at trial. as such, we 6appellant suggests that the prosecutor exploited any error appellant did not object to this statement at trial. moreover, the harmless, given the circumstances we have discussed here. (cassim v. allstate ins. co. (2004) 33 cal.4th 780, 803; see also, e.g., people v. pensinger (1991) 52 cal.3d 1210, 1250 [improper comment in closing argument held harmless error because it was e jury was instructed that statements of counsel were not evidence; absent some contrary indication in the record, we presume the jury followed these instructions. (see people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 436; people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, jury relied on the instructions, not the arguments, in convicting 16 conclude appellant would not have received a more favorable outcome absent the purported error. ii. admission of statement regarding robbery broadcast appellant also contends the trial court improperly admitted hearsay testimony from officer powers that she upgraded the crime broadcast to a robbery based on a statement from a paramedic at the scene that randy had said he was robbed. he further asserts that he was prejudicially harmed by this testimony and reference to it in closing argument. we conclude that the evidence was admitted in error, but the error was harmless. a. factual background officer powers testified that before speaking to randy at the scene, she sent out an updated broadcast to other police officers, reporting the crime as robbery. the prosecutor asked objected on hearsay grounds. the court overruled the objection, er state of mind and will be admitted for as powers began to explain, defense counsel again objected that the answer called for multiple hearsay and the matter asserted, only to explain her conduct. and it will be powers then testified that she had been told by a fire department paramedic that the victim had been robbed. based on that information, she sent out the ecause the potential of the suspects still being in the area and possibly committing more of those crimes is highly likely. so i put out that information for my fellow 17 brethren officers to, you know, locate the vehicle and possibly the in closing, the prosecutor noted that randy had not mentioned a robbery in his 911 call or in the video he recorded during the incident. the prosecutor then stated that while randy was being treated in the does he inform about what was being done, that his pockets were being checked by mr. delgado? the paramedics on the scene. when officer powers arrives . . . what do the paramedics tell her the 911 dispatch calthe officers do? they put that out immediately. so what does that do? that lends credibility, the truthfulness of his b. error in admission of statement testimony for the nonhearsay purpose of establishing her state of mind and therefore explaining her decision to issue an upgraded robbery broadcast. appellant argues this was error evidence may be admitted for a nonhearsay purpose if it is relevant to a matter at issue in the case. (people v. turner (1994) -of-court statement is properly admitted if a nonhearsay purpose for admitting the statement is identified, and the nonhearsay purpose is relevant to an issue in people v. lucero (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 1107, 1109-1110 (lucero-h 18 we can see no relevance in this case to officer state of mind regarding her reason for upgrading the crime broadcast at the scene. testimony from a police officer relating information she received from a third party to explain why the officer acted as she did is not relevant when the good faith or reasonableness of her conduct is not at issue. (see lucero, supra, 64 cal.app.4th at pp. 1109-1110; people v. reyes (1976) 62 cal.app.3d 53, 68.) the reasonableness of the police investigation was not an issue here, nor was any police conduct in response to the broadcast. thus, the nonhearsay purpose of the at regard. (lucero, supra, 64 cal.app.4th at pp. 1109-1110.) the attorney general suggests that the testimony an issue in this case. appellant also contends the evidence should have been excluded for another reasonstatement admitted in violation of his right to confrontation under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 59. we disagree. any statement made by randy to the paramedic does not implicate crawford, as he testified at trial and was subject to cross-examination.7 (ibid.) moreover, the statement made by the paramedic to officer powers was not offered to prove the truth of the matterthat a robbery occurredbut to explain conduct in issuing an upgraded crime broadcast. as such, the 7 officer powers testified only as to what the paramedic told herthat the witness was robbed. she did not state that the paramedic learned this information based on a statement by randy, although that was the likely implication. 19 evidence was nonhearsay and not subject to the analysis in crawford. (see people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1163nfrontation clause restrictions on the introduction of out-of-court statements for nonhearsay purposes]; people v. mitchell (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1210, 1224-1225 [finding portions of police dispatch tape admitted for nonhearsay purpose were not subject to crawford restrictions].)8 c. harmless error although the admission of testimony regarding statements made by the paramedic was error, we nonetheless conclude that any error was harmless under watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836. the court admitted the evidence for a limited, nonhearsay at the time the evidence was admitted, the trial court promptly admonished the jurytwicethat the testimony was not being offered for the truth of the matter asserted. (people v. livingston, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1163; lucero, supra, 64 cal.app.4th at p. 1110.) the court also instructed the jury at the close of trial as to evidence offered for a limited purpose. we presume the jury understood and followed these instructions. (see people v. zavala (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 242, 249.) additionally, there was ample evidence to support the conclusion that appellant attempted to rob randy. in addition to draw money at the bank, randy and vivas both told the police that 8 that the erroneous admission of officer testimony did not render the trial fundamentally unfair. (see partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 439.) 20 phone, which randy also reported on the 911 call. defense counsel argued that randy had not mentioned the robbery in his video or 911 call, but instead reported it only after the fact; he argued that randy lacked credibility as a result. but the evidence that randy reported the robbery to the police while in the hospital shortly after the incident was admitted without objection. the addition of a single reference implying that randy also told a paramedic that he was robbed, without more, does not establish prejudice to appellant. we also note that officer powers testified without objection that she upgraded the broadcast to a robbery. only the follow-up question regarding at issue here. thus, even absent the objectionable statement, the jury was presented with evidence that powers had concluded a robbery might have occurred even before she spoke to randy at the hospital. appellant also contends that the prosecution improperly testimony claiming he was robbed, thus impermissibly using the evidence for its truth. the attorney general counters that the prosecutionreading of the record, it appears that during closing argument the prosecutor suconsidered for its truth; this was improper. we note that appellant did not object below and does not contend the statement rises to the level of prosecutorial misconduct. moreover, we do not agree that the prosecutor prejudicially exploited this evidence through a brief reference 21 during closing argument to the police decision to issue a robbery broadcast. the prosecutor focused most of his argument on the consistencies between ran to the police, his testimony at trial, and other evidence, including testimony and the videos. we the evidence rather than a brief remark by counsel. (see people v. boyette, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 436; people v. morales, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 47.) under these circumstances, we conclude that it is not reasonably probable appellant would have had a more favorable verdict absent the evidence of an out-of-court statement made by the paramedic to officer powers. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 