filed 3/6/18 p. v. hernandez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose luis hernandez, defendant and appellant. b277882 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba436981) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, sam ohta, judge. affirmed. waldemar d. halka, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputies attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jose luis hernandez appeals from his convictions on five counts for: unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy and unlawful sexual penetration with a child age 10 years or younger and lewd or lascivious act on a child under age 14. he contends that reversal is required because (1) the trial court erred in refusing to suppress his postarrest statements to police obtained in violation of his miranda rights, and because he did not make a knowing, intelligent and voluntary waiver of his miranda rights; (2) aurine test which established her chlamydia infection was inadmissible casespecific hearsay which violated his rights under the confrontation clause; (3) the sodomy conviction must be reversed because there is the conviction for lewd and lascivious acts involving a child should be reversed because it is a lesser included offense of the crime of sexual acts with a child age 10 years or younger; and (5) penal code section 654 bars concurrent punishment for the lewd act conviction that may be based on the same act as one of the other four convictions. we affirm. procedural background appellant, a person over age 18, was charged by information with two counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child age 10 years or younger (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (a)1; counts 1 & 2), two counts of oral 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 copulation or sexual penetration with a child age 10 years or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b); counts 3 & 4), and a lewd or lascivious act on a child under age 14 ( 288, subd. (a); count 5). appellant was also alleged to have inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim, his daughter, gabriela m., within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a) as to all five -bodily-injury was alleged within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (a)(d) as to count 5. appellant pled not guilty and denied all allegations. the prosecution proceeded to trial on unlawful sexual intercourse as to count 1 and sodomy as to count 2. counts 3 and 4 were prosecuted as unlawful sexual penetration. a jury found appellant guilty on all counts, but rejected the special allegations. appellant was sentenced to a state prison term of 40 years to life. his sentence consists of a term of 25 years to life on count 1, and a consecutive term of 15 years to life on count 3. the terms on the remaining counts (2, 4 & 5) were ordered to run concurrent to the sentences imposed as to counts 1 and 3. he timely appeals. factual background prosecution evidence gabriela (born may 2006) was eighttonine years old when she lived with appellant, her biological father (born august 1980) in a residence in los angeles between may 4, 2014 and may 3, 2015. the n.m.caretaker. 4 1. at trial in august 2016, then 10yearold gabriela testified that, when she was eight to nine years old, she and appellant lived in an apartment in los angeles with several other people. she and appellant slept in the same bedroom, gabriela on a couch bed, her father on the floor. gabriela always wore pajamas to sleep. sometimes when gabriela awoke she found appellant sleeping next to her on her bed. when gabriela was nine years old, appellant touched her body three to four times under her clothes at night, including her front appellant was touching her froher with his fingers. she felt something white, sticky and wet on her times appellant touched her buttocks under her clothes with his fingers. la said what happened to her was not normal. 2. on may 8, 2015, gabriela underwent a forensic child abuse examination conducted by shana cripe, a nurse practitioner at the violence intervention program clinic at lac/usc medical center. the 5 clinic specializes in forensic exams of physical and sexual abuse of included genital and anal examinations and the collection of bodily fluids for testing, was normal, and there was no evidence of trauma. cripe testified that sexual contact does not always cause trauma, and urine collected from gabriela during that exam was sent to a lab and tested positive for chlamydia infection. the findings were memorialized on a document sent to a social worker at department of children and family services (dcfs). after gabriela was diagnosed with chlamydia, several unsuccessful attempts to contact appellant were made. eventually, a ., in an effort to find appellant and gabriela. the social worker told ana d. that dcfs was trying to find appellant because gabriela needed medical attention. ana d., who, until february or march 2015, had dated appellant for twoandonehalf or three years, became suspicious because she had contracted two chlamydia infections during her relationship with appellant. she attributed the infections to him because ana d. had been monogamous during that relationship. the first time ana d. learned, during a routine medical exam, that she had contracted chlamydia, both she and appellant took medication prescribed to treat the infection. when ana d. learned she had a second infection in march or april 2015, she was no longer dating appellant and did not tell him. 6 after talking to the social worker, ana d. contacted appellant. he agreed to meet her near a park on may 29, 2015. they met and spoke in ana d.ana d. asked appellant why the social worker was looking for him. appellant told her gabriela had been misbehaving at school. ana d. suspected something more serious was afoot because the social worker had come to her house urgently seeking appellant, and had said gabriela required medical ana d. continued to pressure him, and askedana d. asked ana d. angrily slapped appellant and told him to call the social worker. she and he waited in her car until the police arrived. gabriela was taken into protective custody, appellant was arrested, and both were taken to the police station. 3. ice interview gabriela was interviewed at the police station with the assistance of a social worker. gabriela acknowledged that molestation had occurred on about eight occasions when she was eight years old. the child reported that, on one occasion, she felt a hard object rubbing on her buttocks under her clothing. she did not know what it was, but it made her feel very uncomfortable. 7 gabriela described another incident during which she felt a hard object near her naked vaginal area. another time, she woke in the middle of the night and was confused because her tights and underwear were around her ankles. she felt something wet, but she knew she had not urinated on herself. when she asked her father what had a burning sensation in the area of her vagina that lasted about a day. gabriela denied that appellant had touched her with his penis or covered her mouth with his hand to keep her quiet during sex. she off her clothes, got on top of her, or spread her legs. 4. mtestimony n.m. testified that gabriela told her about the molestation after she began living in boston in january 2016. gabriela told her mother that, when she had been nineyearsold and living with appellant in los angeles, he had taken off her clothes while she was asleep. on many occasions, appellant opened her legs, lifted her up, and had sexual intercourse with her, penetrating her vagina with his penis. he got on top of gabriela to have sex with her, and also touched her butt. gabriela said appellant covered her mouth with his hands to keep her quiet during sex. gabriela had also told her mother she reported the molestation to school staff, and there was a meeting about it that n.m. attended. 8 5. after his arrest, vanessa prentice, a spanish language certified police officer, interrogated appellant at the police station. a dcfs social worker was present during some of the questioning.2 appellant was advised of his rights under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). he denied having raped or sodomized gabriela. he masturbated and ejaculated while she slept near him. he admitted appellant said gabriela slept on a futon and he slept on the floor next to the futon in the room they shared. he claimed a single incident of molestation had taken place two or three months before his arrest. appellant said he had been asleep and not fully conscious when it happened. when he woke up and realized what he was doing, he stopped immediately. it had been a mistake and he did not want to do it to his daughter. as for transmission of the chlamydia infection to his daughter, appellant said he must have infected her when he placed his finger with his semen in her vagina. appellant later admitted having inserted the tip of his penis into then denied doing so and denied having 2 jury was given a redacted transcript of a spanish-to-english translation of the recording. 9 end of the interrogation, appellant wrote an apology letter in spanish to his daughter, which was translated to english and read at trial to the jury.3 on june 1, 2015, appellant was interviewed again by lapd detective ana melara and her partner, each of whom is spanish language certified. appellant was reminded about the previously given miranda rights, and agreed to talk to the detectives. he said he had touched gabriela two to three times, touching her vaginal area with his hand and finger. he said he penetrated her vaginal area with his index finger, and drew a picture depicting how much of his finger had been inserted. appellant said semen was on his finger when he touched 3 you to forgive me for what happened and please pay attention to the police officers. they will give you medicines. you just ask god to take care of you. me and that everything comes out okay. i love you very much. forgive me for not having taken you to school yesterday and today. i love you very much, my daughter, and soon you will be with your little sister alison and with your mother. now, as i showed you when you go to sleep, to pray and always have faith in god. i love you, daughter. i love you, my daughter, and forgive me. thank you for the days that i took you to church and you be 10 appellant also told the detectives that, on another occasion, he nd touching her buttocks with his gabriela, which was also translated and read to the jury.4 6. expert testimony dr. janet arnold-clark, the child abuse pediatrician who treated gabriela for the chlamydia infection, testified that chlamydia are of chlamydia from one person to another happens when mucous membranes of an infected person come into contact with the mucous membranes of another person. mucous membranes are the moist, thin the penis and the opening of the cervix in adolescent women. prepubertal girls have mucous membranes throughout their vaginas, including the hymen and the area immediately outside the hymen. penile-vaginal penetration is required at least beyond the labia minora in order for one to contract a vaginal chlamydia infection. ejaculation 4 your health, and i want to ask you to forgive me for having touched you in your private parts and for having done to you what no parent has the right to do, what no parent should do. daughter, i love you very much, and i want sister. remember that i love you very much. signed jose hernandez and 11 is not necessary. dr. arnold-clark testified that chlamydia can be transferred in prepubertal children through penal penetration of either the anus or vagina. in her opinion, chlamydia cannot be transferrefinger because chlamydia bacteria die within seconds of being outside a human cell. dr. arnold-clark reported the positive chlamydia test to dcfs and the department of health so they could initiate sexual abuse investigations, and so gabriela could be brought in to receive treatment. the computer-introduced at trial during the testimony of melanie osby, m.d., laboratory director for the department of health services at martin urine sample. dr. osby, who did not personally perform the test on handled and urine sample tested positive for chlamydia infection, and stated that the accuracy rate of the test performed exceeds 98 percent. jayme jones, ph.d., a psychologist, presented expert testimony about the child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome (csaas). dr. jones explained that csaas is a model for understanding the behavior of sexually abused children, and dispels the myth that children in abuse situations will fight back or immediately disclose abuse. csaas has five components: secrecy, helplessness, accommodation, disclosure, and recantation. child abuse generally occurs in secrecy, signaling to the 12 child that they are not supposed to disclose what happened. in many cases children do not fight their abusers because they are physically weaker and have been socially conditioned to do as told by adults. children adopt mechanisms to cope with trauma and frequently pretend the abuse did not happen. if the abuser is a family member, it is not unusual for a child to continue to show the abuser affection. most children will delay disclosing the abuse or will only partially disclose, if at all. victims may recant a prior version of events to avoid talking about the abuse, or to minimize negative consequences of disclosure, such as familial disapproval or removal from the home. defense evidence appellant testified in his own defense. he denied having put his daughter twice. he took medication to sleep, and each time when he had woken up, he was halfasleep and halfawake, unconscious, like sleepwalking. he had not consciously taken off or lowered his find himself in these positions, and his sperm had unconsciously been vagina. as he pulled his hand away and stood up, he realized he had ejaculated and had semen on his finger. appellant testified that he had 13 and was tricked by the police into making incriminating and untrue statements. ne physician, testified that chlamydia bacteria can be found and transmitted in semen. semen containing a chlamydia infection that gets into a vagina can , it does not matter whether the infected semen is delivered to the vagina directly from the penis, or transmitted by ejaculate on fingers placed in the vagina. discussion i. the trial court did not err i-arrest statements to the police appellant contends that reversal is re[t]he police failed to honor [his] pre-interrogation invocation of his rights to counsel in violation of his rights under the fifth and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution, as interpreted by miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 rendering his statements to the police inadmissible. our review of the record, however, supports the appellant failed unambiguously to invoke his rights, and that ice were voluntary. we also conclude that, if error occurred, it was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 14 1. controlling legal principles a motion that a statement was collected in viorights under miranda, supraresolution of disputed facts, including the credibility of witnesses, if that resolution is supported by substantial evidence. (people v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 10321033 (bradford).) considering those facts, as found, together with the undisputed facts, we independently determine whether the challenged statement was obtained in violation of rules. (people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 918, citing bradford, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 1033; dickerson v. united states (2000) 530 u.s. 428, 435.) we are governed the suppression of statements made during a custodial interrogatio(people v. nelson (2012) 53 cal.4th 367, 374.) miranda requires that a suspect be told, before questioning, that against him in a court of law, that he has the right to the presence of an attorney, and that if he cannot afford an attorney one will be appointed miranda, supra, 384 the suspect has been warned of his rights and knowingly, intelligently and voluntarily decides to forgo them. (ibid.) once a suspect has received a miranda exercise his own volition in deciding whether or not to make a 15 oregon v. elstad (1985) 470 u.s. 298, 308; see berghuis v. thompkins (2010) 560 u.s. 370, 384 (berghuis) [defendant who was advised of and understood miranda rights found [not to have invoked/to have waived] rights by continuing to answer officers questions].) a miranda waiver need not be explicit. (north carolina v. butler if a custodial defendant requests counsel, all questioning must cease. (edwards v. arizona (1981) 451 u.s. 477, 482 (edwards).) statements made by a custodial defendant in violation of his miranda -in-chief. (bradford, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 1033.) here, there is no dispute that police were interrogating appellant, or that he was in custody. the issue is whether he invoked his right to counsel before making the challenged statements. in davis v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 452 (davis), the united states supreme court clarified that a custodial suspect being questioned by police who wants a lawyer must clearly assert his right to counsel. (id. at p. 461.) the davis to questioning officerswas an ambiguous, equivocal reference, not a clear request for counsel during a custodial interrogation. (id. at p. 455.) the court observed that, under the rule established by edwards, supra, 451 u.s. at page 482, when a suspect requests counsel, the police must stop questioning until a lawyer has been made available to the suspect or he reinitiates 16 conversation. application of this rigid rule requires the court to (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 458.) provide guidance to officers conducting interrogations, this is an id. at pp. 458-459.) miranda reasonably be construed to be an expression of a desire for the reference to an attorney that is ambiguous or equivocal in that a reasonable officer in light of the circumstances would have understood only that the suspect might be invoking the right to counsel, our id. at p. 459.) rather, the suspect must unambiguously request counsel. as we a statement either is such an assertion of the right to counsel or it is not. [citation.] although a suspect need not speak with the discrimination of an oxford don, [citation], he must articulate his desire to have counsel present sufficiently clearly that a reasonable police officer in the circumstances would understand the statement to be a request for an attorney. if the statement fails to meet the requisite level of clarity, [edwards, supra, 451 u.s. at p. 482] does not require that the officers stop questioning the suspect. (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 459.) the california supreme court has held that police may seek clarification when a suspect makes an ambiguous or equivocal request for counsel prior to any waiver of miranda rights. (people v. sauceda 17 contreras (2012) 55 cal.4th 203, 217 (saucedacontreras); people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 428 (williamsquestion becomes whether the miranda waiver is shown by a preponderance of the evidence to be voluntary, knowing and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances surrounding the interrogation. product of a free and deliberate choice rather than intimidation, moran v. burbine (1986) 475 u.s. 412, 421), and the nature of the right being abandoned and the consequences of the ibidsaucedacontreras, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 219.) again, the standard is objective and asks what a reasonable officer all the circumstances. (saucedacontreras, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 217; davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 459.) using this standard, davis found the for counsel, so officers were not required to cease their interrogation. (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 462.) similarly equivocal statements must satisfy the objective test. (see, e.g., sauceda-contreras, supra, 55 . . that way i can tell es]; people v. bacon clark v. 18 murphy (9th cir. 2003) 331 f.3d 1062, 1069, overruled on another ground by lockyer v. andrade by contrast, more definitive statements have been found sufficiently clear to constitute unequivocal requests for counsel. (see e.g., in re art t. (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 335, 355be unequivocal request for counsel]; alvarez v. gomez (9th cir. 1999) 185 f.3d 995, 996-997 deemed sufficiently unequivocal]; united states v. de la jara (9th cir. s to invoke right to counsel]; smith v. endell 2. motion to suppress appellant moved in limine to suppress incriminating statements he made during police interviews after his arrest. the trial court conducted an evidentiary hearing over the course of two days. officer prentice testified about the may 29, 2015, postarrest interview she conducted, and a recording and transcript of that recording (including a spanish to english translation) of her interview, and a miranda rights 19 admonition form (in spanish) signed by appellant on that date were admitted in evidence. the miranda admonition form signed by appellant was translated as follows: understand? of justice. do you understand? er 3: you have the right to the presence of an attorney before and during any interrogation? do you understand? one will be named for you without cost before you are interrogated. do you understand? officer prentice testified that, on may 29, 2015 at 11:30 p.m., she used this form to advise appellant of his miranda rights in spanish. when her interview ended at 1:40 a.m. on may 30, appell daughter and lived with him. she advised appellant that gabriela had tested positive for chlamydia, and said he was under arrest for sexually abusing his daughter. officer prentice advised appellant as follows: 5 okay. so now you know why you are here, and you want to tell us what happened, so then we can put whatever you say, in a 5 unintelligible, italicization denotes that english was spoken. 20 paper, okay? because you are under arrest, we are . . . first we detained you to . . . you know . . . to investigate the case. so . . . we talked to gaby, we talked to, uh, well, to your family, okay? to no, we . . . how do you call her? hum. uh, but what happens is your daughter has that, that chlamydia and there is no, no way to deny that. those were the results, okay? so . . . do read you your rights before you. . . . i already told you why you are under arrest. uh . . . you have the right to remain silent, do you understand? you have to say yes or no. hum. r no. jh what do you mean? so . . . you have the right to remain silent, do you understand? rt against you of justice, do you understand? [sic] barely understand any of that. the right to ask for an attorney yet. uh-hum. you your rights. uh-hum. [ui]. okay. so . . . anything you say, could be used against you in a court of law, do you understand? before and during questioning, do you understand? 21 attorney, one will be appointed to you free of charge before questioning. happened. tim a social worker at the interview informed appellant that she was sexually transmitted venereal disease (chlamydia), that appellant was a suspect and that it was important for gabriela to receive medical treatment. she told appellant gabriela had been detained from his custody and placed in foster care until dcfs could determine an appropriate, safe placement for her. the social worker noted that, in addition to the police investigation, independent investigations were being conducted by dcfs and the health department. the social worker told appellant she needed to know if he had contracted chlamydia in the past, and if he was willing now to be tested for it. after appellant indicated that he was willing to be tested, this exchange occurred: . . . the collaboration. uh, but yes . . . definitely, the girl has that and we are going to ask that you also get tested, okay? abused her, like the case says? 22 igation that the police are doing. honest, like the police told you, then talk, talk to them and tell them what happened. completely different department. i am here for the girl. i am the -hum. . so . . . know. you are going to stay here detained with them. they are going to interview you, ask you some questions and see how much you want to cooperate with them. i, we are done here. i am going to make sure that i talk to the mom and i am going to tell her what appellant made numerous admissions during the remainder of the interview. toward the end of the interview, he said: all your intention, well, fine. so . . . do you think your mouth touched her part? at trial, detective melara testified that she and her partner, both certified spanish speakers, interrogated appellant a second time on june 1, 2015. appellant was reminded that his miranda rights were 23 read to him by the arresting officers, and he was asked if he wanted to speak with the detectives. he agreed to do so. appellant told the three times, and touched her vaginal area with semen on the hand, had penetrated her vagina with his right index finger, and had once while he was on top of her. during that interview, appellant drew a picture depicting how much of his finger was inserted into gabvagina, and wrote the second apology letter. in opposition to the motion to suppress, the prosecutor argued that, while being advised of his miranda responded that she was reading him his rights at that point and then went on to do so, including reading him his rights to the presence of an attorney during any questions or before . . . any questimiranda rights, she waiving his rights. when officer prentice began reading his rights, and the officer failed to 24 officer finished reading the rights, including the right to counsel, and 6 he was not yet entitled to have a lawyer present, and her subsequent a result, counsel argued that the prosecution failed to establish that appellant had knowingly and intelligently waived his miranda rights. the trial court rejected the motion to suppress. it found that confusion appellant may have had. the court found that davis, supra, 512 u.s. 452 and its progeny did not require that the officer stop her questioning or ask clarifying questions. and, as discussed in detail below, the court found, after reviewing video and transcripts of the under the law was ambiguous as to his assertion of the right to 6 actually, the last thing said by the officer before the questioning began 25 knowingly and intelligently waivedmiranda rights.7 we agree. 7 -reasoned ruling is illuminating. we quote it at length. as to the issue of whether appellant unequivocally asserted the right to counsel, the court stated: posed, the officer had not yet advised the defendant of his right to counsel. now, there is no requirement that a defendant wait for the officer to admonish before the defendant invokes; however, the way in which the back and forth went between the defendant and the officer, he made the statement about an attorney before she advised. [] . . . on the right to counsel. and so what is clear to me from watching the video and reading the transcript is that you had an officer who having been taught that advisements need to be given was making sure that she did her job of reading the rights to the defendant. that is how i understood the situation to be. now [] . . . did she articulate clearly that that is what she was doing? no. i also think that admonishing. he can assert his right to counsel at any time at the very en required to stop. [] . . . . [] edwards rule is what is at issue here. if you have a clear invocation of an assertion of one of the rights, the rule is that the officer must stop any further questioning. there are a number of cases considered an invocation of right to counsel and the court of appeal found it error for the court to introduce statements . . . taken after these advisements were given because the officer did not stop questioning the defendant. [] then there was a case that changed the landscape of ambiguous . . . invocation of a right to counsel, and that is davis vs. united states. the davis case stands for the proposition that where there is an ambiguous statement, edwards does not require that the officer stop questioning the suspect. after that the courts have said, california courts, that officers can ask clarifying questions. what [appellant is] saying is the officer did not ask right to an attorney yet. but [the] ultimate question in my mind is still the 26 issue of whether or not the defendant knowingly and intelligently waived his rights. because the officers according to davis did not need to stop. they could keep going. now, again, the difference here is under the sauceda[contreras] line of cases, those cases say officers can ask clarifying questions; right? in our factual situation, the officer did not ask a clarifying question attorney yet. the question at the end of the day, though, is still whether the defendant knowingly and intelligently waived his rights in my view because the assertion, the alleged assertion was ambiguous, the officer did not have to stop. [] . . . . eading . . . . [] . . . when i watch the video, i look specifically accurately be captured in a transcription. [] so, for example, when the watched it. she says [it] be bettesic- . it was just really one continuous s reaction . . . . [] . . . . rights are and he acknowledges it, he says, yes, yes, yes. . . . confusion on the desic] in his body . . . . [] 27 based on the evidence that i have, . . . look at the evidence that is before me, the videotaped evidence, the testimony of the officer, and based on those pieces of evidence, conclude that the people have not met the preponderance of the evidence standard that the defendant knowingly and intelligently waived; correct? court: okay. here is my ruling. law enforcement in the pending case. [trial court reiterates the previously detailed miranda rights waiver colloquy from the transcript]. after that exchange occurred, the defendant began to speak about the incident. the court has also viewed the taped interview and also received and considered the testimony of officer prentice. finally, the court has also received and taken a look at the signed admonition form. the seminal case by the united states supreme court is davis vs. united states at 512 u.s. 452 at page 459. the court stated: observed, a statement either is such an assertion of the right to counsel or it clearly that a reasonable police officer in the circumstances would understood his statement to be a request for an attorney. if the statement fails to meet the requisite level of clarity, edwards does not require that the officer stop ambiguous statement that could be considered as an invocation of his or her miranda and desire to invoke or waive the miranda people v. clark [(1993)] 5 cal.4th [950] at page 991.] is is an objective test whether a reasonable officer in light of the circumstances would have understood to signify only that the suspect might be better for an attorney to be hfails to meet the requisite test of clarity under davis. a reasonable officer hearing these words would not inevitably conclude the suspect has invoked. . . . [] . . . . be plain if taken literally actually may be equivocal under an objective standard in the sense that in context it would not be clear to the reasonable 28 3. appellant did not unequivocally or unambiguously invoke the right to counsel arrangement with his daughter and her chlamydia infection without first advising him of his miranda rights . . . , the police violated [his] first, because gabriela was only nine years old when taken into dcfs custody, there was an obvious need for the police and dcfs to confirm he was the childonce it was confirmed that this young girl was infected with a sexually transmitted venereal disease, it was imperative that appellant be record clearly reflects that a pivotal reason for this line of questioning for medical professionals to know when gabriela had contracted a chlamydia infection in order for her to receive appropriate medical treatment. if the disease was caught early, doctors could give her listener what the defendanpeople v. sauceda-contreras (2012) 55 cal.4th 203, 216]. comparing the statement at issue in contrerassauceda [sicthat way i can tell you everything that i know and everything that i need to tell you and [55 cal.4th at p. 216] to the instant case, the statement by the defendant in the instant case is far more equivocal and was equivocal and ambiguous. this permitted the officer to continue with the advisement. 29 medication to safeguard her health. however, if the child had been infected for a long time (e.g., over a year, or closer to the time ana d. believed she had contracted her first chlamydia infection from appellant), a different course of treatment was necessary as the disease may already have impacted her organs and could have lifelong effects questions in a situation posing a threat to the public safety outweighs privilege against self-new york v. quarles (1984) 467 u.s. 649, 657 (quarlesquarles teaches that where questions are reasonably directed to defusing a situation which threatens the safety of . . . in evidence, even if the questions were not preceded by miranda warnings, and even if they happened to elicit an incriminating resp (people v. simpson (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 854, 861, fn. omitted.)8 our conclusion finds further support in the record which 8 appellant asserts this argument is improperly raised here, as it was not advanced in opposition to the suppression motion, and officer prentice did not testify that her preadvisemethat threatens the safety of the . . . however, as appellant also observes, our independent duty of review requires that we review the entire record; i.e., all circumstances surrounding 30 interview was to obtain information relevant to the severity, timing and . the officer began reading his miranda rights amounted to fails to meet the requisite test of clarity under davis. [] by its own terms, the statement is not an express request for counsel. a reasonable officer hearing these words would not inevitably conclude . . must articulate his desire to have counsel present sufficiently clearly that a reasonable police officer in the circumstances (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 459.) police need not cease questioning if a suspect makes an equivocal reference to an attorney or an indecisive request for counsel. (id. at pp. 460-462; accord, berghuis, supra, 560 u.s. at p. 381.) a response that is reasonably open to more than one father. (see people v. flores (1983) 144 cal.app.3d 459, 469; people v. diaz (1983) 140 cal.app.3d 813, 820), not just the interrogation itself. (fare v. michael cworker makes it clear that there were several agencies concerned about the 31 interpretation is ambiguous. (united states v. rodriguez (9th cir. 2008) 518 f.3d 1072, 1080.) the standard for assessing whether a suspect has unambiguously invoked the right to counsel is an objective one that asks what a request to be under all the circumstances. (saucedacontreras, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 217; davis, suprastatement is not an unambiguous, unequivocal request for counsel, an officer has no duty to cease questioning him. (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at pp. 461462; see people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 535.) we conclude that the trial court did not err when it found that satisfy the requisite test of objective clarity under davis and, as in saucedacontreras, failed to rise to the level of an express request for counsel such that a reasonable officer under the circumstances would clearly have understood the statement to signify that appellant was invoking the right to counsel. accordingly, the officer was permitted to continue with the advisement following app 4. appellant knowingly, intelligently and voluntarily waived his right to counsel appellant argues that, even if he did not unequivocally invoke his right to counsel, reversal is nevertheless required because the prosecution failed to prove by a preponderance of evidence that he made a knowing, intelligent and voluntary waiver of his miranda rights. 32 in california, issues regarding the suppression of statements made during a custodial interrogation are reviewed according to federal constitutional standards. (people v. nelson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 374.) a suspect, having been advised of his miranda rights, may be found expressly or impliedly to have waived those rights. (people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 667; berghuis, supra, 560 u.s. at p. 384 [defendant held to have waived miranda rights where he received and understood miranda warnings, did not invoke his rights, and made a voluntary statement to the police]; north carolina v. butler, supra, 441 u.s. at p. 373 [waiver of rights need not be explicit and may be inferred express willingness to answer questions after acknowledging an understanding of his miranda rights is sufficient to constitute an implied waiver. (people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 752 (medina).) to establish a valid waiver, the prosecution must show by a preponderance of the evidence that the waiver was knowing, intelligent and voluntary. (people v. lessie (2010) 47 cal.4th 1152, 1162, 1169 (lessie); people v. markham (1989) 49 cal.3d 63, 71.) a waiver is the product of a rational intellect and a free will.in re cameron (1968) 68 cal.2d 487, 498.) the threshold presumption is against finding a waiver of miranda rights. (williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 425.) ultimately, however, the question is whether a miranda waiver was knowing and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances surrounding the interrogation. the determination of voluntariness is made upon the totality of circumstances surrounding 33 the confession. (procunier v. atchley (1971) 400 u.s. 446, 453; people v. sanchez (1969) 70 cal.2d 562, 572.) we review the evidence independently to determine whether a confession was voluntary, but wilregarding circumstances surrounding the confession, and its evaluations of credibility, if supported by substantial evidence. (people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 383; people v. massie (1998) 19 cal.4th 550, 576; people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 502.) as to those . . . deductions for those of the in re eric j. (1979) 25 cal.3d 522, 527.) we do not however, defer to inferences drawn or findings made by the trial court with regard to uncontradicted facts. (people v. jimenez (1978) 21 cal.3d 595, 609, overruled on another ground by people v. cahill (1993) 5 cal.4th 478, 509510 (cahill).) the dispute here turns on whether, viewed in totality, the prosecution demonstrated that the circumstances of the interrogation show it was more likely than not that appellant fully understood the nature of the rights being abandoned and the consequences of his decision to do so.9 9 we do not address repetitive arguments previously addressed regarding the admissibility of postarrest statements purportedly obtained in violation of miranda. 34 as appellant concedes, after she finished the advisements, officer to talk about wha effectively coerced. after reviewing the totality of the evidence, the court concluded it was clear to appellant that he was not obligated to speak to the police officer, and his decision to do so was a voluntary one. as the court observed: what his rights are and he acknowledges it, he says, yes, yes, yes, and i i siclooking for anyway. in short, on disputed facts the court found that appellant understood the advisements and chose voluntarily to proceed after receiving them. substantial evidence supports that conclusion. when . . . a reviewing court is without power to substitute its deductions for those of the trial court. [citations.] (in re eric j., supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 527.) the trial court further observed: intelligently waived his right to remain silent and to the presence of counsel. [] . . . . [] i look to the totality of circumstances to determine whether the defendant here who spoke to the police officers after acknowledging his right, whether the implied waiver was knowing 35 and intelligent. . . . it is true the detective instead of asking clarifying questions simply told the defendant that he did not have a right to . . . ask for an attorney yet, which is technically incorrect, but this must be viewed in the context of how this interaction arose. miranda rights to the defendant. she said the first of the admonishments on the right of self-incrimination . . . when the defendant made his ambiguous statement concerning counsel. the officer sought to read the entire miranda admonishments . . . while it is true the defendant does not have to wait for the officer to read the miranda rights before asserting them, the meaning of the [sic] spoken by the officer by sayiturned on. the videotape shows body language and tone of voice that indicates he understood this. the detective then correctly admonished right to the presence and assistance of counsel. the defendant indicated he understood these rights and spoke with the detective. the totality of circumstances shows defendant knowingly and intelligently waived. furthermore, prior to the miranda advisements, the officer had a lengthy conversation with the defendant as to why he was being investigated, what he was arrested for, and part of the conversation, the two spoke in a courteous manner and the defendant understood the questions posed by answering them immediately. no evidence suggests that the defendant did not understand the predicament he was in. he could not invoke at the end of the advisement. to the contrary, evidence suggests the defendant understood the officer meant she was first required to read all of the miranda rights before the defendant could invoke either of his rights. this is further corroborated by the executed written waiver of his rights by the defendant at the end of the interview. he initialed and signed a waiver and gave a statement to the police. this further 36 corroborates under the totality of circumstances the defendant understood and waived h in sum, the court correctly concluded the evidence points to a knowing, voluntary, and intelligent waiver by appellant of his miranda to tell him he could invoke his right to counsel after completing the advisements. nor is an express miranda waiver required before questioning. (see lessie, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 1169; berghuis, supra, 560 u.s. at pp. 384, 389.) questions after acknowledging that he understands his miranda rights is sufficient to constitute an implied waiver of such rights. (medina, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 752.) appellant was provided his miranda rights in spanish, and nothing in the record indicates that a language barrier caused any lack of understanding on his part. nor may error be attributed to the fact that appellant signed his miranda waiver after his interrogation, rather than before it began. there is no requirement that a waiver be written or signed before an interview may proceed. we find that appellant knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently relinquished his miranda rights. the motion to suppress was properly denied. 37 5. error, if any, was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt appelwould nevertheless conclude that reversal is not warranted because any error in the admission of those statements was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. alifornia trial has been obtained by means that render the confession inadmissible under the federal constitution, the prejudicial effect of the confession must be cahill, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 510.) the united states supreme court has held that federal constitutional law requires prejudice caused by erroneous admission of an involuntary confession is properly evaluated under the harmlessbeyondareasonabledoubt test. (arizona v. fulminante (1991) 499 u.s. 279, 301302; see chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 23.) adverse testimonial evidence against appellant came from several sources. first, and most compelling, gabriela testified that appellant touched her body three or four times under her clothes at night, described another incident during which she woke up to find her father touching her with his fingers. she felt something white, sticky and wet 38 other times, appellant used his fingers to touch her buttocks under her clothes. when interviewed at the police station in may 2015 after appellant was arrested, gabriela acknowledged having been molested on at least eight occasions the year before. she described one incident when she awoke confused in the middle of the night to find her tights and underwear inexplicably around her ankles. she felt something wet, but knew she had not urinated on herself. she asked her father what happened, but he got upset and sent her to shower. for the rest of that felt pain and a burning sensation in her vaginal area. n.m. were times when appellant removed her clothing while she slept. the child recounted many occasions when appellant had opened her legs, lifted her up and had sexual intercourse with her, penetrating her vagina with his penis, or had gotten on top of her to have sex with her, and touched her buttocks. became suspicious of him after a social worker contacted her during an urgent search for appellant and told her gabriela needed medical attention. ana d.because appellant had twice left her with chlamydia infections during their relationship (and ana d. had been monogamous). ana d. also testified that when she met with appellant and asked him if he had ana d. pushed a 39 ana d. asked appellant again if he had ana d. he ana d. angrily slapped appellant and made him call the social worker. abuse examination, and it tested positive for a sexually transmitted chlamydia infection.10 when appellant testified, he admitted touching his daughter inappropriately on two occasions. one time, he woke up and found his finger inside her vagina. when he pulled his hand away, he realized he had ejaculated and there was semen on his finger. the semen of a man infected with chlamydia was contagious and opined fingers were placed in a vagina. the prosecution expert, dr. arnoldclark, disagreed, and was not aware of any support for this theory. she testified that chlamydia can be transferred in prepubertal children through penal penetration of the anus or vagina. in her opinion, chlamydia cannot be transferred by digital penetration with semen on a finger because the chlamydia bacteria die within seconds of being outside a human cell. 10 appellant argues this report is inadmissible. however, as discussed in section ii below, we reject this contention. 40 in the face of this compelling evidence we cannot conclude that appellant was unduly prejudiced by the admission of his statements to investigating officers. any error in the admission of appinterview statements was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. ii. a. pertinent facts and procedural background before trial, test was positive for chlamydia, and a document provided to the social worker on a dcfs (calema) form. the prosecution opposed the motion. following argument, the trial court denied the motion. the court found that the child abuse investigation involved here was initiated by dcfs for two primary purposes: (1) to determine whether gabriela was ill and, if so, to provide her appropriate medical treatment, i.e., to only be transmitted through sexual contact, it was imperative that she be physically removed from his custody to ensure her safety. the court found the dcfs investigation was not initiated for the purpose of sexual abuse to police arose as a consequence of the fact that a nineyear 41 disease. the court also found that neither document was prepared with the requisite degree of formality or solemnity to qualify as imply routine records generated in the course of business to record facts that occurred. collected during a standard forensic exam and sent to a lab for testing. cripe explained that the exam includes a physical examination and collection of samples of body fluids for testing. the findings are memorialized on a document sent to a dcfs social worker. the computergentest was introduced at trial by the laboratory director, dr. melanie urine samples, and explained that the accuracy rate of a chlamydia test percent. janet arnold-clark, m.d., the child abuse pediatrician who treated gabriela for her chlamydia infection also testified that the positive for chlamydia, were forwarded to a dcfs social worker and the department of public health to allow them to initiate sexual abuse investigations, and so gabriela would be brought in for treatment. 42 b. controlling law under the sixth amendment, a criminal defendant has the right to confront and crossexamine adverse witnesses. this bars admission of an adverse testimonial statement when the statement was made outside of court, unless the maker of the statement is unavailable at trial and defendant had a prior opportunity to crossexamine that person. (people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 580581 (lopez); see crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 59 (crawford).) to be considered testimonial, the outofcourt statement: beehave a primary purpose that pertains in some fashion to a criminal prosecution. (lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 581.) in people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608 (dungo), the california suprem confrontation rights were violated where a forensic pathologist testified taken from a report prepared by a nontestifying autopsy surgeon. (id. objective facts contained in an autopsy report were insufficiently formal to be testimonial. (id. at p. 619.) on the formality prong, the statements contained in the autopsy reportwhich was not introduced into evidenceinjury or malady and indicating the appropriate treatment. (ibid.) 43 as for the primary purpose prong, the court explained that primary purpose for the autopsy one of sevedungo, supra, 55 cal.4th autopsy report itself was simply an official explanation of an unusual ibid., citing melendezdiaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305, 324; see people v. rodriguez (2014) 58 cal.4th 587, 643644; people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 705707.) the united states supreme court revisited the primary purpose test in ohio v. clark (2015) 576 u.s. __ [135 s.ct. 2173] (clark). in that case, the defendant was tried for beating a three-year-old. the child did not testify, but the state presented evidence that he told his teacher the defendant had assaulted him. clark held that because there was no evidence that either the child or his teachers had the clause and therefore were admissible at trial. (135 s.ct. at pp. 2177, 2181.) on the contrary, it was clear that the primary goal was to protect the young boy. the teachers never told the child his answers would be used to arrest or punish his abuser, nor did the child indicate in any way that he meant his statements to be used by police or prosecutors. (id. at p. 2181.) the court also pointed to the spontaneous id. at p. 2180.) the teachers asked 44 the boy about his injuries as soon as they discovered them, in an informal preschool setting, just as any concerned adult would talk to a child whom they believed might recently have been the victim of abuse. (id. at p. 2181.) most recently, in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez), the california supreme court clarified the extent to which crawford limits an expert witness from relating casespecific hearsay in explaining the bases for his or her opinion. the court held that state hearsay law permits an expert witness to refer generally to hearsay -specific hearsay to support their trial people v. williams (2016) 1 cal.5th 1166, -specific facts are those relating to the particular events people v. burroughs (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 378, 406.) sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, the supreme court considered whether several different categories of out-of-court statements were testimonial. first, the court considered statements in written police reports referenced by the gang expert in testifying about the sanchez concluded the statements at issue in the reports were testimonial, reasoning that, hearsay information gathered during an official investigation of a cond, sanchez (california street terrorism enforcement and preservation act; 45  186.20 et seq.) notice the gang expert referenced in opining the suspected individuals that law enforcement believes they associate with sanchez concluded the statements in the portion of the step notice at issue were testimonial because the notice was a formal record of information about the subject of the notice, tually been made aware that he was associating with a criminal street gang and that he might receive an enhanced punishment should he commit a future crime with sanchez concluded that a field identification card describing a police contact with the defendant people v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575, 584.) sanchez the jury case-specific out-of-court statements, and treats the content of the statements are hearsay. it cannot logically be maintained that the statements are not being admitted for their truth. if the case is one in which a prosecution expert seeks to relate testimonial hearsay, there is a confrontation clause violation unless (1) there is a showing of unavailability and (2) the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross- 46 sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686, fn. omitted.) an expert may rely on nontestimonial hearsay in forming an independent opinion. c. the court properly admitted evidence of the results of the urine test as discussed above, each of two components must be present in order for a statement to qualify as testimonial: must pertain in some fashion to a criminal prosecution. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 689; dungo, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 619.) since both prongs must be established, here we need not determine whether the reports generated by the test results possess the requisite degree of formality or solemnity to qualify as testimonial, if we find firstas we dothat their primary purpose was not to further a criminal prosecution, but to protect a lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 583.) the past and had interviewed him at least three times regarding unsubstantiated allegations of sexual abuse regarding gabriela. the record does not reflect precisely what concern prompted gabriela to be sent for a forensic sexual abuse examination on may 8, 2015, or equest. however, as counsel also noted, concerns had been expressed, presumably by staff at at school for 47 . the reports generated as a result of nitial former abuse examination were forwarded to dcfs because they revealed that a nineyearold child had a sexually transmitted infection. the purpose for preparing those reports for or on behalf of dcfs was primarily protective, as dcfs, which works in conjunction with the dependency courts, functions in order to protect children who are abused or at risk of being abused. (see welf. & inst. code,  202, 300.2, 16500 [first and foremost goal of dependency system is to protect children who have been seriously abused, neglected or abandoned or who are at substantial risk of being abused or neglected]; welf. & inst. code,  202, 300.2, 361, subd. (c), 361.2, subd. (a), 361.3, subd. (a)(8), 366.21, subd. (e) [safety, protection, physical and emotional well-being is primary goal of dependency system].) if a social services agency like dcfs suspects that a child is being sexually abused, the agency may consult with a medical practitioner with determine if the child should be examined within a certain time period. (welf. & inst. code,  324.5, subd. (a).) in cases of known or suspected examination and treatment. ( 13823.11, subd. (c)(5).) once dr. arnold-urine test to dcfs, the child protective agency had an obligation and undertook a concerted effort to locate appellant for the twin purposes of ensuring that gabriela receive necessary and prompt medical treatment 48 with the social worker her suspicion that appellant might be the source , but bthe fact that appellant was her sole caretaker, it was reasonable to infer that appellant was the possible source. thus, we conclude that twas correct. to determine if gabriela, whom it likely suspected had been the victim of sexual abuse, had an illness or infection requiring prompt medical treatment and, if so, to make every effort to find her and ensure she infection was caused by her father, or that he had been unable or unwilling to protect her from someone who had engaged in sexual contact with the child, dcfs had a duty to protect gabriela and ensure her safety by removing her from his custody. (cf., in re a.s. (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 237, 245246 [because the purpose of dependency law is to provide maximum safety and protection for abused and neglected children, the conclusive identity of the perpetrator is not a prerequisite of jurisdiction]; welf. & inst. code,  355.1].) thus, it is clear that the purposes, not to further a criminal prosecution or investigation. (see lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 583.) the agency from sharing information regarding suspected sexual abuse 49 with police to be used as a tool for gathering evidence for criminal convictions. (see e.g., in re cindy l. (1997) 17 cal.4th 15, 19-20.) a child welfare worker from a county social services agency who suspects a child has been sexually abused, has a statutory duty to report that abuse which may, of course, reveal evidence of a crime. an investigating social worker who suspects a child is a victim of child local law enforcement and report suspicions of such abuse. ( 11165.7, subd. (a)(15) & (34), 11165.9, 11166, 11166.3.) recording the objective fact that gabriela had a chlamydia infection is to preserve evidence that can be used for a criminal prosecution, does not render the recorded observations testimonial. (dungo, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 621.) sanchez did not change this rule. sanchez found that the primary purpose of recording information in a step notice was for producing evidence for later use at trial. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 696.) although there were other purposes for preparing the step notice, its principal purpose was plainly to preserve evidence for use against a defendant in criminal proceedings, rendering it testimonial. this analysis does not conflict with holding that the primary purpose of an autopsy report is not to preserve evidence for criminal prosecution. similarly here, the primary purpose of the test on the 50 appellant.11 iii. substantial evidence supports the sodomy conviction appellant contends there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction for sodomy upon a child age 10 or younger ( 288.7, subd. (a)), because there is no evidence of the requisite degree of penetration. the elements of the crime are: (1) the defendant engaged in an act of sodomy with the victim; (2) when he did so, the victim was 10 years of age or younger; and (3) at the time of the act, the defendant was at least 18 years old. (people v. mendoza (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 72, 79 (mendoza);  288.7, subd. (a); calcrim no. 1127; caljic no. ntact consisting of contact between the penis of one person and the anus of another person. any sexual penetration, however slight, is sufficient to (see  286, subd. (a); people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 143; mendoza, supra, 240 cal.app.4th at p. 79.) any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime . . . beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose 11 given our conclusion in sections i-ii above, we need not address amount to prejudice under any analysis. (see people v. koontz (2002) 27 51 substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the . . . jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. there sufficient s(people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; accord, people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87 (manibusan).) the testimony of a single witness, if believed by the factfinder, is sufficient to support a conviction. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) testified that during one incident she woke up during the night and was surprised to find her tights and underwear were down around her ankles. she felt something wet, though she knew she had not urinated on herself. 52 when she asked her father what happened, he became upset and told people v. thomas (1986) 180 cal.app.3d 47, 54-defendant pushed his penis against her anus is circumstantial evidence of penetration in a sodomy case]; people v. ribera (2005) 133 cal.app.4th 81, 86; people v. gonzalez (1983) 141 cal.app.3d 786, 790, disapproved by people v. kurtzman (1988) 46 cal.3d 322, 330.) further, the jury was instructed with caljic no. 10.60 which states that it is relations is alleged to have been committed be corroborated by other physically impossible or inherently improbable, the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) the events ascribed to appellant in improbable. the testimony of one witness may be sufficient to support a conviction. (people v. scott (1978) 21 cal.3d 284, 296; evid. code,  411.) second, appellant admitted in police interviews that penetration 53 during his interrogation by officer prentice, appellant acknowledged that he had bee . . . cannot be proved by exclusive reliance on [] extrajudicial people v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161, 1165, italics on his statements. finally, gabriela, who contracted a sexually transmitted chlamydia infection, testified that she found white sticky stuff on her vaginal area, buttocks and the back of her legs. dr. arnold-clark through penal penetration of either the anus or vagina. the jury could reasonably have presumed that the child became infected as a result of (see people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 550 [we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence]; manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 87 [same].) substantial evidence younger. 54 iv. section 288, subdivision (a) is not a lesser included offense of section 288.7, subdivision (b) appellant maintains that, because his conviction in count 5 for engaging in lewd and lascivious conduct with a child under 14 years of age, in violation of section 288, subdivision (a) is necessarily included within the offense of committing sexual acts with a child 10 years of age or younger, in violation of section 288.7, subdivision (b), the count 5 conviction must be reversed. we disagree. a defendant cannot be convicted of both an offense and a lesser offense necessarily included within that offense based on the commission of a single act. (people v. pearson (1986) 42 cal.3d 351, 355 (pearson), disapproved in part on other grounds in people v. vidana (2016) 1 cal.5th 632, 651.) a greater offense if either the statutory elements of the greater offense, or the facts actually alleged in the accusatory pleading, include all the elements of the lesser offense, such that the greater cannot be committed without also committing the lesser.people v. birks (1998) 19 cal.4th 108, 117.) used to determine if a defendant received sufficient notice so as to allow his conviction for an uncharged lesser offense, only the statutory elements test applies to determining if he may be convicted of multiple charged crimes. (people v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224, 12291230.) we compare the elements of the offenses of sexual act with a child age 10 or younger (counts 3 and 4) as stated in section 288.7, subdivision (b) 55 with the elements of the count 5 offense of a lewd and lascivious act on a child under 14 as stated in section 288, subdivision (a). the count 5 offense is not a lesser included offense of the other counts because only it requires an intent involving sexual gratification or arousal. specifically, section 288.7, subdivision (b), the basis for counts 3 and 4, applies to an adult sexually penetrating a child age 10 or under, whether or not done with an intent other than sethe penetration . . . for the purpose of that the motivation be sexual. (people v. white (1986) 179 cal.app.3d 193, 204206; accord, people v. mccoy (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 1510, 1541.) section 288, subdivision (a), by contrast, requires that anyone who appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of that people v. raley (1992) 2 cal.4th 870, 907 [referring to the requsubdivision (b), but not section 288, subdivision (a). the california supreme court has rejected the assertion that a lewd act on a child ( 288, subd. (a)) is a necessarily included offense of either sodomy or rape. (see pearson, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 355 56 [sodomy]; people v. griffin (1988) 46 cal.3d 1011, 10291030 (griffin) [rape]; cf., people v. warner (2006) 39 cal.4th 548, 556 [nonaggravated lewd conduct on a child under 14 in violation of  288, subd. (a) is a specific intent crime].) griffin explained that rape, like sodomy, is a general intent crime, while passions or sexual desires of such person or of such child.griffin, supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 1030.) rape and sodomy are inherently sexual actsrape is defined in terms of sexual intercourse ( 261), and sodomy in terms of sexual penetration ( 286)and these definitions support an inference that in raping or sodomizing the victim, the perpetrator intended to sexually gratify himself or the victim. under such circumstances, a conviction for lewd conduct with a child can be upheld on appeal on the same evidence used to show the defendant raped or sodomized a child. (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 97.) these cases compel the same conclusion here. v. appellant did not receive an unauthorized sentence -act test, . . . the jury could have reasonably convicted [him] of the count five lewd act and one : provisions of the law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case 57 ( 654, subd. (a).) the statute is intended to prevent multiple punishments for a single act or omission, even though that act or omission violates more than one statute and constitutes more than one crime. (people v. liu (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1119, 1135.) distinct crimes may be charged as separate counts and result in multiple guilty verdicts, but the trial court may impose sentence for only one offense. (ibid.) under neal v. state of california incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of (people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 336.) the statute does not permit multiple punishment, whether for concurrent or consecutive sentences. (in re wright (1967) 65 cal.2d 650, 652655.) here, the jury was advised: accused of having committed the crime of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger in counts 1 and 2, and, sexual penetration with a child 10 years of age or younger in counts 3 and 4, and lewd act on a child in count 5. the prosecution has introduced evidence for the purpose of showing that there is more than one act upon which a conviction on these counts may be based. defendant may be found guilty if the proof shows beyond a reasonable doubt that he committed any one or more of the acts. however, in order to return a verdict of guilty, all jurors must agree that he committed the same act or acts. it is not necessary that 58 jurors were also instructed: crime. you must decide each count separately. the defendant may be found guilty or not guilty of any or all of the crimes charged. your finding as to each count must be stated in a separate verdict. ch she testified to three or four occasions when she was under age 10 when he touched her body under her clothes at night, including her front our other occasions he used his fingers to touch her buttocks under her clothes. on one occasion nothing underneath. the lewd act in count five may reasonably be predicated on one of the support at least eight acts of molestation within a oneyear period. he distinct crime. you must decide each count separately. the defendant may be found guilty or not guilty of any or all of the crimes charged. your finding as to each count mu showing that there is more than one act upon which a conviction on these counts may be based. defendant may be found guilty if the proof shows beyond a reasonable doubt that he committed any one or more of 59 the acts. however, in order to return a verdict of guilty, all jurors must instructions. furtthe jury actually found the defendant guilty on count 5. it seems a more appropriate [sic] for me not to run into any sort of problems by imposing that consecutively because technically count 5 could have been any of the acts in counts 1, 2, 3 or 4. even though, as i say, we instructed the jury appropriately on that, in my view, the better course individual acts of sexual abuse. any act which was not uniquely required for another count would suffice as the basis for a guilty finding on count 5. the jury was properly instructed as to unanimity. // // // // // // // 60 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. collins, j. 