filed 1/23/18 p. v. pak ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eugene pak, defendant and appellant. b277469 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba440051) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. renee rich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, peggy z. huang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted eugene pak (defendant) of assault with a deadly weapon based on evidence he struck his erstwhile friend lanisha carter in the face with a liquor bottle, which broke her nose and caused a gash requiring stitches. at trial, the investigating police detective testified he called defendant after the incident and left a voicemail message asking defendant to call him back. asked whether he ever heard from defendant, the detective answered, during closing argument the prosecution argued defendanthe detectivewas evidence of his consciousness of guilt. we consider whether the answer violated -incrimination. i. background a. the offense conduct in july 2015, defendant visited his friend lanisha carter (carter) at her apartment. they were because carter was attracted to women, as defendant knew. defendant and carter drank hennessy and smoked marijuana . at some point, defendant by tugging with [her carter reacted by hitting defendant in his body to signify that got defendant mad, and he grabbed carter by her braids and hit her on the side of her face. of choker hold type feeling defendant 3 then let go of carter, and she grabbed her phone and walked out of the apartment to call 911. while standing outside her front door on the phone, carter told defendant to get out of her apartment.1 defendant remained angry, and he was rummaging through her apartment claiming to be looking for his phone. defendant eventually grabbed as going to take him home. carter told defendant to give her back her keys and continued to order him to get out of her home. defendant left the s keys and the bottle of hennessey they had been drinking; she pursued him while again calling 911. carter caught up to defendant at the front gate of her apartment complex, and he turned around and hit her in the face with the hennessey bottle.2 the bottle shattered when defendant hit carter, and she fell to the ground bleeding. 1 would make) was played at trial. it reflected carter uttering two sentenceuse give me 2 the assault took place while carter was on the phone with the 911 operator. a recording of this second, longer 911 call was also played at trial, and it reflects the moment carter was struck out my house. he stole my car keys. he got my stuff. f keys to my car. get out my nigga. oh my god. [] [operator]: [] [carter]: oh my god. he bust my face. oh my god please send 4 ys, drove off in her car. paramedics transported carter to the hospital. nose was broken, and she received stiches to close a gash on the bridge of her nose. b. the challenged evidence and argument at trial only two witnesses testified during trial: carter and the investigating detective, nicholas gallego. during detective he testified carter gave him phone number and he (the detective) called the number and left a message asking defendant to return the phone call. there was no testimony at trial concerning precisely when detective gallego placed this phone call to defendant, when defendant was arrested, or whether defendant was ever read his miranda3 rights. the prosecution asked you ever hear 4 the parties discussed jury instructions prior to closing argument. the defense requested instructions on self-defense 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 4 griffingriffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609) grounds. the trial court called the parties to sidebar and the prosecutor represented tthe contact [detective gallego], you coulthe rt dings in open court. 5 that the jury could infer continued until carter was hit with the bottle. the trial court rejected the request for self-defense and mutual combat instructions. the court acknowledged it is not always necessary for a defendant to testify to warrant giving a self-defense instruction . . . of what transpired inside the apartment is [not] sufficient to be substantial evidence of whatto establish his intent at the time of hittingif he did hit herwith the bottle, was because he was the court then broached the issue of giving a flight as consciousness of guilt instruction and noted in passing that d.a. is free to argue if [defendant] were a victim in this, when the detective left messages for him, he should have responded and . . . the prosecutor stated she griffin error . . . the griffin error later during summation, the prosecutor argued the point the trial court articulated when discussing consciousness of guilt: just a couple more things i want to go over is, as far as consciousness of guilt, the defendant[ ]when ms. lanisha carter spoke to the officers in this case and spoke to the detective, lanisha carter gave detective gallego his cell phone number and said call him. information who got the keys from me. so they can investigate what happened. they can investigate what she said had happened. the defendant never called, never returned any voicemails or any phone calls to detective gallego. and he did that because he knew what he did. he 6 knew that this was not self-defense. he knew that that was not a mutual combat and he had a right to do anything. this is not this case. [] . . . [] you have nothing that says [defendant] called 911. you have nothing that says he ever went to a police station to say what happened. you have no evidence to show he ever sustained anysupposedly any injuries, nothing to saynothing that he did [defense counsel]: objection. burden shifting and the fifth amendment. the court: overruled. go ahead. this is argument. but i remind you that the defendant himself does [not have] to say anything. he can rely on the state of the evidence. go ahead. [the prosecutor]: he never called detective gallego. we have no evidence of any 911 calls. hing. the reason i bring this up to you is because, once again, this is not a self-defense case. c. the defense and verdict without a jury instruction on self-defense (because there was no substantial evidence to support it), the defense was relegated to attacking and emphasizing the beyond a reasonable doubt standard of proof during closing argument. defense counsel discussed the 911 recording and you hear [carter] run up 7 king up behind and then, crack, as she said. [] how did this happen? committing a felony. the prosecution is. their job is to convince you beyond a reasonable doubt tha after deliberating for one hour, the jury convicted defendant on the sole charge against him, assault with a deadly weapon in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1). the jury further found true the penal code section 12022.7, subdivision (a) allegation that the assault caused carter great bodily injury. the trial court sentenced defendant to six years in prison. ii. discussion defendant contends we must reverse his conviction because concerning his failure to return the phone message violated his privilege against self-incrimination under the fifth and fourteenth amendments to the federal constitution. [b]through the trial in august 2016, encompassing both his pre- and postarrest silence, his pre- and post-miranda silence, and his summation in similar fashion. the argument for reversal is meritless. although precedent in this area of the law continues to develop, the law in 8 california is that -arrest, post-miranda silence against him; but both post-arrest, pre-miranda silence and pre-arrest silence are frequently fair game (unless the defendant has expressly invoked his fifth amendment privilege)in this case cannot reasonably be construed as a comment opost-arrest silencetestimony did include an it too was not and in any event, reversal is not warranted because we are confident the testimony and argument did not contribute to the verdict obtained: there was essentially no defense to the charges and the (second) testimony. a. in a 2014 case, our supreme court succinctly summarized e as evidence of guilt: he fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination does not categorically bar the prosecution from s pretrial silence. the prosecution may use a defendants pretrial silence as impeachment, provided the defendant has not yet been mirandized. (fletcher v. weir (1982) 455 u.s. 603[ ] [postarrest silence]; jenkins v. anderson (1980) 447 u.s. 231[ ] [prearrest silence]; cf. doyle v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610[ ] [postarrest, post-miranda silence is not admissible as impeachment] [(doyle)].) the prosecution may also use a s prearrest sis question as substantive evidence of guilt, provided the defendant has not expressly invoked the privilege. (salinas[ v. texas (2013) 570 9 u.s. 178, 181] (plur. opn. of alito, j.).) whether postarrest, pre-miranda silence in the absence of custodial interrogation may likewise be admitted as substantive evidence of guiltand thus s uncompelled silence admissible as substantive evidence of guilt or impeachmenthas not yet been resolved by this court or the united states supreme court.(people v. tom (2014) 59 cal.4th 1210, 1223 (tom); see also people v. bowman (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 353, 363 [doyle prohibits use of post-miranda silence as evidence of guilt during -in-doyle rule . . . . does not in tom, our supreme court answered the as-then unanswered question of whether prosecutors could use post-arrest, pre-miranda silence (in the absence of custodial interrogation) as substantive evidence of guilt by holding such use is often permissible. (tom, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1215.) specifically, the tom court held a defendant who is arrested but has not yet received miranda warnings must make a timely and unambiguous assertion of the privilege in order to benefit from it. (ibid.) without such an affirmative assertion, the -arrest, pre-miranda silence can be used against him. (id. at pp. 1235-1236.) b. -arrest silence, and detective does not run afoul of tom the summation did not comment on d-arrest, post-miranda silence, and certainly not his decision to refrain from testifying at trial. the prosecution 10 investigate what happenednoted defendant never called, never returned any voicemails or any phone calls to detective gallego. argumentspecifically, the reference to number being used to permit the police to investigate what happened, which obviously occurs before a suspect is arrested and usually occurs before anyone is mirandizeddefeats any understood by the jury as an impermissible comment on -arrest silence or his silence during trial.5 (see people v. champion an assessment of whether the prosecutor made inappropriate use of s postarrest silence requires consideration of the s inquiry ounder the principles discussed in tomimproper.6 5 the prosecution also stated: no evidence of any police reports. nothing. the reason i bring this up to you is because, once again, this is not a self-defense been understood to refer only to pre-arrest silence; there would have been no need for defendant to call 911 or report the incident to the police after he had been arrested. 6 -tom court of appeal decision, people v. waldie (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 358 (waldie), to urge reversal is unavailing. assuming waldie reflects the current state of the law in california, it is still factually dissimilar to this case (as defendant concedes). in waldie, the investigating detective testified he contacted the defendant by 11 the analysis, of course, differs marginally when assessing he not only denied he ever received a return phone call from defendant, he went further and said he had not received such a cthus, at least in answer implicated the period of s arrest (although, as a practical matter, we doubt the jury would have understood his answer in that fashion). there was no testimony at trial, however, about when or even whether defendant was mirandized, so at most, the -arrest, pre-miranda silence.7 tom holds post-arrest, pre-miranda silence can be used as substantive evidence of guilt phone about a dozen times before his arrest, and the prosecution lure to call the detective back as evidence tending to prove consciousness of guilt. (id. at p. 364.) the court of appeal held that was improper. (ibid.) specifically, the waldie suspect persistently and then offer his unwillingness to respond as evidence of guilt, a defendant would never be able to claim the id. at p. 366.) there is no evidence in this case of persistent, multiple calls by detective gallego to defendant that would have prevented him from claiming his privilege against self-incrimination, and that renders waldie inapposite. (id. a different result might be indicated if the detective had called defendant only one time or a 7 time the detective testified, it was not clear whether defendant would testify in his own defense. 12 absent custodial interrogation or an unambiguous assertion of the right against self-incriminationneither of which is present here. (tom, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1215; see also salinas v. texas, supra, 570 u.s. at p. 186 (plur. opn. of alito, j.) our cases establish that a defendant normally does not invoke the ) c. silence did not contribute to the verdict obtained even if d against self-incrimination, reversal still would not be warranted. under well-established law, reversal of defendawould be appropriate only if the testimony and argument concerning the unreturned phone call contributed to the verdict obtained. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman); people v. hollinquest (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1534, 1558 [applying chapman standard to silence as consciousness of guilt evidence] (hollinquest).) the issue of the unreturned phone call was of negligible impact in this case. at trial, there was no dispute (indeed, no disputing) carter had been grievously wounded. there was no dispute defendant was visiting carter at her apartment when she was injured. there was also no substantial evidence on which the jury could have relied to find defendant was legally justified in striking carter on the nose with the hennessey bottle. thus, the only question was whether defendant actually did strike carter with the bottle, and on that issue, there was essentially no defense. the 911 call was strong corroboration of c 13 account, such that the defense could muster only a weak, mostly generalized attack on her credibility. in light of the strength of the evidence on the only disputed issue at trial, d phone call was an unimportant collateral point. the relative unimportance of the unreturned phone call, combined with the the defendant himself does [not have] demonstrates beyond a reasonable doubt that the phone call evidence and argument did not contribute to the verdict obtained. (hollinquest, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at p. 1560 [holding error harmless in light of the strength of the evidence and an instruction given by the trial court].) 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. dunning, j.* * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 