filed 7/27/18 p. v. warfield ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eric andrew warfield, defendant and appellant. b277726 los angeles county super. ct. no. sa089593 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark e. windham, judge. affirmed. carl m. hancock for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and heather b. arambarri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction the people charged defendant eric andrew warfield with 14 counts arising out of his sexual abuse of six children. the jury convicted defendant of nine of the counts and found multiple-victim allegations true for three of the counts. the court sentenced defendant to 33 years to life in state prison. on appeal, defendant contends: (1) his defense counsel was ineffective for failing to move to sever the charges involving two of the children from the charges involving the other four children; (2) the manner in which the court conducted voir dire rendered there is insufficient evidence to support the convictions for two of the counts. we affirm. procedural background in a 14-count information, the people charged defendant with the following sexual offenses: three counts of misdemeanor sexual battery (pen. code,1  243.4, subd. (e)(1); counts 1 through 3 [gabriela d.]); one count of forcible sexual penetration ( 289, subd. (h); count 4 [gabriela d.]); one count of misdemeanor annoying or molesting a child under 18 years of age ( 647.6, subd. (a)(1); count 5 [gabriela d.]); one count of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b); count 11 [natalie g.]); and eight counts of committing a lewd act on a child younger than 14 ( 288, subd. (a); counts 6 and 13 [jaclyn v.], 7 and 14 [lauren t.], 8 and 9 [k.c.], 10 [y.w.], and 12 [natalie g.]). as to counts 6 through 14, 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the people alleged defendant committed the offenses against more than one victim ( 667.61, subds. (b), (e)). defendant pled not guilty to all of the counts and denied the allegations. a jury found defendant guilty of counts 1 through 6, and 10 through 12; it acquitted him of counts 7 through 9, 13, and 14. the jury found true the multiple victim allegations as to counts 6, 10, and 12. the court sentenced defendant to a total term of 33 years to life in state prison. defendant was ordered to pay various fines, fees, and assessments, and the court awarded him a total of 48 days of pretrial custody credit. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. factual background 1. the girls in dneighborhood the following events occurred around 2009 or 2010, when jaclyn, lauren, y.w., and k.c. neighborhood. at the time, jaclyn, lauren, and k.c. were around eight or nine years old, and y.w. was around 12 years old. in the living room when she smelled something burning in the kitchen. after she opened the oven, she called out to defendant to let him know that the food was done cooking. defendant then walked up behind jaclyn and tapped her rear end with his hand. as jaclyn stiffened her body, defendant reached out and touched her chest with his hand. jaclyn left immediately after he touched her.2 2 defendant had also surreptitiously recorded video footage of jaclyn from his apartment. after he was arrested, the police recovered a handhel4 on a different occasion, defendant touched y.w. defendant took y.w., k.c., lauren, and his son to a water park. on the way to the park, y.w. sat in the front passenger seat while the other children sat in the rear passenger compartment. as he was driving, defendant started poking and tickling y.w. around her chest. as he was poking and tickling her, defendant touched y.w. left breast more than once. y.w. feel ,so she put her hands up hands. defendant also touched k.c.several times.3 on the ride home from the water park, y.w. asked lauren to switch seats because y.w. did not want to sit next to defendant. as lauren was climbing into the front passenger seat, defendant tapped her rear end. on a different apartment waiting for her friends to arrive. as defendant walked into the apartment, he touchek.c. testified that defendant would often pat her rear end when he greeted her at his apartment. on one occasion, defendant called k.c. into his bedroom to look at something in his closet. when k.c. walked into the room, defendant grabbed her rear end with his hand. the girls did not report until after discovering he had been arrested for the offenses involving natalie g. and gabriela d. contained three recordings that appeared to be filmed from inside defendanthen looking outside and that focused on jaclyn as she walked down the street. 3 as we noted above, the jury acquitted defendant of the charges arising out of his touching lauren and k.c. (counts 7 through 9, and 14). 5 2. natalie g. alicia, while shopping in november 2010, when natalie was five years old. defendant and alicia exchanged numbers and soon started dating. one evening in march 2011, alicia brought natalie to had any pain relievers for children because natalie was not feeling well. defendant g and some juice. alicia then put natalie to bed in a spare bedroom and went with defendant to his bedroom. after defendant and alicia had sexual intercourse, defendant ldefendant had been gone for a long time, alicia went looking for him. alicia found defendant in the spare bedroom, kneeling in accowas penetrating it with his fingers and licking it with his tongue. child to the hospital. 3. gabriela d. gabriela was 17 years old in november 2014. at the time, defendant was dating her mother, claudia. on november 12, 2014, gabriela and claudia stayed at . when gabriela arrived, she went to the living room and played video games while claudia made dinner and drank cocktails with defendant. where she changed into pajamas and watched netflix in bed. a little while 6 later, gabriela went to the bathroom to brush her teeth. when she returned to the spare bedroom, she saw defendant lying naked on the bed. gabriela got scared, went back to the bathroom, and waited for defendant to leave. when gabriela returned to the bedroom about 10 minutes later, defendant was gone. gabriela locked the door and started watching netflix again. as she was trying to fall asleep, gabriela heard the bedroom door unlock and saw defendant walk in naked. defendant got on the bed and laid next to gabriela, who was lying on her side with her back to defendant. also ants, underneath her underwear. he moved his hands back and forth, alternating between touching the skin of gabrnd, once penetrating her vagina with his finger. defendant also mouth. once defendant left the room, gabriela ran out of the phone several times. according to gabriela, claudia sounded confused and looked like she had been drugged. as she drove gabriela so gabriela had to control the wheel. when they got home, gabriela roommate apartment. the roommate drove gabriela to the hospital. after gabriela was interviewed by law enforcement at the hospital, she was transferred to a rape treatment center for a sexual assault examination. a forensic examiner swabbed blood and urine samples. three of the swabsthe ones taken 7 were later tested for foreign dnabreast contained foreign dna and was tested against swabs taken from defendant. the major contributor of dna on that quintillion. discussion 1. ineffective assistance of counsel severance of charges defendant contends his counsel was ineffective for failing to move to sever the counts involving natalie and gabriela (counts 1 through 5, 11, and 12) from the counts involving the four other girls (counts 6 through 10, 13, and 14). we disagree. even if we were to assume that a reasonably competent attorney would have moved to sever the two groups of charges, defendant did not defendant cannot demonstrate the trial court likely would have granted a motion to sever the two groups of charges. 1.1. standard of review to establish a claim for ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must satisfy two requirements. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 690692 (strickland).) first, the defendant must wide range of profess(id. at p. 690.) second, the defendant must show there is a reasonable probability that but for his attorntrial would have been more favorable to the defendant. (id. at p. 694.) undermine confidence i if a claim of 8 ineffective assistance of counsel can be determined on the ground of lack of prejudice, a court need not decide whether counsels (in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150.) 1.2. groups of charges did not prejudice defendant. under section 954, the prosecution may charge in the same two or more different offenses connected together in their commission, ... or two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses... .4; people v. kraft consolidation under either of the two circumstances set forth in people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, 75 (landry).) the charges to be joined. (alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1205, 1220, italics omitted (alcala).) a courts decision to join multiple charged offenses or deny a motion to sever those offenses amounts to a prejudicial abuse of discretion if the trial courts ruling falls ouin making that assessment, we consider the record before the trial court when it made its ruling. ibidruling on a motion for severance than it has in ruling on id. at p. 1221.) decision to allow the prosecution to join multiple charged offenses: (1) the cross-admissibility of the evidence in separate trials; (2) whether some of the charges are likely to unusually 9 inflame the jury against the defendant; (3) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the total evidence may alter the outcome of some or all of the charges; and (4) whether one of the charges is a capital offense, or the joinder of the charges converts alcala, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 12201221.) joinder is generally proper when the offenses would be cross-admissible in separate trials, since an inference of prejudice is thus dispelled.people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 126.) that is, if the offenses are cross-admissible, then we may affirm a the remaining factors. (see people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 4243 (merriman).) the absence of cross-admissibility, however, does not by itself establish prejudice. (people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 161, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 63, fn. 8.) than the absence of cross-(people v. grant (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 579, 587.) in this case, defendant concedes that the threshold requirements for joining the charges involving natalie and gabriela with the charges involving jaclyn, y.w., lauren, and k.c. were met because all of the charges involve the same class of crimes: sexual offenses. and as we explain below, the court would have acted well within its discretion to deny any severance motion defendant may have brought because the evidence of his charged sexual offenses would have been cross-admissible in crimes under evidence code section 1108. 10 generally, evidence of prior criminal acts is inadmissible to code,  1101, subd. (a); see also people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1194 (cole).) in a criminal action where the defendant is charged with a sexual offense, however, evidence of the sexual offenses is admissible to of a sexual nature if such evidence is not inadmissible under evidence code section 352. (see evid. code,  1108, subd. (a); people v. christensen (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 781, 795796.) evidence of should be excluded under evidence code section 35is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or ,  352.) to determine whether section 1108 evidence is admissible, under section 352. [citation.] rather than admit or exclude every sex offense a defendant commits, trial judges must consider such factors as its nature, relevance, and possible remoteness, the degree of certainty of its commission and the likelihood of confusing, misleading, or distracting the jurors from their main inquiry, its similarity to the charged offense, its likely prejudicial impact on the jurors, the burden on the defendant in defending against the uncharged offense, and the availability of less prejudicial alternatives to its outright admission, such as admitting sos other sex offenses, or excluding irrelevant though inflammatory details surrounding 11 (people v. daveggio and michaud (2018) 4 cal.5th 790, 823824.) with these principles in mind, we conclude that evidence of ual assaults against the six girls would have been cross-admissible in separate trials based on factual similarities between all of the charges. for example, all six girls were under the age of 18 at the time of the assaults, and all except one of the incidents (defendant touching y.w. and lauren on the way to and from the water park) occurred in the same location. (see merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 41 [similarities between victims and circumstances surrounding the crimes incvalue].) each incident involved a child who was completely conduct. natalie, jaclyn, lauren, and k.c. all were around or under the age of 10 when defendant targeted them, and natalie was defendant assaulted her. y.w. was car and, as a result, hands. and, at the time defendant assaulted gabriela, she was alone in one of his bedrooms while her mother was sleeping and under the influence of alcohol or drugs. in addition, defendant had established a level of trust and familiarity with each of the girls before assaulting them. he either got to know them by dating their mothers (natalie and gabriela) or by befriending them through his son (jaclyn, k.c., y.w., and lauren). and because all of the assaults occurred within a four or five year period, they were not remote in time. (see merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 41 [the fact that sexual 12 assaults occurred within three years of the murder increased the probative value of the sexual assaults].) further, the cross-admission of evidence involving the two groups of offenses would not have unduly prejudiced defendant. although the incidents involving gabriela and natalie were more aggravated than those involving the four other girls, they did not involve violence. it also is not likely that cross-admitting the evidence in separate trials would have confused, misled, or distracted the jury. the evidence relating to both sets of charges was straightforward. in five out of the six incidents, each of the girls was able to clearly, simply, and succinctly describe the , in natamother was able to do the same. although multiple witnesses were called to testify in support of the counts involving natalie and gabriela, such as medical technicians and forensic investigators, the salient facts establishing the assault in each of those incidents were presented by a single witness. in sum, evidence of the sexual assaults from the two groups of charges would have been cross-admissible in separate trials. because evidence of the sexual assaults was cross-admissible, merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 4243.) accordingly, defendant cannot establish ve to sever the two groups of charges. 2. voir dire defendant argues he was deprived of a fair trial because, while questioning prospective jurors during voir dire, the court and the prosecutor put too much emphasis on the portion of calcrim no. 301 that instructs the jury that the testimony of a 13 single witness is sufficient to prove any fact. defendant complains that of the instruction, cautionary instructions intendeevaluation as we explain below, the court properly conducted voir dire in this case. 2.1. relevant proceedings before voir dire beganprospective juror question[n]airequestions that defendant proposed the court should use to survey prospective jurors. relevant here, question number 27 in single witness may be sufficient to prove any fact if the jury believes that witness. [] ... defense counsel and the prosecutor before summoning the about factual issues, per s[e], in the trial, but the ability to follow function of voir dire, since both parties want me to examine the question of ability to accept testimony of a single witness. the reason i am reluctant on that one is i typically have an incomplete rendition of that instruction in asking the jurors if they can vote based on a single witness, and the part that is omitted is a paragraph that you should carefully review all the testimony under such circumstances. so, nevertheless, as you both have phrased it(italics added.) 14 when the court addressed the first group of prospective jurors, it read and explained several jury instructions, including testify, and how to evaluate the credibility of witnesses. the court then read the entirety of calcrim no. 3014 to the jurors, explaining twhether testimony isif you believe it, under the a reason simply becjust something for you to consider along with all the other evidence when determining whether or not a charge has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, and the defendant cannot be convicted unless any charge is proved beyond a reasonable after the court and defense counsel questioned the first group witness testifies and convinces you of all the elements of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt which is the standard, and no further evidence is presented, would you have a problem convicting someone in regard to a sexual offense if you believed that witness beyond a reasonable doubt that there is no additional evidence. does anybody have issue 4 calcrim no. 301 provides: [unless i instruct you otherwise,] (t/the) testimony of only one witness can prove any fact. before you conclude that the testimony of one witness proves a fact, you should carefully review all the evidence. 15 three prospective jurors expressed concern about whether they would be able to follow the single witness testimony instruction. after the court clarified the instruction, one of those jurors explained that he would not be able to follow the law that a defendant is presumed to be innocent and that the prosecution defendant and the prosecutor agreed to dismiss that prospective juror for cause. after the court called three new prospective jurors into the box, the prosecutor asked them if they would be able to follow the single-witness instruction that the court had read earlier that morning. the prosecutor and defense counsel discussed the instruction with three of the prospective jurors, none of whom expressed concern about being able to follow the instruction.5 as new prospective jurors were called into the box, the prosecutor and the court asked them about the single-witness instruction. on one occasion, a prospective juror expressed concern about convicting a defendant based on the uncorroborated testimony of a single victim. the court asked the say that nobody saw that crime take place, and she identifies a perpetrator, 5 one of the prospective jurors raised a different issue concerning conflicting testimony of two witnesses. he stated that if he heard the testimony of two witnesses, both of whom provided conflicting but equally credible accounts of an incident, such as whether a traffic light had been red or green before two vehicles collided in an intersection, he . 16 proven guilty. [] ... [] guihave someone innocent, you know, based on emotional stories we do presume people innocent and we place the burden of proof on the prosecutor and we have a reasonable doubt standard. [] but the rules are reasonable in order to protect the community of social order. and if you believe a witness beyond a reasonable doubt and compelling case. the victim knows the perpetrator perhaps and describes wh[.] the court and that prospective juror continued to discuss the when the prosecutor later questioned the same prospective juror about being able to follow the single witness testimony one of her peremptory challenges to excuse that juror. throughout the rest of voir dire, the prosecutor and the court continued to discuss calcrim no. 301. on two occasions, the prosecutor read the entire instruction, and on four occasions, testimony may be sufficient to prove any fact. after both sides rested, the court read the jury calcrim no. 301 in its entirety: conclude that the testimony of one witness proves a fact you defendant never objec17 concerning calcrim no. 301 during voir dire or at any point during trial. 2.2. analysis as a preliminary matter, defendant has forfeited any claim of error arising out of the manner in which the court conducted voir dire. to preserve such a claim, a defendant must object to the manner in which voir dire was conducted. (people v. foster the prosecutorresults in a forfeiture of any challenge to that questioning on appeal. (ibid.; see also people v. sanchez (1995) 12 cal.4th 1, 61defendant failed to preserve his claim of improper voir dire by objecting to the court, disapproved of on other grounds by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390.) by failing to object to prosecutortive jurors during voir dire, defendant has forfeited any claim on appeal that such questioning was inappropriate or rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. (see foster, at p. 1324.) in any event, argument lacks merit. trial courts poss[d]ecisions concerning the qualifications [citation] and the manner of conducting voir dire [citation].(people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 2930, disapproved of on other grounds by people v. romero and self (2015) 62 cal.4th 1.) the trial court has wide latitude to decide the questions to be asked on voir dire [citation], and to select the format in which such questioning occurs [citation].(people v. landry, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 83.) the applicable standard of unless the voir dire by a court is so inadequate that the reviewing court can say that the resulting trial was fundamentally unfair, the manner in which 18 voir dire is conducted is not a basis for reversal.people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1215, 1250.) the court acted well within its discretion when it questioned, and allowed the prosecutor to question, prospective jurors about the single witness testimony instruction. the court and the prosecutor read the instruction correctly,6 and they discussed the entire instruction on multiple occasions. the court and the prosecutor never claimed that the testimony of a single witness was any more important than any other form of evidence that may be admitted at trial, nor did they suggest that the jury could use the testimony of a single witness for any improper purpose. defendant argues the court and the prosecutor focused too much attention on the first sentence of the instruction, without always discussing the second sentence instructing the jury to carefully consider all other evidence. according to defendant, the defendant points to no authority that requires a court give equal attention to every instruction, or every portion of an instruction, that may be used at trial during voir dire. rather, the law gives the court considerable discretion to decide what questions to ask, and what issues to focus on, during voir dire. (see people v. romero focus on certain legal principles during voir dire was proper 6 although the prosecutor misspoke once when describing the is sufficient to prove any may be sufficient to establish a fact. 19 because its comments were not intended to be a substitute for instructions at the end of trial].) indeed, the california supreme court has recognized in a similar context the importance of informing jurors about a sexual assault requires no corroboration, and it in reminding juries of the rule. (see people v. gammage (1992) 2 cal.4th 693, 701 [approving the use in the same trial of the general single witness testimony instruction and the instruction that the testimony of a complaining witness in a sexual assault case need not be corroborated].) 3. evidence of sexual intent finally, defendant contends insufficient evidence supports jaclyn (count 6) and y.w. (count 10). specifically, he argues there was insufficient evidence to support a finding that he had the specific intent to arouse his sexual desires when he touched the two children. as we explain, substantial evidence supports both convictions. when a defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the evidence proved the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) we draw all reasonable inferences in favor of the judgment and do not resolve credibility issues or evidentiary conflicts. (ibid.) underage child accomplished with the intent of arousing the 20 is a felony.7 (people v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 452 (martinez).) because intent is rarely people v. villagran (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 880, 891.) the nature of the touching is relevant in ascertaining a . (people v. smith (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 1458, 1469.) [i]ntent is inherently difficult to prove by direct evidence. therefore, the act itself together with its surrounding circumstances must generally form the basis from which the ibid he trier of fact looks to all the circumstances, including the charged act, to determine whether it was performed with the required specific intent. (martinez, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 445.) other relevant factors the jury may consider include: (1) the defendantand (3) any coercion, bribery, or deceit used to obtain the victims cooperation or to avoid detection.8 (ibid.) 7 ny person who willfully and lewdly commits any lewd or lascivious act, including any of the acts constituting other crimes provided for in part 1, upon or with the body, or any part or member thereof, of a child who is under the age of 14 years, with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of that person or the child, is guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for three, six, or eight years. 8 generally, the jury may also consider other acts of lewd conduct the defendant has admitted or been charged with in the case in determining whether he possessed the requisite sexual intent. (see martinez, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 445.) but because the court did not 21 here, the jury had sufficient evidence from which it could conclude defendant had the requisite sexual intent when he touched jaclyn. defendant approached her from behind, tapped her rear end, and then reached out and touched her chest as she stiffened her body in response to him touching her rear end. uncomfortable and that she could not perceive any non-sexual reason why defendant would have needed to touch her rear end and chest. further supporting an inference that defendant had a sexual intent when he touched jaclyn is the fact that he only chest, two intimate parts of her body. (see in re shannon t. (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 618, 622 (shannon t.) [the location of the touch itself can support an inference that the defendant possessed the requisite specific intent].) in addition, there was evidence that defendant had surreptitiously recorded at least three videos of jaclyn walking in front of his apartment, which would support an inference that defendant had a sexual interest in jaclyn, and that he acted on that interest when he touched her rear end and chest. for similar reasons, the jury had sufficient evidence from which it could conclude that defendant had the requisite sexual intent when he touched y.w. as with jaclyn, defendant touched only an intimate area of y.w.her breastand he did so instruct the jury with calcrim nos. 375, 1191a, 1191b, or similar instructions that address the admissibility and manner in which a jury may consider evidence of other charged and uncharged offenses committed by the defendant (see evid. code,  1101, 1108), we do not consider the evidence of other charged acts of sexual misconduct in 22 several times. y.w. feel uncomfortable, and she had to shield herself with her hands to prevent defendant from continuing to touch her. based on the fact that defendant touched only an intimate part of y.w.that he did so more than once, and that y.w. tried to prevent defendant from touching her, the jury reasonably could have inferred that defendant intended to arouse his sexual desires when he touched y.w. defendant argues findings that he possessed the requisite sexual intent when he touched jaclyn and y.w. because the jury acquitted him of the counts involving lauren and k.c. specifically, defendant insists that because the only difference between the incidents involving the two groups of girls is the fact y.w.he only touched lauren and k.c. rear ends, the jury necessarily must have decided to punish defendant based only on the location of the touching, not on his intent. in [y.w.]because of the locatio first, the fact that the jury acquitted defendant of the counts involving lauren and k.c. is irrelevant to our analysis of whether substantial evidence the counts involving y.w. and jaclyn. (see  954 [an acquittal of one or more counts shall not be deemed an acquittal of any other count.in re joe r. (1970) 12 cal.app.3d 80, 8586 an acquittal on one count does not automatically require an acquittal on another even though the evidence adduced as to all the counts may be the same and the disapproved of on 23 another ground by in re robert g. (1982) 31 cal.3d 437.) second, even if we were to assume the jury drew a distinction based on where the victim was touched, that does not mean the jury must have punished defendant based only on the nature of the as we discussed above, the part of the body where a defendant touches a person is a relevant factor in ascertaining specific intent. (see shannon t., supra, 144 cal.app.4th at p. 622.) thus, the jury reasonably could have inferred defendant had the requisite sexual intent based on the parts of the body where he touched y.w. and jaclyn.9 9 because we conclude substantial evidence cumulative error argument. 24 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j. 