filed 9/6/18 p. v. tonche ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. greg christopher tonche, defendant and appellant. b277884 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga098142) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for los angeles county, michael villalobos, judge. affirmed. caneel c. fraser, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 greg christopher tonche appeals from a judgment of the superior court after a jury found him guilty of second degree burglary of a vehicle. tonche contends that the officer who arrested him gave improper lay opinion testimony at trial about background a. factual background around noon on august 27, 2015, tonche threw a brick through the rear window of rolando medinas silver four-door toyota corolla as the car sat in a parking lot in arcadia. an eyewitness watched tonche break the car window and climb into s car. tonche made eye contact with the eyewitness, who was sitting in a nearby car, before he broke passenger seat; tonche rifled through the bag and left its contents strewn ovtonche did not remove anything from the car. tonche followed the eyewitness into a nearby storetonche left the store and walked back to the crime scene. arcadia police almost immediately responded to an auto burglary in progress call; as the police arrived, tonche laid face down on hot pavement in broken glass next to the car. at the scene, tonche was bleeding from his hand. because he was injured, tonche was taken by ambulance from the scene to methodist hospital of southern california in arcadia. the arresting officer, adam hernandez, followed the ambulance in his 3 patrol car. and stayed at the hospital with him. as hernandez followed the gurney from the ambulance into the , hernandez heard tonche tell the b. procedural background tonche was charged with a single count of second degree burglary of a vehicle under penal code section 459.1 the people also alleged prior convictions to invoke sentence enhancements under section 1170.12, subdivision (c)(1), section 667, subdivision (d), section 667.5, subdivisions (b) and (c). the case was tried to a jury on july 14, 15, and 18, 2016. degree vehicle burglary charge. tonche waived his right to a jury trial on his prior convictions. after a court trial on the prior convictions, the trial court found true all of the alleged prior convictions. the trial court sentenced tonche to the midterm of two years for violation of section 459, doubled to four years under the three strikes law, and added an additional four years for prior convictions under section 667.5, subdivision (b), all to run consecutive. tonche timely appealed. discussion a. opinion testimony hernandez heard tonche tell the paramedics and hospital he people asked hernandez why he 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 4 made a note of those two statements in his police report. hernandez said that those two statements were significant tonche contends the trial court abused its discretion by allowing testimony was opinion testimony and, citing people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, refers to the testimony as putative expert testimony that tonche was guilty of auto burglary. tonche refers conclusion as intelligently as the witness. the people characterize the testimony differently. the why [hernandez] conducted his investigation was not an issue is not testifying as an expert, his testimony in the form of an opinion is limited to such an opinion as is permitted by law, including but not limited to an opinion that is: (a) rationally based on the perception of the witness; and (b) helpful to a clear testifying as an expert. 5 why hernandez conducted an auto burglary investigation was an issue before the jury and was under challenge by the defense. ng tive symptoms suggesting that tonche might be under the influence of drugs. tonche leveled a strong voluntary intoxication defense, and asked for and received a voluntary intoxication jury instruction. the got into the back rifled through his belongings, tonche lacked the necessary intent to steal something. even if his intoxication defense was unsuccessful, tonche argued that there was no evidence that he intended to do anything other than get arrestedthat there was nothing to suggest that he meant to take anything from the car, and so should not have been charged with auto burglary. observations at issue and challenged why he conducted an auto burglary investigation. the suggestion that there was no evidence of auto burglary necessarily prompts the question why an officer would have been investigating an auto burglary. hernandez was not asked about whether tonche intended to rather, hernandez was asked to explain to the jury how he he conducted an auto burglary investigation rather than a vandalism or auto tampering investigation. (see people v. medina (1990) 51 cal.3d 870, 887.) the evidence could also have been helpful to a jury for 6 odd behavior in the context of a voluntary intoxication defense. behavior and describe behavior as being consistent with a state of people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 130; people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 397.) the testimony to which intent, but it could be interpreted as describing behavior consistent with a specific intent. testimony was both relevant and helpful to the jury, particularly in light of the defenses tonche employed. we find, therefore, that the trial court acted well within its discretion in admitting b. prejudice the trial court did not abuse its discretion, but even if we were to conclude that it did, we would still affirm. any error was harmless, and not prejudicial. errresult more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) there is no reasonable probability that the outcome would admission. tonche admitted throwing a brick through the rear the car door and get into the car. medina testified that a bag he 7 had left on the front seat was opened and its contents rifled through and strewn throughout the back seat. and tonche did that tonche intended to steal from medina when he broke into the corolla. on the record before us, we find that if disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: bendix, j. currey, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 