filed 7/7/17 p. v. oakley ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. perry oakley, defendant and appellant. b277614 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya080803) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, and perry oakley, in pro. per, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 this is the second appeal in this case. (see people v. oakley (feb. 17, 2015, b248796) [nonpub. opn.]) (oakley i).) in this appeal, appellant perry oakley takes issue with ta posttrial motion to vacate judgment for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. appointed counsel filed a brief under people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), and appellant filed a supplemental brief. background driving while intoxicated, appellant ignored a stop sign, sped through an intersection, and caused a collision with another car, killing two of its four passengers. a jury convicted him of two counts of second degree murder, two counts of gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated, and one count each of leaving the scene of an accident, driving under the influence causing injury, and driving with an alcohol level of .08 or more causing injury. in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found that appellant had suffered a prior strike conviction (pen. code,1  1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(i)), and serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1).) appellant was sentenced to a term of 82 years to life in state prison. we affirmed that conviction. (see oakley i, supra, at pp. 2, 23.) 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 in august 2016, appellant moved to vacate judgment based on lack of subject matter jurisdiction, because the felony complaint filed in 2011 had not been lainant. ( 806.) the merit. we appointed counsel to represent appellant on appeal. after an raising no issues, and asked this court independently to review the record. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) appellant filed a supplemental brief.2 he contends the trial court erred in (1) denying his motion to vacate the judgment, and (2) imposing enhancements, because the exhibit on which it relied did not disclose the facts underlying his prior offense, a contention first raised on appeal.3 2 both appellant and his counsel have requested that we take judicial notice of specific portions of the record in oakley i. the priors is also granted. 3 one exhibit (not included in the record) discussed during trial on the priorsis relevant here. at trial, sought to have a certified copy admitted into evidence. however, during closing argument, trial counsel requested that the court view the rap sheet . . that rap sheets as a whole can contain information that is inaccurate and unreliable . . . and [he was] just suggest[ing] that the court make the the suggestion was rejected. 4 we have independently reviewed the record and conclude there are no arguable issues. (see wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at pp. 441442.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 