filed 12/14/17 p. v. solis ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. esther solis, defendant and appellant. b277249 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va061084) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, debra cole-hall, judge. affirmed. mary jo strnad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 almost 16 years after pleading guilty, esther solis sought to vacate her plea under penal code section 1192.5.1 on appeal, it is not disputed that section 1192.5 applies only to felonies and that solis pled no contest to a misdemeanor. the trial court reached that conclusion and conflicted with provisions in her signed plea agreement and was not credible. case of people v. patterson (2017) 2 cal.5th 885 (patterson) her plea. patterson, however, concerned a motion under section 1018, which is timely only if brought within six months of judgment or of a suspended sentence. solis fails to show she preserved the only issue on appeal. and, in any event patterson and section 1018 do not apply to this case. we affirm the order denying . background on september 13, 2000, solis plead no contest to one misdemeanor count of infliction of corporal injury. she initialed the following provision in her plea agreementif i am not a citizen of the united states, the conviction for the offense charged will have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united states the following was addmisdemeanor 273.5. all other counts dismissed. 36 months summary probation . . . . i understand the immigration consequences 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 solis also initialed the provision indicating that she entered her no contest understanding of all the matters set forth in the pleading and in this form. no one has made any threats, used any force against myself, family or loved ones, or made any promises to me except as set out in the form, in order to convince me to plead no contest solis signed the plea and indicated that she discussed each initialed box with her attorney. specifically, she signed and of the above boxes and discussed them with my attorney. i understand each and every one of the rights outlined above and i hereby waive and give up each of them in order to enter my plea to the above charges discussed the plea with solis and concurred in her decision to plead no contest. the name of the interpreter was written on the plea. on august 9, 2016, solis filed a motion to vacate her conviction entered september 13, 2000, for violating section 273.5. she argued that her plea was not knowingly and voluntarily entered. she argued that her plea must be vacated pursuant to section 1192.5.2 2 section 1192.5 provides: pleading charging a felony, other than a violation of paragraph (2), (3), or (6) of subdivision (a) of section 261, paragraph (1) or (4) of subdivision (a) of section 262, section 264.1, section 286 by force, violence, duress, menace or threat of great bodily harm, subdivision (b) of section 288, section 288a by force, violence, duress, menace or threat of great bodily harm, or subdivision (a) of section 289, the plea may specify the punishment to the same extent as it may be specified by the jury on a plea of not guilty or 4 fixed by the court on a plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or not guilty, and may specify the exercise by the court thereafter of other powers legally available to it. where the plea is accepted by the prosecuting attorney in open court and is approved by the court, the defendant, except as otherwise provided in this section, cannot be sentenced on the plea to a punishment more severe than that specified in the plea and the court may not proceed as to the plea other than as specified in the plea. if the court approves of the plea, it shall inform the defendant prior to the making of the plea that (1) its approval is not binding, (2) it may, at the time set for the hearing on the application for probation or pronouncement of judgment, withdraw its approval in the light of further consideration of the matter, and (3) in that case, the defendant shall be permitted to withdraw his or her plea if he or she desires to do so. the court shall also cause an inquiry to be made of the defendant to satisfy itself that the plea is freely and voluntarily made, and that there is a factual basis for the plea. if the plea is not accepted by the prosecuting attorney and approved by the court, the plea shall be deemed withdrawn and the defendant may then enter the plea or pleas as would otherwise have been available. if the plea is withdrawn or deemed withdrawn, it may not be received in evidence in any criminal, civil, or special action or proceeding of any nature, including proceedings before agencies, commissions, boards, independent inquiry, before accepting a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a felony offense, whether there exists a factual people v. wilkerson (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 5 in her declaration dated october 8, 2010 (almost six years before her current motion), solis stated that she entered a plea of no contest to a violation of section 273.5, subdivision (a), a misdemeanor. according to her, imposition of sentence was suspended and she was placed on probation. solis declared that her attorney tsuffering any problems with immigration later, when she applied to become a legal resident, her application was denied voluntarily depart . . . by november 3, 2010 solis declared that she would have demanded a trial if she had known the immigration consequences of her plea. i consider a relatively minor offense, would be a tragedy for all of us was no knowing and intelligent waiver of her right to a trial. counsel did not argue that section 1016.53 waivers were not exists, without the above inquiry, people v. holmes (2004) 32 cal.4th 432, 436.) 3 section 1016.5, subdivision (a) provides: prior to acceptance of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any offense punishable as a crime under state law, except offenses designated as infractions under state law, the court shall administer the following advisement on the record to the defendant: if you are not a citizen, you are hereby advised that conviction of the offense for which you have been charged may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united states. 6 hat this case was distinguishable from one brought under section 1018. ounsel represented that a petition for coram nobis grounds. the prosecutor suggested that the prior coram nobis petition (which is not a subject of the current appeal) had been based on section 1016.5. the trial court correctly noted that . . the court concluded that section 1192.5 applied only to felonies. the court explained that the statute did not apply to this case because solis pled to a misdemeanor. the court found that , which conflicted with the plea agreement, was not credible. this appeal followed. discussion decision in patterson, supra, 2 cal.5th 885 should apply to this case and requires remanding the case for a new hearingreliance on patterson is misplaced for numerous reasons, as we shall explain. in patterson, the supreme court held that the standard advisement of immigration consequences under section 1016.5 does not bar a timely motion to withdraw a plea under section 1018. (patterson, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 889.) section 1018 entered or withdrawn by the defendant himself or herself in open court. no plea of guilty of a felony for which the maximum punishment is death, or life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, shall be received from a defendant who does not appear 7 with counsel, nor shall that plea be received without the consent of the defendants counsel. no plea of guilty of a felony for which the maximum punishment is not death or life imprisonment without the possibility of parole shall be accepted from any defendant who does not appear with counsel unless the court shall first fully inform him or her of the right to counsel and unless the court shall find that the defendant understands the right to counsel and freely waives it, and then only if the defendant has expressly stated in open court, to the court, that he or she does not wish to be represented by counsel. on application of the defendant at any time before judgment or within six months after an order granting probation is made if entry of judgment is suspended, the court may, and in case of a defendant who appeared without counsel at the time of the plea the court shall, for a good cause shown, permit the plea of guilty to be withdrawn and a plea of not guilty substituted. upon indictment or information against a corporation a plea of guilty may be put in by counsel. this section shall be liberally construed to effect (italics added.) patterson motion was not brought under section 1018. solis forfeited her appellate argument that section 1018 permits her to vacate her plea. (see people v. turner (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 1409, 1412-1413.) section 1018. as the italicized language indicates, that motion under section 1018 to withdraw the plea must be made before judgment or within six months after an order granting probation. in patterson, the defendant filed a timely motion to withdraw the plea under penal code section 1018 on grounds of mistake or 8 patterson, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. motion was filed 16 years after her plea and the order granting probation. it is not a timely motion under section 1018 as in patterson. third, in patterson, the defendant received advisements that this plea may have immigration consequences. (patterson, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 895.) the court was concerned that such advisements dspecific charged offense will render the defendant subject to ibid., italics added.) here, solis initialed a immigration consequences. specifically, she indicated, am not a citizen of the united states, the conviction for the offense charged will have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united states (italics added.) in contrast to the defendant in patterson, solis was informed that her plea would have immigration consequences. in short, patterson argument lacks merit. additionally, cks merit for another reason. in this case the trial court conviction would not result in immigration problems lacked credibility. on appeal, we do credibility determinations determinations that are supported by substantial evidence. (people v. dillard (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 657, 665.) thus, solis has no credible evidence in support of her contentions, and cannot 9 convincing evidence in support of the should be withdrawn. (patterson, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 894.) disposition plea is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 