filed 6/13/18 p. v. barbara ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. nicholas paul barbara, defendant and appellant. b277950 los angeles county super. ct. no. ya091422 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed. teresa biagini, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and steven e. mercer, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant nicholas paul barbara of two counts of discharging a firearm with gross negligence in violation of penal code section 246.3, subdivision al court should not have allowed the people to introduce, under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) (section 1101(b)), evidence of an incident about 17 months earlier in which barbara also fired his gun from inside a residence. we find no error and therefore affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the october 19, 2014 incident in october 2014, dorothy reid was living on 187th street in torrance. her friend helen artiano was staying with her. h reid as well. at about 1:00 a.m. on october 19, artiano woke reid up. artiano told reid someone was trying to break into the house. reid ran into the hallway. barbara came down the hallway from the den, waving a gun in the air. barbara told the women someone was trying to break in but he would protect them. he told his mother to call 911. barbara then took the phone from his mother and spoke with the police. when torrance police arrived, barbara told the women to stay inside. he went out to talk to the officers. before barbara kitchen. officers checked the backyard and walked around the house. they found no intruders or suspects, and no sign of any attempted entry. barbara did not tell the officers that he had a gun or that he had fired it inside the house. responding police 3 of an attempted break-in was reid went back to bed. about 6:00 a.m., three rapid gunshots woke her. reid jumped out of bed, went into the hallway, andencountering artianotried to talk to barbara but he told them to shut the fuck up. barbara again told his mother to call 911; she did so and he again took the phone from her. barbara told the women to sit at the kitchen table and not say a word, and he again put his gun into the dryer. when police arrived and barbara again went outside to speak with theoperator that barbara had a gun. torrance police again arrived. officers checked the backyard, side yards, perimeter, and windows. nothing had been side of the house. according to torrance police officer kevin kuet, it would not be possible for a person to sit in the window, because of the distance from the ground to the window and the absence of any ledge on the window. five bullet holes. one bullet had pierced the screen and broken the window in which barbara said he had seen a shadow. (barbara had told kuet he did not know how that window had been damaged.) two other bullets were lodged in a wall. officers found three shell casings in the den and two by a doorway. two 9-millimeter bullets had been fired out of a north-facing window and struck a storage shed in the back of the house. beyond the 4 next-door neighbor testified at trial that he heard two gunshots shortly after 1:00 a.m. on october 19 and got up to check on his wife. barbara told officers he had accidentally fired his gun once. he denied having tried to shoot a prowler. torrance police o there was one live round in the chamber and seven in the magazine. officers arrested barbara for negligent discharge of a firearm. barbara testified at his trial. he said around 1:00 a.m. on -ta1 barbara barbara testified he went outside around 5:00 or 5:30 a.m. body was staring at [him] and [he] whipped and blind firing [him][sic 1 -the trigger twice. 5 discharged one round,2 barbara testified that he had been on opioids for five to seven years for shoulder and back pain. 2. the june 2013 incident a. argument on the motion the people filed a motion in limine to introduce evidence of an incident in june 2013 in which barbara fired his gun inside another home. the people argued the evidence was admissible under section 1101(b) to show that barbara fired his gun on october 19, 2014, intentionally rather than accidentally; that there was no prowler and so he did not shoot in self-defense; and that he acted with more than ordinary carelessness or mistake in judgment, knowing that he suffered from hallucinations. posed the motion. she argued that the gross negligence, and the absence of self-torney did not say that he would admit he had fired his gun intentionally rather than accidentally. believe that the conduct in 2013 is relevant for what i see as three reasons: one, that the current shooting was not an hallucinations, which therefore contributes to his being grossly negligent in arming himself for the current charges; and i also 2 barbara for the jury. 6 - the court granted a request by exclude any mention of the psychiatric hold placed on barbara after his june 2013 arrest.3 on its own motion, the court also told the prosecutor he could not mention the seizure by police of b. the testimony at trial in june 2013, cristina hauser lived on rose street in bellflower with her husband kevin justis and their daughter. hauser and justis knew barbara from their church. they allowed barbara to live in a trailer in the back of their half-acre property. on friday, june 28, 2013, the hauser-justis family left town for a softball event in las vegas. when the family went out of town, barbara fed their dogs, who stayed outside, and kept was not to go into their house except in an emergency. hauser and justis came home two days later, early on sunday, june 30. hauser noticed a mark on the ceiling in her bedrooma scrape or scuff; then she discovered a bullet or casing on the floor in the carpet. hauser called justis to come and look. justis noticed a little hole between the door jamb and the wall in the bedroom. justis called barbara to see where he was and to ask what had happened. barbara told justis that he had been in 3 see welfare and institutions code section 5150. 7 kitchen and fired down the hallway into the bedroom. hauser had not known that barbara had a gun. justis told barbara he was calling the police, and asked barbara to return to the property. barbara returned some hours later, in the afternoon. los angelerobert girgis spoke with barbara. barbara told girgis he thought he had seen a burglar inside the house on june 28. went inside the home just to see if there were burglars, and when barbara told him he thought irgis, barbara said department records showed two calls the next day, saturday, june 29. girgis asked barbara about those. barbara nside of the barbara testified about the june 2013 incident as well. who 10 minutes later, [barbara] saw a movement out of the corner of [his] eye after [he] but heard ad [his] weapon and then . . . caught movement and heard movement [sic] out of the 8 barbara ed the police, who went to a hotel. atically said [he] saw a shadow 3. the verdicts and sentence the jury convicted barbara on both counts. before sentencing, the trial court ordered a diagnostic evaluation under penal code section 1203.03. at sentencing, the court rejected the court imposed a prison sentence but suspended execution of it and placed barbara on probation. discussion section 1101(b) isof discretion. (people v. lenart (2004) 32 cal.4th 1107, 1123; see also people v. cole ce and admission or exclusion of evidence under evidence code sections 1101 and 352. unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rogers (2013) 57 cal.4th 9 296, 326, quoting people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1328-1329.) here, the trial court admitted testimony about the june 2013 incident under section 1101(b) for three reasons: to show barbara fired his gun in october 2014 intentionally rather than accidentally; to show there was in fact no prowler and so barbara did not act in self-defense; and to show that barbara knew he suffered from hallucinations and so acted with gross negligence evidence. we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion in its determination of any of the three issues. 1. intent the people were required to prove beyond a reasonable no. 970.irrelevant to prove that the 2014 shooting was not accidental becand court could not have known until barbara took the witness stand that that is what he would say. in arguing the motion in his gun on purpose. nor did she present any opening statement to that effect. officer kuet had taped his interview with barbara and that tape was played for the jury. jurors also were given a transcript. according to the transcript, barbara told officers that 10 [officer:] nick, i just have a couple of questions for you really quick. did you actually shoot your gun this morning? [barbara:] yeah. i actually i accidentally discharged it. [officer:] how many times did it accidentally been discharged [sic]? i sat down. accordingly, at the outset of the trial, when the court ruled case-in-chief, whether barbara fired his gun intentionally or accidentally was very much in issue. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in permitting the people to introduce evidence of the 2013 incident to show barbara discharged his gun 2. absence of self-defense the people also were required to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that barbara did not act in self-defense or defense of someone else. (calcrim no. 970.) barbara testified that he shot his gun in self-defense and to protect his mother and reid. barbara argues the 2013 incident did not tend to show he did not act in self-defense because the question is whether a reasonable person would believe he was in danger. but ththe defendant did not actually and reasonably believe he was in imminent danger. (calcrim no. 970; see, e.g., people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 551-552 [self-defense renders conduct 11 declining to instruct on self-actual fear of an imminent accordingly, whether barbara was honestly in actual fear of imminent harm was relevant. the people were entitled to introduce evidence to support their contention that jurors should -defense given that in both 2013 and 2014 neither police nor the homeowners found any evidence whatsoever of any prowler or attempted burglary. 3. gross negligence the section 1101(b) evidence is similar to that of the second. the people were required to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that no. 970. of care as to raise a presumption of conscious indifference to the consequences. [citation.] he state of mind of a person who acts with conscious indifferences i (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1204 (ochoa).) barbara notes the test is objective. but, as our supreme would have been aware of the risks [of his conduct], the jury should be given relevant facts as to what defendant kn(ochoa, suprathat defendant actually appreciated the risks involved in a given enterprise, and nonetheless proceeded with it, a finding of gross negligence . . . would be appropriate whether or not a reasonable 12 (ibidcircumstances . . . to determine if the defendant acted with a conscious disregard of the consequences rather than with mere inadvertence.ibid.) in both 2013 and 2014, barbara told responding officers in two inspections in 2013 and two inspections in 2014, police found no evidence of any such prowlers or intruders. although barbara denied having made the statements, deputy girgis testified that entire decide whom to believe. the people were entitled to argue that barbara admitted to suffering from hallucinations some 17 months before the actions giving rise to this prosecution and that, accordingly, he was grossly negligent in continuing to possess a fully loaded glock and to shoot it repeatedly from inside conthe did not care what happened in keeping and firing a semiautomatic handgun. 4. evidence code section 352 balancing finally, barbara asserts the trial court should have excluded the june 2013 incident in any event because its probative value was substantially outweighed by a substantial danger of undue prejudice. (evid. code,  352, subd. (b).) 13 discussed above. that authorities found no evidence to support n the two incidents was and reasonably believed in the need for self-defense and whether he was grossly negligent in firing his weapon. moreover, the facts of the 2013 incident were less serious than those of the 2014 incident, so there was no likelihood the , barbara fired his gun once with no one else in the home and no structures or neighbors nearby. the single bullet hit the ceiling. in 2014, barbara discharged his weapon five times in two separate actions with other people in the house and neighbors nearby. at least two rounds went through a window and hit the storage shed outside. 14 disposition not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 