filed 1/19/18 p. v. wright ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. glenn wright, defendant and appellant. b277814 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va022705) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william c. ryan, judge. affirmed. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and analee j. brodie, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in 1995, a jury convicted defendant glenn wright (defendant) on two counts of second degree burglary. as a third strike offender, he was sentenced to fifty years to life in prison. many years later, defendant filed proposition 36 and proposition 47 petitions to recall his sentence. the trial court denied both petitions based on its finding that resentencing defendant would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. appealing g on his proposition 36 petition in this case,1 ning brief argued proposition 47 enacted a more k of danger to public governed petitions filed under proposition 36, and the trial court wrongly concluded defendant posed a danger under that heightened proposition 47 standard. defendants reply brief concedes that argument is no longer viable after our people v. valencia (2017) 3 cal.5th 347 (valencia). the brief, however, asserts the denial of his proposition 36 petition was error even under the more permissive dangerousness standard that applies in proposition 36 cases; we shall consider the viability of that argument. 1 proposition 47 petition in a separate pending appeal, case number b280669. 3 i. background a. 1995 sentencing on may 18, 1995, a jury convicted defendant of two counts of second degree burglary (pen. code,2  459). the charges were predicated on evidence that defendant took money from cash registers at two different robinsons-stores. in the second of these burglaries, defendant punched a security guard in the chest . defendant continued to struggle with this guard and another guard until arrived and subdued him with pepper spray. defendant admitted he stole the money to buy cocaine base, and he stated he fought with the security guards because he did not want to return to prison. the trial court presiding over the 1995 burglary prosecution found defendant had sustained prior serious or violent felony convictions, namely, conviction on three counts of second degree robbery in 1988, for which he received three years in state prison; and conviction on one count of second degree robbery in 1992, for which he received two years in state prison. based on these prior convictions, defendant was sentenced to fifty years to life under the three strikes law. b. proposition 36 petition opposition in 2012, defendant petitioned to recall the three strikes sentence he received in the 1995 burglary case pursuant to 2 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 4 section 1170.126, a statute enacted in 2012 as part of the three strikes reform act (proposition 36). defendant argued the two burglary counts of conviction were statutorily eligible for resentencing. the people petition for resentencing. the people did not contest defendant statutory eligibility for resentencing, but argued instead that the trial court should find i.e., that recalling defendant would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. the people mainly on the 5 burglary convictions that triggered the three strikes sentence), while in prison. criminal history, the people summarized his numerous crimes dating back to 1987. in february of that year, defendant was convicted of falsely identifying himself as a peace officer and sentenced to three days in county jail. in october 1987, defendant was convicted of receiving or concealing stolen property and placed on probation for two years. two months later, and while on probation, defendant committed the first of his two prior robbery offenses. during that offense, his accomplice stopped a bartender from calling 911 (hanging up the move, or you are de and robbed two other women who were in the bar at the time. in march 1992, seven days after being discharged from parole (following his release from prison on the robbery conviction, a parole violation, and another intervening conviction), defendant committed his second robbery offense. on that occasion, he stole money out of a sears cash register and resisted a store security 5 guard who attempted to apprehend him. after being released from prison on this robbery conviction and sustaining an intervening cocaine possession conviction, defendant committed the 1995 triggering offenses that involved the fight with security guards until he was apprehended. the people argued defendant had behaved poorly while in prison. the people asserted defendant had a california department of corrections and rehabilitation (cdcr) classification score of 119 in early february 2013, which was at least 40 points higher than his score was when he entered prison in 1995.3 most recent documented violent conductfighting resulting in the use of forceoccurred in june 2012, after defendant was in his fifties. during that incident, defendant and another inmate were observed punching one another in the face and upper torso, and they continued striking each other even after all inmates were ordered to the ground. officers had to deploy a chemical agent to 3 a cdcr classification score helps determine inmate placement, including the security level of the facility where a defendant will be sent to serve his or her sentence. the score accounts for factors such as age at first arrest, age at cdcr reception, current term of incarceration, gang membership, prior incarcerations, and seriousness of the current conviction. (see cal. code regs., tit. 15,  3375.1.) prisoners with a placement score of 60 and above are placed in a level iv (the highest level of security) facility. (cal. code regs., tit. 15,  3375.1, subd. (a)(4), 3377, subd. (d).) defendant has been in a level iv facility throughout his incarceration, except when he was placed in the administrative segregation unit or the segregation housing unit. section 1170.126 petition, his classification score had decreased to 105. 6 stop them from fighting, and the officers released two additional chemical agents when they again started to approach one another. beyond the june 2012 incident, the people also highlighted the following prison rule violation reports (rvrs) defendant received - assault on a peace officer not likely to cause serious bodily injury, on february 22, 2011, for swinging clenched fists toward one of two officers who attempted to handcuff defendant for refusing to submit to an unclothed body search, and then resisting the im to the ground until they subdued him with pepper spray; aggravated battery on a peace officer and battery on a peace officer not involving use of force, on january 26, 2007, for yelling to jail personnel from his cell (eed me, you mother fuckers and fuck you bitch, you punk ass mexican, feed me); inciting other inmates to yell; spitting in kicking two officers; and directing other profanities at the officers; threatening a peace officer, on july 17, 2006, for need to be careful on the tier, ; when the officer asked if he was being threatened, defendant stated, be careful, on the tier and watch your back . . . .; mutual combat, on december 6, 2005, for continuously punching another inmate until officers deployed a blast grenade; 7 battery on staff, on april 3, 2002, for punching an officer twice in the face and having to be forcibly handcuffed after another officer deployed pepper spray; and battery on an inmate, on september 21, 1995, for hitting an inmate in the side of the face, which caused the inmate to fall; and for participating with another inmate to cause a chemical burn to the scalp by throwing an unidentified, white powdery substance on the victim. the people additionally argued defendant was unsuitable for resentencing because there was no evidence he had addressed his longstanding drug problem nor evidence he made significant according to the people, defendant had never enrolled in a prison drug rehabilitation program and his history in prison included an august 20, 2007, rvr for possession of contraband (a plastic bag containing 167 prescription pills, five inhalers, and one eye drop bottleall in excess of what he had been prescribed). defendant also had not attained a ged nor completed a vocational program. in reply, defendant argued he was suitable for resentencing because (1) his criminal convictions were remote in time (his strike convictions, in particular, occurred more than two decades before the proposition 36 hearing); (2) his disciplinary record had shown some improvement, including a reduction in his classification score during the most recent review period and no to recidivate based on his age (56) and the 22-factor california static risk assessment (csra) developed by cdcr and the 8 center for evidence-based corrections at the university of california, irvine; and (4) he had suitable reentry plans. on the issue of post-prison reentry plans, defendant produced a letter from the amity foundation indicating it had accepted defendant into its residential program to help him defendant also submitted documentation covering his participation in prison therapy programs, including two letters from his codiagnosis program that he began in 2016, and summary reports and progress notes from weekly group recreational therapy between august 2009 and march 2010 c. the trial court hepetition and defendant briefly testified during the hearing. he stated he was . . . defendant admitted he he asserted he had been in a drug program in los , stating his goal was to become a drug counselor. defense counsel argued the court should grant the proposition 36 petition because defendant had served 21 or 22 [california voters] envisioned continuing and doing life in prison.the defense did not warrant an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety 9 [] . . . to get written up.4 the people, on the other hand, maintained the proposition 36 programming.the court took the matter under submission. the trial court subsequently issued a 19-page decision 36 petition, finding he posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. the court explained the applicable legal standard required the people to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that an eligible [defendant] would pose an unreasonable risk of danger if resentenced, but the court understood its ss determination itself . . . [was] ultimately a discretionary. the trial court discussed the evidence presented in light of the statutory factors that govern dangerousness determinations, namely, criminal history, his disciplinary and rehabilitation record while incarcerated, and any other evidence the court deemed relevant. ( 1170.126, subd. (g).) the court characterized noting it began in 1979, included drug-related convictions, and culminated with him his commission of the triggering offenses. the trial court was of the view that 4 mutual combat, you know, an inmate is going to have a few of mess[it] with the correctional offi 10 and his inability to refrain from re-offending while in the community constitute present and relevant concerns only if other criminal past but the court found such a nexus given , elevated classification score, lack of rehabilitative programming, and insufficient reentry in considering plinary history, the trial court took into account advanced age of 57 and the csra findings, which the court acknowledged would typically be factors indicating defendant no longer posed a risk of danger to society. but the court believed both of these factors were which shows [defendant] getting into fights and assaulting others well into his fortthe court summarized its view of reflects a pattern of violent and aggressive conduct, evidencing his inability or unwillingness to respect authority and refrain from fighting . . . . [defendant] has incurred 18 rvrs while in prison, including six for violent conduct, one for behavior which could lead to violence, and one for threatening a peace officer. . . . in particular, [defendant] received an rvr for fighting resulting in the use of force as recently as june 2012, which was only a few months before the passage of proposition 36 and the filing of his proposition 36 petition, as well as four rvrs for assaulting peace officers in 2011, 2007,[ ] and 2002. further, [defendant] has received numerous rvrs for disobeying orders and refusing to accept housing assignments, indicating a lack of 11 respect for authority and failure to comply [with] the rules and regulatio5 the trial court further reasoned defendant had not engaged in any prison programming that might ameliorate the risk it the court was not persuaded that recreational therapy from august 2009 through march 2010 and january 25, 2016 (six months before the hearing on his proposition 36 petition)when viewed in context of his nearly 21-year period of incarcerationwas significant evidence of rehabilitation. the court additionally found (1) there was no evidence educational or vocational skills in his 21 years of incarceration, making it unclear how [defendant] is prepared to support himself once released,and (2) -release plans [were] tenuous at best.6 the trial court concluded its 19-page order by stating t]he evidence as presented . . . show[ed] a [defendant] who has continually committed crimes despite severe repercussions, whose aggressive behavior continu 5 in serious misconduct for a consistent amount of time, as his score has steadily increased from an initial classification score of 6 the court explained that the march 6, 2014, letter defendant provided from the amity foundation had not been updated and did not describe th plans for after the program ended were unspecified beyond a general claim of family support. 12 gelevated classification score, lack of rehabilitative programming, and inadequate re- the court pursuant to section 1170.126, sdefendant ii. discussion d argued er ,namely, new violent felony within the meaning of clause (iv) of subparagraph (c) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of section 7 applied to his proposition 36 petition. his opening brief 7 of particularly serious or violent felonies, known colloquially as valencia, suprafelonies commonly referred to as super strikes are (1) a code, section 6600, subdivision (b); (2) oral copulation or sodomy, or sexual penetration of a child under 14 years of age and more than 10 years younger than the defendant, as defined in . . . sections 286, 288a and 289; (3) a lewd or lascivious act involving a child under 14 years of age, in violation of section 288; (4) any homicide offense, including attempted homicide, as defined in sections 187 to 191.5; (5) solicitation to commit murder, as defined in section 653f; (6) assault with a machine gun on a peace officer or firefighter, as defined in section 245, subdivision (d)(3); (7) possession of a weapon of mass destruction, as defined in section 11418, subdivision (a)(1); and (8) any serious and/or violent felony offense punishable in california by life valencia, supra, at p. 351, fn. 3.) 13 further argued the trial court erred because the facts did not support a finding of dangerousness under that heightened standard. once our supreme court decided valencia, these became losing arguments, as defendant conceded in his reply brief. defendant, however, attempted to salvage his claim on appeal by recasting his argument as one that challenges the trial court determination even though the proposition 47 definition of dangerousness does not apply. the argument made only in reply, that the trial court erred in concluding defendant posed a mere unreasonable risk of , was waived by failing to raise it in the opening brief. nevertheless, we will briefly explain why argument fails on the merits. we further hold, for reasons discussed post, the unreasonable risk of danger to public safety standard in proposition 36 is not unconstitutionally vague under johnson v. united states (2015) ___ u.s. ___ [135 s.ct. 2551] (johnson). a. defendant waived his argument that the trial courtproposition 36 dangerousness finding is erroneous s only that he does not pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety under what he standard set out ithe opening brief makes no g was erroneous if the proposition 47 standard did not apply. this, of course, was not lost on the attorney general, whose 10-page notes that makes no argument 14 that the trial court abused its discretion in finding he posed an as that term is defined under proposition 36 . . . no such argument having been properly raised, the attorney general understandably limited his argument to observing, correctly, that valencia was (valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 375 [interpretation of section 1170.18, subdivision (c) as enacted by proposition 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act. given the circumstances, it is reasonable to interpret section 1170.18, with valencia on the books, defendant changed tack in his reply brief, asserting for the first time that on his proposition 36 petition was error even if the proposition 47 standard did not apply.8 such a change is not permitted. the failure to present the argument in the opening brief forfeits when the 8 defendant devoted five pages of the brief to an attempt to entirely incorrect that propositdefendant, for instance, argued that conduct under the legal framework of the [in re] lawrence [(2008) 44 cal.4th 1181 (lawrencelawrence is not a proposition arguments in this respect are unconvincing. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.204(a)(1)(b).) 15 attorney general has no ability to respond. (people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1218-arguments made for the first time in a reply brief will not be see also people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 349-should be subjected to a comparative juror analysis, [the .) b. the contention that the trial court erred in finding defendant posed an unreasonable risk of danger to the public fails on the merits in any event under section 1170.126, if a defendant is serving an indeterminate life sentence imposed pursuant to the three strikes law, the court shall resentence the defendant as a second strike offender, determines that resentencing the [defendant] would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to pub. (f).) crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the remoteness of the crimes; [] rehabilitation while incarcerated; and [] (3) any other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an ( 1170.126, subd. (g); valencia126, subdivision (g)]; see also people v. frierson (dec. 28, 2017, s236728) ___cal.5th ___ 16 [2017 wl 6614838, at *6] [dangerousness must be proven by a preponderance of the evidence].) the trial court properly exercised its statutory discretion in denying . reasonably found history of misconduct in prison, elevated classification score, and lack of rehabilitative programming. in addition, and as the trial court correctly recognized, serious rule violations while incarcerated are probative of recidivist tendencies and whether resentencing a defendant would endanger the public. (see  1170.126, subd. (g)(2); in re reed (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 1071, 1084-1086.) the trial court history reflects a pattern of violent and aggressive conduct, evidencing his inability or unwillingness to respect authority and refrain from fighting.that, too, was a reasonable judgment. a four-year dtente in context of a longer 21-year prison history that includes multiple assaults on prison staff and violent altercations occurring through not a sufficiently reliable basis to conclude the trial court was clearly wrong to conclude defendant posed an unreasonable threat to public safety. this is especially true when, as the trial court noted, defendant has made minimal efforts to participate in rehabilitative programming while in prison. (see cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subd. 17 c. standard is not unconstitutionally vague under johnson defendant argues valenciarefusal to apply the proposition 47 dangerousness definition to proposition 36 petitions means that section 1170.126, subdivision (f) is johnson . . . the argument is meritless, as valencia itself indicates. in johnson, the high court held void for vagueness the residual clause of the armed career criminal act (acca), which (johnson, supra, ___ u.s. at pp. ___ [135 s. ct. at pp. 2555, 2557].) the residual clause, as construed, required courts to imagine the type of conduct whether that abstraction present[ed] a serious potential risk of id. at p. 2557.) the high court reasoned there a crime in an imagined, ordinary case because it was unclear how to determine what kind of conduct is involved in an ordinary case of a crime. (ibid.) in addition, the johnson court explained the h uncertainty about how much risk is necessary for a crime to qualify as a violent felony when the standard is applied not to --(id. at p. 2558.) the problem in johnson is not a problem here. as our supreme court stated in valencia 18 proposition 36, courts of appeal have rejected arguments that unreasonable risk of danger as used in section 1170.126, subdivision (f), is unconstitutionally vague. (see, e.g., people v. garcia (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 763, 769-770[ ] (garcia); people v. flores (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1070, 1075[ ] (flores) discretion, justly applying the public safety exception, and determining whether a lesser sentence would pose an unreasonable ri)valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at pp. 354-355.) by citing garcia and flores with approval, our supreme court implargument, public safety was based on real-world facts. 19 disposition section 1170.126 petition is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. raphael, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 