 filed 7/23/18 p. v. hart ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony edward hart, defendant and appellant. b277946 los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066743 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, cynthia l. ulfig, judge. affirmed and remanded with instructions. alex green, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant anthony edward hart of assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury and two counts of dissuading a witness. the jury found true allegations that hart committed the crimes for the benefit of or in association with a criminal street gang. at the conclusion of a court trial, the trial court found true three prior strikes for assault with a deadly weapon, robbery, and grossly negligent discharge of a firearm. the trial court sentenced hart to a third strike sentence of 90 years to life. on appeal, hart contends the fied to case-specific testimonial hearsay in violation of his confrontation clause rights. we find no error and therefore affirm. we remand the case for the trial court to correct sentencing errors. facts and procedural background 1. the events of august 15, 2015 in august 2015, dagoberto valiente was living with his wife1 and her son in an apartment complex on 35th street in palmdale. around 7:00 p.m. on august 15, valiente met up with named rafael, in the parking lot at the complex to discuss possible employment. valiente and martinez both are from el salvador. hart then arrived in a nissan altima with two other men, one of whom later was identified as robert joseph salas. valiente had seen hart two or three times and knew him . hart lived in the same apartment complex, and wife 1 testimony of various witnesses at trial referred to and to avoid any unintended disrespect, we refer to her as his wife. 3 greeted hart but not really spoken with him, because valiente speaks spanish and hart speaks english. hart and his companions approached valiente, martinez, and rafael. they said something to martinez in english that valiente did not understand. hart then asked valiente in from el salvador. not understand what hart was saying, although he recognized according to martinez,2 hart asked any problems, . . . hart -of-a- martinez understood this to be a reference to the hart continued speaking to valiente in english. according you valiente told hart that he did not understand what he was with his fist. hart then punched valiente in the eye with his fist, and hart as well as both of his companions began beating valiente. the threesome hit valiente more than 10 times on his head, back, and stomach. valiente heard hart say, street. night, first to martinez and then to valiente. valiente did not martinez pushed hart in the chest. valiente was able to get away briefly; he ran toward a garbage can, then grabbed a skateboard from his stepson. valiente began swinging the 2 martinez testified at trial that he understands english but does not speak it. 4 skateboard toward the three assailants. martinez got into his truck. he was too frightened to enter the passcode into his phone so he pretended to call the police. martinez drove his truck forward and backward between valiente and the three assailants. hart went back toward the car he had come in, then came back toward valiente and martinez. hart reached behind his back with his left hand, pulled out a black semiautomatic firearm, and held it at his side. hart pointed his finger at valiente and hart and his two companions got back into the nissan and the female driver drove off. martinez called the police and valiente spoke with them when they arrived. 2. the charges and allegations the people charged hart with assault with a semiautomatic firearm on valiente (count 1), assault on valiente by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury (count 2), criminal threats against valiente (count 3), dissuading a witness (valiente) from reporting a crime (count 4), and possession of a firearm by a felon (count 6). as to counts 1, 2, 3, and 4 the people alleged hart had personally inflicted great bodily injury on valiente. the people alleged hart had committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. the people alleged various firearms allegations as well. during trial, the people dismissed count 1 and the great bodily injury enhancement as to all counts. the people also moved to amend the information to conform to proof to add a count 7, dissuading a witness (josue martinez santos) from reporting a crime. the people alleged gang and gun allegations as to count 7 as well. 5 3. the trial testimony of the gang expert the case proceeded to trial in june 2016. los angeles delia said he worked in the gang unit and had been in law enforcement for 16 years. delia provided a general description of the 18th street gang. delia testified the robberies, shootings, assaults, and murders. the prosecutor then asked delia about two cases the people relied on as pattern of criminal gang activity within the meaning of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b),3 people v. fajardo, case no. ma062592, and people v. delgado, case no. ma061498. delia said he had had several contacts with fajardo, whose moniker was mugsy. delia testified fajardo had admitted to him and to his partner detective thompson that he was an 18th street gang member. delia said fajardo had several 18th street gang tattoos, including one on his chin. delia testified he was familiar with delgado as well. delia said he had arrested delgado in a gun case and filed a second gun case against him. delia testified delgado had admitted 18th street membership to him, had been arrested with another 18th street gang member, and had 18th street tattoos. the prosecutor marked as exhibits certified copies of the court records -related crime and delgado a firearm. salas had been involved in the alleged crimes charged in this case.4 delia testified he had seen booking photographs of salas 3 all statutory references are to the penal code. 4 salas was charged as a codefendant. he did not proceed to trial and is not a party to this appeal. 6 showing 18th street gang f his head and other 18th street-related tattoos. the prosecutor showed these booking photos to the jury. delia said he had read police reports in which salas had admitted to 18th street gang membership. delia added he had read a number of field identif of his gang membership. turning to hart, delia testified he had read a 2004 arrest report concerning hart and a man named pablo cruz. delia said he had seen booking photos of cruz with 18th street tattoos and read a police report mentioning the tattoos. the prosecutor showed jurors booking photos of cruz with gang tattoos on the back of his head and his lower neck. delia testified hart had 18th street tattoos as well, and the prosecutor showed the jury booking photos of hart with the prosecutor then gave delia a hypothetical set of facts essentially tracking the facts of this case. delia stated that, in his opinion, that hypothetical crime was done in association with the 18th street gang and benefitted the gang. delia went on to testify about gang-related photographs and a list of apparent monikers 4. the defense case ng expert, martin flores, to testify. flores stated that tattoosespecially tattoos that a person acquired years agodo not necessarily mean that person is an active gang member. hart testified on his own behalf. hart said he had joined the 18th street gang when he was about 13 years old. he was 7 active in the 106 clique.5 hart testified he got his first tattoo at age 13, then more tattoos as the years went on. hart admitted these were 18th street tattoos, including tattoos on his neck and chest. hart hart admitted he had been convicted of three felonies and committed to prison each time: in 1998 for discharging a firearm; in 2000 for robbery; and in 2005 for assault with a deadly weapon. hart said he was sentenced to nine years on the third case and paroled in may 2013. hart also admitted that, when he was arrested in 2004 for assault with a deadly weapon, he was with pablo cruz and that cruz was an 18th street gang member. hart conceded 18th street is a criminal street gang. about 2008 or 2009. have his tattoos removed. hart testified he had seen valiente around his apartment complex; their wives were friends. hart had greeted valiente in passing, but they had not really spoken because hart speaks no spanish. hartvaliente passed hart like a real evil, angry look at [hart] with the aggressive [sic hart testified that, on august 15, 2015, he and his friend robert salas had been to a barbecue at the home of friend tim gonzalez. apartment complex; robert salas and tim gonzalez were with them. hart said he walked through the pedestrian gate. 5 deputy delia testified the tiny winos is an 18th street clique that uses the number 106, one of the streets within its neighborhood. 8 valiente, who was with two other men, called to him: hart walked over to valiente, who spoke spanish to him; the only aggressive -- aggressively towards me making aggressive body hart if everything was alright. according to hart, valiente then hit tim and tim hit valiente back. valiente was swinging a man? you guys stay away from my family and we are going to then left. hart testified he never threatened valiente or martinezfrom, nor did salas or gonzalez. hart testified he did not have a gun and never pulled out a gun, displayed a gun, or pointed with his hand at valiente. hart denied ever having told valiente or martinez not to call the police. hart also called michael spells as a witness. spells testified he goes to the apartment complex on 35th street from time to time to drop off his child support payments to his wife. spells said he was there the evening of august 15, outside on his reaming, peeked over the wall, and saw three people under the carport. spells said hart child who had been skateboarding to give him the skateboard. spells said the man a third person got out of the car hart had arrived in and said, . i just heard -- a lot of verbal abuse. and it was mainly towards 9 [hart], but, for the most part, i would say he handled it . . . great . . . police, these camera6 [sic] companions then got in the car and left. spells said he never saw hart or anyone else with a gun. on cross-examination spells testified tattoos and knew they were gang tattoos. 5. the verdicts, new trial motion, and sentence on june 21, 2016, the jury returned its verdicts. the jury was unable to reach agreement on count 3, the criminal threats charge. the jury found hart guilty on counts 2, 4, and 7, assault on valiente by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury and dissuading valiente and martinez from calling the police. the jury found the gang allegations true on those counts. the jury acquitted hart on count 6 (felon in possession of a firearm) and found the gun allegations on the other counts to be not true. nine days after the jury convicted hart, our supreme court decided people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez). on trialreconfrontation clause rights. at the hearing on the motion, counsel argued, gang member[;] he d or any other particular statements other than the question of whether hart remained an 18th street member. the prosecutor 6 video of at least part of the incident was played for the jury. 10 argued that, even if sevidence in support of the gang enhancement was -related items found at the search warrant, and the trial court denied the new trial motion.7 the court also people v. romero (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. the trial court sentenced hart to life with a minimum eligible parole date of 90 years, calculated as follows: on each of the three counts, the court sentenced hart to a third strike sentence of 25 years to life, to be served consecutively pursuant to section 1170.12, subdivisions (a) and (c)(2). the court imposed a five-year gang enhancement on each of those three counts, to be served concurrently with the life terms. the court also sentenced hart to a determinate term of 15 years, consisting of the three serious felony priors under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court imposed and stayed three one-year prison priors under section 667.5(b).8 discussion on appeal, sanchez, the testimony of the pro[deputy] delia, violated the united states constitution in that the detective relied on testimonial hearsay as evidence admitted for the truth-of-the- 7 the prosecutor told the court the people would not seek to retry the criminal threats charge. 8 as discussed below, the parties agree the prison priors must be stricken, not stayed. 11 matter [sic] to establish that 18th street gang members engaged criminal hart also argues his trial lawyer was constitutionally ineffective for failing to object to to sustain a gang enhancement under section 186.22(b), the prosecution must prove the defendant committed the charged felony for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. one of the components of the statutory definition of a criminal street gang iminal gang or by two or more gang members. ( 186.22(e); people v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575, 581 (ochoa).) typically, the prosecution proves the necessary certified court records of two earlier convictions of members of the same gang for qualifying crimes, together with expert testimony about those earlier cases and their perpetrators. 1. sanchez prohibits the introduction through expert testimony of case-specific testimonial hearsay in sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 670, decided on june 30, 2016, our supreme court held that the confrontation clause -specific hearsay [t]he critical question under the confrontation clause is whether the out-of-to implicate the clause under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 51-52, ochoa, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at 583.) addressing the -sanchez court said an expert may testify about his general knowledge in sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676.) by 12 particular events and participants alleged to have been involved ch the expert has no ibid.) the sanchez court gave this tattooed on his arm would be a case-specific fact that could be established by a witness who saw the tattoo, or by an authenticated photograph. that the diamond is a symbol adopted by a given street gang would be background information about which a gang expert could testify. the expert could also be allowed to give an opinion that the presence of a diamond tattoo id. at p. 677.) 2. about the predicate crimes that constituted a pattern of gang activity was not case-confrontation clause rights in the nearly two years since sanchez was decided, courts have continued to try to determine what sorts of expert testimony constitute impermissible case-specific hearsay. the sanchez court defined case-particular events and participants alleged to have been involved sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676.) -specific hearsay . . . to testimony about fajwith another 18th street member when arrested on a gun charge. sanchez did not specifically address whether gang expert testimony about the predicate crimes necessary to establish a of criminal gang activity was case-specific. the court noted the gang expert in that case had testified in a pattern of 13 sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 672.) but focused on the confrontation clause violation arising from the testimony of the gang expertwho had never met sanchezbased on police reports the expert had read about own gang membership and activities. (id. at pp. 685-686.) in people v. meraz (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 1162, review granted mar. 22, 2017, s239442 (meraz),9 division eight of this court held that a gang of permissible general testimony [the gang expert in that case] gave about [the ities, and pattern of id. at p. 1175.) the court there noted such meraz] defendants or the current shooting and mirrored the background testimony the expert gave in sanchez. (meraz, at p. 1175.) the court stated, sanchez, [the gang expert] was permitted to testify to non-case-specific general background gang], its primary activities, and its pattern of criminal activity, even if it was based on hearsay sources like gang members and (meraz, at p. 1175.) the third district court of appeal reached the same conclusion in people v. blessett (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 903 (blessett). the court, quoting sancheztestify concerning general background information relating to 9 on march 22, 2017, the california supreme court granted review in meraz. the high court ordered that the court of pending review. (people v. meraz (2017) 390 p.3d 782; cal. rules of court, rule 8.1115(e)(3).) 14 gang culture and the history gang. (blessett, at p. 943.) the blessett expergang membership of the people involved in those prior offenses. . . . [d]efendant asserts that the facts necessary to prove a pattern of criminal gang activity pursuant to section 186.22 are case-specific facts within the meaning of sanchez because they are facts used to prove the gang enhancement which is charged in the particular case. . . . we disagree. [] sanchez did not address s membership. . . . the predicate offenses used in this case do not fall within this definition; they did not involve the particular events or participants involved in the case being triedblessett, at p. 944; see also people v. vega-robles (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 382, 411 (vega-robles).)10 in sum, under meraz and blessett, testimony that fajardo and delgado, the defendants in the two predicate cases, were 18th street gang members was not impermissible case-specific hearsay. 10 in ochoa, supra, 7 cal.app.5th 575, the first district suggested some expert testimony about the gang membership of predicate crimes defendants might be testimonial and testimony had left the record unclear and insufficient for review. (id. at pp. 584-585.) ochoa pin vega-robles. moreover, one of the predicates in ochoa involved the defendant ochoa himself. the blessett court predicate offense was committed by a defendant charged in the blessett, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 944, fn. 20.) 15 3. any error in admitting testimony about the predicate crimes was harmless under chapman11 in any event, any error in admitting deputy testimony was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. as noted, delia had personally observed the 18th street tattoos on fajardo and delgado, the defendants in the predicate crimes. hart himself admitted he had joined the 18th street gang at an early age (though he claimed to have tried to extricate himself from the gang in later years). hart has 18th street tattoos, including a large and visible tattoo on the front of his neck, going onto his chest. hart testified that, when authorities arrested him in 2004 for assault with a deadly weapon, he was with pablo cruz, a fellow 18th street member. hart stipulated that robert salashis cohort that night in august 2015had been involved in the altercation with valiente, and the jury viewed photographs of hart himself admitted in his testimony at trial that 18th street is motion for a new trial, the evidence supporting the gang allegation was overwhelming.12 4. finally, the parties agree the trial court should have stricken, rather than stayed, the three one-year prison priors it imposed under section 667.5, subdivision (b), because those prison terms were served in the same cases that constituted -year serious felony priors. (people v. perez (2011) 195 11 chapman v. state of california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. 12 predicates and the defendants who committed them was properly 16 cal.app.4th 801, 805; people v. dejourney (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1091, 1094, fn. 3.) the people also note the trial court erred in sentencing hart to concurrent five-year gang enhancements on each count. when a defendant is sentenced to an indeterminate term based on the three strikes law, the sentence on the gang enhancement is not a determinate term, but a requirement that the defendant serve a minimum of 15 years to be eligible for parole. (people v. williams (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 733, 744-745.) in addition, errors appear in the abstract of judgment. the trial court sentenced hart to a consecutive term of 25 years to life for each of the three underlying offenses (counts 2, 4, and 7). but the abstract of judgment does not reflect whether these sentences were consecutive or concurrent. we order the trial court to prepare an amended abstract with the box checked for also, the abstract incorrectly shows the sentence for each of these counts is both life with the possibility of parole (box 5 is checked) and 25 years to life (box 6b is checked). because the sentence for each count is 25 years to life, box 5 on the amended abstract should not be checked. box 6b should be checked. 17 disposition trial court to correct sentencing errors and the abstract of judgment. we direct the trial court to send a certified copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. kalra, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 