filed 4/14/17 p. v. neal ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james w. neal, defendant and appellant. b277413 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba441433) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. richard s. kemalyan, judge. affirmed. andrea keith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * 2 defendant james w. neal appeals from the judgment entered following trial at which the jury found him guilty of sale of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a)). the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed him on probation for a five-year period on certain terms and conditions. defendant contends the judgment must be reversed, because the trial court denied his motion for a mistrial based on references during trial to the absence of audio on the videotape of the drug transaction and his later mistrial motion based on a brief and somewhat vague reference to gangs. further, he contends cumulative errors also mandate reversal of the judgment. we affirm the judgment. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying both motions for mistrial. the court admonished the jury pursuant to the instruction crafted by both parties not to consider the absence of audio or references to the absence of audio on the videotape, which instruction the jury is presumed to have understood and followed. the fleeting reference to gang members was inconsequential to the issues in the case and did not give rise to an inference that defendant was associated with any gang. background on november 11, 2015, about 3:00 or 4:00 p.m., the los angeles police department (lapd) conducted a controlled drug buy. the lapd equipped the informant with a video and audio recording device, a radio transmitter, and pre-recorded bills. after the informant colocation where drugs are sold, the hook led him to a trailer near crenshaw boulevard and 71st street. once there, the informant gave the hook a pre-recorded $20 bill. the hook gave the bill to defendant through a trailer window, and defendant gave the hook 0.38 grams of rock cocaine-level purchase for 3 $20. the hook gave the cocaine to the informant, who then gave the hook $5 e police recovered the pre-recorded $20 bill from a stacthe informant identified defendant at a field showup and from his photograph at trial. in sum, there was oves guilt of the charged crime. discussion 1. denial of mistrial motion based on absence of audio not abuse of discretion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in to the absence of audio on the videotape were prejudicial. we find no abuse of discretion. a. applicable legal principles on mistrial motions. (people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 565.) we review tof discretion standard. (people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 555.) a trial court should grant s chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged.ibid.) in other (people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854.) whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter[.] wharton, at p. 565.) b. references to absence of audio the drug transaction was caught on videotape except for the exchange of the drugs for money, hand reaching out and a hand at a pretrial hearing, the trial court granted the defense 4 listened to the arguments concerning the video and audio associated with that and having heard the arguments and considered the matter, it is my order that the audio connected with the video will not be admissible. while the video was played to the jury, the prosecutor asked, anan we get some audio on there. that the court instructed the jury, . . . that i . . . the audio on the video. [] i want you to be aware of why that is at least to the extent i can. portions of things that are said in this audio have evidentiary objections that the court has heard and spoken to the lawyers about thearing the audio at this time. there are evidentiary reasons that the court advised the informant like to refer to the audio, . . . asking you questions and both lawyers will ask . . . questions about he admonished should avoid indicating at any time what someone said to you, but you [he] subsequentanswering the question posed by defense counsel, the trial court overruled the defense objection under evidence code section 356. 5 defense counsel later highly prejudicial comments continuously stated by [the informant] in regards to his statements about the audio not being played, in essence, . . . to insinuate or wonder why this audio is not being advised the jury regarding the reason why it would not be hearing the n i told [the informant], you can tell us what you said, but not what anyone else court invited counsel for both parties to draft an instruction to the effect that the jury did not hear the audio because of evidentiary issues and [the jury] was to decide the case without any reference to the audio [or to] what any witness may have stated was presented on the audio. what the court told the jury today. on that basis, i would deny the the court gave the agreed upon instruction: . . . of a video was introduced at trial. [] the court ruled that the audio of the video was inadmissible. [] you are not to consider the fact that audio exists for any purpose. [] you must not speculate or consider why the court excluded the audio. [] existence of audio must be completely disregarded and must play no part in your deliberation proc c. no prejudice flowing from references to audio absence we are not persuaded it is likely that the jury would infer from the two statements of the informant quoted above that the audio contained matter adverse to the defendant and that the defense tactic was to foreclose the jury from hearing the audio portion of the videotape. immediately after the first comment, the trial court 6 specifically admonished the jury that the jury would not be hearing lings sustaining objections to some of the audio. with regard to the second reference to the absent audio, the court requested and gave the curative instruction drafted jointly by counsel for both parties. this not [to] speculate or and to disregard completely comments on the existence of instructions. (people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 139.) no prejudice therefore flowed from the two comments regarding the absent audio portion of the videotape. s admonitions, we think it unlikely the jury would have been inclined to give any weight to the references to the absence of audio, since there was overwhelming proof of the charged crime, including the video, the s eyewitness identification at the field showup and at trial, and the pre-s possession when he was arrested. 2. denial of mistrial motion based on gang reference not abuse of discretion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion for mistrial based on the reference to gang udicial. denial of the mistrial motion was not an abuse of discretion. when viewed in context, the reference to a a. context of gang reference detective currie testified on cross-examination that during the search of the trailer, the police found a on redirect examination, the prosecutor noted defense asked what detective 7 currie saw when he looked inside. detective were religious writings, talking about how to recruit gang members, in overruling a defense relevance objection, subsequently, dtestified about what he characterized as writings contained within the [trailer]arthe charge of cocaine bas. . . . inflammatory and the prejudicial effect of that irrelevant, prejudicial testimony . . . would [render] the jury . . . unable to fairly examine the admission of what was in the notebooks. he denied any intent to [asked] detective currie about the absence of pay-owe sheets and the nature of what was in the the trial court denied the mistrial motion, finding the defense court further ruled that there wa b. reference to gang innocuous no potential prejudice to defendant could flow from the reference to gang members in this context. as he himself points out, such reference is irrelevant to the cocaine charge in this case. again, defendant fails to articulate a cogent theory of prejudice. defendant was not charged with any gang enhancement, and the reason why 8 defendant sold drugs was irrelevant to any charged offense. to be harmful to the defense, there must be a negative connection to defendant, e.g., he is a gang member or, at a minimum, associated with a criminal gang. when viewed in context, no such inference could be drawn, because the subject of the notebooks pertained not nothing was said by detective currie that could be 3. reversal unwarranted in absence of error defendant contends the cumulative errors necessitate reversal of the judgment. having found no error, we conclude there was no cumulative error. (people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 598; people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 849.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 