filed 3/14/18 p. v. nunez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rogelio gerardo mora nunez, defendant and appellant. b278655 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya091610) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. steven r. van sicklen, judge. affirmed. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 rogelio gerardo mora nunez appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial that resulted in his conviction of forcible rape (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2); count 1),1 corporal injury to a girlfriend ( 273.5, subd. (a); count 2), and false imprisonment ( 236; count 3). on appeal, nunez contends there was insufficient evidence to support the finding that he committed forcible rape. he also argues that the sentences on counts 2 and 3 should be stayed under section 654. we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background the evidence 1. norah doe2 norah met nunez in april of 2014 on a dating website. they communicated via text messaging and phone calls. in july 2014, they met in person and began dating. the relationship became exclusive and they saw each other at least twice a week. by mutual consent, they used sex toys, whips, and ropes. nobody was physically hurt. they often debated on whether to perform certain sexual acts. if norah did not want to engage in a certain sexual act with nunez, he would discuss the idea with her and try to convince her why he thought she should. for example, norah advised nunez that she did not want to participate in anal sex. after nunez pressured her, she eventually agreed to do it. when discussing anal sex with nunez, she never told him 1 all further references are to the penal code. 2 due to the nature of the offense, the last name of the victim has been omitted. 3 aloneto engage in anal sex. they also discussed whether norah liked to be dominated. norah told nunez that she preferred for him to be the person who takes the lead. a few months into relationship, both norah and nunez tested positive for an sexually transmitted disease. after norah was treated, she told nunez she only wanted to engage in ondoms. they continued to date exclusively. on or about november 19, 2014, they kissed and engaged in foreplay, and nunez began to have unprotected vaginal sex with norah. during the act, norah told nunez to stop and he stopped. they instead had unprotected oral sex. on november 22, 2014, norah and nunez decided to have a night out. around 6:00 p.m., norah arrived at apartment in manhattan beach, where they each consumed an they continued to drink alcoholic beverages. after that, they went to a restaurant/bar with the friend to celebrate a birthday, where they ate appetizers and continued to drink alcoholic beverages. they went to several bars after that and continued to drink alcohol. a little before 2:00 a.m., they decided norah got into bed wearing her bra and underwear; nunez and removed her clothes. norah reminded him that if they were going to engage in sex, he would need to use a condom. nunez him to use a condom because they both had been treated and 4 nunez continued to move closer to norah and became verbally aggressive. at that point, she became uncomfortable and went to the restroom and put her bra and underwear back on. when norah returned to the bed, nunez got upset and he stop. she called for help and while she was yelling, nunez took uth and pinched her nose nunez then removed his hands from her face, and norah asked hirespond. she started yelling again, and he covered her mouth he released his hands, norah asked him if she had sex with him if he would ave to face him, and he had unprotected vaginal sex with her. nunez ejaculated on her back, buttocks, and hair. after he ejaculated, nunez wrapped his legs around norah she then asked him if she could leave, and able to grab her dress and purse and leave his apartment. norah felt like it took at least 20 minutes for nunez to fall asleep, but it could have been longer. she left her bra, underwear and shoes at his apartment. 5 once outside, although it would have been easier for norah to get to her car through an alley, she went to the busy street because she was afraid he was going to catch her. at about 4:00 a.m., as norah was getting to her car, she called her friend brittany, who told her to call the police. norah called 911. that morning, norah went to the manhattan beach police station to speak with detective michael rosenberger. at the station, norah agreed to call nunez. the police also took pictures legs hurt and she had a scratch on the back of her leg. she also had a limp in her leg, and a bruise on the back of her arm. her nose hurt a lot, and an officer pointed out to her that she had a scratch on her neck. 2. detective rosenberger on november 23, 2014, detective rosenberger received a call regarding a case that had just occurred in the city of manhattan beach. he spoke with norah about the incident and asked her to place a call to nunez as part of the investigation. the conversation between norah and nunez was recorded. during the call, nunez stated that he another police officer then took norah to see a nurse for an examination. 3. susan barie on november 23, 2014, at approximately 9:25 a.m., susan barie, a registered nurse, examined norah. barie noticed s neck and on her right leg. norah also had bruises on her right leg, right knee, inner thighs, and left buttock. during an exafound abrasions on left labia minora. barie determined description of the incident with nunez. 6 the defense evidence nunez called one witness, amber howard, his neighbor at his apartment complex for the past two years. howard testified that the walls in the building were very thin. she could hear nunez play music, take a shower, and the sound of his fan. she could on november 22, 2014, howard met nunez for the first him through a friend of a friend. she also met norah. howard observed both nunez and norah drinking, and thought they that night, when howard returned back to her apartment, she heard two people having sex. she heard in pleasure. howard did not hear anyone scream for help. the verdict and sentencing the jury convicted nunez of forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2); count 1), corporal injury to a girlfriend ( 273.5, subd. (a), count 2), and false imprisonment ( 236; count 3). the trial court sentenced nunez to the midterm of six years in state prison for count 1. the court then imposed concurrent midterms of three years for count 2, and two years for count 3. nunez filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. sufficient evidence supported that nunez committed forcible rape given the relationship between nunez and norah and the history of their sexual encounters, nunez argues no rational trier of fact could have concluded, beyond a reasonable doubt, that he did not actually and reasonably believe norah consented to the act of sexual intercourse. we disagree. 7 a. standard of review verdict, a reviewing court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable jury could find the defendant guilty beyond a (people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 617.) jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and people v. white (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 305, 315, fn. 13.) b. analysis section 261, subdivision (a)(2) sexual intercourse accomplished with a person not the spouse of the perpetrators will by means of force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and unlawful s reasonable and good faith mistake of fact s consent to sexual intercourse is a defense to people v. williams (1992) 4 cal.4th 354, 360, relying on people v. mayberry (1975) 15 cal.3d 143, 155 (mayberry).)3 to 3 there is no dispute the jury was properly instructed with the mayberry rape if he actually and reasonably believes or believed that the woman consented to the intercourse and actually and reasonably believed that she consented throughout the act of intercourse. 8 give consent ( 261.consent must be distinguished from submission. for instance, a s decision to submit to an s sexual demands out of fear of bodily injury is not consent (citations) because the decision is not freely and voluntarily made ( 261.6) (people v. giardino (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 454, 460, fn. 3.) here, after norah told nunez that she did not want to f her bra and underwear. he then pinned her arms back and used his legs to prm to stop and called uth and pinched her nose shut so she could not breathe. when he removed his hands from her face, norah asked him if she was going to make it out alive, and he did not respond, causing norah to yell for help again. at that point, in fear that she was going to die, norah asked nunez if he would let her go if she agreed to have it was only then she allowed him to have vaginal sex with her. as a result of the incident, norah suffered abrasions on her neck, leg, and labia minor, and had bruises on her leg, arm, inner thigh, knee, and buttock. she also had a limp in her leg and her nose hurt a lot. the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did not actually and reasonably believe that the woman consented. if the people have not met this burden, you must 9 this evidence, taken as a whole and viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment, was more than sufficient for the jury to reasonably conclude nunez committed forcible rape. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 [[u]nless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a ii. section 654 did not preclude the trial court from imposing separate sentences on counts 2 and 3 nunez contends the acts of corporal injury to a girlfriend (count 2) and false imprisonment (count 3) were incidental to his single objective of engaging in sexual intercourse. he argues the sentences for count 2 and count 3 must be stayed under section 654. a. standard of review section 654 s punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be ( 654, subd. (a); people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 335 (harrison).) this prohibition against multiple punishment extends to situations in he defendant had only a single intent and all of the offenses were incidental to that one objective. (harrison, supra, at p. 335.) to one objective, may give rise to multiple violations and (people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d 625, 639, fn. 11.) courts must consider whether the defendant had an opportunity 10 to reflect upon and renew his intent before committing the next offense and whether each offense created a new risk of harm. (people v. gaio (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 919, 935; people v. kwok (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1236, 1255.) a trial court is vested with broad latitude to decide if section 654 applies in a given case. in the absence of an explicit ruling by the trial court at sentencing, we infer that the court made the finding appropriate to the sentence it imposed, i.e., (people v. mejia (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 1036, 1045 (mejia).) its findings will not be reversed on appeal if there is substantial evidence to support them. (people v. jones (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1139, 1143.) we view the evidence in the light most favorable to a respondent and presume in support of the sentence the existence of every fact the trial court reasonably could have deduced from the evidence. (people v. tarris (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 612, 627.) b. analysis nunezreliance on mejia, supra, 9 cal.app.4th at pages 10441045, for the proposition that section 654 precludes separate punishment for rape and corporal injury is misplaced. in mejia, the defendant was convicted of spousal rape, infliction of corporal injury on a spouse, criminal threats, and torture.4 4 torture require[d] the infliction of great bodily injury with the intent to cause cruel or extreme pain and suffering. ( 206.) to satisfy that element, the statute necessarily require[d] the intentional commission of one or more assaultive acts, such as infliction of corporal injury on a spouse, committed with the intent to cause cruel or extreme pain and suffering. accordingly, although a defendant may be convicted of both torture and of any or all of the underlying acts (citation), section 654 preclude[d] imposition of unstayed sentences for both torture and any of the 11 (mejia, supra, at p. 1039.) the issue before the court of appeal was whether the defendaof corporal injury on a spouse were included among the acts underlying the torture count. (id. at p. 1046.) because there was course of conduct, nor did the prosecutor seek to distinguish any of those acts on that basis, section 654 precluded imposition of unstayed sentences on those counts. (ibid.) here, by contrast, nunez was not convicted of torture, and the reasoning in mejia is inapplicable to his situation. instead, substantial evidence supports a finding that the offenses consisted of separate acts to which separate punishments applied. first, ered her mouth negotiated her eventual release by agreeing to have sex with nunez. after to face him, he penetrated her. third, after he ejaculated on her, leave. although the three incidents occurred in rapid succession, each offense created a new risk of harm. (harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 335 [the temporal proximity of the events does not mean they were part of one indivisible course of conduct].) yelling for help, and was not incidental to the offense of rape. nunez had the opportunity to reflect before he took advantage of her fear and raped her. once he ejaculated, underlying assaultive offenses upon which the prosecution relie[d] mejia, supra, 9 cal.app.5th at pp. 10441045.) 12 wrapping his legs around norah was to prevent her from leaving. thus, the trial court was entitled to conclude that each act was separate, and section 654 did not preclude separate sentences. disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. 