filed 3/5/18 p. v. allen ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. timothy lee allen, defendant and appellant. b278755 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba387364) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen kennedy, judge. affirmed and remanded. ralph h. goldsen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller, acting supervising deputy attorney general, and jodeputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 summary defendant timothy lee allen appeals following his jury conviction of the first degree murder of taburi watson, with true findings on allegations the offense was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(4) & (b)(1)(c)),1 a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing mr. death ( 12022.53, subds. (d)&(e)(1)), and defendant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the jury also convicted defendant of possession of a firearm by a person prohibited by law (former  12021, subd. (a)(1) (now  29800)), with a true finding on the gang allegation appended to that count. defendant admitted a prior robbery conviction. the court sentenced defendant to 80 years to life. on appeal, defendant challenges the admission in evidence, under the hearsay exception for statements against penal interest (evid. code,  1230), of the videotaped recording of a conversation between another participant in the murder and a jailhouse informant. and, in supplemental briefing, defendant contends that legislation effective january 1, 2018, ending the stfirearm enhancement (see  12022.5 & 12022.53), applies and requires a remand for a new sentencing hearing. we find no error in the admission of the videotaped recording. accordingly, we affirm the judgment, but we agree discretion to decide whether to strike the firearm enhancement under the new legislation. 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 facts 1. the murder on the evening of december 29, 2010, 14-year-old taburi watson was shot and killed near st. andrews park in south los angeles. there were no eyewitnesses to the shooting, but several people heard multiple gunshots fired in rapid succession. fanta a. had just arrived at her apartment house. when she heard the gunshots, she went inside the intersection of 87th street and st. andrews place. she saw a bicycle lying in the roadway near the intersection. ms. a. also saw a dark-colored car on st. andrews place [s], with the windows down despite the cold weather, that made a u-turn and slowed down. ms. in the car, but there was a man ms. a. a. saw the passenger look[ing] over. outside and saw they had been looking ,house. johnny m. was working at st. andrews park on the evening of the murder, and heard gunshots at around 7:15 or 7:30 p.m. he stayed inside his office for a minute or two, then went out. the victim was lying in the yard, and a bicycle was in the middle of the street. he saw a car coming toward the bicycle, the bicycle out of the roadway and propped it against a pole. the victim was not moving, but was moaning. he saw two people about 100 yards away walking south on st. andrews place. 4 two police officers on routine patrol heard the gunshots and drove slowly toward the park, a known gang hangout, looking for victims or evidence of a shooting. three people to the victim lying on her front lawn. he was bleeding, facedown, not conscious and barely breathing. he was taken to a hospital but died shortly after the shooting. investigators recovered seven discharged .45-caliber cartridge casings, all apparently fired from the same semi-automatic pistol (as opposed to a revolver), probably a glock. no guns were recovered. the victim suffered four gunshot wounds. the fatal bullet entered his upper back, perforated the right lung and exited on the right neck, with an upward trajectory. 2. the investigation the police began their investigation with the theory that the murder was gang related. this theory was based on the location of the shooting and the clothing the victim was wearing, ). the eight trey gangster crip not long before the murder, detective kevin currie had spoken with the victim, who admitted he was a member of a gang, and who was with another eight trey gang member when he (the companion) was arrested on an outstanding warrant. there had been several other shootings in the month of december that appeared to involve the rivalry between the eight trey gang and s gang. the police made no progress in identifying any suspects until almost two months later. in late february 2011, c.w. called and then came to the 77th street station with information about the murder, and about an apparent gang shooting that had occurred several weeks before the murder. 5 the information c.w. related to the police was given to her by her then-boyfriend and the father of her child, theron shakir. mr. shakir told c.w.- that he and defendant (both mem90s gang) had killed taburi watson, and that marques binns (who was not a gang member) had driven them to st. andrews park for the purpose of killing an eight trey gang member and had picked them up after the shooting. the background and the details c.w. gave to police are as follows. a. the background the murder of taburi watson was committed on december 29, 2010. by the beginning of december 2010, c.w. and mr. shakir were not getting along well with each other, and mr. shakir had two other children with two other women, and c.w. was upset about his ongoing relationships with other women and his neglect of her and their baby son. in early december, an argument culminated with c.w. stabbing mr. shakir in the arm. mr. shakir drove himself and a friend, brandon warren, to the hospital in a rented black chevrolet hhr. mr. shakir could not drive when he left the hospital, so his [him], and [brandon warren] while driving the car, mr. warren was shot. mr. warren and marques binns were cousins. at the end of 2010, mr. shakir and c.w. some relationship . . . b. c.w. the police (officer samuel arnold and detective john ferreira) interviewed c.w. when she came to the station on february 22, 2011. the interview was recorded. 6 c.w. began by telling the investigators about the brandon warren shooting, which occurred shortly before the murder of taburi watson(the taburi watson murder) c.w. said that she knew about the taburi watson murder gonna look up it was a little boy o, the street. so, they walked through the park and then they seen ey asked where the boy was gang bang was in the car. [] . . . [] . . . so, i guess they left c.w. 90s gang] is my ex-boyfriend. his friend [(defendant)] is from c.w. tight with my ex-boyfriend [] . . . [] . . . that he told me all the [] . . . [] . . . -boyfriend as theron shakir, binns. c.w. 7 of a sudden, they come back all hostile. talking about what they she said ththere, but i guess, to take the gun or something. and then they mr. . . . . . . . basically that night [mr. shakir] end up telling me the whole story and it just stayed on my mind, like, oh, my gosh. so something told me time and everything was jus c.w. again described what mr. shakir told her when he was, like, oh, i need to watch the news . . . . he, like, yeah we parked over there, and then we hopped out. we walked through the park and [the victim] banged on us . . . .. . . who was he? . . . gonna come and raid my house . . . . he was in his had a revolver. [] . . . [] . . . and the other one had, i think, a w.c.w. later she ssay he had a revolver, lil grape the other e one who stay right there in the car, she had not seen mr. shakir with a gun before, but he had brought some bullets to her house that she still had. c.w. find a place t8 , officer arnold asked her if they buried both the guns or just one of them, and c.w. . . . i think lil grape had c.w. is the right scene [(referring to st. andrews park)]. because the, uh, because the looked it up on google [] . . . [] also told investigatorto run. [mr. shakir] said the boy tried to run and the boy was c.w. [mr. shakir] said he say, i was just wondering why the boy kept m sorry. and i was just sitting there, like, oh, officer arnold and detective eric crosson interviewed c.w. again on march 29, 2011. she told much the same story. c. informant as a result of the information from c.w., the police arrested mr. shakir and mr. binns on august 2, 2011. detective crosson informed mr. binns that police had information that he had driven persons involved in the murder of taburi watson to st. andrews park; that those persons were theron shakir and defendant; that the shooting was in retaliation for the shooting of ; that after the shooting mr. shakir and defendant had gotten back into the car driven by mr. binns; that 9 they went back to mr. that police had cell phone information that could pinpoint locations of the persons involved; and other facts related to the shooting. in this conversation, detective crosson hinted that the information was coming from mr. shakir. detective crosson and them to see each other after having been joking with theron . . . . after seeing mr. shakir laughing with the detectives, mr. binns was then placed in a cell with a confidential informant, and their conversation was monitored and videotaped. mr. binns told the informant he was in for murder but was not a (gang member). the informant said he was also in for murder, -answered affirmatively when the informant he but mr. binns repeatedly said, referring to the police[t][the detective] said it was, like, because nothing, you feel me? they they talking all sorts of crazy shit, talking about shit on phones, all type of crazy they done did it. he when the informant asked, they say they got our them . . . ? a [] . . . [] . . . , like i end up 10 just was like phones together, they got witness that saw me driving and some much said i orchestrated it. like, i got two n----s together and they did me a favor for my cousin who (unintelligible) got shot by mr. binns told the informant that the third person mr. . . . mr. binns explawhile we do this . . . . be involved in no type of way anyway, you know[], this is a shock back with you in a few minutes. let us do our shit. . . . [l]et us take care of this . . . . the informant asked mr. the informant asked what they did with the guns, and told themm-----f-----s up out of here. not going to leave them here . . . . the informant a11 . . . . i broke them all the way down to a science. and we broke wrapped them in these bags, and set these mutha f------s out to the d. defendant was not apprehended until several years later. in september 2015, defendant was charged by information with the murder of mr. watson and with possession of a firearm by a felon, together with various firearm and gang enhancements. an amended information in january 2016 alleged a prior strike conviction for robbery. a jury trial held in early 2016 ended in a mistrial, with jurors unable to reach a verdict. after the retrial described below, the jury convicted defendant of first degree murder. in addition to testimony and documents establishing the facts we have described above, the evidence and events at the second trial included the following. i. c.w. c.w. testified that she fabricated her statements to the police. she stated she saw the incident on the news and then she testified she told police that mr. shakir had kidid in that incident[.] she testified she told police that mr. i said because i made . . . frustrated and . . . their baby had c12 from february to july 2011, c.w. had no contact with mr. recording of that call was played for the jury. mr. shakir told c.w. body, somebody like tipped them whoever tipped them off will . . . . ii. the cell phone location evidence the police obtained from c.w. her cell telephone number and the numbers of mr. shakir, mr. binns and defendant. the prosecutor presented testimony from detective sean hansen, team. among other things, that team provides expert testimony in historical cell site analysis. such analysis uses records from of the towers that were used when someone made or received a identify areas where a phone would have been when it made or the afternoon of the murder (which occurred around 7:15 or 7:30 p.m.), multiple calls were made from cell phones belonging to mr. binns, mr. shakir and defendant that used cell towers near c.w.0.3 miles from the murder scene. at 7:20 p.m., mmurder scene. still later, calls were made from the phones of 13 defendant, mr. shakir and mr. binns using cell towers all thwhere marques binns lived. beginning at 8:37 p.m. and until 10:59 p.m., mr. c.w.residence.2 iii. gang evidence defendant does not challenge the sufficiency of the gang evidence, stating that he did not challenge evidence he was a 90s at trial, and that to be a member, but the evidence of his membership was u summarizing the basis for the gang expert opinion. the gang expert . . . testified to his opinions that [defendant] and shakir are members of [roll 90s], that [rollin90s] has an ongoing rivalry with the eight trey gangster crips, that [the murder victim] was a member of the eight trey gang, and that in his opinion, the shooting . . . was a retaliatory shooting committed for 90s engaged in a pattern of criminal activities. iv. other evidence mr. shakir testified, denying participation in the murder and denying having told c.w. that he was involved. he also 2 defendant does not cite any of this evidence, or any other evidence on the location of the cell phones. instead, defendant describes the defense arguments, including that mr. hansen testimony proved, at best, only that [defendant] was using one of those phones in the area in which he lived at the time the shooting 14 testified that when he called c.w. from jail, he was not calling to she had already said that she was going to try to get me killed or put in jail, so i knew that could be the only reason that i would be in the prosecution called mr. binns as a witness, but on the witness stand mr. binns refused to take the oath or participate in any manner. the jury saw and heard the videotape of his conversation with the informant in its entirety. e. the verdict and sentence the jury found defendant guilty of the first degree murder of mr. watson and the firearm possession count, and found true the gang and firearm allegations. defendant admitted his prior robbery conviction. on october 26, 2016, the court sentenced defendant to 80 years to life (25 years to life for the murder, doubled for the strike ( 667, subds. (b)-(i) & 1170.12), plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (e)(1)), plus a 5-year enhancement for his prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1))). the court imposed a concurrent seven-year sentence for the firearm possession and related gang enhancement. the court also awarded custody credits and made further orders not at issue on this appeal. discussion 1. the declarations against interest defendant challenges the admission into evidence of mr. statements to the informant as declarations against interest. -shifting [and] self-amendment right to confrontation and his due process right to a trial with reliable ev defendant questions the validity of precedents on which the trial court relied, and asserts 15 controlling california authority. conclude, applying applicable precedents, that consider[ing] each statement in have made the statement[s] unless he believed [them] to be true. (people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 716 (grimes).) because the statements were nontestimonial and reliable, they present no sixth amendment or due process concerns. a. before trial, the prosecutor filed a motion to admit the binns recording. among other things, the prosecutor argued mr. criteria described in people v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298, 334 (greenberger), and repeated in people v. cervantes (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 162, 175 (cervantes) ( the trial court must look to the totality of the circumstances in which the statement was made, whether the declarant spoke from personal knowledge, the possible motivation of the declarant, what was actually said by the declarant and anything else relevant to the inquiry; ibid. the most reliable circumstance is one in which the conversation occurs between friends in a noncoercive setting that . y self-; the thrust of the his own alleged participation as a driver; and the statements were made under unreliable circumstances because they were preceded by interviews with the detectives and elicited by a planted informant. the trial court held a hearing under evidence code section 402, but most of the discussion related to the 16 admissibility of selected portions of police interviews with mr. binns (during which detectives told him the details they knew about the crime, including that mr. binns had driven persons involved in the murder to st. andrews park and those persons were mr. shakir and defendant). the court observed [the binns-informant tape] comes in, which i think it probably does under greenberger, cervantes. and then you all the court excluded the police interview, instead allowing detective crosson to testify (as already described) about what he told mr. binns the police knew.) later, during the trial, the defense again moved to exclude the binns statementsdeclaration against penal interest3 to a police agent. he did not make those statements in preparation for trial. this is not a testimonial issue at all; it is a is clarifying 3 -serving you know what i shooting was going down. you involved in no type of way anyway, you know, this is a shock for me . . . .script was, but they was like, you know . . . , but we not going to 17 his role and acknowledging, knowing that wrongdoing was going to happen, knowingly the covering up after the fact of the within greenberger the court concluded that a case cited by defense counsel had not overruled the greenberger-cervantes line of cases, and b. the legal principles in his opening brief, defendant provides us with a five-page introduction, followed by a four-page discussion of the standard of review, followed by a seven--shifting statements are nd then elaborates on his contention the binns as well as with his legal analysis. we need not discuss the multiplicity of authorities defendant cites. the principles we must follow, including the standard of review, are thoroughly described in grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th 698. i. the standard of review tement is admissible under evidence code section 1230 for abuse of discretion. [citations.] whether a trial court has correctly construed evidence code section 1230 is, however, a question of law that we review de novo.grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 711-712; see id. misunderstanding of the law governing the admission of statements against interest.18 against-peculiar facts of the individual case is ribid.), but a conclusion ii. the applicable law grimes begins with a few basic principles. evidence code permits the admission of any statement that when made, . . . so far subjected [the declarant] to the risk of . . . criminal liability, . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement un(grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 710-711.) to demonstrate that an out-of-court declaration is admissible as a [t]he proponent of such evidence must show that the declarant is unavailable, that made and that the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 711, quoting people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 610-611 (duarte).) in determining whether a statement is truly against interest within the meaning of evidence code section 1230, and hence is sufficiently trustworthy to be admissible, the court may take into account not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of the declarant, grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 711.) then grimes discusses the leach rule, to which defendant adverts throughout his brief: that evidence code section 1230 is inapplicable to evidence of any statement or portion of a statement not itself specifically disserving to the interests of the declarant.(people v. leach (1975) 15 cal.3d 419, 441 (leach).) observing that the proper application of the leach rule appears to have generated sgrimes examines 19 grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 713, 713-717.) the court concluded: in short, the nature and purpose of the against-interest exception does not require courts to sever and excise any and all portions of an otherwise inculpatory statement that do not the declarant. ultimately, courts must consider each statement in context in order to answer the ultimate question under evidence code section 1230: whether the statement, even if not independently inculpatory of the declarant, is nevertheless against the dhave made the statement unless he believed it to be true.(grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 716.) the court explained further: statement than was necessary to expose him to criminal liability, requiring courts to mechanically sever and excise the rest, certainly might be easier to apply. but . . . this is not the rule we have: under the law as it has developed in california, as in the federal system, context matters in determining whether a statement or portion thereof is admissible under the against-interest exception. this contextual approach accords with the rationales underlying the modern expansion of the rule governing the admission of statements against interest.grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 717.) in the discussion culminating in the conclusions just quoted, grimes offers further observations pertinent here. noting [o]ur cases . . . have taken a contextual approach to the application of the leach explains: we have applied leach to bar admission of those portions of a -serving or otherwise appear to shift responsibility to others. (duarte, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 612 [excluding portions of confession that, far from specifically 20 disserving[the declarants] penal interests, positively served those interests] . . . . but we have permitted the admission of those portions of a confession that, though not independently penal interests, also are not merely self-serving, but inextricably tied to and part of a specific statement against penal interest. (people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 120-121 (samuelshim to kill the victim, and rejecting the argument that the reference to the defendant should have been purged,where the statement in question was in no way exculpatory, self-serving, or collateral].)4 (grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 715, italics added.) thus grimes explicitlor hypertechnical application of the leach rule that would in all cases require exclusion of even those portions of a confession that are inextricably intertcriminal liability.(grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 716; see also people v. smith (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 766, 792 (smith) [he cases . . . make it clear that the fact a hearsay statement portrays the declarant as a more minimal participant in a crime by itself does not require exclusion or end our analysis[o]nly when there is both blame shifting by the declarant and other circumstances suggest some improper motive for the blame 4 in grimes, the court concluded the trial court erred in excluding statements made by the actual killer in which the killer claimed that he acted alone and that the defendant was not involved. (grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 703.) defendant asserts that grimes exculpatory use of collateral asgrimes reliance on samuels, supra, 36 cal.4th 96, demonstrates the lack (grimes, at pp. 715, 716.) 21 shifting have courts found admission of a hearsay statement error c. contentions and conclusions i. statements against penal interest greenberger applies whenever the declarant trusts the recipient, regardless of whether a statement is blame-e on greenberger in a case involving blame-shifting statements is this contention is untenable, as grimes makes clear when it refers to the admissibility of portions of a confession that are inextricably tied to and part of a specific statement against penal interest. (grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 715.) this, it appears to us, is exactly such a case. defendant insists that mr. -serving, exculpatory and blame shifting, and should be understood in context as an effort (1) to lay a foundation for lenient treatment of binns and (2) retaliate against shakir for wha a reading of the transcript of mr. ls no basis at all the motivation for as to the latter claim s may be understood as an effort to retaliate against mr. shakir), the statement demonstrates exactly the contrary. mr. binns clearly ), me? hese [detectives] know too much, dude, (italics added.) 22 s reasonably be understood as an effort to lay a foundation for lenient treatment. grimes grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 715), and so did greenberger and cervantes ( he trial court must look to the totality of the circumstancescervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th at p. 175). the most telling circumstance is that mr. binns thought he was talking to a 60s gang tramp- it is impossible that -inmate. and nothing in the transcript of the conversation (or the surrounding circumstances) suggests that mr. binns believed or suspected that he was talking to a police agent or that the informant could otherwise do anything to obtain leniency for him. driver and not the shooter, did not see the shooting, and had never been in jail, and he may well have thought this made him less culpable. but, viewed in context (as grimes and all other supreme court authorities require), that does not make his statements to the informant less trustworthy, or convert them into . . . condemned in duarte. (duarte, supra, 24 cal.4th at pp. 614-615.) mr. shakir planned to kill a rival gang member to avenge the to be a part of it. knowing that, he dropped them off, waited in [ed] his statements were not 23 -was no one wi defendant insists that the just-quoted portions of mr. bconversation with the informant and other similar comments deprived everything he said to the informant of trustworthiness.5 this assertion depends on the erroneous proposition that, under duarte, where -shifting or otherwise self-serving in addition to erroneously -seeing the shooting, defendantduarte is misplaced. duarte under which they were uttered and the possible motivation of the duarte, supra, 24 were that they were postarrest statements to a police officerid. also . . . id. at p. 615, citation omitted.) . . . (id. at p. 616, citation omitted.) duarte does not stand for the 5 the statements defendant cites are the same as those he identified to the trial court (see fn. 3, anteeve 24 inherently unreliable no matter to [whom] they are directed, as defendant asserts. on the contrary, duarte expressly considered the statements were made. we do the same here. people v. gallardo (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 51 (gallardo), a case decided after briefing in this case was complete. in gallardo, our colleagues in division seven held it was error to admit, as a declaration against to two paid informants, identifying his codefendants as the shooter and the driver in a gang murder case. we have no quarrel with the reasoning or the result in gallardo, but it does not change our analysis. indeed, it demonstrates the controlling principle in determining whether a statement is admissible under the against-interest exceptioncontext matters(grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 717.) the contexts in gallardo and in this case are very different. first, in gallardo, the jailhouse conversation shows [the declarant] was angry that authorities were attempting to blame enforcement and a gallardo, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at pp. 75, 73.) (here, mr. binns knew that the authorities believed at the outset that he was the driver, not one of the shooters.) second, in gallardo, t the discussion [the declarant] provided conflicting versions of what had occurred, further mitigating his role in the drove the vehicle that one codefendant had fired from, then claimed the same codefendant was the driver and the shooter, and finally claimed that one codefendant drove the other 25 id. at pp. 75-76, 74-75.) third, in gallardo, the codefendants as the shooter and the driver] at the prompting of the informants, and after already having implicated himself in id. at p. 75.) none of these circumstances bears any similarity to the informant did not lead him into identifying the others as the shooters; and he did not think the authorities were trying to pin the entire crime on him. he was simply explaining his participation in the crime to a cellmate, and there were no circumstances suggesting an improper motive for any perceived - in short, as smith, greenberger fact a hearsay statement portrays the declarant as a more minimal participant in a crime by itself does not require smith, supra, 12 cal.app.5th at p. 792.) in smith in which [the coburglary, robbery and murder in which she was a relatively lesser participant would make any sense without reference to the major actors . . . .id. when the sht me wrong, i was in this is not a case where mr. binns, by saying he did not see the shooting (because he was waiting in the car around the corner), was excusing himself to the authorities. he was explaining his participation in the crime to a cellmate he thought - even if his statements about not seeing the shooting could be described as blame-other circumstances 26 (smith, supra, 12 cal.app.5th at p. 792.) nothing in the them less trustworthy than his statement that he was driving the car. as in smiththat implicated [the declarant] in the murder were inextricably intertwined with the portions that implicated [the co(id. at p. 793.) as grimes tells us, the ultimate questhether the statement, even if not independently inculpatory of the declarant, is nevertheless against the da the statement unless he believed it to be true.grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 716.) we have no difficulty concluding that is so here. even had there been error (and we find there was none), defendant has not shown prejudice. c.w.that she had given the police highly incriminating details of the murder in two separate interviews. that evidence was corroborated by the cell phone location evidence, showing that calls made on cell phones belonging to the perpetrators used cell towers located near c.w.residence before the murder, near the crime scene at the time of c.w.after the murder. that a result more favorable to [defendant] would have been if the binns statements had been excluded. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; id. a reversal will result only when there exists . . . at least such an equal balance of reasonable probabilities as to leave the court in serious doubt as to whether the error has affected the result 27 c.w. claimed at trial that, because she was angry at mr. s she lied about having received the details she gave the police from mr. shakir, and lied about his telling her that he, the defendant and mr. binns were the perpetrators. this is not enough to create an as to whether admission of the binns statement affected the result. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. to c.w. after he was arrested and c.w.; also, c.w.s to poliwere mr. watson died of a gunshot wound to the back. light of we are not persuaded to find prejudice in this case owing to the hung trial. on this record, defendant has not established a reasonable excluded. (watson, supra, . . . must necessarily be based upon reasonable probabilities rather than ii. constitutional claims defendant tells us that his 28 contends that non-testimonial hearsay still implicates the sixth amendment that mr. a police agent should be deemed testimonial; and that the due process clause remains a constraint on the introduction of unreliable this court should process claim none of these claims need detain us long. first, this court and , based on high court precedents, that the confrontation clause applies only to testimonial statements. (people v. washington (2017) 15 cal.app.5th 19, 28, 29 [citing people v. arceo (2011) 195 cal.app.4th ].) second, the authorities are clear that unwitting statements to a government informant are not testimonial. (see davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813, 82made unwittpeople v. arauz we hold that statements unwittingly made to an informant are not testimonial within the meani[ly]; see ibid. .) third, founded on the proposition that the binns statements were unreliable, a claim we have already rejected. (cf. people v. washington, supra, 15 cal.app.5th at pp. 30-31 [observing that 29 nontestimonial statementsespecially ones like the jailhouse conversation between [codefendants who made statements implicating themselves and the defendant] are, by definition, more likely to be trustworthy].) 2. the firearm enhancement -years-to-life sentence included a mandatory 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1). at the other provision of law, the court shall not strike an allegation under this section or a finding bringing a person within the effective january 1, 2018, as a result of the enactment of senate bill no. 620, the prohibition against striking a firearm enhancement was eliminated. now, section 12022.53 provides section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any ( 12022.53, subd. (h).) the parties filed supplemental briefing on the effect of amended section 12022.53 on both parties agree the new legislation applies retroactively, but they disagree on whether remand is necessary in this case. respondent asserts we agree the legislation applies to all cases not yet final, and we conclude that remand to the trial court for the exercise of its discretion is appropriate in this case. 30 first, the case is not yet final. under in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740 (estrada), when the legislature has amended a statute to reduce the punishment for a particular offense, we assume, unless there is evidence to the contrary, that the s people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323.) the estrada rule has been applied to statutes governing penalty enhancements (people v. nasalga (1996) 12 cal.4th 784, 792) and discretion to impose either the same penalty as under the former people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 76). the amendments made by senate bill no. 620 do not specify that the change applies only to crimes committed on or after a particular date. nor do the amendments contain any other indication of legislative intent contrary to the estrada rule. consequently, the amendments apply to defendants whose judgments were not yet final on january 1, 2018. second, the record does not strial court expressly causing death . . . adds another 25 years to life to the sentence as required by law (italics added.) the court lamented the position where his life, for all intents and purposes, is going to be really that the court can do at this point is to take predators off these or any other of the 31 would have done had it had the discretion to impose a 75-, 65- or 55-year sentence instead of an 80-year sentence. accordingly, under the new legislation, the case must be remanded to give the court an opportunity to exercise its discretion. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the cause is remanded to the trial court for the limited purpose of exercising its discretion under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (h) and, if appropriate following exercise of that discretion, resentencing defendant accordingly. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. hall, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 