filed 5/31/18 p. v. salguero ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. frander salguero, defendant and appellant. b278429 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066642) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles a. chung, judge. affirmed. maxine weksler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in july 2015, defendant and appellant frander salguero (defendant) drove to the home of his friend and occasional methamphetamine provider george ayala (ayala) and, once there, started a fight and stabbed ayala. defendant also partner, mark thomas (thomas), who witnessed stabbing. a jury convicted defendant on two counts of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder (one each for victims ayala and thomas), as well as assault with a deadly weapon and criminal threats charges. we consider whether substantial evidence establishes (1) defendant did not stab ayala in unreasonable self-defense, (2) stabbing of ayala was premeditated, and (3) defendant intended to kill thomas. we also decide whether reversal is warranted due to asserted prosecutorial misconduct. i. background a. the offense conduct as established by the evidence at trial 1. events prior to july 21, 2015 victims ayala and thomas met in 2013 or 2014. at some point, they began a romantic relationship. thomas helped ayala find and move into a triplex unit in palmdale, california in the spring or summer of 2014. ayala lived alone, but he and thomas traveled back anhome in palmdale and home in hollywood to visit one another. soon after moving into the palmdale home, ayala ayala called the uncle to complain that the ice maker was broken, the uncle sent defendant to replace a part. defendant said his name was . 3 when defendant asked ayala to sign an invoice acknowledging receipt of the part, ayala opened a kitchen drawer to find a pen. defendant noticed that ayala had lines of methamphetamine prepared inside the drawer and asked ayala if he could have some of the drug. ayala initially refused, but relented after further conversation. defendant and ayala thereafter became friendly, and defendant returned to smoke marijuana and methamphetamine with ayala every two-to-four weeksalways unannounced. ayala furnished the drugs and, because he considered defendant a friend and appreciated his company, did not request or accept payment from defendant. ayala explained that he and defendant [their] problems out . . . and [defendant] would help [ayala] out with certain things like food or something and [ayala] would help [defendant] on with him and his family that [ayala did not] defendant continued to visit ayala sporadically from june 2014 until later in july 2015. throughout this time, ayala believed defendant to be a friend and the two never had an argument. 2. thomas home on july 21, 2015; they had plans to drive to los angeles that evening. around 6:00 p.m., ayala was outside playing with his two dogs and thomas was inside. defendant arrived unannounced, and after getting out of his car, said: ayala was surprised because defendant was wearing pajamas and ayala was irritated because a neighbor had 4 nt about smoking. ayala told defendant to leave and said he did not want to smoke with him any longer. sicthis was the first time ayala had declined to smoke with defendant. thomas overheard some of the conversation from inside the house, but could only recall that ayala told someone to leave. defendant left, but he returned later when ayala was in the shower. by then, defendant had changed out of his pajamas and into a shirt, khakis, and shoes. thomas heard defendant interior front door. thomas opened the interior door, but left the security door locked. defendant repeatedly asked to be let into the apartment, but because thomas did not know him, thomas left the security door locked and said that he would get ayala. defendant told thomas his name was frander, a name that neither ayala nor thomas had heard before. thomas shut and locked the interior door and told ayala, who was still in the shower, that someone was at the door demanding to be let in. [ayala] know, and he said he would come out of the shower but i and yelled to be let in. thomas again closed the interior door and told ayala defendant was still demanding to be let in. without drying off, ayala got out of the shower, wrapped a towel around himself, and went to the front door. ayala opened the interior door and, recognizing defendant, ayala then opened the security door, reached down to prevent his towel from slipping, and immediately felt three blows to his face. a5 blows caused ayala to slip and fall on the wet tile floor, ayala the fight progressed kitchen, with defendant advancing and ayala moving backward. until they reached the kitchen, defendant and ayala fought facing one another. once in the kitchen, it is undisputed that defendant pulled what ayala described as a 12-buttand stabbed ayala in the abdomen, twisting the blade before he pulled it out. defendant and ayala were no longer face-to-face once they entered the kitchen, but the issue of whether ayala stood directly behind defendant (such that defendant could not was disputed during trial, as we shall now describe in more detail. ayala testified he found himself standing directly behind defendant in the kitchen prior to the stabbing. ayala saw defendant reach for something on the counter (the knife, as ayala would soon realize) with his right hand at the time a frying pan fell from a hanging rack as the result of the continuing struggle. ayala that time [defendant] had done something with whatever he had and swung it backwards with his left hand.1 ayala hit defendant in the head with the pan and then realknife with the knife inside ayala, 1 on cross-examination, ayala was asked to explain his preliminary hearing testimony that defendant was looking at him when he thrust the knife backward. ayala responded that 6 d and twisted the knife. ayala everything inside me moving to the right and then [defendant] turning [the knife] and pulling it. i had everything in my hands . . . . my intestines came out. i had them in my hands. i just saw blood coming out and he just stood there with a smirk on remembered before passing out was defendant threatening thomas: thomas testified ayala was directly behind defendant when thomas saw defendant with his left hand on the knife in 2 with himself with the frying pan, thomas test3 2 defense counsel sought to impeach this testimony with imony that defendant stabbed replied he was to have stabbed forward in order to . . . . thomas did concede 3 defense counsel again confronted thomas with his preliminary hearing testimony, specifically, his statement that defendant stabbed himrevisit[s] it in [his] mind over and over, the incident was that the 7 while defendant and ayala were fighting, but before defendant stabbed ayala, thomas yelled he was going to call 911. thomas continued to threaten to call 911 once he saw ayala had been stabbed, and defendant then turned his attention to thomas. thomas started dialing, and defendant defendant did not run, but he tlarge strides, fast,jumping over a sectional sofa that stood between him and thomas as thomas made for the front door. defendant continued to pursue thomas as he ran toward an outside gate on the property. thomas saw defendant raise the knife as thomas struggled with the latch. the knife came the knife as thomas was going upper chest that required six or seven stitches to close. defendant abandoned chasing thomas when he made it past a thomas saw defendant get into his car with the knife and drive away. thomas thereafter returned to ayala, called 911, and first responders soon arrived, and ayala survived the stabbing. b. the defense case at trial defendant did not testify in his own defense. the only defense witness was dr. michael burke, a psychiatry resident who examined defendant three days after the attack on ayala and thomas. dr. burke testified defendant was involuntarily held for mental evaluation pursuant to welfare and institutions 8 code section 5150 after his wife reported dr. burke examined defendant and spoke with according to dr. burke, defendant reported experiencing believed he and his family were possessed by demons. he had tested positive for amphetamines, despite telling his wife and dr. burke he had not used methamphetamine in six months. disorder, hetamine use disorder, which impairs cognition. dr. burke found defendant presented a danger to others and recommended defendant continue to be held pursuant to welfare and institutions code section 5150. defendant was held for 72 hours, determined not to present an ongoing danger, and released. the police arrested defendant for the knife attack on ayala and thomas soon thereafter. c. jury verdict and sentencing the jury found defendant guilty on all five charged counts: two counts of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,4  664, 187, subd. (a)); two counts of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)); and one count of criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)). the jury found true an allegation that, in the commission of the ayala assault and 4 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 9 attempted murder crimes, defendant inflicted great bodily injury on ayala. the court sentenced defendant to 17 years to life in prison: ten years to life for the attempted murder of ayala, and seven years to life for the attempted murder of thomas. the court stayed the sentences it imposed for the assault with a deadly weapon and criminal threats crimes. ii. discussion defendant contends insufficient evidence supports the attempted murder convictions because he believed (albeit unreasonably) it was necessary to stab ayala to defend himself and because threatening to kill thomas if he called 911 and slashing him in the clavicle do not demonstrate an intent to kill. defendant also argues that even if there is sufficient evidence the crimes were attempted murder and not manslaughter, there is still no substantial evidence the attempt to murder ayala was willful, deliberate, and premeditated. finally, defendant contends the prosecution committed prejudicial error by misstating the law and evidence in closing argument. s. there was sufficient evidence to prove defendant did not stab ayala in self-defense becauseviewing, as we must, the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdictthere was substantial evidence on which the jury could have relied to find either that ayala was not swinging the frying pan at defendant, or that defendant did not see ayala holding the frying pan, before defendant stabbed him. there was also substantial evidence the stabbing was willful, deliberate, and premeditated because defendant threatened to well before the attack and later returned to 10 initiate a fight during which he stabbed ayala in the abdomen and twisted the knife before removing it. further, there is substantial evidence defendant intended to kill thomas because the condition upon which defendant threatened to kill thomas (if he called 911) was satisfied and thomas suffered a relatively minor wound only because he managed a narrow escape. finally, e in large part forfeited and uniformly meritless in any event. a. claim of insufficient evidence tstabbing of ayala was not imperfect self-defense when the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction is challenged on appeal, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] our review must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] . . . . [t]he relevant inquiry on appeal is whether, in any reasonable trier of fact could have found the defendant gupeople v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 44.) the defense at trial was self-defensespecifically, -defensewhich would negate malice, an element of attempted murder.5 to prove attempted murder, the people 5 the doctrine of self-defense embraces two types: perfect and imperfect. [citation.] perfect self-defense requires that a defendant have an honest and reasonable belief in the need to defend himself or herself.people v. rodarte (2014) 223 11 were obligated to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant did not act in imperfect self-defense. (people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 454 [where murder liability at issue, the people must prove absence of a belief in the need for self-defense]; people v. rodarte (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 1158, 1168; calcrim nos. 505, 571.) defendant contends there were inconsistencies in ayala and thomas that made both witnesses unworthy of belief and precluded the jury from rejecting the defense position that the prosecution failed to prove defendant stabbed ayala in the sincere but unreasonable belief in the need to defend against a potentially fatal blow to the head with a frying pan. specifically, defendant argues the contradictory regarding (1) the relative positions and orientations n instance of imperfect self-defense occurs when a defendant acts in the actual but unreasonable belief that he or she is in imminent danger of great bodily injury or death. [citation.] imperfect self-defense differs from complete self-defense, which requires not only an honest but also a reasonable belief of the need to defend oneself. [citation.] it is well established that imperfect self-defense is not an affirmative defense. [citation.] it is instead a shorthand way of describing one form of voluntary manslaughter. [citation.] because imperfect self-defense reduces an intentional, unlawful killing from murder to voluntary manslaughter by negating the element of malice, this form of voluntary manslaughter is considered a lesser and necessarily included offense of murder. people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 132.) 12 of defendant and ayala in the kitchen,6 and (2) the sequence of ns with the frying pan.7 despite the account of the stabbing, permit the jury to reasonably conclude defendant was not aware that ayala intended to hit him (defendant) with the pan before 6 at trial, ayala testified that he stood directly behind defendant in the kitchen, that defendant did not see him with the pan, and that defendant turned only after stabbing him. at the preliminary hearing, ayala had testified defendant was looking at him when defendant stabbed him. when asked to explain this discrepancy on cross-examination, ayala testified: back was facing towards me. he grabbed the knife like this. initial testimony at trial was that ayala stood directly behind defendant in the kitchen. at the preliminary hearing, however, thomas had testified motion. thomas explained the apparent discrepancy on cross-whi 7 testimony at the preliminary hearing was consistent with this account. thomas, on the other hand, testified at trial that ayala at the preliminary hearing, thomas had testified coming down, [he] had also seen the k 13 defendant stabbed ayala. prevailing standard of review for a sufficiency claim, we defer to people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1030.) [i]t is the jury, not the reviewing court, that must weigh the evidence, resolve conflicting inferences, and determine whether the prosecution established guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.people v. hubbard (2016) 63 cal.4th 378, 392; see also people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 625, fn. 5 [setting forth the facts in the light most favorable to the judgment where the evidence was conflicting].) he hit defendant with the pan only after defendant stabbed him and defendant could not have seen him swinging the pan. to be sure, ayala was impeached with his preliminary hearing testimony, but that merely left the jurors with a binary choice: they could believe the testimony as they heard it at trial, or they could believe ayala was instead truthful at a prior hearing. the jury apparently timony at trial, and under the governing standard of review that requires us to view the rdicts, that choice is factually dispositive on appeal. indeed, the only remotely contradictory evidence the jury heard throughout trial defendant might have had a peripheral view of ayala. we see no reason not to defer to the jfurthermore testimony in this narrow respect does not establish defendant saw ayala threatening to hit him with the frying pan before defendant stabbed ayalaand thomas testified at trial that the stabbing came first. accordingly constitutes 14 substantial evidence that defendant did not believe stabbing ayala was necessary to defend himself against a blow with the frying pan.8 in addition, even if we viewed the evidence in the light most favorable to defendant, the prosecution still carried its burden to prove attempted murder (rather than manslaughter) because defendant instigated the fight and ayala responded lawfully. defendant resists this view, arguing ayala unlawfully escalated the confrontation by introducing what he views as a deadly weapon, the frying pan, into a struggle that was only a fistfight at that point. the argument does not square with the record. there was no dispute at trial that defendant reached object in the kitchen before ayala held the pan aloft to hit defendant with it. thus, in the midst of the fight defendant started i(and ayala appeared to be losing, see post at footnote 9), defendant was the first to grab an object. ayala, under the circumstances, was within his rights to resort to his own object (the pan) in response. (see people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 761; people v. watie (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 866, 8 defendant also suggests inappropriate remarks by the prosecution prevented the jury from properly considering how evidence of his impaired mental state affected his ability to understand the confrontation in the kitchen. defof prosecutorial misconduct are addressed post. in any event, because there was substantial evidence that would support a finding defendant was not aware that ayala was going to hit him with the pan before the stabbing, we need not address his ability to process such information in determining whether the conviction should be affirmed. 15 876-877 [quoting caljic nos. 5.40, 5.42: the lawful occupant of may resist force with force, increasing it in s persistence and violence.) because grabbing and using the pan was lawful under the circumstances, defendant can find no refuge in the doctrine of imperfect self-defense. (people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 664; people v. frandsen (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 266, 272 [as the initial aggressor and with [the victim] having acted lawfully, appellant may not rely on imperfect self-defense b. claim of insufficient evidence that the attempted murder of ayala was willful, deliberate, and premeditated defendant contends there was insufficient evidence for the jury to find his attempted murder of ayala was willful, deliberate, and premeditated. to support a finding that an attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated, there must be sufficient evidence that a defendant carefully weighed considerations in choosing a course of action and thought about his conduct in advance. (people v. cage (2015) 62 cal.4th 256, 276 (cage).) drawing on people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 (anderson), courts look to three types of evidence in evaluating whether the defendant premeditated and deliberated: planning activity, motive, and the manner of killing. (cage, supra, at p. 276.) but these factors are not exclusive, nor are they invariably de anderson was simply intended to supports an inference that the killing occurred as the result of 16 preexisting reflection rather than unconsidered rash impuls (ibid.) defendant contends there was of motive and no evidence he planned to stab ayala or that his manner of attack suggested premeditation. we conclude there is substantial evidence defendant planned to kill ayala, that he had a motive to do so, and that the manner in which he stabbed ayala and twisted the knife is consistent with a premeditated intent to kill. 1. planning the jury could reasonably find defendant planned to kill ayala. defendant agrees the evidence may show he was angry that ayala would on july 21, 2015, but defendant suggests he returned that evening, unarmed, planning only a nonlethal fistfight with ayala. according to defendant, the fight suddenly escalated when ayala swung a frying pan. d, however, is not the only reasonable view of the evidence. for reasons we have already discussed, the jury was entitled to conclude on the evidence presented that the fight escalated as a result of defendaknife, switching it to his left hand, and stabbing ayalaall of which occurred (or so the jury could reasonably find) before ayala hit defendant with the pan. the space of time necessary to select the largest knife in the block and transfer it from one hand to the other is sufficient to form a preconceived plan to kill. (people v. salazar (2016) 63 cal.4th 214, 245 [observing the process of premeditation and deliberation does not require any extended period of time and citing with approval the result in people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668: here defendant wrested the 17 gun from and fatally shot an officer during a brief altercation, the jury before shooting [the officer] defendant had made a cold and calculated decision to take [the s] life after weighing considerations for and againstcage, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 276 [other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly . . . regardless, there was also evidence defendant was determined to kill ayala before defendant when ayala refused to smoke with defendant, defendant veral hours (long enough, in any case, to change from pajamas into street clothes)pounded on the door and started beating ayala without any discussion or provocation once ayala opened the interior door. after stabbing and flee. a jury could reasonably infer that defendant initiated the fight intending to kill ayala by whatever most opportune means, and that stabbing ayala was merely a more expedient alteration of a plan to beat him to death. defendant counters that the caljic no. 8.67 instruction on premeditation given in this case extent of time requisite for careful consideration and mature deliberation from the length of time it takes to form an intent to kill and/or the length of time between forming that intent and the in other words, defendant takes the position that a premeditated killing necessarily requires a longer period of reflection than the period associated with a rash or impulsive killing. our supreme court has rejected this argument, explaining it es the mar18 resulting from preexisting reflection, of any duration, is readily distinguishable from a killing based on unconsidered or rash people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 812-813.) we reject the argument too. 2. motive applying anderson, we consider not simply whether defendant had any motive to attack ayala, but whether there was he pre-thought and weighing (anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at p. 27.) here, the jury heard evidence that ayala, who had reliably shared drugs with defendant on friendly terms over the course of answered the door. when ayala eventually opened the security door to let defendant inside, defendant immediately attacked him. from these facts, the jury could reasonably infer defendant was upset ayala refused him drugs on the day of the attack. this motive supports an inference that defendant reflected upon and and certainly supports a conclusion that defendant committed a premeditated stabbing when fighting with ayala. defendant nonetheless argues there was no evidence that he decided to kill ayala until the fight reached the kitchen, and that any motive for this decision must be distinct from his motive in initiating the fistfight with ayala. we have already explained 19 why we reject the premise that the jury could not reasonably have found that defendant planned to kill ayala with his fists before the fight reached the kitchen.9 however, even if the evidence showed defendant had given no thought to killing ayala until the moment he decided to reach for the knife, suggestion that his motive for escalating the fight must be distinct from his motive for initiating the fight is baseless. defendant cites no authority for this proposition, and it has no basis in experience. the jury could reasonably find the intensity , which motivated a deliberate decision to kill ayala, reached its climax in the kitchen even if there was no new reason for that anger. 3. manner the jury could also reasonably conclude manner of [attempted] killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must have intentionally killed according to a [relating to planning or motianderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at p. 27.) defendant argues assertions premeditation finding, and defendant 9 although ayala put up a fight, the record suggests defendant had the upper hand during the encounter. ayala tockier, and the fight proceeded from the front door into the kitchen with defendant advancing and ayala moving backward. 20 ignores additional facts that do support a conclusion that the attempted killing was premeditated. first, even if defendant could not see ayala when he thrust the knife backward, his thrust was aimed in a direction and carried such force that he could anticipate its effect. second, the jury could reasonably find defendant stabbed ayala only once because it is undisputed defendant turned to face ayala after impact and saw he had inflicted a devastating wound. third, and perhaps most importantly, defendant does not account for testimony that, after stabbing him, defendant turned to look at just stood there with a smirk on his face like it was funny . . . .the jury could reasonably find such conduct was not rash or impulsive and was instead consistent with the then-apparent success of a preconceived intent to kill. in light of the anderson framework, there was sufficient evidence for the jury to find that defendant, angry that ayala refused to share drugs with him, formed a preconceived plan to motive and plan.10 10 motive and no evidence of planning or an exacting method of killing to ensupeople v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253 is not helpful. the defendant in boatman took accidentally) shot her in the face from 12 inches away, and immediately directed his brother to call the police while trying to resuscitate her. (id. at pp. 1258-1261.) unlike defendant, arrive at the site of the shooting and immediately attack his girlfriend, and did not wound. nor did boatman threaten or attack witnesses; in fact, 21 c. claim of insufficient evidence for the attempted murder of thomas as the court instructed the jury, attempted murder requires a finding that defendant harbored a specific intent to kill another human being unlawfully. (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890; people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 457.) defendant maintains his conviction for attempting to murder thomas must be reversed because there is insufficient evidence he (defendant) had the specific intent to kill thomas rather than to and/defendant suggests that a finding of an intent to kill is precluded by the thomas and life-in our view, the facts established at trial amount to well more than substantial evidence that defendant specifically intended to kill thomas. although defendant is correct that both ayala and thomas testified that defendant threatened to kill thomas only called the police, defendant does not reckon with the key fact: this conthat defendant attacked because he was calling the police: the jury was of course entitled to conclude thomas intended to make good on his threat. suggestion that he attacked thomas because he merely wanted to delay is implausible. defendant had every reason to believe that thomas unlike defendant, boatman invited them to call the police while he attempted to render aid to his girlfriend. 22 would call the police as soon as defendant left the house. defendant does not articulate what sort of nonlethal injury he purportedly hoped to inflict with a knife that would have merely prevented thomas from calling 911 immediately upon his departure. but even assuming this account were plausible, we s finding because the jury could reasonably conclude defendant intended to kill thomas to prevent him from calling the police or testifying against him.11 (people v. bean (1988) 46 cal.3d 919, 933 [circumstances reviewing court that the circumstances might also be reasonably reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgment.) hasis on the relatively minor wound he inflicted on thomas wholly ignores the circumstances of but for which the jury could reasonably conclude defendant would have killed thomas. defendant, blocked by a sofa that he ultimately hurdled, chased thomas out of the house. as thomas struggled to open a gate, he saw 11 s unreasonable first, defendant evidently believed that he had fatally wounded toocould reasonably find defendant feared thomas would be able to describe him to police (particularly after ayala said fred, mark after seeing defendant at the front door). 23 the jury could reasonably find that, far from intended to kill thomas and was only thwarted because thomas made it out of the house slightly faster than defendant did. d. prosecutorial misconduct claims to misstate the law generally [citation], and particularly to attempt to absolve the prosecution from its prima facie obligation to overcome reasonable doubt on all [citation.] improper comments violate the federal constitution when they constitute a pattern of conduct so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. [citation.] improper comments falling short of this test nevertheless constitute misconduct under state law if they involve use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. [citation.] to establish misconduct, defendant need not show that the prosecutor acted in bad faith. [citation.] however, she does need instructionsa reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner.[] [citation.] if the challenged to state or imply nothing harmful, [then] they obviously cannot (people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 130 (cortez).) misconduct, a defendant must make a timely objection and 24 (people v. williams (2013) 56 cal.4th 630, 671; accord, people v. forrest (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 1074, 1081 [purpose of the requirement is to encourage defendants to bring errors to the attention of the trial court so they may be corrected].) this forfeiture rule does not apply where an objection would have been futile or if an admonition would have been ineffective. (people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 159.) here, defendant argues three closing argument were improper and prejudicial: (1) examples used by the prosecution to illustrate the meaning of deliberate and premeditated for purposes of the attempted murder charges, (2) comments regarding the evidence offered to show mental impairment and its consistency with a self-defense theory, and evidence. for the reasons discussed below, we hold defendant forfeited his arguments regarding the first two aspects. however, we address and reject all three arguments on the merits to avoid s failure to object at trial was ineffective assistance of counsel. 1. deliberate and premeditated a. background during closing argument, the prosecution attempted to you about conversations. so a lot of times we see people and we talk to people and we read them and we adjust the way we talk in an instant. so in my job i talk to all kinds of people, and when i 25 way. if that person is just a witness or a doctor, we adjust our ways. you have all been in the situation where a child comes up to you and asks you right? and that moment you adjust how you think and you change the way that you answer that question based on who the kid is, what the context is. you might sugar coat something. you h about the matter. but that action, that instant thought of recognizing the consequences of what i tell this person is willful, deliberate and premeditated. on purpose. do it for a reason. you do it so that you can either, you know, keep the child away from the hard thoughts of the world or you maybe put that for another day. put it over for another day when the child grows older and more able to understand stuff. that decision to do that for a purpose. you know, so that you reason. those decisions happen at an instant. the time when we are driving. for example, when we are changing lanes or whatever. we are driving and we see a pedestrian across the street. we can swerve. we can stop. we make these decisions as people inquick. in a quick way. and we do these things every day while we drive that impacts other 26 safety of ourselves and our family and our car. life, we do all kinds of things that are willful, deliberate and b. analysis defendant did not object to these statements at trial, and there is no reason to believe an objection would have been futile or ineffective.12 the issue is therefore forfeited. regardless, the challenged remarks by the prosecution do not constitute misconduct. defendant posits the prosecutionwe acknowledge that the prosecutionand possible connotation of thoughtless reflexis an imprecise illustration of premeditated conduct. but the example must be understood in the overall context of tconcerning premeditation. (people v. cowan (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 1152, 1159 context of the argument as a whole to make its determinationin context, the prosecution repeatedly returned to the point that both examples were meant to emphasize consideration of reasons and consequences: we might tell white lies to children to avoid 12 we specifically see no basis to conclude, as defendant does, that the above-quoted remarks by the prosecutor, either alone or category of could possibly ameliorate. 27 upsetting them, and in stopping or swerving to avoid a pedestrian, we balance concerns for the safety of others against the safety of ourselves and our families. before presenting these examples, the prosecution explained premeditated . . . means . . . you actually know what it means to kill somebody. so you can, for example, find someone guilty of 13 the prosecution suggested or the jury believed that every decision is necessarily deliberate and premeditated. in determining how not lightly infer that a prosecutor intends an ambiguous remark to have its most damaging meaning or that a jury, sitting through lengthy exhortation, will draw that meaning from the plethora of less damaging interpretations.cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 131.) defined the [relevant standard] in both its oral jury instructions and the written instructions it gave the jury to consult during (cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 131.) the court recited and gave to the jury caljic no. 8.67, which correctly distinguishes deliberate and premeditated action from unconsidered and rash impulse. both the prosecution and the defense invoked the jury instructions. (see id. at p. 132 [noting 13 there with a knife. . . . the argument is easier for [thomas] because after doing all that to [ayala], [defendant] wanted to do 28 significance of defense counsel and prosecution referring to jury instructions in closing arguments].) defense counsel specifically urged . . . and warned thus, even if the planation of the premeditation concept was at the margins inathe jury consts challenged remarks in an objectionable fashionid. at pp. 133-134.) 2. mental impairment and self-defense a. background the prosecution also argued stabbed ayala to defend himself from a blow with the frying pan was not consistent with the theory that he was suffering a psychotic episode: [ayala] was already stabbed by the time he was reaching issue. he grabs the pan and the defendant, . . . sees that pan and that [defendant] the whole entire situation that day in a reasonable manner, then what does it matter what he saw that day; right? because the have it both ways. -defense, then you have to argue that the person there was fighting and then reacted in a water becausethat self-29 because [defendant] was already in the act of stabbing before that threat arose. a knife is not a reasonable response for a fist fight or even a pan. he can run away, turn around and push him. he can get his own pan. that is not a reasonable the prosecution the stabbing was inconsistent with the theory that he was suffering a psychotic episode: right? the demon defense; right? what the demon defense does is it hurts the specific intent crimes. the specific intent crimes requires me to show through the argument that i just made that he knew what he was doing. . . . little bit, that means he could notfor any of the specific intent crimes. he still could be guilty of the general criminal intent crimes no matter what the assault with a let him walk on this and that is why i need to embrace it. when you put that to the side. if you really believe in demons, if you really believe in demons and you just killed two demons, you just fought two demons, what would you do? you would go home and tell, hey, wife, i just fought two demons. i just killed them; right? because this is what a demon is; right? [] . . . [] people i have just killed a demon that day, the next day, and you 30 know what? this guy is crazy. we have to take him to the say on that day or even inside of that house. he is not acting like he is fighting demons. thing that happened? you are crazy. you think that you fought a demon and then you come to. right? you come to; right? you become cognizant and come back to reality and you are driving your prius on this long drive. wait. why do i have a knife with me? why do i have a bloody knife with me? right? what would a normal person do who has had a history of maybe going to a psychiatrist once? something must have happened. i should report myself. i should go seek help. i should go check myself into the hospital; right? if that was the situation, instead of getting rid of the knife. right? are crazy and you just do crazy things. you are just crazy. you are stabbing the housedirection to run when you run out of that home. you are yelling. know where to park. where did the police find him? in his house. where is his car? parked in front of his house. b. analysis defendant did not object to these statements at trial, and there is no evidence that an objection would have been futile or ineffective. again, the issue is forfeited, but we additionally hold there was no misconduct. defendant contends the prosecutionhe maintained he was utterly delusional, as opposed merely to 31 having disorganized, impulsive, and paranoid thoughts. in essence, defendant argues the prosecution reduced the many and mental faculties on july 21, 2015, to a strawman dichotomy between a delusional belief in demons and perfect rationality. we are not persuaded that the prosecutionwas delusional was inappropriate given the emphasis on the jury was instructed, pursuant to caljic no. 3.32, regarding evidence of mental disease received for limited purpose. the prosecution acknowledged the distinction between this and an insanity very specific. the law gives defendants abilities to plead not guilty by reason of insanity . . . . that is not the situation here. they ared within the bounds of permissible argument. (berger v. united states (1935) may strike hard blows . . . [but] is not 3. facts not in evidence the prosecution comments to dr. burke by suggesting that defendant had reason brought up is the wife. right? the wife. and the wayexcuse me. . . . but the way he gets in those statements from the wife is this: the doctor a year ago called the wife on the phone. they whoever it was on the other linetold the doctor some information and that doctor wrote it down on a piece of recordon a piece of paper. and today in court he comes up to the stand and he reads that 32 explanatithat was made up three or four days on that day. maybe the wife was being lied to because [defendant] he was using meth during that time frame. maybe [defendant] was avoiding some difficult conversations. right? he was avoiding explaining why, as a person working as a refrigerator g more time to find a work at home. but instead visiting . . . ayala every 2 weeks, 20 times over 8 months. right? complexity. why the wife on that day, back when she was defense counsel objected. the court overruled the whatever the attorneys say on either side is not evidence. it is well settled that it is misconduct for a prosecutor to people v. mendoza (2016) 62 cal.4th 856, 906.) however, a prosecutor may [ ] people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 481 (winbush).) here, the prosecution should have susceptible to being misunderstood by the jury, but in context of the specific observations that followed, the prosecution was merely raising reasonable possibilities s motives 33 for lying to his wifeas evidenced by the three prefatory maybes. in context, this was not misconduct.14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. dunning, j.* 14 defendant contends that even if each asserted instance of misconduct by the prosecution is not prejudicial when considered individually, the cumulative effect of those statements requires reversal. we arguments and the cumulative prejudice argument necessarily fails. (winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 486.) * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 