filed 5/3/18 p. v. acero ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lino jesus acero, defendant and appellant. b278213 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka106410) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. george genesta, judge. affirmed. susan k. shaler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 lino jesus acero (defendant) walked into an am/pm mini-mart in 1994 and demanded that the clerk empty the register; when the clerk refused, defendant pulled out a gun, shot him in the chest, and fled in a waiting car. defendant was 17 years old at the time. more than 20 years later, defendant was charged with, and convicted of, murdering the store clerk, and was sentenced to prison for life without the possibility of parole. on appeal, defendant, who is now 40 years old, argues that he should have been tried in juvenile court; that the trial court made numerous instructional and evidentiary errors; that substantial evidence does not support the special circumstance justifying his life sentence; that the trial court erred in handling a juror who was reported to be sleeping; that the cumulative effect of these errors warrants reversal; that his sentence is cruel and unusual punishment; and that he is entitled to a remand to allow the trial court discretion to strike a firearm enhancement. we conclude and sentence. facts and procedural background i. facts a. the crime on a friday in november 1994, two men walked into an am/pm mini-mart in diamond bar, california. one of them approached the store clerk and demanded money from the cash register. the clerk did not comply. the man making demands walked behind the counter, pulled out a gun, and pointed it at the clerk with his left hand; the clerk still did not comply. the man then shot the clerk in the chest. without taking any money, the shooter and his companion fled to a car waiting outside the mini-mart. the clerk died. 3 b. the investigation 1. immediate investigation law enforcement could not immediately identify the shooter or his companion. two customers were inside the mini-mart at the time of the attempted robbery and shooting: one described the shooter as a thin-built hispanic man approximately five feet seven or five feet nine inches in height who was dcholowhile the definitely whiteto assign any ethnicity. the mini-recorded most of the incident, but they were of poor quality. the resulting videostill , and clothing as well as the fact that the shooter had a tattoo on the back of his neck and that he was left handed. identity, the investigation was shelved. 2. ten years later in 2004, law enforcement reopened the investigation into the shooting by airing the mini-mart surveillance jennifer estes (estes) called in, and reported that she immediately recognized defendant as the shooter in the video. estes confirmed that defendant had a tattoo on the back of his neck and was left handed. estes and defendant had dated and used drugs together for many years after the shooting. defendant is five feet five inches tall. 4 because defendant was incarcerated on other matters for months and years at a time, the investigation was once again put on hiatus. 3. twenty years later in 2013, law enforcement showed the two mini-mart customers a photo neither identified defendant as the shooter. in 2014, law enforcement followed up on defendant as a possible subject by shaking the proverbial trees: they uploaded the mini-ing. on the wiretapped calls, defendant spoke with his family and friends about the youtube video. during some conversations, he denied any involvement in the robbery/murder. in others, he acknowledged his involvement: he told one friend, . . . got me on fucking camera; he told his aunt, ; he told his brother that one of his ex- and when his nine-year-, but it is, 17 defendant also told his brother not to answer any questions from the police. law enforcement interviewed crystal perry (perry), a woman who dated defendant after the robbery and had two children with him. when the interviewing officers showed perry the surveillance video, she began to cry; when asked why, she ause it looks like [defe 5 thereafter, law enforcement arrested defendant and placed him in a jail cell with an undercover officer. law enforcement then staged a lineup; afterwards, defendant told the undercover officer that he had changed his walk during the lineup so it was unlike the video. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with a single count of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)).1 the people also alleged the special circumstance that the murder occurred while defendant thereby rendering defendant eligible for the death penalty or life without the possibility of parole ( 190.2, subd. ally used a fi because defendant was 17 years old at the time of the crime, the trial court transferred the matter to the juvenile court f the juvenile court held an evidentiary hearing and, applying the law in effect at 1994, found that defendant was not fit for adjudication in juvenile court. the case was transferred back to adult court. the matter proceeded to a jury trial. at trial, the people introduced the evidence discussed above. also, one of the two mini-mart customers identified defendant as the shooter. defendant called his brother to testify that the person on the video was not defendant as well as three expert witnessesan expert on eyewitness identifications, a medical expert who testified wounds, and a forensic video expert. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 6 the jury found defendant guilty of first degree murder, and found the special circumstance and firearm allegations to be true. the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for life without the possibility of parole, and struck the firearm enhancement. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. trial in adult court defendant argues that this case should have been tried in juvenile court because he was 17 years old at the time of the crime and because the newly enacted proposition 57 entitles him to a hearing before the juvenile court to decide whether he should be tried as a juvenile or an adult. we need not decide what standard of review to apply to this claim because we independently conclude that defendant is not entitled to the relief he seeks. the public safety and rehabilitation act of 2016 was adopted by the voters in november 2016 as proposition 57. (welf. & inst. code,  707, subd. (a).) under proposition 57, the people can no longer file charges against a juvenile charged with more serious felonies, including murder, directly in adult court. instead, the people must first file in juvenile court and ask the juvenile court to transfer the case to adult court; the juvenile court is then tasked with evaluating whether the juvenile is fit for adjudication in adult court after considering five statutorily enumerated factors. (id.,  707, subd. (a)(2); people v. superior court (lara) provisions apply retroactively to any defendant whose conviction id. at pp. 303-304.) although defendant was tried, convicted, and sentenced before 7 november 2016, his conviction is not yet final (people v. smith procedures apply to him. we nevertheless conclude that defendant is not entitled to relief under proposition 57, and do so for two reasons. first, the juvenile court in this case already held a fitness hearing that is functionally indistinguishable from the one required by proposition 57. to be sure, the juvenile court applied the law in effect in 1994. under that law, a juvenile court was tasked with deciding in juvenile court after considering five statutorily enumerated factors;2 if the juvenile is charged with a serious felony (such as murder), the juvenile is presumed not to be fit for juvenile court but the juvenile may rebut that presumption by showing that he is fit for juvenile court under all five factors. (edsel p. v. superior court (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 763, 773-774.) the five factors enumerated by the 1994 law are the same as the five factors enumerated in proposition 57. (compare id. at p. 773 with welf. & inst. code,  707, subd. (a)(2).) those factors are: degree of criminal sophist (2) expiration of th; previous delinquent history; (4) by the juvenile court to rehabilitate the minor; circumstances and gravity of the offense alleged in the petition to subd. (a)(2).) the juvenile court heard evidence, considered all 2 the law that allowed for direct filing of certain felonies in adult court did not take effect until 2000. (manduley v. superior court (2002) 27 cal.4th 537, 544-545.) 8 five factors, and found that all but one factor (his previous delinquent history) rendered him unfit for adjudication in juvenile court. the 1994 law is a near perfect substitute for the analysis and finding the court would be required to make under proposition 57. defendant disagrees, noting that the 1994 law erects a presumption against fitness for juveniles involved in serious crimes (like murder), whereas proposition 57 contains no such presumption. this is true, but irrelevant here. the juvenile court expressly noted its doubt that the burden of proof (which, under the 1994 law, was sometimes assigned to the people and other times to the defendant) would matter to its analysis or its even without that express statement by the court, however, counseled against fitness for juvenile court leaves no doubt that defendant was unfit for juvenile adjudication; any theoretical difference in the burden of proof would not have affected the result and was consequently not prejudicial. (cal. const., art. vi,  13.) second, and even if the fitness hearing defendant had was insufficient under proposition 57, convening another proposition 57 transfer hearing would be a waste of time. that is because defendant cannot at this point be adjudicated in juvenile court. the jurisdiction of the juvenile court expires when a juvenile turns 21, or at the latest, turns 25. (welf. & inst. code,  607, subd. (a) [jurisdiction generally expires when juvenile turns 21], subds. (b)-(d) [excepts where jurisdiction extends to age 25], 607.1, subd. (b) [same].) defendant is now 40. because a 9 in re m.m. (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 897, 906), a court conducting a proposition 57 hearing at this point in time cannot send defendant to juvenile court. its sole option is to send defendant to adult court for trial because the only other possibility would be to send defendant to juvenile court to have the case dismissed. but there is nothing in the language or legislative history of proposition 57 indicating an intent to have juveniles who commit murder but are not tried before age 25 face people v. frazer (1999) 21 cal.4th 737, 743), and we decline to fashion one from whole cloth. ii. instructional errors defendant argues that the trial court committed three instructional errors: (1) it failed to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of second degree murder; (2) it omitted one element of the special circumstance instruction; and (3) it gave an improperly tailored version of the instruction on eyewitness testimony. we review claims of instructional error de novo. (people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 948.) a. lesser included instruction on second degree murder the trial court instructed the jury on the elements of murder, informed the jury that murder may be first degree or second degree, outlined and defined the two circumstances under which the murder would be first degree murder in this case commission or attempted commission of [a] defendant not guilty of first degree murder and the murder is 10 the court also provided the jury with verdict forms for first degree murder and second degree murder. defendant points out that the trial court (1) did not expressly state that second perpetrator intended unlawfully to kill a human being but the evidence is insufficient to prove deliberation and premeditat(as caljic no. 8.30 on what acts can constitute second degree murder. defendant then not instructing on second degree murder, or (2) otherwise render the instruction on second degree murder defective. the trial court properly instructed the jury. second degree murder is a lesser included offense to first degree murder. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1344 (bradford).) we need not decide whether the court was required to instruct on this lesser included offense in this case (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154-155), because the court actually did instruct on the lesser included offense of second degree murder and did so adequately. specifically, the court enumerated the elements for any type of murder, spelled out the two ways in which murder could be elevated to first degree murder, and told the jury that it must find defendant guilty of second degree murder if a reasonable doubt that the kill and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which are given (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 915), we must assume that the jury understood that second degree murder included all murders other than those proven to be first degree murders. 11 two criticisms of this instruction are persuasive. although the trial court did not expressly state that an intentional but unpremeditated killing constitutes second degree murder, its instructions necessarily did so when they defined first degree murder as an intentional and premeditated killing and then said that any non-first degree murderwhich would include an intentional but unpremeditated killingconstituted second degree murder. (accord, people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 464 (ramirez) [intentional but unpremeditated murder; second degree murder]; people v. long (1870) 39 cal. 694, 696 [same].) nor are the instructions defective for not spelling out the degree murdernamely, implied people v. swain (1996) 12 cal.4th 593, 601.) as explained above, the did spell out the first type. (cf. people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 866-868 [trial court instructed only on second degree murder with implied malice; error not to instruct on unpremeditated murder with express malice].) the instructions also spelled out the second type because they defined then defined second degree murder as the default level of murder. and defendant makes no argument that the third type is relevant in this case. b. special circumstance instruction the trial court instructed the jury that the special circumstance that defendant committed the murder in the course [t]he defendant committed or [t]he defendant intended to 12 [t]he defendant did an act that caused [t]he defendant must have intended to commit the felony of robbery defendant argues that the trial court erred because it did not also require thpart of or incidental to the commission of that (calcrim no. 730, optional language.) by statute, a person convicted of first degree murder may be sentenced to death or to prison for life without the possibility while the defendant was engaged in . . . the commission of [or] attempted commission of . . . (a).) however, this provision applies only if the robbery is the is incidental when thpeople v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 61; people v. navarette (2003) 30 cal.4th 458, 505; people v. rundle a trial court is required to instruct the jury on the requirement that the robbery not be where the evidence suggestsmerely incidental to achieving the murder. (2010) 48 cal.4th 257, 296-297 (); people v. monterroso (2004) 34 cal.4th 743, 767.) the evidence in this case did not support an inference or otherwise suggest that the robbery was incidental to, or an afterthought to, the murder of the mini-mart store clerk. to the contrary, the facts of this case reveal a textbook robbery: 13 defendant entered the mini-mart, demanded money from the cash register, and shot the clerk who did not comply with his demands. on these facts, defendant had the independent intent to commit the felony that forms the basis of th[is] special circumstance allegation.d, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 296.) defendant makes three arguments. first, he asserts that he left immediately after shooting the clerk and without taking any money. but this does not negate that his intent up until the moment of the shooting was to commit a robbery by obtaining money by force. second, he points to people v. thompson (1980) 27 cal.3d 303. however, the defendant in thompson refused to take the money the victims offered him; only demanded the , before shooting his victims, told them, know w (id. at pp. 322-324.) these facts are vastly different from the facts of this case. lastly, defendant asserts that he was a gang member and hence must have been intending all along to shoot innocent people for his gang, rather than to people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 851.) further, dinference is contrary to the law. (e.g., people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 661, idual gang member commits . . . crimes . . . is not substantial evidence that he did so for the benefit of . . . c. eyewitness testimony instruction the trial court gave calcrim no. 315, which listed 14 factors for the jury to consider in evaluating the eyewitness -mart customer who identified defendant during the trial. one of the 14 factors was: 14 rtain was the witness when he or she made an defendant asserts that the trial court erred (1) in limiting the instruction to eyewitnesses to the crime (such as burd) rather than people who identified defendant from the video (such as estes and perry), and (2) in not deleting the factor regarding certainty, in light of recent social science and out-of-state case law developments disputing any correlation between the certainty of an identification and its accuracy. 1. instruction as to non-eyewitnesses an eyewitness to a crime may testify to what he or she perceived, and a court must typically admit expert testimony on the topic of eyewitness testimony except when the eyewitness idence. (people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, 361-377; people v. jones (2003) 30 cal.4th 1084, 1111.) a person who was not an eyewitness to a crime may also testify to the fact that someone in they the photo was takenpeople v. mixon (1982) 129 cal.app.3d 118, 128; people v. ingle (1986) 178 cal.app.3d 505, 513.) is a witness who identifies a person on a video an eyewitness to the crime as to whom the standard eyewitness instruction must be given? we conclude the answer is no. first, calcrim no. eyewitness not someone who subsequently views some piece of evidence gathered from the 15 crime scene. second, many of calcrim no. only to persons who are eyewitnesses to the crimesuch as (1) id the witness know or have contact with the defendant before the event?would be irrelevant as a factor to evaluate post-crime identifications from videos because prior familiarity with a defendant is a prerequisite to such an identification and hence true for all such identifications); (2) how closely was the witness paying attention?was the witness under stress when he or she made the observation(4) ow much time passed between the event and the time when the witness identified the defendant (calcrim no. 315.) 2. certainty factor although defendant makes a persuasive case as to why, as a matter of social science, it may well be time to consider deleting no. 315, our supreme court in people v. snchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411 recognized this tension but declined to rule that the instruction was invalid. (id. at pp. 461-462.) this ruling binds us. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455-456.) iii. evidentiary rulings evidentiary rulings, contending that the trial court erred (1) in not allowing him to play the excerpt excluding a field identification card from 1994 indicating that defendant only had one tattoo; (3) in excluding evidence that, ode aired, other people called law enforcement and reported that the shooter in the mini-mart video looked like other people they knew; and (4) in limiting the 16 eyewitness to the crime. we review evidentiary rulings for an abuse of discretion. (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 405.) defendant asserts that each of these evidentiary rulings also violates his sixth and fourteenth amendment rights, but we need only reach the constitutional issues (people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 611 as a general matter, the ordinary rules of evidence do not impermissibly infringe on to present a defense.].) a. the people called perry as a witness. during her direct examination, perry initially testified that she told the law enforcement officers who interviewed her that the person depicted in the mini-mart video , but subsequently acknowledged that she started crying during the interview and admitted telling the officers she was crying . the prosecutor also played the excerpt from the recorded interview where she admitted that the photos from the video like . . . pho during cross-examination, perry testified that the photo but that they did not and rewhen she told the law enforcement officials that the photos looked like defendant. on redirect, perry said she did not know defendant but clear enough to rule him out. she testified that she told the law enforcement officers at the time of the interview that the photos were blurry. during re-cross-examination, perry 17 reaffirmed that she told the officers that the photos were too blurry. when defendant sought to have perry review the transcript from her interview tape, the prosecutor objected. at a sestablished she had code section 356, defendant asserts that the trial court erred in not allowing him to play the portion of the recorded interview where perry told law enforcement that the photos were too blurry. defendant is correct that evidence code section 356 entitles a papeople v. williams (2006) 40 cal.4th 287, 319; evid. code,  356.) however, the rule of completeness does not obligate a trial court to introduce other portions of a conversation where those portions do nothing more than repeat statements that are already in evidence. here, perry repeatedly testified that she told the law enforcement officers during her interview that the photos were too blurry for a meaningful identification. the excerpts defendant wanted to introduce merely confirmed that testimony. a trial court does not abuse its discretion in excluding cumulative evidence. (people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 439.) b. the field identification cards the lead detective testified that he did not know the back of his neck in 1994. defendant sought to question the detective about, and to introduce into evidence, a field identification card prepared by an unknown officer six months before the charged murder (on may 18 16, 1994), which indicated that defendant had a single tattoo. the trial court excluded the field identification card, ruling that (1) it contained multiple levels of hearsay, and that (2) its content regarding the absence of a tattoo is neck tattoo wanot listed. defendant asserts that the trial court erred in excluding the field identification card because it was properly admitted as an official record under evidence code section 1280 and as evidence of habit under evidence code section 1105. evidence code section 1280 creates an exception to the , , was made at or near the time of the act, method and time of preparation were such as to indicate its to police reports (e.g., murphey v. shiomoto (2017) 13 cal.app.5th 1052, 1064-1065; people v. baeske (1976) 58 cal.app.3d 775, 780), but, if applicable, only excepts the report itself as hearsaynot further layers of hearsay contained in the report (unless, as some courts have said, they come from other public officials under a duty to report what they observe) (rupf v. yan (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 411, 430, fn. 6; see generally people v. reed (1996) 13 cal.4th 217, 224-question is whether each hearsay statement fell within an e). the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the field identification card as an official record for two reasons. first, defendant did not lay any foundation as to who observed 19 the tattoo the card, another officer, or a private citizen?) second, the card reflects, at most, the absence , is, the lack of a condition, hearsay exception for business recparallel exception exists for public records. this makes sense as well because, with the nonoccurrence of an act or event in a public record, testimony is necessary to explain the extent and thoroughness of the investigation. evidence code sspecified ocode,  1105.) the trial court did not err in declining to admit the field identification card under this provision because defendant never so requested (evid. code,  354) and, more to the point, bthe reasons explained above. c. identifications of other people in the video evidentiary rulings by the trial court. first, defendant sought to call george rodriguez as a witness to testify that, when he saw the mini-mart video, he thought the shooter was a person named jose solis (solis). he video and the reliability of . . . of defendant from the video. the identification was factually incorrect because court records definitively established that solis was in jail on the date and time 20 of the mini-mart robbery, and (a) it only demonstbeen correct that the robber was somebody else (and he was not), and (b) the video in time familiarity with defendantsomething rodriguez lacked. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding rodriguezsound. a court may be required to admit evidence that a third third person either directly or circumstantially to the actual people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 860; bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1325), and (2) the probative value of such evidence is not substantially outweighed by the danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury (people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 367-368). this standard was not met here because the evidence affirmatively disproved that solis could have committed the murder. moreover, the trial court was also correct that inability to ability to do so. second, defendant later asked a law enforcement witness whether other people had called police after the wanted show aired, and the question suggested those people had identified people other than defendant as the shooter. defendant indicated he was not going to follow up with those other callers, 21 question. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in sustaining an objection to the question whether other unnamed callers identified unknown third persons as the shooter from the video. that is because there was no evidence of such, as defendant never introduced any evidence of those other identifications. further, the other identifications about which defendant wanted to inquire were in any event too vague to raise a reasonable doubt id not otherwise cast any doubt on proclaims that likely proclamation is wholly speculative. d. limitations on eyewitness expert testimony echoing his criticism of calcrim no. 315, defendant argues that the trial court erred in limiting the applicability of the crime. this argument is indistinguishable from his criticism of the jury instruction, which we have already rejected. iv. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports the he committed the murder in the course of a robbery. specifically, he asserts that there is and not merely incidental to the murder. in evaluating a eview the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencei.e., evidence that is credible and of solid valuefrom which a rational trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a rpeople 22 v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1054-1055.) because we have [] a but the primary crime, it follows that the same conclusion is supported by substantial evidence. v. juror misconduct defendant asserts that the trial court erred in (1) investigating whether juror no. 5 was sleeping during the trial, and (2) not removing juror no. 5 from the panel. on the seventh day of trial, the court interrupted a ou . . . the court finished its question, juror no. previously, the court had heard reports from other jurors who thought juror no. later that day, the trial court questioned juror no. 5 outside the presence of the public and the other jurors. the court told the [in] the past couple days, that it looked like y the juror explained [her] ressleepimissed anything in the she also stated she w the court held that there was an insufficient basis to remove juror no. 5 as a juror. the court explained that it had been watching juror no. 5 ever since receiving the reports from other jurors, and that while it had observed juror no. 5 closing ; she did not tilt her head or otherwise nod off; she did not snore; and 23 when asked a question by the court, she did not jerk back awake . the court statements that she had been awake and listening the whole time statements, the court had no reason to doubt her credibility. the court asked whether the parties would stipulate to removing juror no. 5, but the prosecutor refused. juror no. 5 served for the remainder of the trial. a trial court may remove a sitting juror from a case for people v. espinoza (1992) 3 cal.4th 806, 821.) good cause exists when a juror is sleeping (people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 350 (bonilla); people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1277 (williams); ramirez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. mere suggestion of espinoza, at p. 821). once a trial court is put on notice that good cause to discharge a juror may determine whether the juror should be dibid.) the inquiry must entail a hearing if allegations which, if proven true, would constitute good cause for people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1051 (barnwell).) at the conclusion of its inquiry, a court may remove a seated juror only if their unfitness to serve is a id. at p. 1052.) a. because the trial court held a hearing to question juror no. 5, the sole question before us is whether that hearing was 24 manner people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 711-712; people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 865, 971.) here, the trial court questioned juror no. 5 about whether she had been sleeping, whether she had missed any of the trial, and whether she was able to continue being attentive. this is a sufficient inquiry. defendant argues that the court should have also questioned juror no. 3, who had reported seeing juror no. 5 sleeping. the court initially offered to do so, but cour-day head-on observation of juror no. 5. the court did not abuse its discretion in declining to question a juror who was likely to have less helpful information than the court itself, particularly when judicial inquiry into a still-sitting jury risks tainting the jury if it is fuiava, at pp. 710, 712). b. decision not to dismiss bonilla, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 351.) here, there was no abuse. the id. at pp. 352-353.) when it comes a sleeping exists only the juror actually slept during people v. bowers (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 722, 731.) that standard was not met here. defendant raises two further arguments. he points us to williams, supra, 61 cal.4th 1244, ramirez, supra, 39 cal.4th 398, and people v. johnson (1993) 6 cal.4th 1. in each of those 25 cases, however, the appellate court was tasked with deciding whether the trial court abused its discretion in removing a sleeping juror. and, more to the point, each case involved a juror who was actually asleep. (williams, at pp. 1277-1278 [juror disoriented]; ramirez, at p. 45; johnsonthis case lacks such evidence. further, defendant asserts that other jurors said juror no. 5 was sleeping. however, such a conflict in the evidence would not defeat a finding of substantial evidence (people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 489); such a conflict certainly does not rise to the level of a demonstrable reality of unfitness to serve, as that standard is more onerous than the substantial evidence standard (barnwell, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 1052-1053). vi. cumulative evidence defendant argues that the cumulative effect of the errors he alleges warrants reversal of his conviction. because, as we conclude, there was no error, there was no cumulative error. (people v. melendez (2016) 2 cal.5th 1, 33.) vii. sentencing errors a. cruel and unusual punishment challenge defendant argues that being sentenced to prison for life without the possibility of parole violates his constitutional rights. we review the constitutionality of a sentence de novo. (people v. palafox (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 68, 83 (palafox).) both the united states and california constitutions prohibit the imposition of sentences so excessive that they and unusualpunishment (under the federal [c]ruel or unusual punishment (under the california constitution). (u.s. const., 8th amend., italics 26 added; cal. const., art. i,  17, italics added; see palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 82 [difference in conjunction does not translate to different meaning when it comes to excessive sentences].) in a series of cases culminating in miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. 460 (miller), the united states supreme court has ruled that sentences that are constitutional when imposed on an adult may be constitutionally excessive when imposed on persons who were juveniles at the time of their crime because underdeveloped sense of responsibility, leading to recklessness, impulsivity, and heedless risk-taking [citation]vulnerable . . . and lack the ability to extricate themselves from horrific, crime-and (3) do not have character . . . such that t of irretrievabl[e] depriva[ity]. [citation.](miller, at p. 471, quoting roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, 569-570 (roper).) under this precedent, a court may sentence a person who committed a crime as a juvenile (that is, while under the age of 18) to life without the possibility of parole only after determining that the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruptionmiller, supra, 567 u.s. at 479-480, quoting roper, supra, 543 u.s. at p. 573; montgomery v. louisiana (2016) 136 s.ct. 718, 734; see also graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, 74-75 [juveniles defined as persons under 18].) the court has identified five factors courts should 27 among them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and environment,, including the the offense if not for the incompetencies associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors . . . or his incapacity to assist his own attorneys(5) abearing on the possibility of people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1388-1389, quoting miller, at pp. 477-478.) the trial court in this case followed this precedent. the court understood that its task was to assess whether defendant the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruption. and it proceeded to evaluate each of the five factors enumerated above. specifically, the court found that (1) defendant was almost an adult when he shot the store clerk and that his crime impetuosity, because defendant executed a robbery that required planning, including bringing a backup robber, arranging a getaway driver, and acquiring and bringing a gun to overcome any resistance; (2) defendant, as a juvenile, liveof . . . turmoil aand to abuse; (3) the planned 28 ; (4) had no effect on the charges or their disposition because he was in his late 30s by the time he was charged; and (5) defendant was unlikely to be rehabilitated because, during all the years when defendant believed he had literally gotten away with murder, he chose to continue a life of crimeracking up eight felony and 12 misdemeanor convictions (many of which involved him carrying a firearm), violating parole four times, and spending 12 of those intervening 20 years in prison or in jail. summing up, the court found tthe . . . choices [defendant] has made as an and which reflected his choice to live a life of crime[] . . . rather than any ansient immaturity. first, he argues that the court effectively diluted the analysis called for by miller by considering evidence that postdated the date of his crime, such as his age at the time of charging and trial, and the life choices he made in the intervening 20 years (bearing on the fourth and fifth factors noted above). we conclude there was no error. the evidence defendant attacks is certainly relevant to the two factors with which it was discussed as well as to the ultimate question of whether the murder of the defendant and how to assist his attorney were not affected by the when he made those decisions, and the life of crime defendant has chosen to lead over the last 20 years strongly suggests that he was not likely to 29 be rehabilitated and that the murder he committed at age 17 was part of a larger pattern of criminality reflecting an irreparable corruption. defendant cites no authority for his argument that a court must engage in an artificial and wholly hypothetical inquiry about what a court might have thofuture life prospects had defendant been sentenced at age 18 or 19 while ignoring evidence of what defendant has chosen to do with his life in the last 20 years. second, defendant asserts that the trial court erred in not making a fabove, the trial court did make such a finding. that the murder was relatively quick, its failure to give greater mitigating effect to his family and home environment, and its reliance on the erroneous premise that people do not possess firearms unless they intend to use them. in our view, the trial court fairly and objectively examined each of the five factors, and we independently agree with its ultimate balancing of those factors. the court also did not rely on any general premise that people do not possess firearms unless they intend to use them; instead, the court made its statement in the context of explaining while committing crimes later in lifeafter he already used one to kill someoneory of his in light of our conclusion that the trial court appropriately considered the miller factors, we have no occasion to determine 30 hearing under section 3051 renders his constitutional challenge moot. b. firearm enhancement defendant asserts that he is entitled to a remand so that the trial court may apply its newfound discretion, under senate bill no. 620, to consider striking the previously mandatory firearm enhancement. defendant is correct that senate bill no. 620 applies retroactively to persons, like defendant, whose convictions are not yet final on appeal. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 742; people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-76.) however, remand in this case would accomplish nothing because the trial court already struck the firearm enhancement (even though it lacked the authority to do so at the time). the enactment of senate bill no. 620 simply legitimizes what the trial court already did. viii. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant lastly asserts that any omissions by his trial counsel that precluded us from reaching the merits of his claims on appeal constitutes the ineffective assistance of counsel. because we have reached and rejected the merits of each of neither deficient performance nor prejudicial. (see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668.) 31 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p. j. lui _________________________, j. chavez 