filed 12/19/17 p. v. hudson ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gary lenory hudson, defendant and appellant. b278709 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta139329) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john j. lonergan, jr., judge. affirmed. frank duncan for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________ 2 defendant and appellant gary l. hudson appeals from a judgment following a jury trial that resulted in his conviction on three felony counts. a five-count information filed on april 6, 2016, charged him with: (1) assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (d)(2) (counts 1 through 3);1 (2) possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (count 4); and (3) possession of ammunition by a person prohibited from possessing a firearm due to a prior conviction in violation of section 30305, subdivision (a)(1) (count 5). the jury found hudson guilty on counts 4 and 5. on count 1, the jury found hudson not guilty of the charged offense of assault on a peace officer but guilty of the lesser included offense of assault with a firearm in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(2). the jury also found true the special allegation that hudson used a firearm in committing the offense. the jury failed to reach a verdict on counts 2 and 3. the trial court sentenced hudson to 9 years 4 months in state prison. hudson raises three issues on appeal. first, he argues that the evidence was insufficient for conviction on count 1. second, he argues that the trial court erred in admitting evidence that the firearm hudson used in committing the assault had an obliterated serial number. third, he claims that the trial court denied his sixth amendment confrontation right by limiting his cross-examination of a testifying officer. we find no error with respect to any of these issues and therefore affirm. 1 subsequent undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 factual background 1. case-in-chief on february 10, 2016, about 10 deputy sheriffs and other purpose of serving an arrest warrant. about 11:20 a.m. detective adam navarrette saw hudson leave the house, look around, and walk back to the house. about 11:50 a.m. hudson again left the house, walked across the street and got into his car, a gray cadillac. he closed the door to the car. the officers converged with several vehicles to box hudson in and to make sure that he would not drive away. navarrette could wheel with his left hand. he had a gun in his right hand, which navarrette recognized as a black semiautomatic weapon. hudson had the gs partner, detective rodriguez. navarrette screamed, continued looking at rodriguez gun facing navarrette thought that hudson was about to shoot rodriguez, so he fired three rounds at hudson. while doing so, navarrette tried to find cover behind the engine compartment of a police car. after getting cover, navarrette saw hudson turn with his gun still in his right hand. hudson pointed the gun toward navarrette and another detective, white, who was in the police car. navarrette again yelled, ired at hudson four more times. after navarrette fired the second round of shots, he saw hudson slouch to his right over the passenger seat. at that point 4 hudson stopped pointing the gun at the officers. the officers told hudson to show his hands, which he did. the officers instructed him to roll down the window, open the door from the outside, and step outside. hudson complied. navarrette and several other officers took hudson into happened. navarrette testified that hudson saidey, i had a gun. my nephew got shot detective landreth searched hudson and in his front pocket found a black magazine with bullets. the gun that navarrette had seen hudson pointing was in the floorboard of the ar. a sheriff department criminalist later retrieved the gun from the car and found a cartridge in the chamber. 2. the defense case hudson testified in his defense. he testified that, before he real dark parked in front of a fire hydrant. hudson was concerned because the car looked suspicious and his cousin had been shot a couple of months previously while sitting in his car. hudson started his had a gun in the car, which he picked up, but he did not point it. he did stopped. the defense also called detective mezzano, who was part of the team that arrested hudson. mezzano was positioned at the he testified that he heard a radio transmission from rodriguez stating that hudson had left the house, and immediately after 5 that heard navarrette over the radio saying, aint gunshots. 3. the prosecution introduced evidence of statements that hudson made the day he was arrested. detective gonzalez testified that she interviewed hudson after he was in custody. hudson admitted that he had a gun in his hand, and physically he discussion 1. count one iciency of the evidence on count one under the substantial evidence standard. record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine s, evidence that is trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 701, quoting people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) in conducting such a existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the avila, at p. 701, quoting people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) reversal is nothe circumstances might also be reconciled with a contrary lindberg, at p. 27.) an appellate court ibid.) 6 to prove the offense of assault with a deadly weapon under section 245, subdivision (a)(2), the prosecution was required to prove that hudson: (1) did an act with a deadly weapon that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person; (2) he did the act willfully; (3) when he acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would result in the application of force to someone; and (4) when he acted, he had the present ability to apply force with a deadly weapon. (people v. golde (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 101, 120121.) evidence that a defendant pointed a loaded weapon at another person is sufficient to support a conviction for assault with a firearm. (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 12-14 (rodriguez); people v. miceli (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 256, 269.) there was abundant evidence at trial showing that was what hudson did. there was testimony that hudson pointed a weapon at detective rodriguez (who was the person identified as the victim in count 1). navarrette testified that he saw hudson sitting in his car holding a black semiautomatic gun that hudson was navarrette observed the gun and screamed, feet away from there was also evidence that the gun was loaded. after hudson was taken into custody and searched, the officers found a magazine in pocket with bullets in it. a police criminalist examined the gun and found a round in the chamber, ready to be fired. while this evidence alone is sufficient to sustain the 7 corroboration. after he was arrested at the scene, hudson admitted that he had a gun. during an interview later that same day, hudson admitted that he had a gun in his hand and had held the gun at eye level. while he denied pointing his gun at the officers, hudson told the interviewing officer that navarrette could see the gun that hudson was holding. hudson makes various arguments about why navarrette was not credible and his testimony implausible, and cites his own testimony that contradicted navarrettearguments concern the weight of the evidence rather than its verdict. in reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence in favor of (rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 12.) sufficiency of the evidence, a reviewing court resolves neither people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 (young).) rather, our task is complete when we identify evidence from which a reasonable jury could have reached the verdict that the jury here returned. (rodriguez, at pp. 1112.) navarrettethe testimony of the police criminalist concerning the loaded weapon recovered at the scene, navarrettesaw hudson point the weapon directly at rodriguez constitutes direct evidence that hudson was guilty of the charge on which he was convicted. navarrettes is therefore 8 sufficient to support the conviction. (young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181.)2 2. the trial court did not err in admitting evidence concerning firearm before the criminalist testified, hudson objected to testimony concerning the destruction of serial numbers on the 2 hudson argues that there was a contradiction between the testimony of navarrette and mezzano that undermined contests are not for us to resolve. in resolving any contradiction, the jury was not required as hudson argues. in accord with calcrim no. 226, the jury about some things, but told the truth about others, you may simply accept the in any event, the alleged inconsistent testimony concerned a collateral issue and was not necessarily contradictory. on direct heard navarrette hearing navarrette say, ore he shot. testimony about whether navarrette was a police officer for purposes of the primary charged offense of assault with a firearm on a police officer (on which hudson was acquitted). however, it had nothing to do with whether navarrette saw hudson pointing his gun at rodriguez. and, on cross-examination, mezzano agreed that navarrette would not have been able to both fire his rifle and push the button necessary to activate his radio. he admitted that he might have 9 prejudicial value is greater thobserved was on the weapon and based on their training and experience they can form whatever opinhowever, the court precluded testimony that hudson was responsible for destroying the serial number, personally saw mr. hudson the criminalist, april wong, testified that the glock pistol she is also available on two other parts of this particular firearm so there was a serial numbe hudson argues that this testimony evidence code section 1101. hudson forfeited this argument, as he did not object to the testimony at trial as inadmissible character evidence. rather, he claimed see evid. code,  353, subd. (a); people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 130 [objections to gang-for appeal the claim that the evidence was inadmissible under excluded under evidence code section 352 is also unpersuasive. exclude evidence pursuant to evidence code section 352 for people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 10 court need not expressly weigh prejudice against probative value, or even expressly state it has done so. all that is required is that the record demonstrate the trial court understood and fulfilled its ibid.) the record shows that the trial court met its obligations here. as the trial court noted, the missing serial number was simply part of the description of the weapon that was found in car. and, as respondent points out, that description was relevant to identifying the gun that was in hpossession, which the prosecution was required to prove under section 29800, subdivision (a)(1). the testimony was not unfairly prejudicial. wong did not testify or suggest that hudson was responsible for obliterating the serial number. nor was t evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual. people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638.) hudson argues that the possession of a gun with an person, ring his testimony, hudson admitted that he had previously been convicted as a felon in possession of a firearm. he was charged in this case with the possession of a weapon alone was unlawful. any implication that the gun was illicitly obtained was unlikely to add any prejudice beyond what was established by the fact of possession itself, which was highly probative of the charged offense. 3. the trial court did not cross-examination of navarrette the trial court sustained a prosecution objection to -examination of navarrette concerning the 11 direction in which his weapon discharged cartridge cases. hudson argued that testimony about the direction of discharge impeach navarrette on the issue of where he was standing when he observed hudson with a weapon. the trial court told hudson that he could present evidence about where the casings were, and could make arguments at the appropriate time based upon the physical evidence. however, the court concluded that navarretteht have landed was speculation. hudson argues that this limitation on cross-examination amounted to a denial of his sixth amendment confrontation right. we disagree. absolute; it leaves room for trial courts to impose reasonable ss-examination of a witness. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 454, quoting people v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 290.) these limits include curtailing examination into topics that are relevant, if at all, only to tangential impeachment section 352 to exclude evidence of marginal impeachment value that would entail the undue consumption of time generally does confrontation and cross- (pearson, at p. 455, quoting people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 545.) that is what the trial court did here. although hudson argues that, if the cross-expert witness could have been called to show the deputy had not explain why the cross-examination of navarrette was necessary 12 for that purpose. the trial court did not preclude hudson from presenting evidence and argument about where the casings were found.3 if expert testimony could have cast doubt on navarrettetestimony about where he was standing when he saw hudson point his gun at rodriguez, such testimony could have been prepared based upon the physical evidence without exploring navarrettelief about how his gun ejected casings. 3 -examination of the prosecution criminalist concerning the physical evidence at ss-examination of wong, questions concerning the number and trajectory of bullets that navarrette fired. the trial court explained that the court denied explained where he was, what he saw when he shot, and defense has a right to use the physical 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. 