 filed 10/17/18 p. v. ines ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edwin ines, defendant and appellant. b278780 los angeles county super. ct. no. ma055743 appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed. bird rock law group and andrea s. bitar, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxell, peggy z. huang and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant edwin ines appeals from an order terminating his probation and executing his suspended prison sentence. we find no abuse of discretion and therefore affirm. facts and procedural background 1. the crimes, the plea agreement, and the suspended sentence in march 2012 ines was living with his family in palmdale.1 -year-old sister saw him take down a safe from a shelf in their ines told his sister to open the safe. ines was upset because his mother had money that belonged to him but she would not give it to him. at some he was sweaty and in pain. ined to open the safe, ines left the house, went to the back yard, got an with the axe. but ines still could not get the safe open. m. came home in her car.2 ines met her outside. ines asked her for his money. he had a skateboard in his hands. ines told reyna if she did not give him his money, he was going to break the glass on her car. when ines was unable to break the glass with the skateboard, he got the se was in the car, between the two front seats. ines knew his mother had the money in her purse. ines reached into 1 the preliminary hearing testimony. 2 it is unclear from the testimony whether reyna was vehicle as a car. 3 the car and took the purse. when ines broke the car window, reyna was already at the door of the house, about 27 feet away. reyna managed to get her purse back. fund. the want to give her son the money because she was afraid he would buy drugs with it. ines used drugs, and that aftthe influence of something. the people charged ines with robbery and vandalism.3 the people alleged ines personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of the robbery. at the conclusion of the preliminary hearing, the prosecutor moved to reduce the vandalism charge to a misdemeanor. when they filed the information, the people also added a burglary count. on july 17, 2012, ines entered into a plea agreement with the people. ines pleaded no contest to the robbery count. in accordance with the agreement, the court imposed the upper term of five years in the state prison but suspended its execution and placed ines on probation for five years. the court gave ines credit for time served in the county jail and ordered a conditional release to delancey street, where ines was to complete a six-month program. possess an apparently, an issue arose with delancey street: 3 complaint or the information. we glean the charges from the preliminary hearing transcript. 4 on august 20, 2012, the court modified probation and ordered ines to complete a program at the salvation army instead. 2. the probation violation proceedings nearly four years later, on june 28, 2016, los angeles county executed a search warrant in his affidavit for the warrant, deputy pedro velazquez . . . using an informant. when officers executed the search warrant, velazquez found a live .380-caliber bullet on the floor of methamphetamine on a shelf. arrested ines on august 3, 2016, and the ma069014). on that same dayprobation and remanded him on a potential probation violation. the new case and the probation violation case proceeded in tandem for a time. pitchess4 motion seeking complaints of dishonesty and against velazquez. in the motion, ines stated velazquez had put him in an interview room at the threatened to break everything in his also said velazquez accused him of selling methamphetamine, and velazquez did not advise him of his miranda5 rights before .granted the pitchess motion in partas to miranda 4 pitchess v. superior court of los angeles county (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 5 miranda v. state of arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 5 violationsand conducted an in camera proceeding. the court found no responsive items to be disclosed. in the meantime, on october 25, 2016, the people dismissed on november 2, 2016, the court conducted an evidentiary hearing on the probation violation. velazquez testified he found the bullet and the small bindle of a crystal-like substance in ines told him the bullet had on cross-examination, velazquez admitted he did not she he asked reyna which client might have had the bullet the [,] like[,] at the hearing. performcompleted a six-month residential drug treatment program at the salvation army before daniels was assigned to him. daniels [ ] antelope valley college and was scheduled to complete his two-year program in 2016; ines hoped then to transfer to a four-year college. of grades in terms of grade point average and how overall in his course[s]6 evening before officers arrived with the search warrant, she had heard a noise in and it and put it next to her coffee maker in the kitchen. reyna did not see the bullet again until velazquez showed her the bullet, which he had in his hand. velazquez told reyna he had found the , [n]o, that bullet was in seen the bindlebefore. defense counsel had given the prosecutor a written statement the hearing. french had told the investigator, [i]t is possible nch said her children had found two bullets in their yard and brought them into the house. french took the bullets and put them in the kitchen. later, she noticed one of the bullets was missing. ines testified on his own behalf. ines said he had been he just rin the back of the patrol car while the deputies searched the house. velazquez came out to the car and showed ines the bullet. 7 ines denied having kept a bullet in his room. that bullet, he said, was the one his mother had found the evening before when she was cleaning. ines stated that, notwithstanding denied having told velazquez that he had picked up the bullet ines testified velazquezperhaps in league with detective vigerhad dropped the bullet in his bedroom. ines also denied having had the baggie - ines said he had ines testified he was 20 units away from getting his associate of arts degree in social and behavioral sciences at antelope valley college. ines said he had a 3.8 gpa and was planning to transfer to ucla. -year stint in a live-ed in school and 20 units probation officer, and was helping his mother clean houses. the prosecutor asked the court to execute the five-year sentence, violated his probation, specifically on the issue of not possessing the court while the the 8 had completed a prines denied having any drugs in any event. the court then executed the suspended sentence. discussion ines contends the trial court abused its discretion in finding him in violation of probation because there was a reasonable not test the substance in the bindle to confirm it was e was no 1. governing law and standard of review prosecution proves by a preponderance of the evidence that he willfully violated one or more probation conditions. (penal code,  1203.2, subd. (a); people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 447 [burden of proof]; people v. galvan (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 978, 982 (galvan) [willfullness].) the court ha(rodriguez, at p. 443; in re coughlin (1976) 16 cal.3d 52, 56 nt to convict him of the evidence. (people v. superior court (jones) (1998) 18 cal.4th 667, determination is attacked on the ground that there is no substantial evidence to sustain it, the power of an appellate court begins and ends with the determination as to whether, on the 9 entire record, there is substantial evidence, contradicted or uncontradicted, which wil(ibid., italics omitted.) in applying this test, we review the presume in support of the post-judgment order the existence of every fact the court could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. kurey (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 840, 848.) the sufficiency of the evidence, a reviewing court resolves neither r]esolution of conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 (young); see also people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1207 [reviewing court cannot reweigh the evidence].) if the circumstreversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) 2. the court did not abuse its broad discretion in finding ines in violation of probation and executing the suspended sentence ines contends the court abused its discretion because he did not act willfully. ines cites people v. zaring (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 362 (zaring) and galvan, supra, 155 cal.app.4th 978. ines mistaken. in zaring, a probationer was 22 minutes late to court because she had to take her children to school. (zaring, supra, 8 cal.app.4th at pp. 366-367.) in galvan, federal authorities had deported the probationer and so he was unable to report to his probation officer in california. (galvan, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at pp. 981, 983.) here, by contrast, ines did not assert that the bullet and the bindle ended up in his bedroom by accident. he 10 contended that neither the bullet nor the bindle ever was in his room, and that the police planted the evidence and falsified their report. the trial court saw and heard the witnesses: deputy velazquez, ines, and the other witnesses ines called, including his mother and his probation officer. the court was in the best under governing law, credibility determinations and the resolution of evidentiary conflicts are the exclusive province of the trier of fact. (young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181.) whether to reinstate probation or to terminate it is also reporting to his probation officer, had completed his drug program, and was attending school, the trial court acted within and of a small amount of methamphetamine constituted a violation of his probation sufficient to warrant execution of his suspended sentence. 3. the court properly concluded after the in camera pitchess motion that there were no complaints to be disclosed ines asks us independently to review the sealed record of the in camera pitchess motion seeking complaints of misconduct against deputy velazquez. the attorney general has no objection. we review pitchess motion for abuse of discretion. (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1285; people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) we have read the entire sealed transcript of the in camera proceeding and find no abuse of in no items to be disclosed as to velazquez. 11 disposition edwin ines in violation of his probation and executing his suspended state prison sentence. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j. 