filed 12/18/17 p. v. duenas ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose duenas, defendant and appellant. b278539 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga097757) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael villalobos, judge. reversed in part with directions, affirmed in part. daniel g. koryn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant jose duenas was convicted of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger, attempted sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger, and oral copulation or sexual penetration with a child 10 years old or younger. he challenges the sufficiency of the evidence on the count for sexual intercourse or sodomy, and we find that the evidence was sufficient to support the conviction. we therefore affirm the conviction. testing for hiv/aids; the attorney general agrees this order was erroneous. testing. defendant further asserts that the abstract of judgment incorrectly characterized his conviction on one count of attempted sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger; the attorney general agrees and the record supports we therefore direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment. factual and procedural background a. information the los angeles county district attorney (the people) filed an information charging defendant with three counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (a),1 counts 1, 4, and 7); three counts of oral copulation or sexual penetration with a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b), counts 2, 5, and 8), and three counts of sending harmful matter to a minor ( 288.2, subd. (a), counts 3, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 6, and 9). the people alleged that counts 1, 2, and 3 occurred between july 2011 and july 2012; counts 4, 5, and 6 occurred between july 2012 and july 2013, and counts 7, 8, and 9 occurred between july 2013 and july 2014. defendant pled not guilty. the to dismiss counts 3, 6, and 9. the case proceeded to trial in september 2016. defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence relating to count 7, sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger between july 2013 and july 2014. we therefore focus on portions of the trial relevant to that count. b. evidence presented at trial m.2 testified that she was 12 at the time of trial. she lived with defendant and her mother from the time she was in second grade until she was in fifth grade. the first time defendant touched her, they were at home watching television and she was on his lap. defendant began touching m.inserted his finger into her vagina. m. away several times because it made her uncomfortable, but he kept putting it back. m. testified that after the first incident, defendant often touched her while her mother was at work. while m. was sleeping in the room her mother and defendant shared, defendant would wake her up, take off her clothes, put pornography on the television, and take off his own clothing. defendant rubbed his penis and he asked m. to rub it; she did not want to, but defendant picked up her hand and rubbed it on him. when defendant did this, he moaned. m. testified that afterwards, 2 we refer to the victim and her mother by initials to protect their privacy. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) 4 m. testified that the but sometimes then i would say no. defendant licked m. m. awoke to find that her pants were off and defendant was licking her genitals. if she woke up while defendant was taking off her pants, m. would try to pull on her pants to keep them on. m. did not remember if defendant licked her butt. most of the time, as the abuse was happening, pornographic movies would be on the television. sometimes defendant would rub m.pain. defendant also touched m. m. to put his penis in my they were in m.ndant took off m. m. m. m. said this happened twice, the same way both times. m. later testified that defendant once put a condom on and tried to insert his penis in her butt, and another time he put a condom on and just rubbed his penis. m. also testified that defendant never tried to put his penis anywhere else when the prosecutor m. even after looking at the preliminary transcript and being reminded of things she told the deputy after she reported the abuse, m. said she could not remember. 5 sometimes when m. and defendant were alone in the car together, touch me in my vag when defendant touched her, his fingers went into her vagina. m. testified that this occurred about five times. m. testified that defendant told her not to tell anyone, and the abuse stopped when m. was in fifth grade, because defendant was not at m.anymore. one day after that, m. did not want to take a shower because she felt uncomfortable, and her mother asked her what was going on. m. told her mother about the abuse. the same day, m. talked to a deputy and told him what had happened. she was crying because she felt guilty, like she had done something wrong. .g., testified that defendant lived with her and her three daughters from the beginning of 2012 to 2014. m.g. worked as a cashier at a gas station six days a week, eight to 16 hours a day. she worked, and when defendant got home from work he would watch the kids defendant moved out in june 2014. m.g. testified that on april 16, 2015, m. to m.g. asked what was going on, and initially m. said that m.g. could not help her. m.g. eventually got m. to talk about what was wrong, but t was hard for her to his fingers in her ssed. she was crying, and los angeles county sheriff deputy javier gonzalez testified that he res he encountered m. at the scenwas sobbing and had her hands on her face6 m. told gonzalez that one time defendant put his finger in her vagina. m. said that another timebed and woke up and the suspect was was in front of her and had halfway inside her because it did not fit, and defendant said that he liked it. m. told gonzalez about another incident in which defendant put his penis in her mouth and told her to suck it; m. pushed him off and told him no. in another incident, while m. m. said she had never told anyone because defendant had told her that no one would believe her, and it was her fault. during the interview, m. continued to sob intermittently. detective liliana jara testified that she works in the special victims bureau of the los angedepartment. jara and her partner arrested defendant on december 18, 2015, and interviewed him the same day. the recording of the interview was played for the jury, and a written transcript with an english translation was provided to the jurors.3 in the interview, defendant said he had lived with m.g. and her daughters for about two years, ending in september 2014. defendant said he and m.g. had broken up when defendant met another woman. at first defendant denied that he ever touched m. but 3 the interview was conducted in spanish; here we rely on the written translation transcript included in the record on appeal. 7 defendant said he would lie on the couch and m. would come over hand inside her pants. defendant said m. would watch the playboy channel and he would come over and hug her. m. would unbutton pants and shirt; one time she touched his penis. defendant later said m. touch defendant said one time he used a pink, flavored condom sometime around july 2014. he initially said he did not ejaculate while he touched m., but later said that he did. defendant said that m. asked to be touched and asked him to put his penis in her vagina. defendant said he thought about penetrating her, but decided not to, and his penis never touched her vagina. later, did not do it. because the truth is i did want to, i tried to penetrate her, but i defendant also said initially that anus. when jara asked if there was a time defendant penetrated pants down and put her back toward him, so he would put his penis on her butt. aware of ever penetrating her. like you said, it might have been fee he did not go inside. statements that m. asked for certain sexual contact, and asked, 8 e looked for ways . . . i ca it did go how can i put it? the thing is i later jara asked defendant defendant also said that once he kissed m. on the mouth defendant initially said he had sexual contact with m. about five times. defendant later said it happened eight to ten times. c. instructions, verdict, and sentence as relevant to the counts for sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child (including count 7, the count at issue on appeal), the court instructed the jury, exual intercourse means any penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or genitalia by the penis. ejaculation is not required. sodomy is anal penetration, no matter how slight, of the anus of one person by the penis of another person. (calcrim no. 1127.) the court also instructed the jury as to the lesser-included offenses of attempted sexual intercourse and attempted sodomy. 9 the jury found defendant not guilty on count 1 (sexual intercourse or sodomy from july 2011 to july 2012), guilty on count 2 (oral copulation or sexual penetration from july 2011 to july 2012), guilty of the lesser-included offense on count 4 (attempted sexual intercourse or attempted sodomy from july 2012 to july 2013), guilty on count 5 (oral copulation or sexual penetration from july 2012 to july 2013), guilty on count 7 (sexual intercourse or sodomy from july 2013 to july 2014), and guilty on count 8 (oral copulation or sexual penetration from july 2013 to july 2014). the court sentenced defendant to 55 years to life, calculated as follows: a term of 25 years to life on count 7; a consecutive term of 15 years to life on count 8; a consecutive term of 15 years to life on count 5; a concurrent term of 15 years to life on count 2; and a concurrent term of 7 years on count 4. the court awarded defendant presentencing credits and imposed various fines and fees. in addition, the court ordered defendant to undergo hiv/aids testing. defendant timely appealed. discussion a. substantial evidence for the conviction on count 7 defendant asserts that for his conviction on count 7, sexual intercourse or sodomy, establish that [defendant] had sexual intercourse or sodomy with when reviewing a conviction for sufficiency of the rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, 10 and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] whatev (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) in count 7, defendant was convicted of violating section of age or older who engages in sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child who is 10 years of age or younger is guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for a term of 25 ration, no (people v. mendoza (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 72, 79.) any sexual penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete the crime of ( 286, subd. (a).) defendant asserts that the testimony at trial did not establish beyond a reasonable doubt that penetration occurred. 11 m. testified that defendant penetrated her anus. she said when asked if it went inside, m. said by go in at least some of the way. in determining whether there was sufficient evidence for the jury to find defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, we presume the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 550.) it may be reasonably deduced from this evidence alone is sufficient to support the conviction. or inherently improbable, the testimony of a single witness is (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) the neither physically impossible nor inherently improbable. her testimony is sufficient to support the conviction. the conviction is also supported by ed him to stop. a is circumstantial evidence of penetration in a sodomy case. (see, e.g., people v. thomas (1986) 180 cal.app.3d 47, 55-56; people v. ribera (2005) 133 cal.app.4th 81, 86; people v. gonzalez (1983) 141 cal.app.3d 786, 790, disapproved by people v. kurtzman (1988) 46 cal.3d 322, 330.) moreover, additional evidence presented at trial supports a finding of sodomy. defendant admitted to detective jara that penetration may have occurred: penetrating her. like you said, it might have been a little bit, and when jara said she put your penis in her anus,12 when jara asked de defendant argues that the jury could not rely only on us delicti or body of the crime . . . cannot be proved by exclusive reliance on the (people v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161, 1165 [emphasis in original].) as noted above, fficient solid and credible evidence of sexual int was not credible or that his own admissions were not admissible. it is not enough for the defendant simply to contend that the evidence is insufficient to support the judgment of conviction, affirmatively demonstrate that the evidence is (people v. sanghera (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1567, 1573.) defendant has not met his burden to show that there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction.4 defendant also asserts that because the evidence was insufficient, his due process rights under the fourteenth amendment of the united states constitution were violated. because we have determined that there was sufficient evidence to allow a rational trier of fact to find the challenged element of the crime proven beyond a reasonable doubt, due process protections 4 the attorney general argues that there was sufficient evidence to support a finding that the sodomy occurred between july 2013 and july 2014. defendant did not challenge any findings with respect to the time frame alleged in the information, and therefore we do not address the evidence as it pertains to the dates the sodomy occurred. 13 have been satisfied. (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 690.) b. hiv/aids testing during sentencing, the trial court ordered defendant to undergo hiv/aids testing. defendant asserts, and the attorney general agrees, that the order was erroneous. section 1202.1 provides that the court shall order that a defendant convicted of certain sexual offenses to be tested for aids. ( 1202.1, subd. (a).) the statute specifies which sexual offenses require testing. (id., subd. (e).) defendant was convicted under section 288.7, tary aids or human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) testing is strictly limited people v. guardado (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 757, 763.) and should be stricken. (see people v. green (1996) 50 cal.app.4th 1076, 1090.) c. abstract of judgment defendant also asserts that the abstract of judgment is erroneous as to count 4, and the attorney general agrees. on count 4, defendant was convicted of the lesser included offense of attempted sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger. ( 664, 288.7, subd. (a).) the abstract of judgment, however, shows count 4 as a conviction for sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger under section 288.7, subd. (a), instead of the lesser offense. it does not control if s oral judgment and may not add to or modify the judgment it purports to digest (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185.) an appellate court may correct errors in abstracts of judgment. 14 (ibid.) we therefore direct the trial court to correct the abstract disposition the order requiring defendant to submit to testing for hiv/aids is reversed. the trial court is directed to amend the abstract of judgment to correctly reflect that on count 4, defendant was convicted of attempted sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger under penal code sections 288.7 subd. (a) and 664. the trial court is directed to forward the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 