 filed 1/23/19 p. v. jordan ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. damien eric jordan et al., defendants and appellants. b278423 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066171) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, charles a. chung, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, vacated in part, and remanded with directions. david m. thompson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant damien eric jordan. marilee marshall, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant charles edward lee. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted damien eric jordan (jordan) and charles edward lee (lee) (collectively appellants) of kidnapping to rob and of robbery. at their trial, the prosecutor recounted in his closing argument how the victim described being forced to place car, being ordered to empty his pockets, and having his wallet and lighters taken at gunpoint by appellants. however, no evidence of the recited event is in the trial record. innocent misrecollections are not uncommon, this false evidence was so convincing and so prejudicial that reversal is warranted convictions. because there was insufficient evidence to support retrial is barred as to these counts, as to jordan. accordingly, we on for kidnapping to commit robbery to simple kidnapping and vacate his sentence. as to lee, we reverse his convictions for kidnapping to commit robbery and for robbery, permitting retrial on these counts as to lee only. factual and procedural background i. viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established that on may 25, 2015, allen carll was homeless and slept in an abandoned apartment building. early that morning, carll received on his cell phone a call from lee, whom carll knew as c.j. lee told carll to come to a restaurant located at or near 3 from the methamphetamine he had smoked on the afternoon of the 24th. carll walked to the restaurant carrying his cell phone, his green and brown wallet that contained his driver license, some lighters and 65 cents. the wallet was in his pocket. carll identified 9 as his wallet. when carll arrived at the restaurant, lee was there with a person whom carll did not know. lee told carll to put his cell him out. lee also told carll that there was a gun in the car. carll believed lee and was afraid for his life. carll therefore put his cell phone and sweater in the car because carll believed that if he did not, he would get hurt. carll never testified where in the car he placed his cell phone or sweater. after carll put his cell phone in the car, and some 10 to 15 minutes after carll arrived, another guy carll did not know but blood facetrial, carll identified blood face as appellant jordan. jordan immediately threatened carcarll did not tell jordan the truth, jordan was going to knock him out. carll had no idea what jordan was talking about but carll took him seriously. lee told carll to get in the car. fearing for his life, carll got in the car and sat in the back. immediately thereafter, jordan lee stayed outside. jordan then retrieved from underneath the a black gun. jordan threatened carll with the gun, pointing it at him and unsuccessfully tried to cock it. carll tried to get out of the car but lee prevented carll from exiting. lee then drove away with jordan in the front passenger seat and 4 carll in the back. jordan had the gun on his lap. afraid, carll did not try to get out of the car. jordan called carll a snitch, and lee or jordan told carll they were going to kill him once they got past avenue b. the area north of avenue b was desert. when they drove past n, carll jumped out of the car. although injured as a result of jumping out, he made it to the station. ii. later that day, uty steve nue j-12. when owen first spotted the vehicle, he saw lee walking away from the car and sarah adams exit it. lee and adams then entered a house on west avenue j-12. when owen returned to the house later that evening with other deputies, they heard noises that sounded like someone trying to escape. deputies searched the house, but neither lee nor adams was in the house. owen did not search the attic at that time. the next day, owen searched the attic and found, inter alia, an olive green wallet containing ebt card. owen also found a black cell phone and a white cell phone in the attic. adams gave a recorded statement to detectives in which she said that, on may 25, 2015, she and lee went to a house on avenue j-10. when lee oh fuck. going to be arrested. went into the house. lee told adams he had kidnapped someone. lee had a black semiautomatic gun, but adams thought it was a fake. 5 deputies arrested jordan about a week later at a residence, where they also found a red bmx-style bicycle being painted purple. jordan admitted that his moniker was blood face. iii. trial and sentence jordan and lee were convicted by jury of the following charges: kidnapping to commit robbery (pen. code,1  209, subd. (b)(1); count 1), second degree robbery ( 211; count 2), and assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b); count 3) with, as to jordan, a firearm use finding ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) on counts 1 and 2, and a firearm use finding ( 12022.5, subds. (a) & (d)) on count 3.2 at sentencing, jordan admitted that he suffered a prior strike ( 667, subd. (d)) and a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)). as to count 1, the court sentenced jordan to prison for seven years to life doubled to 14 years based upon his strike admission, plus 10 years for the firearm use enhancement, plus five years for the serious felony enhancement, for a total term of 29 years to life. the court imposed and stayed, pursuant to section 654, a 20-year term as to count 2 and a 28-year term as to count 3. lee admitted he suffered two strikes ( 667, subd. (d)), a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)) and two prior felony convictions for which he served separate prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). on count 1, the court sentenced lee to prison for a term of 25 years to life based upon the two strikes plus five 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the jury found the gang enhancements not true. 6 years for the prior serious felony enhancement, for a total term of 30 years to life. as to counts 2 and 3, similar terms of 30 years to life were imposed and stayed pursuant to section 654. issues jordan and lee claim error as to counts 1 and 2 only. they jointly argue that: (1) there is insufficient evidence to support their convictions on counts 1 and 2; (2) the prosecutor committed misconduct by arguing to the jury facts not in evidence and posing an improper hypothetical question to a gang expert3; (3) the court abused its discretion by denying their bifurcation motion regarding the gang allegations; (4) the trial court erroneously refused to exclude evidmoniker; and (5) cumulative error denied appellants a fair trial. in supplemental briefs, jordan and lee claim the matter must be remanded so they can benefit from recently enacted legislation, senate bills nos. 620 and 1393. discussion i. s a. counts 1 and 2 1. there was sufficient evidence lee robbed carll robberyhe felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accompl 3 in argument as to this issue. 7 (people v. gomez (2008) 43 cal.4th 249, 254 (gomez))has several distinct elements. lee claims two were not proved: (1) there was no taking and (2) there was no intent to permanently deprive. we reject these claims. a. the taking the taking element of robbery has two necessary parts: gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 255.) r that the property be taken out of the physical presence of the victim.(people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 852 (hill).) ation requirement.ibid.) lee demanded that carll put his cell phone in the car and threatened to knock carll out if he did not comply. lee added that there was a gun in the car. carll, fearing he would get hurt, put his cell phone in the car. although lee does not dispute that carll put the cell phone in the car because lee threatened to use force against him, lee insists that he did not take ause lee did not legal significance. t is sufficient if he acquired dominion over it, though the distance of movement is very small and the property is moved by a person acting under people v. martinez (1969) 274 cal.app.2d 170, 174.) lee ordered carll, under threat 8 of force, to relinquish his phone. when carll complied and put his lee obtained dominion and controlcaptionover the property. and, although the movement of the cell phone into the car was slight, the distance was sufficient to satisfy the asportation element. lee argues that carll voluntarily discarded his cell phone when he jumped from the car thereby negating the taking element. lee cites no authority for the novel proposition that after a victim complies with an order under threat of force to place his or her property in a car, is forced into the car, is assaulted with a firearm in the car, is driven away in the car, and is told he or she is going to be killed, then jumps out of the moving car to save his or her life but neglects to recover the property, the victim has abandoned the property. more to the point, lee ignores that the taking was completed before carll the cell phone into the car. although the duration of the robbery continued until carll escaped, the taking was complete for purposes of establishing guilt for robbery when carll complied commission of a robbery does not require the robber to escape with the loot to a place of temporary safety. this concept should not be confused with the duration of the robbery, which continues so long as the loot is being carried (people v. pham (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 61, 68.) thus, there was substantial evidence that a taking occurred. b. specific intent next, lee argues he did not intend to permanently deprive carll of his cell phone. evidence but instead is usually inferred from all the facts and 9 people v. lewis (2001) 25 [i]ntent to steal may ordinarily be inferred when one person takes the property of another, particularly if it is taken by force (people v. tufunga (1999) 21 cal.4th 935, 943) or fear. here, lee accomplished the taking with a threat of force and with fear. this alone is sufficient to support the inference that lee had the specific intent to permanently deprive carll of his cell phone. still, lee insists that he did not have intent to steal when he told carll to place the phone into the car, but rather, lee had a variety of ulterior motives including preventing carll from making calls or taking pictures. not only does lee confuse motive with intent, there rather, these proffered rationales are simply speculative arguments. even if lee had been motivated by several desires, this did not preclude lee from also harboring an intent to steal, for it is well settled that a defendant can harbor concurrent objectives. (people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 628; see people v. melendrez (1938) 25 cal.app.2d 490, 494that the appellants may have had the intention of ravishing the for these reasons, we find that there is substantial evidence supporting the inference that lee had the requisite intent to permanently deprive carll of his cell phone. 2. there was sufficient evidence lee committed kidnapping to rob as to whether there was sufficient evidence of kidnapping to rob, people v. monk (1961) 56 cal.2d 288 (monk), is illuminating. there, the victim schaefer was in a shopping center when the defendant pointed a gun at her 10 a stick-the defendant, armed with the gun, guided schaefer six to eight feet to his car in a parking area, where he forced her into the car and, as she entered, told her to throw her wallet into the rear of the car. schaefer complied. the defendant drove while holding the gun against her, and later said there was more to come between her legs. schaefer subsequently threw herself out of the car. (id. at pp. 293295.) the defendant was convicted of kidnapping to rob and, on appeal, the defendant challenged the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the conviction. (id. at pp. 292, 294.) monk, supra, 56 cal.2d at page 295 concluded the kidnap to rob was complete when the defendant forced schaefer to walk several feet to his car. pertinent to the present case, monk then occurs after the actual perpetration of a robbery such kidnapping may be kidnapping for the purpose of robbery if it may reasonably be inferred that the transportation of the victim was to effect the escape of the robber or to remove the victim to another place where he might less easily sound an alarm. [citations.] in the instant case miss schaefer was near a shopping center when defendant accosted her, and it could reasonably be inferred by the trial court that he forced her to accompany him in his car in order to prevent her from turning in ibid.) in the present when carll put his cell phone in the car under the circumstances previously discussed. the kidnapping began at least when lee drove the car away with jordan and carll inside and ended when carll jumped out of the car. (cf. people v. masten (1982) 137 cal.app.3d 579, 588 [kidnapping continues as long as the 11 detention does]; parnell v. superior court (1981) 119 cal.app.3d 392, 407408.) the jury reasonably could have inferred that lee compelled carll to accompany lee in the car to eand to prevent carll from turning in an immediate alarm. b. conviction on counts 1 and 2 1. count 1, robbery although there was sufficient evidence to support conviction on counts 1 and 2, we conclude otherwise as to jordan, who asserts that lee robbed carll before he, jordan, arrived. respondent counters that since jordan joined lee in committing the kidnapping while the asportation of the lootell phoneas an aider and abettor. the commission of a robbery continues until all acts constituting the offense have ceased. . . . thus, in determining the duration of of the final element of the robbery, asportation. [] although, for purposes of establishing guilt, the asportation requirement is initially satisfied by evidence of slight movement [citation], asportation is not confined to a fixed point in time. the asportation continues thereafter as long as the loot is being people v cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 1158, 11641165 (cooper).) while it is true that a robbery continues during the asportation, respondent misconstrues cooper by ignoring a condition precedent of aider and abettor liability. and abets the commission of a crime when he or she, (i) with 12 knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, (ii) and with the intent or purpose of committing, facilitating or encouraging commission of the crime, (iii) by act or advice, aids, promotes, cooper, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1164, italics added.) there was no evidence that before the robbery, jordan knew the robbery would occur. similarly, after jordan arrived, there was no evidence that he learned a robbery had occurred or was ongoing. respondent hypothesizes that because jordan with lee, and shared in his intent. while the record reveals substantial evidence that jordan was involved in a pre-planned crime with leekidnappingthere was no evidence that jordan had prior s additional unlawful purpose, perpetrating a robbery, or that jordan intended to aid lee in the commission of the robbery after he arrived. to be clear, the absence of a conversation does not establish substantial evidence that jordan had the requisite knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, lee. moreover, the exchange between jordan, lee, and carll was singularly focused on a distinct, unlawful purposekidnapping carll because he was a snitch. while carll testified he put the cell phone in the car, there was no evidence as to where he put it, e.g., on one of the front seats, on a rear seat, or passenger seat. when jordan entered the car, with carll in the back seat, there was no evidence jordan did so aware of the presence of the cell phone. finally, when the three were in the car, there was no evidence anyone mentioned the robbery or cell phone. here, a bare agreement to join in a kidnapping cannot 13 constitute substantial evidence of knowledge of a robbery or intent to facilitate commission of a robbery.4 without knowledge of the preceding caption of property, jordan could not have intended taking unwittingly aided the asportation of the phone. one who unintentionally aids a robbery cannot be an aider and abettor. considering the entire record, we conclude there was insufficient evidence jordan directly robbed carll, or aided and abetted the robbery of carll. 2. there was insufficient evidence jordan kidnapped to rob, count 2 necessarily included offense of kidnapping to commit robbery, the latter having an additional element of intent to rob that arises people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 518, italics added; see monk, supra, 56 cal.2d at property to reduce chance of sounding alarm is kidnap with intent to rob].) in light of our previous discussion, we conclude there was no substantial evidence jordan ever harbored intent to rob carll; therefore, there was insufficient evidence jordan committed kidnapping to commit robbery. in sum, insuf 4 we note the trial court instructed the jury on the liability of principals and on the liability of aiders and abettors, but the court did not instruct on liability based on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. 14 and 2.5 conviction for simple kidnapping. (people v. navarro (2007) 40 cal.4th 668, 671.) ii. l6 during jury argument is well taken as to counts 1 and 2, jordan and lee claim the prosecutor committed misconduct by misstating the evidence and arguing facts not in evidence during his closing argument. respondent asserts that jordan, but not lee, preserved this issue for appellate review but respondent denies that any misconduct or convictions on these counts for insufficiency of the evidence, we 7 a. applicable law inferences from the evidence presented at trial, mischaracterizing 5 because we have concluded insufficient evidence supports these counts are moot and double jeopardy protections bar a retrial on those counts. (people v. eroshevich (2014) 60 cal.4th 583, 591.) 6 as espoused by our supreme court, what occurred here is most appropriately labeled prosecutorial error. (see hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 823, fn. 1.) 7 o simple kidnapping, the prosecutorial misconduct claim only related to robbery; as such, any misconduct would not affect the conviction for simple kidnapping. 15 the evidence is misconduct. [citations.] s not excuse either deliberate or mistaken (hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 823, italics added.) assertion of facts not in evidence during closing argument may be particularly prejudicial because it is akin to unsworn witness testimony. the jury has for the prosecutor, thereby effectively circumventing (people v. bolton (1979) 23 cal.3d 208, 213 (bolton).) were unintentional or purposeful does not matter for it is misconduct for a prosecutor to argue facts not in evidence. (people v. mendoza (2016) 62 cal.4th 856, 906.) occurred, reversal is not required unless the defendant can show he suffered prejudice. [citation.] error with respect to prosecutorial misconduct is evaluated under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 to the extent federal constitutional rights are implicated and people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 [(watson)] people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 564.) watson standard, prejudicial error is shown after an examination of the entire cause, including the evidence, [the reviewing court] is of the opinion that it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the error. we have made clear that a probability in this context does not mean more likely than not, but merely a reasonable chance, more than an abstract possibility. 16 (richardson v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1040, 1050 (richardson).) moreover, a result more favorable to a convicted defendant for purposes of watson is not limited to an acquittal but includes a hung jury. (people v. poletti (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1191, 1208; people v. mason (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 818, 826; people v. soojian (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 491, 520521 (soojian).) b. the issue was preserved for appeal as a preliminary matter, respondent argues lee forfeited the issue because he failed to object to the alleged misconduct and failed to request a jury admonition, which would have cured any harm. as a general rule a defendant may not complain on appeal of prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundthe defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. [citations.] the foregoing, however, is only the general rule. a defendant will be excused from the necessity of either a timely objection and/or a request for admonition if either would be futile. [citations.] in addition, failure to request the jury be admonished does not an admonition would not have [citations.] finally, the absence of a request for a curative admonition does not forfeit objection to alleged prosecutorial misconduct [and as a consequence] the defendant has no opportunity to make such a re(hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) here, as shown below, defense counsel in fact did object twice 17 facts not in evidence, and twice, the trial court immediately overruled the objections. counsel who objected, once the trial court overruled the similar objections. thus, rlee forfeited the issue is rejected because we find that these measures would have been futile. (cf. people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 373.) c. additional facts at trial, limited and brief. carll merely testified that lee, alone, ordered him to place his cell phone in the car or lee would hurt him. after carll complied by placing his phone in the car, jordan contained numerous misstatements and instances of imprecision. additional background facts are necessary to understand the manifestation carll was a reluctant witness. he was subpoenaed to appear at the preliminary hearing but failed to appear, requiring his arrest and remand into custody during his trial testimony. during pretrial hearings, the prosecutor told the court that he expected carll to recant his prior statements to law enforcement. in his opening statement, the prosecutor candidly admitted to the jury that he had no idea what carll was going to say in court. nevertheless, the prosecutor recounted for the jury what carll utor asserted that lee and jordan made carll place the cell phone on top of walletin addition to his cell 18 phonewas stolen from him. this assertion, however, would further, in his opening statement, the prosecutor asserted a joint commission theory of the crimes that also would be contrary to the evidence8 that lee and jordan were present when carll was threatened and his cell phone was taken, which was described as a black touch screen cell phone; that jordan pulled the car; that carll complied, then lee entered the bmw and drove the three out to the desert; and that during the drive, carll was ordered to empty his pockets, so he gave lee and jordan his green camouflaged wallet as well as a couple of lighters and other things in his pockets.9 statements. carll testified on friday, june 10, 2016, as we described above in the factual background. in short, when carll arrived at 8 the prosecutor also repeated this theory in the hypothetical question asked the expert to assume that a ligget street gang (ligget) member arrived at the restaurant; the ligget member and a 4-trey gangster crip gang (4-trey) member threatened to knock out the victim if he did not hand over his cell phone; the ligget member pulled out a gun and demanded that the victim enter the car; the three entered the car; and either the ligget member or 4-question, but once again his objection was immediately overruled by the trial court. 9 prior to trial, there was alleged information in jordan and s opening statement that appellants jointly committed the present crimes. 19 the restaurant, lee was alone and he made carll put his cell phone in the car. jordan thereafter arrived. the trial then recessed until june 16, 2016. while the remaining testimony took two days, the prosecutor did not present his closing argument until the following week on monday, june 20, 2016. by then, 10 days had passed since carll had testified. d. the error imony had manifestly evolved. in fact, the testimony. [the prosecutor]: when [carll] gets there, mr. lee is there and right afterwards mr. jordan rides up on that red bicycle. remember, mr. lee is there in his car, . . . . mr. jordan comes riding up a couple minutes into this whole thing on his red bicycle. . . . he just rides up and jumps right into the robbery. [] (italics added.) misleadingly implied that jordan was present when the taking took place. the uncontroverted evidence at trial, however, was that jordan rode up on his bike after lee had threatened carll and after carll had placed his cell phone into inaccurate argument to one full of falsehoods. so [carll] says, fine, i will give up the phone. right? he puts the phone on top of the car and now they really have him right where they want him because now he 20 misstates the evidence. the court: overruled. [the prosecutor]: . . . mr. jordan goes into the car and pulls out a gun . . . and points the gun at him. and they take his wallet, his phone. i think . . . some lighters or something like that. that he gave his phone charger and he had a bag with him. and they (italics added.) there was no importantly, no one, not lee and certainly not jordan, took wallet or lighters or phone charger. the testimony at trial established that the only property requested or taken was a cell phone and that was by lee alone. moreover, there simply was no on top the significance of this argument cannot be minimized. if carll placed his property in plain view on top of the car, as opposed to secretly inside of the car, jordan would have been in a position to see the property and, presumably, have knowledge that a robbery had or was occurring. in fact, the prosecutor explicitly argued this point: question. . . . why is this stuff on top of your car?jordan had no reason to ask such a question because there was no evidence that was on top of the car when he arrived. the prosecutor continued in his closing argument to falsely argue that jordan and lee both actively participated in the [the prosecutor]: did allen carll get robbed, and the answer is, yeah, absolutely. . . . [h]e had a wallet and his phone. phone charger. even the lighters are property. [] it was taken from his immediate presence. . . 21 told youi mean i asked him, did you want to give him your phone and wallet? he said no. . . . [] . . . [] and, again, they are both part of this. they both helped. mr. lee actually tells him empty your pockets or give me your phone or whatever. mr. jordan, though, shows up right near the beginning and helps out by holding the gun on him. these statements were not true. notwithstanding the insistence, this question and answer session was based on imagined evidence. the prosecutor never asked carll if he gave anyone his wallet. moreover, there was no testimony that empty your pockets or that jordan showed the beginning and help[ed] out by holding the gun on him jordan did point a gun at carll, but this occurred later, when jordan and carll were in the car, long after carll had given up his cell phone. although carll was asked whether he had a wallet and lighters in his pockets before he arrived at the restaurant, he never testified that they were taken from him or his immediate presence. these false and misleading statements were not isolated, but were repeated in the ttal argument. the prosecutor told the jury, empty your pockets and give me your phone is the start of the (italics added.) finally, the prosecutor presented additional false facts that he repeatedly argued were in evidencecell phone was recovered in the attic: [sergeant owen] goes back to search the attic . . . cell phone [] . . . [] [lee] goes and hides in the attic. again, he is trying to get rid of evidence and he realizes, oh, man, i have his wallet. i have 22 started using it for myself. i put my own cards in it. [] so he drops the wallet. i have his phone. he drops the phonewant to have [] . . . [] and they intended to keep it. well, we know they intended to keep it because they did keep it. in fact, mr. lee had the wallet with him and the phone, too, up in the attic, and ditched it there only because the police were coming. (italics added.) phone was foundin the attic or anywhere. while two cell phones, a black cell phone and a white cell phone, were recovered in the attic of the house on avenue j-12 and admitted into evidence, remarkably, there was no direct or circumstantial evidence that either cell phone belonged to carll. carll was never asked to identify the cell phones admitted into evidence. carll was never even asked to describe the color or type of his cell cell phone was presented through the prosecutor, who in his opening statement, claimed that carlcell phone was a black, flip phone. these falsities are particularly troublesome because the muddled a fact in evidencecell phone was taken, with a fact not in evidencecell phone was found in the attic where lee was hiding. e. the error was prejudicial the improper facts in closing argument did not occur in a vacuum nor were they isolated or a simple slip of the tongue. rather, this theme that both jordan and lee teamed up in robbing carll of multiple items of property, including the fictional wallet, beginning of the trial. the prosecutor first asserted these facts in 23 his opening statement.10 the prosecutor repeated these same facts in the hypothetical question he poseexpert.11 those facts were pervasive in his closing argument. whether the prosecutor inadvertently testimony, not matter. the reason is straightforward appellant is nonetheless an injury because it was committed bolton, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 214.) although there was sufficient evidence lee robbed carll of his cell phone, there is, nonetheless, a reasonable chance the jury the particularly his wallet, was taken from immediate presence, cell phone was recovered in the attic. that the taking element of the robbery was satisfied. the prosecutor strenuously argued that the fact that the wallet was found in an area where lee was hiding and containidentification corroborated carll in two respects: first, his property was taken and, second, lee and jordan took the wallet particularly compelling because there was overwhelming evidence that the green and brown wallet found in the attic belonged to carll. at trial, carll identified the wallet as his and 10 it is apparent the prosecutor modeled his closing argument on his opening statement. 11 see footnote 8, ante. 24 card in the wallet. as shown below, however, the thrust of the prosecuthat a robbery ensued was legally invalid. rodriguez v. superior court (1984) 159 cal.app.3d 821 (rodriguez) is instructive. in that case, the victim left her purse in the defendants car before he forced her out, raped her and drove away with the purse. there was no evidence defendant knew her purse was left in his car when he drove off. the court held that the lack of evidence that the defendant had knowledge of the presence of the purse when he was in the presence of the victim defeated the inference that a felonious taking had occurred. here, as in rodriguez, the wallet could not have established a felonious taking. there was no evidence that a s pockets was made, or that lee or jordan was aware of the presence of the wallet when carll was in their presence, i.e., before carll fled. in the attic, that lee later possessed the wallet is insufficient evidence to support the inference that the wallet was obtained feloniously, that is, lee had an intent alternative inference that points to innocence: carll left his wallet in the car inadvertently when he jumped out of the moving vehicle. (see, e.g., rodriguez, supra, 159 cal.app.3d 821.) more to the point, there was no evidence that an intent to steal the wallet was formed or that the wallet was taken by force or fear, second, the prosecutor also falsely argued that car 25 there was evidence that the cell phone was taken, there was no evidence it was recovered. conversely, while there was evidence idence it was taken. in other words, the prosecutor blurred real evidence with imagined evidence in order to bolster a taking. the prejudicial -felonious taking of the wallet and to falsely argue thwas recovered in the attic to substantiate a robbery cannot be minimized. by inextricably linking real and imagined evidence, we cannot now on appeal conclude that the jury relied on only the real evidence. the so-called recovery of cell argument that a felonious taking of personal property occurred, there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury relied on these remarks to convict lee of robbery and kidnapping to commit robbery. third, it is the rare case where we have irrefutable evidence that the jury relied on the argument rather than facts that were in evidence in reaching its verdict. this is that rare case. jordan could only have been convicted of robbery and kidnapping to commit robbery if the jury relied on facts not in evidence. as shown earlier, there was no substantial evidence convictions. we must be mindful of the bolton, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 213) and the fact that the trial court twice overruled the objectionable statements in evaluating prejudice. on two argument, defense counsel objected on the grounds that the prosecutor was arguing 26 facts not in evidence. on each occasion, the objections were overruled. ument since the jury necessarily relied on the objectionable remarks of the prosecutor to convict jordan. moreover, we cannot say with confidence that instructions were sufficient to cause jurors to reject purge them from their (people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106, 118) thereby eliminating the prejudice resulting from the unchecked misstatements of the prosecutor . argument may be dissipated by an instruction that the statements of the attorneys are not evidence [citation], an the trial court implicitly endorses the representations by 12 (id. at p. 118.) since the jury necessarily relied on the objectionable remarks of the prosecutor to convict jordan, there is a reasonable probability that the jury used impermissible facts similarly to convict lee of robbery and kidnapping to commit robbery. our conclusion is further buttressed by the fact that during 12 the court, using caljic no. 1.02, instructed the jury that statements made by attorneys were not evidence. the court also instructed the jury, using caljic no. 2.82, that hypothetical questions posed to an expert witness could only be considered if the jury found that a fact upon which an opinion was based was proven. 27 but the jury ultimately reached its verdicts before any such readback. misconduct was harmless . . . [] . . . [] [t]he sheer number of the instances of prosecutorial misconduct . . . is profoundly troubling. considered together, we conclude they created a negative synergistic effect, rendering the degree of overall unfairness to defendant more than that flowing from the sum of the individual hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at pp. 845847.) reasonable chance (richardson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1050) that absent the more favorable to lee, including a hung jury (soojian, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at pp. 520521), would have occurred. in other words, there was a reasonable probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 1260.) the judgment must be reversed as to retrial on counts 1 and 2 as to him.13 iii. senate bills nos. 620 and 1393 enhancements under former sections 12022.5 and 12022.53 and a term for a prior serious felony conviction under former section 667, 13 there is no need to reach the issue of whether the the misconduct violated state law and was independently prejudicial as to counts 1 and 2 under the watson prejudice standard, requ 28 serious felony conviction under former section 667, subdivision (a). when jordan and lee were sentenced, the trial court lacked discretion to strike those enhancements. as we now explain, recent legislation grants trial courts the discretion they had once lacked. effective january 1, 2018, the legislature amended section 12022.5, subdivision (c), and section 12022.53, subdivision (h), to give trial courts authority to strike section 12022.5 and section 12022.53 firearm enhancements in the interest of justice. (sen. bill no. 620 (20172018 reg. sess.), stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) those amendments apply to cases, such as this one, that were not final when the amendments became operative. (people v. watts (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 102, 119; people v. arredondo (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 493, 507; people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080, 10901091.) remand is necessary to allow the trial court an opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion under the amended statutes. (see people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1391; people v. brown (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1213, 1228.) similarly, senate bill no. 1393 (stats. 2018, ch. 1013,  12) became effective january 1, 2019. senate bill no. 1393 amends sections 667, subdivision (a), and 1385, subdivision (b), to allow a court to exercise its discretion to strike or to dismiss a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes. senate al courts with discretion, which they formerly did not have, to dismiss or (people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 972.) and, as with senate bill no. 620, senate bill no. 1393 applies retroactively to all cases not final when it took effect. (garcia, at p. 973.) 29 vacated. we express no opinion about how the trial discretion should be exercised on remand. disposition the judgment as to damien eric jordan is modified by reducing his conviction for kidnapping to commit robbery (count 1) to a conviction for simple kidnapping, and reversed as to his conviction for second degree robbery (count 2). the judgment as to charles edward lee is modified by reducing his conviction for kidnapping to commit robbery (count 1) to a conviction for simple kidnapping unless, following remand, the people elect to retry lee for kidnapping to commit robbery (count 1); reversed as to his conviction for second degree robbery (count 2) with the reversal constituting an order for a new trial (pen. code,  1262) as to the robbery countproceedings consistent with this opinion. the judgments are otherwise affirmed. 30 because we reverse, in part, on the ground of prosecutorial misconduct, we direct the clerk of the court to forward a copy of this opinion to the state bar. (bus. & prof. code,  6086.7, subd. (a)(2).) not to be published in the official reports. kalra, j. i concur: lavin, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 1 edmon, p.j., concurring and dissenting. i concur with much of the majority opinion. like the majority, i conclude there was insufficient evidence jordan committed robbery and kidnapping for robbery, and that his conviction on the latter offense should be reduced to simple kidnapping. i also agconverse is true as to lee; as to him, the evidence was sufficient to prove both robbery and kidnapping for robbery. and, i agree that the matter must be remanded for resentencing in light of senate bill nos. 620 and 1393. but i respectfully part company reversed due to prosecutorial misconduct during argument. in improper; and in any event, there is no reasonable probability the jury would have rendered a more favorable result for lee in the absence of any of the alleged misconduct. further, i find no by refusing to bifurcate trial of the gang enhancements. accordingly, i would affirm kidnapping for robbery. i. prosecutorial misconduct a. applicable legal principles the standards governing prosecutorial misconduct are well settled. sufficiently egregious that it infects the trial with such a degree of unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial of due process, the federal constitution is violated. prosecutorial misconduct that falls short of rendering the trial fundamentally unfair may still constitute misconduct under state law if it 2 involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to people v. masters (2016) 62 cal.4th 1019, 1052; people v. ghobrial (2018) 5 cal.5th 250, 289.) it is misconduct for a prosecutor to base argument on facts not in evidence. (people v. mendoza (2016) 62 cal.4th 856, 906; people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1207; people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 494495.) comments before the jury, we consider whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 427.) we consider the challenged statements in context, and view the argument as a whole. (people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 480; people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1203.) we do not lightly infer that the jury drew the most, rather than the least, people v. shazier (2014) 60 cal.4th 109, 144; people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 771772.) to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument. (people v. winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 481; people v. linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1205.) prosecutorial misconduct is evaluated under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 to the extent federal constitutional rights are implicated and people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 . . . if only state law issues were involved. [citation.] chapman fundamentally unfair that due process is violated. [citations.] 3 watson reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 564.) defendant must show that the challenged conduct raised a reasonable likelihood of a more favorable verd people v. daveggio and michaud (2018) 4 cal.5th 790, 854.) b. alleged misstatements regarding the evidence opn., ante, at p. 19.) it also faults the gang expert, as inaccurate. (maj. opn., ante, at p. 18 & fn. 8.) i disagree. 1. opening statement opening statement problematic, i disagreecomments in the opening statement did not constitute misconduct, because the prosecutor reasonably could have believed the trial evidence would support them. at the preliminary hearing, detective dale parisi testified that carll told him that, in response to a phone call, carll arrived at the restaurant to talk to lee. while he was talking to lee, jordan rode up on his bicycle. lee told carll to hand over his phone or he would knock him out. jordan retrieved a gun from the car and told carll to tell the truth or he would kill him. lee told him to get in the car. in response, carll handed over his phone and got in the back seat. the group then drove off, with 4 lee driving and jordan sitting in the front seat. lee told carll to carll complied, removing two lighters, a mechanical pencil, and his wallet, and handed them to jordan, who had the gun in his hand. to take him to avenue b and kill him. detective james speed interviewed both jordan and lee. jordan told the detective that, while holding the gun, he told carll to get in the car. jordan saw lee told the detective that he, jordan and carll discussed the rumors carll had been spreading; jordan, who had a gun, told carll to get in the car or he would pistol whip him; and lee also told carll to get in the car. sold it to lee for $35. at that point, jordan had already taken forced carll into the car at gunpoint, took his wallet, phone, and other items, and threatened him, was not misconduct. in an opening statement, an attorney is to state what he or she expects the evidence to be. (see people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 799 [the function of opening statement is to inform the jury of the expected evidence]; people v. seumanu (2015) 61 previous statements to police were consistent with the ning statement, and it was not misconduct for the prosecutor to state that he expected the victim to testify consistently with his prior statements. (maj. opn., ante, at p. 18, fn. 9.) evidence at trial might prove. moreover, the prosecutor expressly 5 ultimately testify, acknowledging that the evidence might or might not be as expected. there was no misconduct. 2. the hypothetical posed to the gang expert the same is largely true in regard to the hypothetical posed to the gang expert. the gang expert was the first witness at trial. thus, when the prosecutor posed the hypothetical, he could not be sure how carll would testify. the hypothetical was consistent one exception: the prosecutor asked the expert to assume the the victim out unless he handed over his phone, whereas carll told the detective that it was lee who made this statement. but, this misstep was insignificant: statements, both jordan and lee were present when the demand was made, suggesting both were principals in the crime. in any event, no prejudice is apparent for several reasons. the jury was instructed that (1) by allowing the hypothetical, the court had not found any of the assumed facts had been proved; (2) that question was for the jury; and (3) if it concluded any of the assumptions had not been proved, the jury was to take that into consideration that the jury found the gang enhancements not true as to both defendants, there is no possibility of prejudice under any standard. and, given that the only misstatements pertained to reducing his kidnapping for robbery conviction in any event, no prejudice can have ensued. 6 3. implication that jordan was present when lee nspired. (maj. opn., ante, at p. 19.) not so. in the cited portion of the argument, the right afterwards mr. jordan rides up on that red bicycle. remember, mr. lee is there in his car . . . mr. jordan comes riding up a couple minutes into this whole thing on his red on it because he rides up, there is no discussion between the two is this person or none of prosecutor then described how lee threatened to knock carll out r; and jordan pulled a gun from even assuming arguendo that lee has not forfeited his prosecutorial misconduct claims,1 1 any of the popn., ante, at pp. 1617.) i counsel objected to only two of these instances. even assuming it would have been futile for lee to interpose objections to additional, different misstatements. (see people v. powell (2018) 7 were a fair comment on the evidence. the time frame during which events transpired was inexact. carll testified that he arrived at the restaurant to find lee and another man present; and within the next 10 to 15 minutes, lee robbed him of his based on this evidence, it was not misleading to argue that salient pointbeen in on the plan beforehand given his conductwas certainly a fair comment on the evidence. latitude during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 439; people v. shazier, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 127 [prosecutors have wide latitude to draw inferences from the evidence, and whether the inferences are reasonable is for the jury to decide].) people v. daveggio and michaud, supra, 4 whether an argument misstates the evidence is highly fact-specific; just because a trial court overrules one objectioneven erroneouslydoes not mean the court will overrule all such objections to different arguments regarding different evidentiary issues. nonetheless, because lee argues his counsel was ineffective for failing to object, i consider the merits of his arguments. 8 moreover, viewing the argument in context, the jury could not have understood the prosecutor to mean jordan was physically present when lee robbed carll of the phone; the prosecutor repeatedly acknowledged the opposite, referencing the 2 indeed, the prosecutor immediately corrected himself when he once misstated the point, clarifying that only lee demanded the phone.3 andeffectively argued, during his closing, that the evidence showed jordan was not present during the phone taking, further 2 for example, the prosecutor argued at various points: jordan, though, shows up right near the beginning and helps out by holding the gun on him. . . . telling him . . . we are a couple extra minutes to get there because he is riding a bicycle. when he gets there, he jumps right in. he jumps in without any e at the very start is because he is late because he is riding his bicycle there instead of taking a of property. so how how: regarding what was transpiring. 3 when rebutting a defense argument, the prosecutor arjust empty your pockets. they specifically [said] give us your phoneargument misstated the evidence, and before the court could rule, the . . . 9 argument in an objectionable fashion. as noted, we must consider the challenged statements in the context of the argument as a whole, and do not lightly infer that the jury drew the most, rather than the least, damaging meaning from the people v. winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 480; people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 894; people v. shazier, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 144.) (maj. opn., ante, at p. 20.) jordan and lee conspired to kidnap and killor at least intimidatecarll because he had purportedly spread false rumors that jordan killed a child at an abandoned apartment in the neighborhood.4 the prosecutor argued that knowledge and intent to assist this endeavor was shown by the fact he arrived at the restaurant and immediately began participating in the scheme, without any conversation with, or questions to, lee. this was a reasonable theory. the prosecutor so that he could not call for help or photograph his abductors. there was nothing improper about this argument; it was a fair comment on the evidence. (see people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1342 [presents a legitimate .) in any event, the challenged comments could not have prejudiced lee. even if an argument that both jordan and lee 4 the prosecutor was careful to point out that the rumor was 10 were present for, or participated in, the phone robbery might have been prejudicial as to jordan, clearly it was not as to lee. the undisputed evidence showed lee did order the victim to relinquish his phone by means of force or fear. as the majority correctly reasons, this evidence was sufficient to prove robbery. reducing his kidnapping for robbery conviction to simple kidnapping, any potential prejudice as to him is irrelevant.5 4. argument that lee ordered carll to place the cell phone on, rather than in, the car the majority also finds it troublesome that the prosecutor stated that lee ordered carll to place the cell phone on top of the car, rather than inside the car, given that carll testified to the latter but not the former. (maj. opn., ante, at pp. 17, 1920.) but, again, as to lee, this statement was inconsequential. the important point was that lee required the victim, by means of majority was on top of the car supported a finding jordan knew of, and was aiding and abetting, the robbery. (maj. opn., ante, at p. 20.) 5 the majoriopn., ante, at p. 14.) i do not agree. the evidence as to lee and jordan was different. therefore, the potential prejudicial impact of the 11 but, as noteas to jordan is irrelevant. statements as egregious, unfair, deceptive, or reprehensible in light of the treatment of this evidence by the court and all parties at trial. defense section 1118.1 motion, both defense attorneys and the trial court stated that the evidence showed carll placed his property on top of the car. likewise, during closing arguments, both defense attorneys argued that lee told carll to put his property on top of the car. given that both defense attorneysas well as the trial courtwere all operating under the assumption that the phone was placed on top of the car, i find it inconceivable 5. the phone, the wallet, reference to other items the majority faults the prosecutor for arguing that the phone found in the attic conclusive evidence on this point. (maj. opn., ante, at pp. 2122.) in my view, the prosecutor was simply drawing permissible inferences from the evidence. as the majority acknowledges, hat the wallet found in the attic belonged to carll. (maj. opn., ante, at p. 23.) the evidence showed lee was using the wallet. the wallet was discovered in the attic together with two phones. an attic is an unusual place to store either a phone or a wallet. the prosecutor could reasonably argue, based on this circumstantial evidence, that the phonefound with other property belonging to carllwas in fact prosecutor has a wide-ranging right to discuss the case in closing argument, . . . [including] the right to fully state 12 [his or her] views as to what the evidence shows and to urge whatever conclusions (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1342.) indeed, the parties appear to have recognized that the the attic be excluded, because it was not connected to the victim; he did not make a similar request as to the black phone, tacitly acknowledging there was sufficient circumstantial evidence to connect the black phone to carll. pointed out that the black phone had not been conclusively shown tidentifying information linking it to carll. but counsel acknowledged the circumstantial evidence could lead to a prosecutor can hardly be said to have engaged in egregious or deceptive misconduct by making an argument that the defense acknowledged was colorable. while recognizing that there was ample evidence the wallet committed misconduct by arguing lee took it from him. (maj. opn., ante, at pp. 2122.) again, in my view, for the most part the proevidence. carll testified he had his wallet in his pocket. after the kidnappingit was certainly a reasonable inference that carll did not voluntarily hand over his wallet; arguably, at least, it was a permissible inference that the wallet was taken as part of the same robbery that yielded the cell phone. while other explanations may have existedi.e., that carll accidentally left 13 the wallet in the car when he jumped outthat does not render the argument improper. there is no question the prosecutor made several misstatements about the evidence. he averred that he asked carll, during direct examination, whether carll had wanted to give up the wallet and phone, and carll said he relinquished them out of fear. in fact, the prosecutor only asked about relinquishment of the phone. the prosecutor also stated that lee whatevlighters or something like that. that he gave them his phone charger and he had a bag with him. and they did carll testified that when he met with lee, he had with him a white bag and some lighters; he also affirmed that he had identified to however, he did not testify these items were taken and there was carll told a detective prior to trial that lee ordered him to empty his pockets and he complied by giving jordan two lighters and his wallet, this evidence was not adduced at trial. contrary statements were erroneous. however, i cannot conclude that these relatively brief and minor errors either infected the trial with unfairness sufficient to deny lee due procoutcome as to him, or amounted to deceptive or reprehensible conduct. (see people v. masters, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1052.) as explained, the evidence lee robbed carll of his phone, by means of threats, was essentially undisputed. given that evidence, the 14 statements about the lighters, the charger, and the bag, or the reference to a demand that carll empty his pockets. thus, even had the prosecutor omitted these statements from his argument, there is no reasonable probability the jury would have reached a different verdict as to lee. (see, e.g., people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal. 5th 269, 350; people v. daveggio and michaud, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 854.) in sum, i find no prosecutorial error or misconduct sufficient to require reversal. c. argument that the jury should not consider penalty or punishment lee argues that the prosecutor also committed prejudicial misconduct by making an improper reference to sentencing during his argument.6 this contention is meritless. decide the case based on bias, prejudice, or the like, nor should it last, what should happen next. consequences. not your job. that is happened on may 25th. follow the evidence wherever it takes you and return a fair verdict based on that evidence. [] judge chung then takes the next step in deciding how serious is this. 6 additional arguments raised by him that were not addressed by the majority. 15 lee contends the prosecutoimproper because they implied the trial court had sentencing discretion, including the option of simply giving him a proverbial statutory sentence for kidnapping is life in prison. the remarks of all responsibility in the decision making process by permitting t jurors will convict and go home under the erroneous belief that the judge can and will clean up any of in a non-capital case, a people v. ruiloba (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 674, 692; people v. nichols (1997) 54 cal.app.4th 21, 24; calcrim no. 3550; caljic no. 17.42.) it is therefore improper for a prosecutor to reference punishment during trial. (people v. thomas, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 486.) here, the jury was properly told, via caljic no. 17.42, that it must not consider penalty or punishment during deliberations.7 not consider penalty did nothing more than echo this instruction, and was not objectionable. i do not believe reasonable jurors (see people v. shazier, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 144 [we do not lightly infer that the jury 7 discuss or consider the subject of penalty or punishment. that 16 drew the most, rather than the least, damaging meaning from suggests jurors should be aware that a defendant who is found guilty will receive a substantial prison sentence, it is inconsistent with the law. ii. failure to bifurcate trial of the gang enhancement prior to trial, both appellants moved to bifurcate trial of the gang enhancements. the trial court denied their request, reasoning that (1) the people had alleged a gang enhancement, and (2) the gang evidence was relevant to prove motive and intent, and to give context to . applying evidence code section 352, the trial court concluded the probative value of the evidence outweighed any possible prejudice. gang enhancement was error and deprived him of his sixth and fourteenth amendment rights to a fair trial.8 he points out that the victim was not a gang rival; he did not reference his gang during the offenses; and admission of the evidence served only to vilify the defendants. i disagree. a trial court has discretion to bifurcate the trial of a gang enhancement allegation from the trial of the substantive offense. (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049 (hernandez); people v. franklin (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 938, 952 (franklin).) bifurcation is appropriate where the gang extraordinarily prejudicial, and of so little relevance to guilt, that it threatens to sway the jury to convict regardless of the 8 the question of whether the gang evidence was prejudicial as to him. 17 hernandez, at p. 1049.) but where, as inextricablid. at p. bifurcation of a charged gang enhancement is . . . broader than its discretion to admit gang evidence when the gang enhancement is not chargedid. at p. 1050; franklin, public policy preference for the efficiency of a unitary trial, a broader than its discretion to admit gang evidence in a case with ng enhancement is not motive and intent. (hernandez, at p. 1049; franklin, at p. 952.) bifurcation is unnecessary if the evidence supporting a gang enhancement would be admissible at trial of the substantive offenses. (hernandez, at pp. 1049evidence supporting the gang enhancement would be admissible at a trial of guilt, any inference of prejudice would be dispelled, evidence offered to prove the enhancement would be inadmissible at a trial on the substantive crime pursuant to evidence code hernandez, at p. 1050.) the defendant has the burden to establish there is a substantial danger of prejudice requiring bifurcation. (id. at pp. 10501051.) for abuse of discretion, based on the record as it stood at the time of the ruling. (hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1048; franklin, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 952; people v. burch (2007) 148 18 ts discretion when its rulings fall (franklin, at pp. 952953.) because the gang evidence here was admissible as to the substantive charges, any inference of prejudice was dispelled. (hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 10491050.) the gang evidence was relevant to prove the motive for the crime. the assaulted carll because carll had been spreading rumors that lee killed a child in an abandoned apartment building. the gang expert testified that respect is important in gang culture. although gangs look favorably upon the commission of certain crimes, others, including crimes against children, are disfavored. negative light. if someone spread rumors that a gang member had killed or molested a child, the gang as a whole, as well as the individual gang member, would lose respect. indeed, a gang that allowed a member who had committed such a crime to remain within its ranks would be viewed as weak by other gangs. therefore, the evidence that appellants were gang members was highly relevant to establish a motive for the offenses. behavior, its probative value generally exceeds its prejudicial effect, and wide latitude is permitted in admitting evidence of its franklin, supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 953 [gang 19 t his status in the gang and strike back at the victim for disrespecting him and his gang].) evidence explaining the unique gang perspective of the purported rumors was especially important here. jurors would no doubt comprehend that anyone would be upset about such rumors. but not just in anger, but in the kidnapping, robbery, and assault that occurred here. moreover, the prejudicial impact of the evidence was limited. the parties stipulated that the ligget street bloods and 4-trey gangster crips were criminal street gangs within the meaning of section 186.22, obviating the need for the jury to hear criminal activity, including predicate offenses. (see hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049 [recognizing that proof of predicate offenses may be unrelated to the crime and the defendant and may be unduly prejudicial].) the jury was given a limiting instruction regarding the gang evidence, advising that evidence about street gang activities and criminal acts could not be used to the prosecutor admonished the jury, during argument, not to find defendants guilty simply because they were gang members. finally, the fact the jury rejected the gang enhancements, rendering not true findings on each, conclusively demonstrates the gang evidence was not unduly prejudicial. accordingly, i would affirm leand kidnapping for robbery. concurring and dissenting: edmon, p. j. 