filed 9/28/17 p. v. jackson ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jimmy j. jackson, defendant and appellant. b278754 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa089482) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, leslie e. brown, judge. affirmed as modified. marta i. stanton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant jimmy james jackson (defendant) admits he intended to steal from a department store when he rolled a shopping cart full of merchandise out its front door. after a store employee stopped him just outside the door, defendant slapped shoulder so he could continue on with the shopping cart and merchandise unimpeded. we are asked to decide whether there was substantial evidence that defendant used force or fear to steal the merchandisesuch evidence is required for the taking to constitute robberyand whether the trial court abused its romero1 motion at sentencing. i. background a. the charges against defendant the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant with second degree robbery (pen. code,  211),2 grand theft of personal property ( 487, subd. (a)), and exhibiting a deadly weapon ( 417, subd. (a)(1)). as to the robbery and grand theft counts, the information against defendant additionally alleged he used a deadly weapon in the commission of the offense (specifically, a knife). the information further alleged defendant had been con as defined in penal code section 667, subdivision (d) and section 1170.12. 1 people v. romero (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 2 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 3 b. the prosecution james campos and donaven huff work as loss prevention in westchester. via closed-circuit television, the officers observed defendant enter the store one evening and place merchandise into a shopping cart without looking at the price. defendant was in the store approximately 10 minutes and put approximately 18 items into the cart. at that point, an unidentified man entered the store and spoke to defendant. defendant then grabbed the shopping cart and left the store. campos was already stationed outside the store waiting to confront defendant. loss prevention officer and asked to speak to defendant about the unpaid merchandise in the shopping cart. initially, defendant let go of the shopping cart and campos believed defendant intended to cooperate and return to the store. but then the same unidentified man defendant spoke to inside the store came outside and told defendant to defendant reached for the shopping cart and campos said, campos grabbed two comforters on top of the shopping cart and threw them into the store. when campos next tried to retrieve the shopping cart, defendant slapped his hand and aggressively me. idefendant then walked past campos, pushing him out of the way with his at that point, according to campos, defendant reached into his waistband. believing defendant intended to pull out a weapon, campos backed away. defendant pulled out a six-inch knife and held it up, which scared campos. defendant then 4 walked away with the shopping cart and merchandise, and he was later apprehended by the police. c. the defense case at trial defendant testified in his own defense. he admitted that he entered the store, filled the shopping cart with merchandise, and left the store with the cartall with the intent to steal the merchandise. but he related the following sequence of events after the items were in his cart. upon leaving the store, defendant was confronted by both campos and huff. campos identified himself as a loss prevention officer. campos also grabbed the two comforters, hose belong to and then went into the store. while huff was arguing with another man, defendant left and headed down the street. defendant testified he never had or displayed a knife at any point during the incident. d. verdicts and sentencing the jury found defendant guilty on the robbery and grand theft counts charged against him, and acquitted him on the exhibiting a deadly weapon count. the jury found not true the deadly weapon enhancements alleged in connection with the robbery and grand theft counts. the jury further found that defendant had been convicted of two serious felonies under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and had served five prison terms. prior to sentencing, defendant asked the court, pursuant to romero, to strike two of his prior convictions that would otherwise render him eligible for a three strikes sentence. the prosecution opposed the motion. following argument at the 5 sentencing hearing, the trial court denied the romero motion, and imposed a prison term of 38 years to life, consistent with the three strikes law. ii. discussion we hold there was substantial evidence at trial to establish the force or fear element of robbery. campos testified that defendant slapped his hand away from the shopping cart and then used his shoulder to push by campos as defendant walked away from the store with the merchandise. that is enough. defendant also contends the trial court erred when it denied his romero motion to strike his prior strike convictions. his primary argument is that the prior robbery strike convictions occurred so long ago (in the 1980s and 1990s) that they should not have an impact on his current sentence. considering that point and the others defendant advances on appeal, we defendant has been incarcerated for much of his life since his first conviction for robbery, and each time he was released on parole or received a probationary sentence, defendant continued to commit crimes. this pattern of recidivism is what the three strikes law was intended to address. a. conviction for robbery 1. standard of review when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it 6 contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1281.) when undertaking a substantial evidence inquiry, amount of countervailing evidence. (people v. barnwell (2007) 41 additional evidence is required by statute, the direct evidence of one witness who is entitled to full credit is sufficient for proof of people v. robertson (1989) 48 cal.3d 18, 44.) 2. analysis to prove a defendant guilty of robbery, the prosecution must demonstrate the possession of another from his person or immediate presence, against his will, by means of force or fear, and with the specific (people v. myers (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1219, 1226; see also  211; people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 343.) defendant contends his robbery conviction must be reversed because there was no substantial evidence that his theft of merchandise was 7 ( 211.) specifically, defendant argues the evidence that he defendant grabbed the shopping cart and then pushed campos with his shoulder to move past campos did not rise to the level of force necessary to sustain a conviction of robbery. many t of force required for robbery . . . . in people v. morales [(1975)] 49 cal.app.3d 134, 122 cal.rptr. 157 [(morales)], the court observed that no case had established that something more is required than just that quantum of force which is necessary to accomplish the mere id. at p. 139, 122 cal.rptr. 157.) . . . an required to make the offense a robbery is such force as is actually s(people v. burns (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1251, 1258-force or fear required by section 211 is not synonymous with a people v. mungia (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1703, 1708.) people v. garcia (1996) 45 cal.app.4th 1242 (garcia), disapproved on other grounds in people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 365, footnotes 2 and 3, helps illuminate why the evidence of force and fear here is sufficient. in garcia, the defendant (garcia) and approached one of the cashiers as she stood in front of an open cash register. [garcia] lightly pushed his left shoulder feeling this cash register because she was afraid [garcia] might be armed. 8 [garcia] (garcia, supra, at pp. 1244-1245.) garcia arshoulder was merely an incidental touching and did not satisfy the force requirement for a robbery conviction. (garcia, supra, 45 cal.app.4th at p. 1246.) the court of appeal disagreed, holding as more than incidental and was not merely the force necessary to seize the money.ibid.) the garcia court the defendant did not simply brush against the cashier as he grabbed for the money. he intentionally pushed against her to move her out of the way so he could reach into the register. in terms of morales, pushing the cashier went beyond out of the cash register. we agree defendant appears to have been rather polite in his use of force, giving the cashier a mere nevertheless, for purposes of the crime of robbery, the ibid.) nt let go of the shopping cart and appeared as if he were going to cooperate with campos. but then the unidentified man appeared and egged on defendant to resume the theft. at that point, defendant slapped opping cart. then, aand defendant walked by shoulders pretty much pushed [campos] out of the way to walk pa go beyond the tap on the shoulder considered 9 sufficient evidence of force in garcia and provide substantial evidence in support of the robbery conviction.3 b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying felony conviction 1. romero motion defendant asked the trial court to strike two of his prior convictions on the grounds that they : the first having occurred in 1987 and the second in 1993. the defense emphasized that although both of these convictions were for robbery, neither involved the use of a weapon or resulted in harm to a victim (the jury for the second conviction having found not true the allegation that a knife was used in the robbery, as the jury did in this case). defendant further argued relief under romero was warranted because he had not received rehabilitation services while incarcerated or on release. a coordinator from the at the sentencing hearing that criminal behavior was mostly attributable to extensive alcohol and drug use that he had never addressed, and administration to participate in a two-year structured rehabilitation program. the defense also noted that the prosecution previously offered defendant a four-year plea deal at 3 varying interpretations, intentional force beyond that necessary to seize the property is still force sufficient to constitute robbery. 10 arraignment, the prosecution had been willing to strike the priors before the jury found not true the allegations concerning the use of a knife in the robbery in this case. the prosecution argued that defendant was a repeat offender and detailed defendant incurred his first strike in the 1980s, when he put the victim to the ground the pockets. defendant received a five-year prison sentence. within two months of being paroled on that case, defendant was convicted of felony drug possession. defendant then committed a second strike robbery, which resulted in an 11-year prison sentence. while in custody, defendant was sentenced to another two years for drug possession. in the year following his release from prison, defendant committed petty theft with a prior, which was deemed a third strike. defendant received a 25 years to life prison sentence on that conviction, which was later reduced to six years under proposition 36. within six months after he was released due to the sentence reduction, defendant committed a misdemeanor weapons violation (involving a knife) and received a three-year probationary sentence. and in the same year after release, while he was on parole and probation, defendant committed this robbery. criminal history, the prosecution contendon parole. he has not been able to stay out of custody for more than five or six months at a time. so although the two strike that time since that first strike conviction in custody. [] . . . [] 11 this is a third strike robbery. this is what the three strikes law was meant to encompass. he is the poster child of what the three strikes law was meant to address. . . . they were all serious and very violent felonies. this is just not the case and he is not a candidate for somebody to strike any of the strikes. the trial court stated on the record that it had spent a lot time thinking about romero motion and struggled with it. the court ultimately agreed with the proseand denied the motion. the trial court observed that defendant had victimized people repeatedly, and that defendant had displayed obstinate and disrespectful behavior in the courtroom, which indicated he lacked remorse for his actions and would not be amenable to rehabilitation. 2. applicable law and analysis . . . may, either of his or her own motion or upon the application of the prosecuting attorney, and in furtherance of justice, order an action to be romero, [our supreme court] held that a trial court may strike or vacate an allegation or finding under the three strikes law that a defendant has previously been convicted (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 373 (carmony).) when confronted with the question of whether a prior conviction should be stricken pursuant to romero, a trial court must consider whether the defendathe three strikes sentencing scheme by looking to the nature and circumstances of the present offense of conviction; the nature and 12 circumstances of prior serious or violent felony convictions; and the particulars of the deprospects. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161 (williams).) to dismiss a prior felony conviction allegation under section 1385. (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 374; people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 310 trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the law, we shall affirm the an offender commits a third qualifying felony, the three strikes law presumes he or she is incorrigible and requires a life people v. vargas (2014) 59 cal.4th 635, 638.) this is ibid.) in this case, the defendant was given not just two previous chances to reform his behavior, but three. defendant previously incurred a third strike, only to get a fourth chance when his sentence was recalled under proposition 36. nevertheless, defendant subsequently committed a misdemeanor weapons offense involving a knife and yet another robbery (this one). that persistent recidivism puts defendant within the spirit of the three strike sentencing scheme and does not make his situation in any way extraordinary. in asking the trial court to strike his prior robbery convictions, defendant relied primarily on the age of the two strikes: the first from the 1980s and the second from the 1990s. 13 these two strikes are indeed old, but defendant has rarely been out of custody since he was first incarcerated in the 1980s. moreover, defendant engaged in criminal activities even while incarcerated. the passage of two decades since defendant incurred the first two strikes is thus not a mitigating factor because uring (williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 163; see also  667, subd. (c)(3) felony conviction and the current felony conviction shall not affect the imposition of sentence].) the other arguments defendant made certainly warranted discretion in concluding they were dwarflong criminal history. defendant asserted substance abuse was a contributing factor to his criminal career, noted he received no rehabilitation services in the past, and proposed that he could be rehabilitation. defendant, however, showed no remorse for his crime or recognition of its seriousness. the trial court found he was also obstinate and disrespectful in the courtroom, and concluded this raised doubt as to whether defendant really would be amenable to rehabilitation. the trial court believed defendant posed a threat to society, movements. that no jury found defendant used a weapon in any of his three strike convictions does not establish an abuse of discretion. (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 376.) 14 c. presentence custody credit defendant argues he is entitled to one additional day of presentence credit because the abstract of judgment wrongly lists his actual custody credit as 640, rather than 641, days. the calculation requires correction. we concur defendant is entitled to an additional day of custody credit. 15 disposition the clerk of the superior court shall prepare an amended abstract of judgment that gives defendant 737 days of presentence credit, consisting of 641 days of actual custody credit and 96 days of conduct credit, and deliver the amended abstract to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. dunning, j.* * judge of the orange superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 