filed 5/14/18 p. v. dejohnette ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. cerron dejohnette, defendant and appellant. b278736 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la083716) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, christine ewell, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. susan morrow maxwell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 introduction cerron dejohnette appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of second degree robbery. he contends the trial sentencing him to state prison instead of probation so he could receive medical and mental health treatment from the department of veterans affairs. in supplemental briefing, dejohnette also argues the trial court, in sentencing him, failed to comply with penal code sections 1170.9 and 1170.91.1 finally, dejohnette asks us to direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment to reflect he was convicted by a jury rather than on a plea. we affirm the conviction but vacate the sentence and remand for the trial court to resentence dejohnette in compliance with sections 1170.9 and 1170.91. we also direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment. factual and procedural history a. dejohnette steals a pair of sunglasses mery keshishian, an assistant sales supervisor at a sunglasses store in a shopping mall, noticed dejohnette and another man laughing inside the store during her evening shift. dejohnette looked suspicious because he left without looking at or trying on any sunglasses. twenty minutes later dejohnette returned to the store alone, and keshishian heard a noise that she thought the noise 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 down sunglass[es]. keshishian turned around, saw dejohnette, and noticed a pair of sunglasses was missing. keshishian approached dejohnette and asked him how he liked the sunglasses. although keshishian did not see dejohnette take the sunglasses, she saidthat were sitt keshishian asked dejohnette to show her the two bags he was holding, but he refused. keshishian told dejohnette that, if he did not cooperate, she would call security. as tte tried to escape, dropped his cell of the store. keshishian called a security guard, and the two of them walked through the mall to find dejohnette. meanwhile, dejohnette returned to the store and asked another employee, anna garkusha, garkusha informed dejohnette that keshishian was not in the store and that garkusha did not have his phone. dejohnette stated, l take another 30 pairs of your keshishian and the security guard eventually found dejohnette at a nearby park. police officers arrived and searched dejohnette but did not find the missing sunglasses. when the officers informed dejohnette they were arresting him for robbery, the people charged dejohnette with second degree robbery in violation of section 212.5, subdivision (c). the people alleged dejohnette had 11 prior felony convictions within the meaning of section 1203, subdivision (e)(4). 4 b. the jury deliberates, reaches an impasse, and then reaches a verdict the trial lasted three days. the prosecutor showed the jury a surveillance video that recorded a portion of the incident. after approximately five hours of deliberations and , the jury sent the court a note statingwe have reached an impass[e], and cannot come to a unanimous decision. the court read the note to the prosecutor and counsel for dejohnette and commented the jury since yesterday on a case with quite a simple fact pattern. the court proposed telling the jury to continue its deliberations. the prosecutor asked the court to send a note to the jurors asking whether further argument, readback, or instructions would assist them. counsel for dejohnette objected answer, arguing that the court should ask the jurors in open court whether there was anything that would assist them and that the court should not instruct the jurors to continue their they indicated that they have citing section 1140 and people v. miller (1990) 50 cal.3d 954, counsel for dejohnette argued, judge suspects that the jury cannot reach a verdict, or if the jury so asks, the judge should direct the bailiff to bring the jury back any reasonable probability the jury could reach a verdict. the judge should first ask the foreperson if he or she believes the jury can reach a verdict, and then question jurors individually on the court denied the jury a note statingplease let us know if there is anything else that we can provide to you in terms of reading back any testimony, further argument of 5 counsel, or additional legal instructions that would assist you in 25 more minutes and reached a guilty verdict. c. the trial court sentences dejohnette the prosecutor argued dejohnette did not qualify for probation because he had two prior felony convictions.2 the prosecutor also asked the court to sentence dejohnette to the middle term of three years in prison. the probation report stated [ed] to function well beyond the scope of community based supervision services to adequately monitor, [ed] to present no redeeming quality, which might lead the court to consider any dejohnette argued he was eligible for probation because the two prior felony convictions referenced in the prosecsentencing memorandum had been reduced to misdemeanors under proposition 47 and all of the factors in california rules of court, rule 4.414, weighed in favor of probation. dejohnette noted the crime did not involve a weapon, the monetary loss was only $200, and the victim was not injured, vulnerable, or in fear. in fact, dejohnette pointed out the victim tried to lock him inside the store with her and then went looking for him with a security guard in the mall. 2 although the people alleged dejohnette had 11 prior felony convictions, the prosecutor acknowledged nine of those convictions had been reduced to misdemeanors under proposition 47. the prosecutor argued the remaining two felony convictions, for burglary and grand theft, made dejohnette ineligible for probation. 6 dejohnette also alleged that he was a veteran with serious physical and mental illnesses, including congestive heart failure and post-dejohnette submitted medical records documenting his physical illnesses while he was in custody and a letter from a clinical social worker for the united states department of veterans affairs stating dejohnette had served in the marine corpswhile in the serviceruggle with substance d been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental illnesses. dejohnette argued his status as a veteran and his various mental and physical illnesses warranted probation. the trial court, after rev declined to find dejohnette was presumptively ineligible for probation.3 the court denied probation and sentenced dejohnette to three years in prison. the court stated . . . mr. dejohnette may suffer from a number [of] maladies at this point, they certainly were not severe enough so that [they] kept him from . . . stealing sunglasses from the [store] and then giving a really good shove to coming back and confronting the other shopkeeper because he the court 3 the court found the two felony convictions the prosecutor argued precluded probation had been reduced to misdemeanors under proposition 47. the court noted dejohnette committed two additional felonies in minnesota, but, because the probation report did not have enough information about those felony convictions for the court to determine whether they would have been reduced to misdemeanors had they been committed in california, the court declined to use the minnesota felonies as a basis for finding dejohnette ineligible for probation. 7 commented had increased in seriousness from [a drug store] to actually shoving the dejohnette timely appealed. discussion by directing the jurors to continue their deliberations without first polling them in open court after they sent the court a note stating they had reached an impasse. he also argues the trial court abused its discretion in sentencing him to prison rather than placing him on probation because the court did not give enough weight to his medical condition. finally, following our request for supplemental briefing, dejohnette contends the trial court erred by failing to comply with sections 1170.9 and 1170.91. we find no merit in the first contention, but some merit in the third, and therefore do not reach the second. a. the trial court did not coerce the verdict be discharged after the cause is submitted to them until they have agreed upon their verdict and rendered it in open court, . . . unless, at the expiration of such time as the court may deem proper, it satisfactorily appears that there is no reasonable probability that the jury can agreedeclare a hung jury or to order further deliberations rests in the sound discretion.s.] however, a court must exercise its power under section 1140 without coercing the jury and in favor of considerations of compromise and expediency.(people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 88; see people v. valdez of whether a 8 .) whether an people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 782.) any claim that the jury was pressured into reaching a (brooks, at p. 88.) a trial court people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 159.) [t]he court may direct further deliberations upon its reasonable conclusion that such direction would be perceived to enhance their understanding of the case rather than as mere pressure to reach a verdict on the basis of matters already discussed and considered.people v. debose (2014) 59 cal.4th 177, 209deliberate, and whether there is no reasonable probability of a verdict, are determinations committed to the sound discretion of people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 467; see people v. howard (2008) 42 cal.4th 1000, 1029 [trial court may ask jurors to continue deliberating when, discretion, it finds a they will be able to .) here, the jurors had only deliberated for approximately four hours (excluding readback) before reporting they had reached an impasse. four hours is not a lot of deliberation time, particularly after the jurors had listened to readback of one of the testimony. considering the trial in people v. brooks, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 89), the court did not abuse its discretion in instructing the jury to deliberate further after only four hours of deliberations following a three-day trial. (see people v. moore 9 (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 1105, 1121-1122 [because of the relatively brief duration of deliberations conducted by the jurors before they announced they could not reach a verdict court did not urther deliberations might be beneficial without questioning the jury regarding ; see also people v. valdez, supraone of the factors defendant citesthe length of deliberation, the absence of questions about the law, the jurors statements about their inability to reach a verdicts discretion to require further deliberation.) even though the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ordering further deliberations after such a relatively short period of jury deliberation time. nor did the trial court abuse its discretion by declining (yet) to poll the jurors. [i]nquiry as to the possibility of agreement is not a prerequisite to denial of a motion for mistrial,by declining to poll the jury as to the likelihood of reaching a people v. peoples, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 782; see ibid. [trial court did not abuse its discretion by declining to poll the jury and concluding instead it was reasonably probable further deliberations would be productive]; people v. bell (2007) 40 cal.4th 582, 616-617 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying a motion for a mistrial without first asking the jurors whether they were deadlocked], disapproved on another ground in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 686, fn. 13; people v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 539 [trial court properly found a reasonable probability of agreement and ordered further deliberations without polling the jury]; people v. moore, supra, 96 cal.app.4th at pp. 1121-1122 [trial court was not required to poll the jurors on whether further 10 deliberations would be productive before ordering them to continue their deliberations].) indeed, even if the court had polled the jurors, and each juror had stated he or she did not believe the jury would be able to reach a verdict, the court could still reasonably have concluded further deliberations could assist the jury. (see people v. debose, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 209 [court did not abuse its discretion by recessing for the afternoon and ordering the jurors to return the next morning to continue their deliberations, even though each juror had stated there was nothing the court could do to assist them in reaching a verdict]; people v. sandoval (1992) 4 cal.4th 155, 195 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in ordering further deliberations, even after each juror stated further deliberations would not produce a verdict].) citing california rules of court, rule 2.1036(a), dejohnette contends the trial court should have asked the jurors in open court whether they had any specific concerns. this rule of court, however, recommends ask the jury if it has specific concerns which, if resolved, might assist the jury in reaching a verdict. the rule does not require the court to conduct such an inquiry, let alone require the court to conduct such an inquiry in open court. in fact, the trial court complied with the rule by asking the jurors in writing whether further readback, instruction, or argument would assist them in their deliberations. court . the court never ascertained, and the record does not reflect, whether there were any dissenting jurors because the jurors did not disclose how they voted. (see people v. debose, supra, 59 cal.4th s the numerical division of the jury was not announced in open court, it cannot be said that ordering the jury to return the next day had a 11 .) moreover, the court did not make any statements to the jury that could be interpreted as (people v. sandoval, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 196.) the court did not make any statements at all, other than to direct the jurors to continue their deliberations with a reminder to advise the court if they needed anything to assist them in their deliberations.4 b. the trial court failed to comply with sections 1170.9 and 1170.91 ecisions for abuse of discretion. (people v. sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 847; people v. hicks (2017) 17 cal.app.5th 496, 512.) limits set forth by the legislature, a trial court has broad discretion to decide whether to grant probation whether to (people v. clancey (2013) 56 cal.4th 562, 579.) sentencing decision must be exercised in a manner that is not arbitrary and capricious, that is consistent with the letter and [citation.] . . . [a] trial court will abuse its discretion . . . if it relies upon circumstances that are not relevant to the decision or that otherwise constitute an improper basis for decision. [citations.] a failure to exercise discretion also may constitute an abuse of discretion. (sandoval, at pp. 847-848.) xercises of 4 dejohnette does not argue the court made any statements allen (see allen v. united states (1896) 164 u.s. 492; people v. gainer (1977) 19 cal.3d 835, 848-849, disapproved on another ground in people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 163.) 12 discretion must be grounded in reasoned judgment and guided by legal principles and policies appropriate to the particular (people v. diaz (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 362, 377.) 1. the trial court did not comply with section 1170.9 section 1170.9, subdivision (a), provides in relevant part: . . . alleges that he or she committed the offense as a result of . . . post-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse, or mental health problems stemming from service in the united states military, the court shall, prior to sentencing, make a determination as to whether the defendant was, or currently is, a member of the united states military and whether the defendant may be suffering from . . . post-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse, or mental health problems as a result of his or her service. . . . section 1170.9, subdivision (b)(1), court concludes that a defendant convicted of a criminal offense is a person described in subdivision (a), and if the defendant is otherwise eligible for probation, the court shall consider the circumstances described in subdivision (a) as a factor in favor of granting prob5 because the legislature used the words 5 section 1170.9, subdivision (d), also provides in relevant ,purposes of section 1202.7, the court shall consider the fact that the defendant is a person described in subdivision (a) in assessing whether the defendant should be placed on probation and ordered into a federal or community-based treatment service program with a demonstrated history of specializing in the treatment of mental health problems, including substance abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder, . . . and other related mental health problems. 13 the trial court must, prior to sentencing, make certain findings if the defendant alleges the facts specified in the statute and the court must consider these findings in sentencing. (see people v. abdullah (1992) 6 the language of section 1170.9 is mandatory rather than permissive the trial court did not comply with section 1170.9. the court dejohnette was a member of the united states military and whether he may be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse, or mental health problems as a result of his service ( 1170.9, subd. (a)) and failed to consider the circumstances of his service-prthe trial court did not make any reference to -related mental illness at the sentencing hearing. and even if the trial court had impliedly found dejohnette did not suffer from mental illness stemming from his service in the military, that finding would not be supported by substantial evidence because there was no evidence to contradict that dejohnette was a veteran and suffered from service-related mental illness, which he documented with the letter from his social worker. (see in re m.m. (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 54, 64 were no evidence to support the decision, there would be people v. leonard (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 465, 503 [a] trial court abuses its discretion when the factual findings critical to its decision find no support in the evidencepeople v. dove (2004) 124 cal.app.4th 1, 10 [appellate court will sustain the trial for by .) 14 the trial court also failed to comply with section 1170.9, subdivision (b), which required the court to consider dejohnetteservice-related 6 discretion under section 1170.9 wherever a prima facie showing of eligibility under that section has been made. an intelligent people v. bruhn (1989) 210 cal.app.3d 1195, 1200; see id. at pp. 1198-endant submitted a letter from post-traumatic stress disorder, his attorney argued the crime stemmed from difficult readjustment to civilian life following his return from vietnam, fail[ed] to show that the trial court considered the federal treatment program alternative set forth in section 1170.9 mental health issues stemmed from service in the united states military or that he committed the instant offense because of such but he did. veteran who has struggled with substance abuse and mental -traumatic stress other mental illnesses. citing people v. ferguson (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1070, 1093, the people argue the court first had to grant dejohnette 6 as noted, the trial court did not find dejohnette ineligible for probation. 15 probation before the provisions of section 1170.9 could apply. not so. people v. ferguson involved former section 1170.9, which required the trial court first to sentence the defendant to probation before considering placing the defendant in an alternative treatment program. as noted, however, the current version of section 1170.9, subdivision (a), which went into effect in january 2015 (after people v. ferguson), does not contain this requirement. under the current version of the statute, the -related mental illness arises once the defendant alleges he or she committed the criminal offense as a result of mental health problems stemming from service in the united states military. finally, again citing people v. ferguson, the people argue that, even if the trial court found dejohnette had satisfied the eligibility criteria under former section 1170.9, subdivision (a), overwhelming weight of the facts before it at sentencing. people v. ferguson is distinguishable on this point. in that case the trial court held a hearing under former section 1170.9 but erroneously found the defendant ineligible for probation. the court concluded that the erroneous finding was one of three reasons for denying probation, and that, even if the trial court had found the defendant eligible for probation, the court would not have granted the defendant probation given the severity of the crimes. (people v. ferguson, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1092.) the court pointed out, however, in which the court failed to hold a hearing to assess whether [the defendant] was a person described by section 1170.9, subdivision ferguson, at p. 1093.) but this case is: the trial court here never made the determination required by section 1170.9, subdivision (a). 16 2. the trial court did not comply with section 1170.91 concludes that a defendant convicted of a felony offense is, or was, a member of the united states military who may be suffering from . . . post-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse, or mental health problems as a result of his or her military service, the court shall consider the circumstance as a factor in mitigation when imposing a term under subdivision (b) o7 like the mandatory language in section 1170.9, subdivision (b), the language of section 1170.91 requires -related mental illness in selecting the appropriate term of imprisonment once the court makes the applicable findings under section 1170.9, subdivision (a). the trial court failed to comply with section 1170.91. not -related illness when the trial court selected the middle term of three years in prison, the court stated it could not find any circumstances in mitigation that applied to dejohnette under california rules of court, rule 4.423.8 (see people v. tatlis 7 section 1170, subdivision (b), provides in relevant part: statute specifies three possible terms, the choice of the appropriate term shall rest within the sound discretion of the court 8 california rules of court, rule 4.423 lists the circumstances in mitigation when sentencing the defendant to a term of imprisonment. 17 c. the trial court should correct the abstract of judgment the abstract of judgment states dejohnette was convicted of second degree robbery on a plea. dejohnette was actually convicted by a jury. the trial courtabstract of judgment should correct this error.9 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the sentence is vacated. the case is remanded with directions to resentence dejohnette in compliance with sections 1170.9 and 1170.91. the trial court is also directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment to reflect that a jury convicted dejohnette of second degree robbery. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 9 dejohnette also filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus, case no. b285130, which he asks us to consider with his direct appeal. we deny the petition by separate order. 