 filed 7/16/18 p. v. millender ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david lee millender, defendant and appellant. b278727 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta140190) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael shultz, judge. judgment of conviction modified and, as so modified, affirmed; remanded for further proceedings. danalynn pritz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant david lee millender shot and killed his older brother, willie. a jury convicted him of first degree murder with the personal use of a firearm, and the trial court sentenced him to 75 years to life in prison, plus five years. appellant violated his federal confrontation rights; the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter on a heat of passion theory; the prosecutor committed misconduct and defense counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object; the cumulative effect of the errors requires reversal; and a domestic violence fee should be stricken. in supplemental briefing, appellant contends that the matter must be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike or dismiss the firearm enhancements pursuant to recently amended penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (h).1 we affirm appellantconviction, but order the domestic violence fee stricken and remand the matter to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion and determine whether to strike or dismiss the firearm enhancements. factual and procedural background 1. facts brothers david, theodore and willie millender,2 along with located on 120th street in los angeles. willie, who was in his 60s, was the oldest; david, at 49 years old, was the youngest. 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 for ease of reference, and with no disrespect, we hereinafter refer to the millender brothers by their first names. 3 willie was nicknamed . he was a long-term user of crack cocaine, and was unemployed. theodore also smoked cocaine. bedrooms were adjacent to the kitchen; the bedroom david shared with roberson was at the other end of the house. to was necessary to cross through the kitchen. the property included a second house located behind the main house. the main house was equipped with a video surveillance system that filmed the kitchen, a patio area, and the driveway, but not the bedrooms. each of the four residents was responsible for a share of the household expenses. david collected the money and he and roberson paid the bills. monthly share was $200. frequently, willie spent his entire monthly government check on cocaine and was late or unable to pay. when this happened, one of the others would failure to pay david insisted willie and theodore not smoke cocaine in the main house, because he was concerned that roberson who worked for the postal service and was subject to drug testing might be affected by the fumes. instead, the men were to smoke in the back house. this created tension because willie felt he should be able to smoke wherever he wanted to. additionally, riends, for handouts of change and cigarettes, which sometimes displeased david. 4 in early may 2016, willie failed to pay his share of the expenses. hi video footage from the kitchen surveillance camera showed that at approximately 9:45 p.m. on may 3, 2016, david walked approximately a minute and a half later, roberson hurried through the kitchen to and willie. moments later, roberson backed into the kitchen, obviously distraught, as david dragged willie into the kitchen. while willie was on his knees, david onto the seat of a chair, and then threw him across the room, causing willie to fall to the ground on his back. as roberson pleaded with david to stop, david punched willie, who was still prone on the floor, twice with his fist. david then left the kitchen, followed by roberson. according to roberson, the argument was about williefailure to pay his share of the expenses. david also asked willie to go to the back house to smoke. willie got up from the floor and went back to his room. roberson, either immediately or at some point shortly thereafter, left the house. theodore then entered the kitchen. within a minute after the punching incident, david strode back through th a gun in his right hand. approximately 15 seconds later, david reentered the kitchen with the gun still in his hand. during the next several minutes, david repeatedly traversed the kitchen, going back and forth found willie lying on his (willie theodore went to a 5 within 10 minutes, david left the house, carrying some clothing. when sthey found willie, deceased, lying on his side in his bedroom in a pool of blood. theodore, who appeared distraught and frightened, told a deputy, later that night, theodore told another deputy that he had been awakened by his brothers arguing about the bills, and saw david holding a black gun in his right hand.3 deputies discovered a loaded nine-millimeter magazine and nine-millimeter two nine-millimeter handguns and ammunition were located in a hallway closet. an autopsy confirmed that willie died from a gunshot wound to the forehead. the absence of stippling or soot indicated the shot was likely fired from a distance of over three feet away. the entry wound went upwards at an approximate 70 degree angle. within the body, the bullet moved front to back and upwards. a toxicology report showed the presence of cocaine in the cause of death. there were three according to a d it could not be determined whether willie was lying down or standing up when he was shot. david surrendered to police and was arrested on may 21, 2016. 3 at trial, theodore denied hearing or seeing an argument or seeing david with a gun. he claimed he had been awakened by the gunshot. 6 a. defense evidence (i) david testified on his own behalf, as follows. between may 1, 2016, and the day squandering his entire check on cocaine and his resultant failure to pay his share of visit and smoke cocaine, david sent them away. this made willie angry and he said to david, on the night of may 3, 2016, he intended to ask willie what he meant by that comment. in bedroom, the men argued. david pointed out that willie had failed to pay his share of the bills, told him his friends could no longer come over, and insisted that willie not smoke in the house, due testing requirement. willie refused to go to the back house to smoke. willie punched david. david tried to , and they wrestled. david then dragged willie into the kitchen. although in the video it appeared that david was punching willie while he was on the ground, the film did not accurately depict the incident. willie was david punched willie to get him to stop the way he was acting, head. david david briefly returned to his bedroom. approximately a week before the shooting, david had purchased a gun. david had the gun with him the entire day on may 3; he did not return to his bedroom to retrieve it. david then bedroom, intending to display the gun in an effort to scare willie 7 into going to the back house. david was not upset about the failure to pay the bills, which was a common occurrence; he was concerned about the smoking issue. when david room, willie grabbed david and they tussled over the gun. they pushed each other, and david fell backwards. as david fell, the gun discharged accidentally. david did not aim the gun at willie and did not intend to shoot or kill willie; he just wanted to scare him. david was shocked and did not know what to do. he saw deputies as he was leaving the house, and discarded the gun in a trash can. he did not speak to police right away because he believed he needed a lawyer first. david did not think he had chambered a round before . he had not checked to see if the gun was loaded. he knew how to load a gun and slide the hammer back, but he was not really familiar with firearms operations and was not an expert. he admitted that one of the guns found in the closet was his, and that he had suffered a convict when david told roberson willie about the bills, he had not meant he intended to hurt him; he meant he would talk to willie. before that night, he and willie there were never problems between the two of them. david admitted he occasionally sold cocaine, traded cocaine for cigarettes, and sold cocaine to willie. he did not possess the gun to protect himself during drug sales. david was at least 25 pounds heavier than willie. 8 (ii) other defense evidence three family friends, who knew both david and willie well, testified they had never heard david say he wanted to hurt willie. b. prosecution rebuttal evidence semiautomatic pistols typically have a safety mechanism that must be depressed in order to allow the gun to fire. a single action trigger requires four to seven pounds of pressure and a double action trigger requires eight to 13 pounds of pressure. guns can be accidentally fired. adequate training and familiarity with firearms are important factors to prevent unintentional firearm discharge. 2. procedure the jury convicted david of first degree murder ( 187, subd. (a)) and found he personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm, proximately causing death. ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d).) david conviction for robbery, a serious and violent felony. ( 667, subds. (a)(1), (b)(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)(d).) the trial court denied davidromero motion4 to strike the prior felony conviction allegation and sentenced him to 75 years to life in prison, plus five years. it imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole revocation restitution fine, a court security fee, a criminal conviction assessment, and a domestic violence fee, and ordered david to pay direct victim restitution. david appeals. 4 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 9 discussion 1. stimony a. additional facts and contentions deputy medical examiner vladimir levicky performed after opening statements but before the presentation of evidence, defense counsel expressed concern that a different medical examiner would be testifying at trial. counsel explained that dr. levicky had opined, in his autopsy report, that the gunshot was fired at a 70 degree angle. counsel believed this evidence supported the defense theory that the shot was accidental, and had expected to elicit dr. levicky regarding the gunshot angle when dr. levicky testified for the prosecution. however, counsel had just learned that dr. levicky had retired and the people would be calling a different medical examiner in his place. the testifying medical examiner, counsel believed, could not opine regarding the angle of entry and would state that medical examiners generally do not check entry angles. clate breaking evidence that is at odds with evidenceprovided in discovery. retirement a few days earlier; when he asked dr. levicky to testify nonetheless, the doctor stated he was going out of the country; and therefore the e had assigned a new deputy medical examiner, dr. martina kennedy, to testify. dr. kennedy had not been trained to evaluate angles of entry. the prosecutor had not known that the angle of entry evidence was significant to the defense. the trial court suggested that dr. kennedy could reiterate, during her testimony, regarding the 10 70 degree angle. if asked whether she agreed with those findings, dr. kennedy could state she lacked the expertise or foundation to do so. as defense counsel requested, the court precluded dr. kennedy from testifying that it was uncommon for medical examiners to check entry angles. defense counsel indicated he was satisfied with solution. dr. kennedy subsequently testified as the parties had agreed. she explained that her testimony was based on her review of the autopsy report and related diagrams, a photographs, and other documents. on cross-examination, defense counsel elicited that dr. report stated the direction of the gunshot wound was upwards at dr. kennedy also testified, among other things, weight, the presence of a metal surgical rod in his leg, and the cause of death.5 apart from a one-page diagram and two photographs, the autopsy report was not admitted into evidence. appellant now argues that admission of dr. kennedytestimony violated his sixth amendment confrontation right. afforded an opportunity to cross-examine the pathologist who conducted the autopsy, and made findings that were absolutely the error was prejudicial, he posits, because dr. kennedy lacked the training or experience to confirm dr. les. we discern no error. 5 appellant does not challenge othetestimony. 11 b. applicable legal principles the sixth amendment to the federal constitution gives a criminal defendant the right to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses. (people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 576.) in the seminal case of crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, the high court overruled its prior precedent and held that the monial out-of-court statement against a criminal defendant unless the maker of the statement is unavailable to testify at trial and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-(people v. lopez, at pp. 580581.) crawford declined to provide a ,and the high court has not articulated one upon which a majority of the court agrees. (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 687; people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 602603.) however, it is clear that a critical components it must be made with some degree of formality or solemnity, and its primary purpose must pertain in some fashion to a criminal prosecution. (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 705; people v. leon, at p. 603.) confrontation clause claim. (people v. hopson (2017) 3 cal.5th 424, 431; people v. nelson (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1453, 1466; people v. sweeney (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 210, 221.) both the united states supreme court and our california supreme court have addressed application of crawford in the context of forensic reports. (see melendez-diaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305; bullcoming v. new mexico (2011) 564 u.s. 647; williams v. illinois (2012) 567 u.s. 50.) our california supreme court has considered, in several cases, whether a pathologist may testify about statements in an autopsy report 12 prepared by another, nontestifying pathologist. in people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608, the court held that factual observations by a nontestifying pathologist and recorded in an autopsy report, were not testimonial because they lacked formality and criminal se. (id. at pp. 619621.) the court differentiated between statements describing anatomical and physiological observations, and statements id. at pp. 619620; people v. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 706.) according to people v. dungo, are less formal than statements setting forth a ppeople v. dungo, at p. 619.) accordingly, the testifying jury of accompanying photographs, did not give defendant a right to confront and cross-examine [the nontestifying expert]id. at p. 621.) subsequently, people v. leon explained the relevant legal principles in this way: t is clear that the admission of autopsy photographs, and competent testimony based on such photographs, does not violate the confrontation clause. . . . it is independently conceived opinion is not objectionable, even if that opinion is based on inadmissible hearsay. [citations.] . . . the hearsay problem arises when an expert simply recites portions of a report prepared by someone else, or when such a report is itself admitted into evidence. in that case, out-of-court statements in the report are being offered for their truth. admission of this 13 hearsay violates the confrontation clause if the report was created with sufficient formality and with the primary purpose of supporting a criminal prosecution. (people v. leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 603.) people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665 considered the admissibility of gang expert testimony, rather than statements in an autopsy report, but sanchez. sanchez -specific out-of-court statements to explain the bases for his opinion, those statements are necessarily considered by the jury for their truth, id. at p. 684.) for example, testimony autopsy of a suspected homicide victim would be a case-specific id. at prely on hearsay in forming an opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms without violating either hearsay rules or the confrontation clause. (id. at p. 685; people v. perez (2018) 4 cal.5th 421, 456.) in the recent cases of people v. perez and people v. garton (2018) 4 cal.5th 485, our supreme court found pathologiststestimony about autopsy reports prepared by nontestifying pathologists did not constitute reversible error. in people v. perez, the testifying p hemorrhaging in ounds, and internal injuries -s body that were taken directly from [the nontestifyreport and no other under sanchez. (people v. perez, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 456.) nevertheless, ddungoperez concluded that any federal constitutional error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (ibid.) it was undisputed 14 that the victim had been choked and stabbed, and the depth of the stab wounds, the eye hemorrhages, and the details of the internal injuries were such the other evidence presented at trial, that they had no effect on (id. at p. 457.) moreover, it was not error for the testifying pathologist to rely upon hearsay in forming his opinion about the cause of death. (ibid.) people v. garton held that the testifying coroopinions, based on an autopsy report prepared by a retired coroner, were not objectionable insofar as the testifying coroner did not directly or implicitly convey any statements made by the nontestifying coroner. (people v. garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 506.) without mentioning dungo, garton reasoned that statements made in the autopsy report and related by the -of-court statements to the jury because the autopsy report contained the out-of-court statements of [the nontestifying coroner]. . . . because these facts people v. garton, at p. 506.) but, garton concluded that even if such statements were testimonial, any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. statements amounted to hearsay, and the state of the victimbody and the manner in which she died were undisputed. (id. at p. 507.) c. forfeiture preliminarily, the people contend appellant has forfeited his sixth amendment challenge because he failed to object on this ground below. we agree. (people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 730 [sixth amendment confrontation claim forfeited where defendant failed to object at trial based upon the confrontation 15 clause].) defense counsel did not seek exclusion of the autopsy evidence at all, let alone on confrontation grounds. defense not that the autopsy evidence was inadmissible; instead, he defense preferred to examine dr. levicky, rather than dr. kennedy, because counsel believed dr. levicky could provide more favorable testimony.6 based on a request to exclude the autopsy evidence, but instead stemmed from the defenseunavailability and the potential that dr. kennedy would testify that medical examiners do not generally check gunshot entry angles. defense counsel expressly agreed that the solution proposed by the trial court (i.e., that dr. kennedy could simply ), was satisfactory. appellant was the proponent of the 70-degree angle evidence, and defense counsel, not the prosecutor, elicited the 70-degree angle testimony from dr. kennedy. under these circumstances, any 6 indeed, although framed as a confrontation clause unavailable. absence precluded the defense from getting further information dr. levicky would have had an opinion about the position of the firearm and apart from the fact that these contentions are speculative, appellant cannot now complain subpoena dr. levicky, did not retain a defense expert to testify about the angle of entry, and did not move for a continuance to allow dr. levicky to be subpoenaed. counsel no doubt felt no need to do so because, as we discuss, the solution put into place by the trial court was highly favorable for the defense. 16 forfeited. (see people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 49 [if defense counsel intentionally caused the trial court to err, for tactical reasons and not out of ignorance or mistake, invited error doctrine precludes appellate challenge]; people v. burgener (2016) 1 cal.5th 461, 474; people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 11381139 [where defense counsel first elicited evidence before the jury, invited error doctrine barred defendant admissible].)7 appellant contends defense counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object to admission of the autopsy evidence on confrontation grounds. this argument is frivolous. to establish ineffective assistance, a defendant must show that reasonableness under prevailing professional norms; and (2) there is a reasonable probabifailings, the result would have been more favorable for defendant. (people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198; people v. roa (2017) 7 appellant argues an objection on sixth amendment grounds would have been futile because the trial court had already denied his mistrial motion. but the mistrial motion was made on the ground counsel had just learned of dr. unavailability, and made no mention of the confrontation clause; resolution of the unavailability issue was unrelated to evaluation of a confrontation clause challenge. there is no showing an objection would have been futile. crawford v. washington was decided over a decade before trial, and the opinions in people v. leon and people v. sanchez had already issued. (cf. people v. garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 505 [confrontation challenge not forfeited where trial occurred prior to crawford].) 17 11 cal.app.5th 428, 454.) within the broad range of reasonableness, and afford great people v. mickel, at p. 198; people v. bona (2017) 15 cal.app.5th 511, 517.) here, the record reveals an obvious tactical purpose for object to the autopsy evidence: counsel reasonably believed that the gunshot angle evidence supported the key defense theory that the shooting was an accident. appellant argues that the bullet to the defense cannot be overstated this evidence was appellant fails to acknowledge that if defense counsel had successfully challenged the autopsy evidence on confrontation grounds, the angle of entry evidence would have been excluded. instead, the ruling counsel obtained was highly favorable for the defense: undisputed observation about the angle of entry was elicited through dr. kennedy, and the prosecution had no opportunity to attack or attempt to qualify that evidence through cross-examination. additionally, the defense relied on several other aspects of the autopsy evidence in support of its theory evidence that would have been unavailable had counsel successfully moved to exclude it. appellant has therefore failed to establish ineffective assistance. d. the confrontation claim fails on the merits the challenged portions of violate the sixth amendment, and admission of the evidence was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. testimony pertains to the angle of entry evidence and the dr. 18 that willie (1) weighed 132 pounds; (2) had a surgical fixation rod in his right leg; and (3) died from a gunshot to the forehead.8 angle of entry was not testimonial hearsay. under people v. dungo, factual observations about the condition of a victime in an autopsy report, are not testimonial. (people v. dungo, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 619, 621.) the same is weight and the metal rod in his leg. (ibid.) appellant argues that dungo was wrongly decided and has been undercut by people v. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665. (see people v. ford (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 987, 998 [suggesting that dungois difficult to apply and inconsistent with precedent].) although our supreme court did not rely on dungo in its recent decisions in people v. perez and people v. garton, the court has not repudiated or overruled dungo, and we are bound by it. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455; people v. ford, at p. 995.) nor are we unlike the evidence in dungo, dr. the angle of entry was a conclusion, rather than an observation. based on her own conclusions, drawn from photographic evidence this testimony was not objectionable. photographs, and expert conclusions drawn from them, are not hearsay. (people v. leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 603.) and, an expert may rely on hearsay in formulating an opinion without 8 it is not entirely clear that appellant intends to challenge we address them out of an abundance of caution. 19 running afoul of the confrontation clause. (people v. perez, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 457.) the diagram prepared by dr. levicky and introduced into evidence showed the location of the gunshot wound and its measurements, as well as the presence of three lacerations on forehead. on cross-examination, dr. kennedy testified that she observed the lacerations in the autopsy photographs, and believed they were fresh wounds. about the lacerations did not virights, as it was based on her own observations of photographs. (people v. leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 603.) assuming arguendo that the foregoing evidence was admitted in error, it was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24; people v. garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 507; people v. perez, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 456.) the angle of entry evidence tended to support the defense theory that the shooting was accidental; its admission therefore could not have prejudiced appellant. there was no ; appellant admitted shooting him, and the autopsy photograph clearly shows a bullet wound in thweight, and the fact he had a surgical rod in his leg, were also undisputed; the facts he was slender and did not walk in a robust fashion were evident in the video. the showed nothing more than the placement and size of the gunshot wound and the presence of the three lacerations. the nature of the gunshot wound was already in evidence in the autopsy photograph. the defense relied on the laceration evidence in support of the accidental shooting theory; thus, that evidence helped, rather 20 than hurt, the defense case. in sum, there was no prejudicial error. 2. the trial court did not prejudicially err by failing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter the trial court instructed the jury on homicide, first and second degree murder, and the lesser included offense of involuntary manslaughter. defense counsel did not request, and the trial court did not give, a voluntary manslaughter instruction. appellant now contends the trial court prejudicially erred by failing to sua sponte instruct on voluntary manslaughter on a heat of passion theory. we disagree. a trial court must instruct the jury on all general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence, including lesser included offenses, even absent a request. (people v. smith (2013) 57 cal.4th 232, 239.) instruction on a lesser included offense is required when there is evidence the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense, but not the greater. (people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 68.) this duty is not satisfied by instructing on only one theory of an offense if other theories are supported by the evidence. (people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 61.) substantial evidence is evidence a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1263.) the existence of any evidence, no matter how weak, will not justify an instruction. (people v. whalen, at p. 68.) the testimony of a single witness, including the defendant, may suffice. (people v. wyatt (2012) 55 cal.4th 694, 698.) in determining whether substantial evidence existed, we do not evaluate the credibility of the witnesses, a task for the jury. (ibid.) we independently review the question of whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense. 21 (people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 538; people v. trujeque (2015) 61 cal.4th 227, 271.) voluntary manslaughter is the intentional but nonmalicious killing of a human being, and is a lesser included offense of murder. ( 192, subd. (a); people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549; people v. lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 59.) a killing may be reduced from murder to voluntary manslaughter if it occurs upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion on sufficient provocation. (people v. lee, at p. 59; people v. rountree (2013) 56 cal.4th 823, 855; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 583 at the time of the killing, the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from judgment.[citationpeople v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 942; people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 758759; people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 11361137.) heat of passion manslaughter thus has both an objective and a subjective component. (people v. moye, at p. 549; people v. enraca, at p. 759.) as to the former, tprovocation which incites the defendant to homicidal conduct . . . must be caused by the victim . . . or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have people v. lee, at p. 59; people v. manriquez, at p. 583physical or verbal, but it must have been sufficiently provocative to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. (people v. moye, supra, at pp. 549550; people v. lee, at p. 59.) provocation can arise as a result of a series of events over time. (people v. wharton (1991) 22 53 cal.3d 522, 569; people v. kanawyer (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1233, 1245.) to satisfy the subjective component, the defendant f a strong people v. moye, at p. 550.) the passion aroused can be any violent, intense, high-wrought or enthusiastic emotion other than revenge. (people v. millbrook, supra, at p. 1139.) appellant contends the following aspects of his testimony provided sufficient evidence to support a voluntary manslaughter instruction. although not shown on the video, willie hit david first, before they entered the kitchen. even though willie was over 60 years old, he wa when david room with the gun after the kitchen incident ended, david was when david waiting for him by the door and they scuffled. david further avers that the videotape shows he was acting in the heat of passion. accepting for purposes of argument that the evidence was sufficient to support a heat-of-passion instruction (see generally people v. ramirez (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 1483, 1487; people v. millbrook, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at pp. 11401143; people v. thomas (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 630, 645), its omission was harmless under any standard. (chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.)9 9 the parties disagree about the applicable harmless error standard. appellant recognizes that in general, the failure to instruct on a lesser included offense is state law error subject to the watson standard. (see people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 955; people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 555556; people v. 23 amurder, as well as on involuntary manslaughter. calcrim no. guilty of first degree murder if the people have proved that he acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. the defendant acted willfully if he intended to kill. the defendant acted deliberately if he carefully weighed the considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. the defendant acted with premeditation if he decided to kill breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 169.) he nonetheless contends the chapman standard for federal constitutional error applies to the failure to instruct on heat-of-passion voluntary manslaughter. (see people v. thomas, supra, 218 cal.app.4th at an error of federal constitutional dimension that denies the defendant due process because it relieves the prosecution of the people v. peau (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 823, 830 [thomas does not necessarily resolve whether an error in failing to sua sponte instruct on provocation is of federal constitutional dimension]; people v. millbrook, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at pp. 11431146; cf. people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 515 [where substantial evidence exists, failure to instruct on involuntary manslaughter right to have the jury determine every material issue].) the people disagree, arguing that the watson people v. thomas conflicts with binding supreme court precedent, it should not be followed. they further contend that appellant has forfeited any claim the error violated his federal due process rights. we need not reach the questions of forfeiture and the appropriate standard of review because we conclude any error was harmless even under the more stringent chapman standard. (see people v. franklin (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 881, 891.) 24 before completing the act that caused death. [] . . . a decision to kill made rashly, impulsively, or without careful consideration is not deliberate and premeditated. [] . . . [] the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the killing was first degree murder rather than a lesser crime. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of first degree murder (italics added.) -degree murder verdict demonstrates the failure to give a heat-of-passion instruction, if error, was harmless. error in failing to instruct on a lesser included offense is harmless when the jury necessarily decides the factual questions posed by the omitted instructions adversely to the defendant under other, properly given instructions. (people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 582; people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 646.) degree murder, the jury necessarily found defendant premeditated and deliberated the killing. this state of mind, involving planning and deliberate action, is manifestly inconsistent with having acted under the heat of passion even if that state of mind was achieved after a considerable period of provocatory conduct and clearly demonstrates that defendant people v. wharton, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 572; people v. franklin, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at pp. 892894; people v. peau, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 830 [first-degree murder conviction rendered any failure to give heat-of-passion instruction harmless]; people v. speight (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1229, 1246; people v. millbrook, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 1138 [finding that a murder was willful, premeditated, and deliberate is manifestly inconsistent with heat of passion]; 25 cf. people v. manriquez, supra, at p. 582 [first-degree murder would have returned the same verdict had it been instructed on imperfect self-defense].) [t]on this issue. (people v. franklin, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at p. 892.) people v. berry (1976) 18 cal.3d 509, reversed a de-degree murder conviction because the trial court erroneously refused to instruct on voluntary manslaughter on a heat-of-passion theory. berry reasoned that the first-degree murder verdict did not necessarily indicate the jury found the defendant was not acting in the heat of passion when he killed. (id. provocation and heat of passion, and there was no clear direction ibid.) approximately fifteen years later, people v. wharton concluded, as noted ante-degree murder verdict was inconsistent with a finding the defendant acted under the heat of passion. (people v. wharton, supra, 53 killing resulted from provocation occurring over several weeks. (id. at p. 571.) the jury was instructed on provocation and heat of passion, proposed instruction, which raised two points not otherwise covered, i.e., that provocation could occur over time and the jury was required to take this into account when determining the effect of the cooling off period. (id. at p. 570.) wharton which discussed berry analysis on the provocation-over-time issue, but not the prejudice issue found the error harmless in light of the first-degree murder verdict. (wharton, at p. 572.) 26 people v. ramirez, supra, 189 cal.app.4th 1483, rejected heat-of-passion voluntary manslaughter was harmless in light of -degree murder verdict. (id. at p. 1484.) without citing wharton, ramirez in light of berry. (ramirez, at p. 1488.) since ramirez, at least two appellate courts have reconciled berry and wharton and concluded a first-degree murder verdict renders errors in provocation and heat of passion instructions harmless. in people v. peau, the court instructed that provocation could reduce a murder from first to second degree murder or to manslaughter, but did not instruct that the defendant was guilty of only voluntary manslaughter if he acted in the heat of passion. (people v. peau, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at pp. 828829.) peau reconciled berry and wharton, reasoning that berry did not discuss the premeditation and deliberation instructions; this strongly suggests that the sole issue considered in berry was whether the error was harmless because the jury received some instruction on the concepts of heat of passion and provocation, not whether the error was harmless because the jury found the murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated and such a finding was inconsistent with a finding peau, at pp. 831832.) the court concluded any error was harmless in peau [defendant] acted in the heat of passion by convicting him of first id. at p. 828.) in people v. franklin, the jury was instructed on attempted voluntary manslaughter on a heat of passion theory, but the uestion was inconsistent 27 with those instructions. (people v. franklin, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at pp. 885, 887890.) franklin concluded the error verdict of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder demonstrated it necessarily decided the defendant had not acted in the heat of passion. (id. at pp. 891893.) franklin agreed with peau berry and wharton can be reconciled by reference to the specific aspects of the jury instructions at issue. . franklin, at p. 894.) focusing on the same language contained in the instructions given here that a finding of premeditation and deliberation required that the defendant carefully weighed c rashly, impulsively, or without careful consideration franklin concluded the error was harmless. (id. at p. 894.) we agree with the analysis in franklin and peau. we recognize that in wharton, franklin, and peau the jury was given some instruction on provocation, whereas here it was not. nonetheless, in our view this is of no moment. as franklin carefully weighed his choice to act and did not decide rashly or obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such inconsistent witpeople v. franklin, 28 supra, 21 cal.app.5th at p. 894.) here, if the jury credited further, chis jury was not given an all-or-nothing choice: if it concluded appellant shot intentionally, but rashly and impulsively in anger, it would have convicted him of second degree murder. that it did not do so is evidence that any instructional error was harmless. even if the first-degree murder verdict is not dispositive, given the evidence and the nature of the defense theory it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt the instructional omission was shoot intentionally, or because he was acting in the heat of passion. instead, the gun went off accidentally when the men scuffled. the defense never advanced the theory that appellant killed because he was acting under the influence of a strong passion induced by adequate provocation. while it is theoretically possible the jury could have rejected the entire testimony what he was doing (see people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201202; people v. villanueva (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 41, 5152), we do not think this remotely likely. (see generally people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 553own testimony, no reasonable juror could conclude he acted rashly or without due deliberation and from passion rather than judgment]; people v. rountree, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 855 [where defendant claimed his shot was an accident, not a killing in the 29 heat of passion, evidence of the subjective component was miin the video, to be acting in a rage throughout the incident; in fact, after the shooting he appears rather calm and collected. moreover, the evidence of provocation was extraordinarily weak. we think it highly improbable that jurors would conclude a reasonable person would be spurred to homicidal anger by the fact his elderly, cocaine-addicted brother had once again failed to pay his $200 share of the bills, persisted in smoking in the house, or was visited by friends hoping to ingest drugs with him. indeed, david testified that he was not upset about the bills; that willie usually went to the back house to smoke when david that according to david, willie was the one who was upset the evening of the murder appellant admitted selling a little cocaine himself, occasionally to willie, undercutting any argument that he was reasonably aroupeople v. nelson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 539.) nor do we find it plausible that jurors would have believed willie threw the alleged first punch off-camera, or that in the context of this case, such would have amounted to legally david and willie were in a heated physical altercation that the video evidence starkly belies this 30 characterization. it does not show a fight between the men, but depicts the younger, larger, and stronger david attacking willie. the relevant portion of the video begins with david striding purposefully through ththan two minutes later, roberson rushes through the kitchen troubling. she then comes back into the kitchen, walking backwards, obviously distressed. david follows, dragging willie, who is on his knees. david forces willie face into the seat of a chair, and then throws him across the kitchen, causing willie to is partially obscured by a table, it is clear that he lies on the floor prone and unresisting. david pulls up one of his sleeves, winds up his fist, and punches willie. he waits a second, and then aims stands to the side, with her hands covering her face, apparently pleading with david to stop. david then strides from the kitchen, followed by roberson. willie gets to his feet and hobbles back toward his room. throughout this encounter, willie appears passive and nonresistant; he takes no retaliatory action against , but simply goes to his room. based on the evidence, reasonable jurors would not have concluded that willie engaged in physical force against david sufficient to provoke heat of passion in a reasonable person. indeed, the video evidence was so compelling that defense willie punched him first was implausible. while a defendant ed on [the] theory of his people v. thomas, supra, 218 cal.app.4th at p. 645), when determining prejudice we need 31 not assume reasonable jurors would have credited such evidence. in short, in light of the weak evidence of provocation, the nature finding that appellant premeditated and deliberated, any instructional error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 3. prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends that his conviction must be reversed because the prosecutor committed nine instances of misconduct during cross-examination and argument, depriving him of due process and rendering his trial fundamentally unfair. we disagree. a. applicable legal principles sufficiently egregious that it infects the trial with such a degree of unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial of due process, the federal constitution is violated. prosecutorial misconduct that falls short of rendering the trial fundamentally unfair may still constitute misconduct under state law if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to persupeople v. masters (2016) 62 cal.4th 1019, 1052.) to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument. (people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1205.) here, with one arguable exception, appellant did not object to the conduct he now asserts was improper. nothing suggests objections would have been futile, or admonitions inadequate to cure any harm. accordingly, at least eight of his nine claims 32 have been forfeited. (people v. williams (2016) 1 cal.5th 1166, 1188; people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 893894.) recognizing this, david contends his counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object. as we have set forth above, to representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness, and . (see people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 109.) therefore, where appropriate, through the lens of ineffective assistance. b. purported misconduct during cross-examination appellant complains of two instances of misconduct during -examination of him. (i) questions the trial court ruled that if david testified, he could be impeached with evidence he sold cocaine. as noted, during direct examination david admitted he sold drugs in the 120th street drugs for cigarettes; and he sometimes sold drugs to willie. during cross-examination, david denied that he frequently sold drugs. the prosecutor asked whether david had been arrested for selling cocaine in july 2015. david denied being arrested or selling, but admitted a case was pending against him. defense counsel asked for a sidebar and advised the court that david had not been arrested. the court opined that an arrest was irrelevant for purposes of impeachment, and indicated it would have sustained an objection had one been made. however, because david denied the cocaine sale referenced by the prosecutor, the prosecutor had latitude to question david about it. 33 inartful, ,and told when cross-examination resumed, david again denied selling cocaine on two specific dates in 2015 and 2016, but admitted selling cocaine occasionally in 2014 and 2015. david contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by asking whether he had been arrested, both because this was factually inaccurate and because a witness may not be impeached with evidence of prior arrests. (people v. lopez (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 1508, 1523 dmissible because it is more prejudicial the people argue that evidence david sold cocaine was relevant to show his purported concern about will, and any prejudice was minimal. assuming arguendo defense counselrequest for a sidebar constituted a sufficient objection, no prejudicial misconduct appears. there is no dispute it was proper to impeach david with the fact he sold cocaine. (see people v. gabriel (2012) 206 cal.app.4th 450, 459 [crimes related to drug trafficking involve moral turpitude]; people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 931 [a witness may be impeached with any prior conduct involving moral turpitude, whether or not it resulted in a felony conviction].) the brief questions regarding davidarrest and pending case were admissions, during direct examination, that he did in fact sell drugs on occasion, including to willie. given these admissions, any implication david had been arrested was not likely to impact . the prosecu, while clumsy, were not deceptive or reprehensible, and were not sufficiently 34 egregious to infect the trial with unfairness or deny david due process. (ii) veracity roberson, testified that on the night of the murder, david and willie argued about williefailure to pay his share of the bills. during cross-examination, the following questions and testimony ensued: rochandra it was about bills? so rochandra is lying? [ ]: you never shared with her that you were cause spike do it all the time. []. . . [] . . . (italics added.) appellant now contends that the question italicized above amounted to misconduct. he avers the question was argumentative, was intended to inflame the passions, and did not call for or receive an answer. under california law, questions about whether another witness is lying are not categorically improper. instead, they must be considered in context. (people v. hawthorne (2009) 46 cal.4th 67, 9798, abrogated on another ground in people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 637643; people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 382; people v. zambrano (2004) 124 cal.app.4th 228, 242.) 35 to the events at issue has personal knowledge whether other witnesses who describe those events are testifying truthfully and accurately. as a result, he might also be able to provide insight on whether witnesses whose testimony differs from his own are people v. hawthorne, at p. 98; people v. chatman, at p. 382.) here, the defendant knows the other witnesses well, he might know of reasons those witnesses might lie. any of this testimony could be relevant to the credibility of both the defendant and the people v. chatman, at p. 382.) conversely, where the witness has no personal knowledge of the events or of were they lying is generally improper. (id. at p. 381.) and, ere they lying speech to the jury masquerading as elicit irrelevant or speculative testimony, it is improper. (id. at pp. 381382, 384.) which david had personal knowledge (what david told roberson) and concerned a witness whom david knew well (his girlfriend, with whom he had lived for over four years). the subject matter (the reason for the disagreement between willie and david) was highly relevant. thus, in asking about robersprosecutor was making a legitimate inquiry into (people v. chatman, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 382 [a party who asked to clarify what his position is and give, if he is able, a reason for the jury to accept his testimony as more reliable]; people v. hawthorne, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 98.) david explained that his version of the facts was accurate because 36 asked the question once and did not repeatedly ask it to berate defendant or force him to call [the witness] a liar in an attempt to people v. hawthorne, at p. 98; people v. chatman, at p. 383.) there was no misconduct. because the question was not improper, defense counsel did not provide ineffective assistance. objection is not ineffective people v. bradley (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 64, 90; people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 836.) even assuming arguendo the question was improper, david fails to establish the prejudice prong of his ineffective assistance claim. the prosecutor was entitled to cross-examine david regarding the discrepancies and insignificant, and there is no probability it affected the verdict. (see people v. zambrano, supra, 124 cal.app.4th at p. 243.) c. purported misconduct during argument appellant contends the prosecutor committed seven instances of misconduct during argument. (i) purported misstatements of law the prosecutor made the following argument to the jury: unlawfully intended to kill. and implied malice, intentionally committed the act. [] natural consequences of the act were dangerous to human life. he knew the act was dangerous to human life. and deliberately acted with conscious disregard for human life. [] now, express malice is the first degree murder. implied malice is second degree. you have to find him not guilty, 37 first degree. so you have to decide. you have to acquit him of first degree murder before you even get to second degree murder. [] . . . [] what that means is you all have to agree that . . . there was no malice aforethought, that you believe his story that it was an accident which a. argument regarding the law of murder appellant argues the foregoing was improper in two respects. first, he avers the prosecutor misstated the law because, to find him guilty of second degree murder, the jury did not have to determine the shooting was accidental; it could have found him guilty of second degree murder even if it disbelieved the accident theory, as long as it concluded he did not act with premeditation and deliberation. the people counter that the prosecutor correctly told the jury it could acquit david of murder only if it found the absence of both implied and express malice, a finding it could make only if it concluded the shooting was accidental. murder is an unlawful killing committed with malice aforethought. ( 187, subd. (a); people v. elmore (2014) 59 cal.4th 121, 132.) a defendant acts with express malice if he intends to kill. ( 188; people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 941; people v. elmore, at p. 132.) malice is implied when a killing results from an intentional act, the natural and probable consequences of which are dangerous to human life, deliberately performed with knowledge of the danger to, and with conscious disregard for, human life. (people v. elmore, at p. 133; people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 653.) murder is of the first degree when it is willful, deliberate and premeditated. ( 189; people v. elmore, at p. 133; people v. beltran, supra, at p. 942.) 38 second degree murder is an unlawful killing with malice aforethought, but without the elements of willfulness, deliberation, and premeditation. (people v. elmore, at p. 133.) it is improper for a prosecutor to misstate the law during argument. (people v. whalen, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 77; people v. mendoza (2007) 42 cal.4th 686, 702.) model of clarity. however, assuming the remarks can be construed as appellant suggests, his ineffective assistance claim fails because he has not established prejudice. (see people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 198.) both defense counsel and the prosecutor correctly stated the elements of premeditation and deliberation during their arguments, and the prosecutor referred jurors to the relevant instructions. the trial court instructed the jury on homicide, first degree murder, and second degree murder. (calcrim nos. 500, 520, 521.) it also instructed that the jury with my we presume the jurors understood and followed (people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 131; people v. forrest (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 1074, 1083 [if prosecutor misstated the law, error was harmless in light of trial courts correct instructions and the absence of evidence of jury confusion]; people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 635.) there is no probability the jury here would have ignored the instructions and the additional portions , and convicted david of first degree murder even if it found he did not premeditate and deliberate. 39 b. alleged misstatement regarding the sequence of deliberations second, appellant argues the prosecutor erroneously told the jury it must consider the charges in a particular sequence, that is, it could not consider second degree murder until it determined david was not guilty of first degree murder. under -ry that it cannot return a verdict on a lesser included offense until after it has acquitted of the greater offense, but may not prohibit the jury from considering or discussing the lesser offenses during deliberations before returning a verdict on the greater offense. (people v. kurtzman (1988) 46 cal.3d 322, 324325, 329; people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 81.) the prowas, at worst, ambiguous. the find him not guiltydecideo acquit him of first degree murder(italics added) permissibly suggested the jury had to return a verdict on first degree murder before it returned a verdict on second degree murder. have been construed to refer to consideration of second degree murder during deliberations. (see generally people v. perez (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 395, 399400.) comments before the jury, we consider the complained-of remarks as a whole and do not lightly infer that the jury drew the most, rather than the least, damaging meaning from them. (people v. covarrubias, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 894.) assuming be read as appellant suggests, any misstatement was manifestly harmless. unlike in most other cases involving the acquittal first rule, 40 here the alleged misstatement was not contained in an instruction or response given by the trial court, but was part of the prosecu(cf. people v. kurtzman, supra, 46 cal.3d at pp. 327328; people v. olivas (2016) 248 cal.app.4th jury was properly instructed with calcrim no. 640, which unambiguously stated that the jury could consider the charges in whatever order it wished, rather than in a particular sequence.10 generally carry less weight with a jury than do instructions from the court. the former are usually billed in advance to the jury as matters of argument, not evidence [citation], and are likely viewed as the statements of advocates; the latter . . . are viewed as definitive and binding statements of the law. (people v. mendoza, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 703.) counter to instructions given a jury, we will ordinarily conclude that the jury followed the latter and disregarded the former (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 717.) there is no reasonable probability that jurors here not only misinterpreted instructions. (see people v. perez, supra, 212 cal.app.3d at pp. 399400.) (ii) mischaracterizing the evidence to gun was loaded, the prosecutor argued, among other things: 10 calcrim no. 640 provided in pertinent part: consider these different kinds of homicide in whatever order you wish, but i can accept a verdict of guilty or not guilty of second degree murder as a lesser included offense only if all of you have found the defendant not guilty of first degree murder . . . 41 well, what happens when somebody wants to come take your stuff, take your money? is it amazing that somebody [who] would about what [was] his level of sales. i dont care about that. the only thing telling you is that somebody like this knows firearms and knows appellant argues that the prosecutor mischaracterized the evidence by refsting he carried a firearm to protect his stuff, he stresses that he denied being a cocaine dealer and testified he purchased the gun a week before the shooting. during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefrom. people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 439.) a prosecutor may state matters not in evidence that are common knowledge or drawn from common experience. (people v. mendoza (2016) 62 cal.4th 856, 908.) such was the case here. t is common knowledge that perpetrators of narcotics offenses keep weapons available to guard their people v. bradford (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 1733, 1739.) david admitted he sometimes sold or traded cocaine. david prosecutor suggest david was a large-scale cocaine dealer; he because the argument was based on a reasonable 42 inference from the evidence, it was not objectionable, and counsel did not perform deficiently by failing to object. (iii) defense counsel argued that david was not guilty of murder for a variety of reasons, but conceded he was guilty of involuntary manslaughter. conduct of brandishing a gun was reckless and amounted to criminal negligence, supporting an involuntary manslaughter verdict. stuck with the facts that he cannot changethink that he was going to come up here and ask for a straight acquittal because i think he would lose all credibility if he had asked you to do that. [] like, . . . we get to hold someone responsible for this and you can walk out of here with your head held high because . . . you nothing, right. you convicted him of something. [] . . . [t]hat would not be fair. it would not be right because what youpunishment, probably going to get something. . . . not going to go home tomorrow. that would not be what you said you would do. you said that you would weigh the evidence and you would convict him of the crime that was proven to you b (italics added.) appellant contends the italicized portions of the suggesting counsel , and was asking for a compromise verdict of involuntary manslaughter 43 a prosecutor commits misconduct if he or she attacks , casts aspersions on defense counsel, innocence or theory of the case. (people v. williams, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1188 [it is error for a prosecutor to argue defense counsel knew his client was guilty but proceeded with a sham defense]; people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1337; people v. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 738.) of such misconduct, we comments were a f[citation] and whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury (people v. edwards, at p. 738.) there is no likelihood jurors would have interpreted the the prosecutor did not such forbidden tactics as accusing defense counsel of fabricating a defpeople v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, 1154, disapproved on another ground by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 559560.) fairly read, the prosecutor stated only that the defense recognized the evidence was incompatible with a complete acquittal which was, in fact, precisely what defense counsel argued. these statements did not appellant was guilty of murder. conclusory contention, nothing s lightened the st the authorities david cites in support people v. pitts (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 606 and people v. bell (1989) 49 cal.3d 502 44 bear no resemblance to the instant matter. in people v. pitts the prosecutor subtly implied defense counsel knowingly presented perjured testimony. (people v. pitts, at p. 705.) in people v. bell, the prosecutor argued that although counsel averred the defendant did noclient was guilty. (people v. bell, at p. 537.) the prosecutoargument in this case cannot be stretched to imply that counsel suborned perjury or thought david was guilty of murder. (iv) accusing appellant of lying next, appellant complains that the prosecutor improperly argued he lied during his testimony. he points to the that 90 percent of his testimony was that he lied by testifying (1) he had the gun in his pocket in the kitchen; (2) he did not punch willie in the head; and (3) the argument between the men regarded in the house, not the bills.11 11 the challenged statements are as follows. when arguing the murder was premeditated and deliberate, the prosecutor going to tell you what all his lies are in a minute. [] he lied about having that gun in his pocket. you know why, because he had just beat [willie] up. spikey went off to his room. why did he have weighing the considerations before and against his choices, right. [] . . . [] . . . if he had that gun in his pocket why not just pull it out then[?] referencing the video, the prosecutor urged: attorney tried to infer that these lacerations [45 citing people v. ellis (1966) 65 cal.2d 529, david argues the in people v. ellis, the prosecutor repeaid. at p. 539.) the court explained that a prosecutor may point out inconsistencies in the evidence, but epithets to drive home the falsity of defense evidence. [citation.] the term liar, for instance, implies more than offering untrue testimony; it implies a willful falsehood. [citation.] the term perjurer has, as its only formal semantic distinction vis--vis liar, the additional element of the oath. [citations.] a charge of perjury, however, produces more than moral opprobrium. perjury is a felony, and the connotation conveyed to the jury is therefore apt to be far more derogatory than that conveyed by the term liar. particularly when applied to the defendant, it is apt in the face. lined him up. remember how he pulled up his sleeve and just made sure he had a good shot. what was he regarding the reason for the argument between the men, the prabout that. rochandra never said that. she said it was about bills. why is he lying? why is rochandra lying? [] . . . [] g 46 adversely and unnecessarily to affect the ability of the jury dispassionately to weigh the credibility of the accused and the issue of guilt or innocence. unless the prosecutor is careful to state that his conclusion that perjury was committed is predicated solely on the evidence before the jury, the spectre of jury reliance on prosecutorial access to information outside the id. at pp. 539540.) ellis is inapt here, for the simple reason that the prosecutor in this case did not use the terms perjury or perjured. the prosecutor properly argued that the evidence showed appellant was lying, as demonstrated by the video and the testimony of other witnesses. a prosecutor may vigorously challenge the validity of any defense, and can characterize the testimony of a witness, including the defendant, as untruthful . . (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1337; people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 32 [ny contradicts the strong evidence of his guilt, it is not improper to call him a liar]; people v. williams, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1189.) a fair comment on the evidence. (see people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 484; people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 796.) (v) arguing matters outside the record and appeal to defense counsel argued that david waited to turn himself in because he mistrusted police officers. counsel statedworld, all he would have to do is just walk into would have been fine. nothing to be afraid of at all. [realistic. i think that police are seen differently for different folks and i think for maybe [the prosecutor], that would not have 47 been an issue. [] but i can understand why perhaps david would not have wanted to just simply walk into century station . . . to surrender. the prosecutor responded with a brief anecdote recounting that he had adopted his son from haiti six years previously; and iwas ever involved in a similar situation, the prosecutor would [t] david contends the comments were improper because, first, the prosecutor essentially testified about a matter outside the record; and second, the remarks painted the prosecutor as a hero who rescued a black child from a life of poverty. the people counter that a proper response s argument, were not a comment on evidence outside the record, and did not sympathies. it is improper for a prosecutor to assume or state facts not in evidence. (people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 494.) nor make arguments to the jury that give it the irrelevant information or inflammatory rhetoric that diverts the al, purely subjective response. [citation.]people v. linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1210.) however, illustrations drawn from common experience, history or literature, as well as anecdotes and jokes, are commonly regarded as acceptable during argument. (people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 248.) inherently tactical, and the failure to object will rarely establish people v. chatman, supra, 38 cal.4th at 48 p. 384; people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 11691170.) even assuming counsel here was derelict for failing to object, appellant has not established the prejudice component of his ineffective assistance claim, that is, a reasonable probability that the outcome of the proceeding would have been different had the challenged argument been excluded. (people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 198.) as explained, we do not lightly infer that the jury drew the most damaging rather than the least damaging people v. covarrubias, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 894.) the remarks were but a brief and insignificant part of his argument, did not pertain to the most significant evidence against david, and did not reference any out-of-court evidence related to the crime, the parties, or the witnesses. in context, the prosecutor was simply illustrating his point that regrace, turning oneself in was the right thing to do. this argument was not inflammatory and did not invite an emotional or irrational response. fairly read, the comments did not suggest n adoptive parent. significantly, the jury was instructed that it should not let bias, sympathy, or prejudice (including bias for or against attorneys) influence its decision; that it must decide the case hat the attorneys say is evidence. in their opening statements and closing arguments, the attorneys will discuss the case, but their we presume the jury followed these instructions, which dispelled any possible prejudice. (see people v. daveggio and michaud (2018) 4 cal.5th 790, 821, 859.) 49 (vi) biblical references finally, appellant complains about references to the biblical account of cain and abel the prosecutor made during closing argument. after arguing that the shooting was i do these cases involving family members quite a bit. and the hardest thing is to convince jurors that family members want to hurt each other. because we think [to] ourselves that blood is thicker than water. we think to ourselves . . . in times of trouble who is going to be there for me? my family. . . . you can also count on that people do bad things to each other regardless of blood relations. [] i donbut the first recorded murder in the bible is cain in ruminating about the theme of the millender case, the prosecutor [e]verybody gets tired of being said, what? did he say, yeah, i did it[?] responsibility for it. [] . . . [p]eople do bad things to each other. [] it does. so when you go back in that jury room, just remember that itthe actions, not . . . b david argues the prosecutor committed misconduct by using a religious authority as a basis to find him guilty of murder. we disagree. appeals to religious authority during argument are impermissible. a jury is charged with deciding questions of historical fact based on the evidence, and religious input has no 50 role in this process. (people v. harrison, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. religious authority. not only is the bible a religious text, but it is also generally regarded as a literary masterpiece; indeed, it is among the oldest and best-known literary works in our culture. . . . [the california supreme court] has repeatedly held from common experience, history, or literature(id. involved, the line between literary allusion and religious appeal is often a fine one. a prosecutor who mentions the bible in closing argument runs a grave risk that a reviewing court will find that the line has been crossed and will reverse the defendants conviction. because any use of biblical references in argument must be carefully scrutinized, cautious prosecutors will choose to avoid such references. nevertheless, so long as they do not appeal to religious authority, prosecutors may refer to the bible in closing argument to illustrate a pointibid., italics added.) here, a reasonable juror would not have understood the prosecutorclear point was that fratricide was known to exist from antiquity, and the fact willie and david were brothers did not preclude a finding of murder. likewise, the statement that cain denied killing abel was offered to show that, as a matter of common knowledge, it has been true since ancient times that persons guilty of crimes sometimes deny committing them. the prosecutor did not state or imply that biblical doctrine required a murder conviction. to the contrary, the prosecutor stated the jury should remember 51 because the prosecutor did not use the biblical allusion as an appeal to religious authority, there was no prosecutorial misconduct. (people v. harrison, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 248.) david also argues that the prosecutor offered unsworn guilt. but a prosecutor may argue facts not in evidence that are common knowledge. (people v. mendoza, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 908.) it is reasonable to argue, as a matter of common knowledge, that it is not unusual for persons to deny culpability in order to escape liability. (cf. calcrim no. 105 [whether witness has a personal interest in how a case is decided is a factor going to witness credibility].) the jury was, of course, free to reject this argument, but the prosecutor did not become an unsworn witness by making it. (vii) aclaim fails as we have explained, the challenged statements and questions either did not constitute misconduct or were harmless. the prosecutor did not engage in a pattern of misconduct. accordingly, ineffective assistance claim fails because he has not shown any prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct. 4. cumulative error appellant contends that the cumulative effect of the purported errors deprived him of due process and a fair trial. as we reach the same conclusion with respect to the cumulative effect of any purported errors. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 52 1158, 12351236; people v. henriquez (2017) 4 cal.5th 1, 48.) none of the alleged errors, individually or cumulatively, t. (see people v. garton, supra, 4 cal.5th at pp. 520521.) 5. the domestic violence fee must be stricken at sentencing, the trial court imposed a $500 domestic violence fee pursuant to section 1203.097. appellant contends the fee was imposed in error, and the people concede the point. we agree. the domestic violence fee authorized by section 1203.097, subdivision (a)(5) may be imposed only when the defendant is granted probation for the crime. ( 1203.097, subd. (a); people v. kirvin (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 1507, 1520.) because appellant was sentenced to prison, the fee is unauthorized and must be stricken. 6. the matter must be remanded to allow the trial court the opportunity to exercise its discretion pursuant to amended section 12022.53 when appellant was sentenced in 2016, imposition of a section 12022.53 enhancement was mandatory and the trial court lacked discretion to strike it. (see people v. kim (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 1355, 13621363.) consequently, the trial court sentenced david to a consecutive 25-years-to-life term for his use of a firearm. ( 12022.53, subd. (d).) effective january 1, 2018, the legislature amended section 12022.53, subdivision (h) to give trial courts authority to strike firearm enhancements in the interest of justice. (sen. bill no. 620 (20172018 reg. sess.), stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.)12 12 as amended, section 12022.53, subdivision (h) provides: uant to section 53 in supplemental briefing, appellant contends his case must be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancement. we agree. as the people correctly concede, the amendment to section 12022.53 applies to amendment became operative. (people v. watts (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 102, 119; people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080, 10901091; people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323; people v. vieira (2005) 35 cal.4th 264, 305306; people v. nasalga (1996) 12 cal.4th 784, 792; in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 745.) remand is necessary to allow the trial court an opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion under the amended statute. (see people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1391; people v. brown (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1213, 1228.) we express no opinion about exercised. 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any 54 disposition the domestic violence fee ( 1203.097) is stricken. the judgment of conviction is otherwise affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed to modify the abstract of judgment accordingly and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the matter is remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion and determine whether to strike or dismiss the section 12022.53 firearm enhancements pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (h). not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: egerton, j. dhanidina, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 