filed 2/6/18 p. v. brown ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. felix brown iii, defendant and appellant. b278131 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa024364) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county. david v. herriford, judge. affirmed. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 felix brown iii (brown) appeals the denial of his petition for recall and resentencing under penal code section 1170.126.1 he contends the trial erred when it found he posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. we find no error and affirm. facts2 criminal background in 1983, when he was 17 years old, brown was made a ward of the juvenile court for possessing pcp for sale. in 1984, he was placed on probation for grand theft person. also, he was convicted of assault with a firearm and exhibiting a deadly weapon and ultimately served 90 days in jail on a grant of summary probation. two years later, in 1985, he was arrested for attempted burglary and pleaded guilty to the crime of attempted residential burglary. he was placed on probation for five years. in addition, he was involved in a residential burglary and robbery during which he helped a cohort tie up the 66-year-old female victim. brown was present while the victim was sexually assaulted by the cohort. she later required medical treatment for the lacerations to her vagina as well as wrist burns caused by being tied up. the investigating officer indicated the victim was left tied up in a closet until her daughter returned home eight hours later. the temperature in the closet was approximately 105 degrees. brown was eventually convicted of residential burglary, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 some of the facts are taken from people v. brown (oct. 16, 1998, b108429) (brown i) a nonpublished opinion. 3 residential robbery, and false imprisonment by violence and sentenced to state prison. brown was paroled in 1991. in 1993, he returned to state prison due to a parole violation. later in that year, he was arrested and convicted of possession of cocaine base for sale and received a four-year prison sentence. he was released on parole on december 24, 1995. on january 12, 1996, he was arrested for sexual battery. during the booking process, officers found 8.2 grams of cocaine convicted of possession for sale of cocaine base in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5 and sentenced to state prison for 30 years to life.3 he pleaded guilty to sexual battery. as to that offense, he was sentenced to a concurrent term of six months in county jail. regarding the sexual battery, the probation report indicated that browarrested after being observed by vice officers to commit sexual battery on several females at the oceanfront walk at venice beach. he would work his way through the crowd and place himself behind particular females who were a part of the crowd watching a show along the oceanfront walk. [brown] would stick his hand inside the front of his spandex biker-type shorts and manipulate his penis, inching 3 the trial court found true allegations that brown had suffered three prior serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). his sentence was composed of 25 years to life under the three strikes law, plus two years for prior prison term enhancements ( 667.5, subd. (b)), and three years for a prior drug conviction enhancement (health & saf. code,  11370.2). (brown i, supra, b108429, at p. 2) 4 closer to the female in front, thrusting his pelvic area forward and touching his genital area against the females buttocks. he was observed to engage in this conduct for approximately 30 minutes with at least seven females. disciplinary history during incarcerations had multiple disciplinary problems. in 1987, he was warned about refusing an order to return to his cell. subsequently, a rules violation report (rvr) was issued after he again refused an order to go to his cell and then a month later, he refused an order to return to his unit and called the correctional officer a tramp. after the correctional officer performed a body search and informed him she would issue an still on multiple occasions the following year, he received a warning for masturbating or exposing his erect penis. in 1989, he was found guilty of threatening a member of the prison staff with force and violence. in 1990, brown received an rvr for extending his erect penis through his cell bars. also, he received an rvr for standing outside his cell masturbating and saying to in june 1994, in an rvr, the reporting correctional officer tional count . . . i observed [brown] laying naked on his bunk, mast[u]rbating. i immediately ordered [brown] to stop, get dressed, turn on the light and come to the cell door. [brown] laughed at me and remained on his bunk mast[u]rbating. i repeatedly yelled out orders to [brown] to stop mast[ur]bating. [brown] got up and stood in front of me at the cell door mast brown would not stop until another 5 inmate said something. brown put on boxer shorts, smiled at the correctional officer and s in february 2001, brown received an rvr for writing a letter to a female correctional officer that encouraged illegal sex acts. about a year and a half later, in july 2002, he received an rvr for possessing dangerous contraband after four altered razor blades were found in the ceiling light of his cell. this was a violation of california code of regulations, title 15, section 3006, subdivision (a). a hearing was held, and brown was found guilty of the offense. in 2008, brown received an inmate progress report4 from a female correctional officer. it stated: he repeatedly stared at the correctional officer in a sexual manner; he followed her in the exercise yard; he leered at a female nurse; after being instructed to stop leering at females, he stopped for only a few days; and he purposely placed himself near the correctional officer, and would use any reason to talk to her. on one occasion, the correctional officer believed brown was masturbating in front of her and a nurse, but she was not certain because she could not see his lower body. i fear that he has a mental disorder that might make him a danger to the health and safety of others in that it is likely that he will engage in [] sexually criminal behavior vocational and rehabilitative programming in prison brown enrolled in vocational training for plumbing from july 2000 to january 2001, and for office services from 2001 to 4 the trial court ruling explained that inmate progress reports are commonly called chronos. 6 2003. variously, he received satisfactory and unsatisfactory ratings from instructors. from 2011 to 2013, he participated in classes for general education development. he was employed as a porter from august 2014 to june 2015. classification score; risk assessment assification score was 157. in 2013, it was down to 89.5 in 2015, his custody designation was state risk assessment (csra) score was 1. the csra is an actuarial test used by the cdcr to measure risk factors that are most predictive of recidivism. the risk factors used to produce the numeric value include age, gender, criminal misdemeanor and felony convictions, and sentence/supervision violations. the lowest risk has a numeric value of 1. a moderate risk has a value of 2. a high risk of reoffending by committing a drug offense has a value of 3. a high 5 every [california department of corrections and rehabilitation (cdcr)] inmate is given an initial classification score, and re-classified at least annually. the score is used to determine inmate placement within the cdcr, including the security level of the facility where the inmate will be housed. the lower the inmates score, the better in terms of housing and access to programs and work. the minimum score a life inmate can receive is 19. inmates enjoy a score reduction of two points when they have a six-month period of no discipline and two additional points if they have satisfactory or better performance in work, school or vocational training. conversely, they suffer additional points added to their score for serious rules violations. the details of how a classification score is computed and recomputed periodically are set forth in the cdcr departmental operations manual 7 risk of reoffending with a property offense is 4. a high risk of reoffending by committing a violent crime is 5. thus, based on his score, the cdcr considers brown a low risk of committing a felony offense within three years of his release on parole. (cal. code regs., tit. 15,  3768.1.) petition for recall and resentencing on november 6, 2012, the voters approved proposition 36, the three strikes reform act of 2012. (people v. valencia (2017) 3 cal.5th 347, 354 (valencia); people v. yearwood (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 161, 167.) proposition 36 created a procedure whereby a prisoner who is serving an indeterminate life sentence imposed pursuant to the three strikes law for a crime that is not a serious or violent felony and who is not disqualified, may have his or her sentence recalled and be resentenced as a second strike offender unless the court determines that resentencing would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public id. at p. 168.) on november 30, 2012, brown filed a petition for resentencing under section 1170.126. the trial court issued an order to show cause. the people opposed on the ground that brown posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. at the hearing, the trial court received various exhibits from both sides into evidence. brown called various witnesses. the people called no witnesses. 8 evidence history, vocational and rehabilitative programming, classification score, and csra score, the evidence and testimony was as follows: amity foundation accepted brown into a transitional program. her husband was semi-retired from his floor waxing and carpet cleaning business. if brown was released, her husband would hire brown for jobs too big for her husband to handle alone. also, she stated that she could assist brown financially. father testified that brown had changed during his incarceration and seemed to be giving thought to the consequences of his actions. according to willing to give brown whatever he needed, including transportation and financial assistance, upon his release from prison. he would provide brown with housing and transportation, and wrote a healthcare, transportation, and monetary support . . . until he is richard subia (subia), who held various positions in the cdcr, provided an expert opinion on risk assessment. he concluded that brown did not pose an unreasonable risk of dangerousness to public safety. dr. hy malinek, a clinical forensic psychologist, concluded that b[t] based on his age (49 at the time of the report), his history of only one violent offense, his current attitude (identified as prosocial), and the fact that he had ransitiona 9 brown submitted three letters addressed to the trial court and one addressed to a third party. the letters expressed his remorse and responsibility for his crimes, and they referred to a transition plan. in a 22-page memorandum of decision, the trial court found that brown currently posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety and denied his petition for recall and resentencing petition. in reaching this decision, the trial court detailed criminal history, disciplinary history, vocational and rehabilitative programming, classification score and age, and postrelease plans. the trial court also summarized the opinions provided by subia and dr. malinek assessment. then the trial court made various findings. for example, brown minimized his criminal and disciplinary past, he had not sought self-help programming for his issues with exhibitionism, women, and authority, and he did not have adequate postrelease plans. summing up its decision, the trial court stated that the totality of the evidence in the record demonstrated that resentencing [appellant] would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety at this time due to his criminal history, prison misconduct, failure to accept responsibility, insufficient rehabilitative programming, and inadequate post- this appeal followed. discussion brown contends the trial court abused its discretion in concluding that he poses an unreasonable risk of danger to public 10 safety. as we discuss below, the trial court ruled within the bounds of reason. i. proposition 36. if a prisoner is eligible for resentencing, he or she resentenced pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (e) of section 667 and paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of section 1170.12 unless the court, in its discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of ( 1170.126, subd. (f).) in exercising its discretion, a trial court may consider: criminal conviction history, including the type of crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the remoteness of the crimes; (2) the of rehabilitation while incarcerated; and (3) any other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. ( 1170.126, subd. (g).) when opposing a petition for recall and resentencing, the prosecution bears the burden of proving dangerousness by a preponderance of the evidence. (people v. superior court (kaulick) (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 1279, 13011305.) brown contends that the definition of danger to pis the same as the definition of that phrase in proposition 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act. (valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 355.) if it is not the same, brown contends that proposition 36 is unconstitutionally vague. we disagree with both contentions. 11 in proposition 47, the phrase means a risk that a defendant will commit a super strike offense, one of the eight serious or violent felonies identified in section 667, subdivision (e)(2)(c)(iv). (valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at pp. 350351, 355.) in valencia, the court considered and rejected the suggestion that risk of danger to pproposition 36 and proposition 47. (valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at pp. 351, 356375.) also, the court noted: following the enactment of proposition 36, courts of appeal have rejected arguments that the phrase unreasonable risk of danger to public safety,), is unconstitut(valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at pp. 351, 355356, citing people v. garcia (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 763, 768unreasonable risk of danger to public safetypeople v. flores (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1070, 10741075 [same].) ii. standard of review. a discretionary power is statutorily vested in the trial court, disturbed on appeal except on a showing that the [trial] court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 11241125.) the facts upon which a trial court finds an unreasonable risk of danger are reviewed for substantial evidence. if a factor . . . is not established by a preponderance of the evidence, it cannot form the basis for a finding of unreasonable risk [of danger]. [citationspeople v. buford (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 886, 901.) 12 iii. no due process liberty interest at stake. brown argues that he has a due process liberty interest in resentencing, and that his interest requires that there be a rational nexus between finding of dangerousness. us to analogize to the rule that a prisoner has a due process liberty interest in his or her release from prison on parole if a state creates an expectation of parole, i.e., the relevant scheme the necessary prerequisites exist. (greenholtz v. inmates of nebraska penal & correctional complex (1979) 442 u.s. 1, 11; board of pardons v. allen (1987) 482 u.s. 369, 373.) also, brown contends he has a liberty interest under our broader guarantees of due process. (cal. const., art. 1,  7, subd. (a), 15.) in particular, he notes that, with respect to s subjected to deprivatory governmental action, he always has a due process liberty interest both in fair and unprejudiced decision-making and in being people v. ramirez (1979) 25 cal.3d 260, 268 (ramirez).) section proposition 36 did not create an expectation of resentencing analogous to the expectation of parole. for life sentences, there is a mandatory minimum amount of prison time that must be served before an inmate can be considered for parole. ( 3046.) thus, if a life prisoner is suitable for parole, he or she has a particular time frame in which parole 13 can be expected. in contrast, section 1170.126 provides no such time frame on sentence reduction.6 moreover, expectation that they will be granted parole unless the [parole] board finds, in the exercise of its discretion, that they are unsuitable for parole in light of the circumstances specified by s(in re lawrence (2008) 44 cal.4th 1181, 1204.) the parole provisions are mandatory. (in re prather (2010) 50 cal.4th 238, 251 (italics added) [when exercising their discretion, the parole board and governor must consider the statutory factors concerning parole suitability set forth in section 3041 as well as section 1170.126, subdivision (g), on the other hand, provides that a delineated factors. because the discretion in connection with resentencing is less circumscribed than the discretion in connection with granting parole, a life prisoner cannot expect a sentence reduction. beyond the foregoing, we conclude that the denial of a petition for resentencing and recall is not deprivatory governmental action. it is a refusal to exercise lenity and, as such, does not trigger ramirez. despite concluding that brown does not have a due process liberty interest at stake, we do not dispute that there must be a rational nexus between his reco 6 section 1170.126, subdivision (b) requires life prisoners to file a petition for recall and resentencing within two years after the effective date of proposition 36. this is a procedural limit on when petitions can be filed. it is not a limit that impacts eligibility considerations. 14 dangerousness. requiring a rational nexus is just another way of or patently absurd. in other words, state case law provides the protection brown seeks. iv. no abuse of discretion. brown contends the trial court abused its discretion by denying his resentencing petition because the evidence was insufficient to support its factual findings. even if the evidence was sufficient, he contends the trial cournot support its legal conclusion that he currently posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. (people v. esparza (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 726, 746.) a. . the trial court found that brown had an extensive and severe criminal history that he minimized. the evidence supported these findings. from 1983 to the time he was incarcerated for the commitment offense, brown was involved in multiple drug and theft related offenses. also, he was involved in a burglary and false imprisonment in which he and his cohort entered the home of a 66-year-old woman to rob her, and the cohort sexually assaulted the woman. the trial court noted that brown told when they were robbing the home, he saw that his cohort was sexually assaulting at the preliminary hearing in that caseher up. then brown began taking things. after the assault, the victim was left tied up in a closet that was 105 degrees inside. even though brown was not convicted of sexual assault, there 15 was sufficient evidence he was involved in false imprisonment and knew about a sexual offense and then callously left the elderly victim in a hot closet where she could have died. years later, at the time of his commitment offense, he committed sexual battery.7 the preceding evidence establishes a pattern of pervasive criminal conduct over an approximate 10 to 11 year period. on appeal, brown attempts to minimize this history because it contained few acts of violence, and because his crimes were primarily motivated by theft. but since he was 17 years old, he has either been incarcerated, on parole or on probation. further, he has shown a callous disregard for the safety and dignity of others, as evidenced by his involvement in the residential burglary/residential robbery/false imprisonment by violence and the sexual battery. he has never shown he can function as a law abiding adult. next, brown suggests that the trial court improperly made a finding that he was involved in the rape during the residential burglary. the trial court made no such finding. rather, it his 7 brown suggests the trial court erred when, in its form, not substance. whiwas for possession of cocaine base for sale and did not have a sexual component, it is also true that he was initially arrested for sexual battery. it was the search incident to arrest that resulted in the drug charge. reference to the sexual battery. its statement was therefore not unsupported by the evidence as brown otherwise suggests. 16 noises coming from upstairs when they were robbing the home, he saw that his cohort was sexually assaulting the victim[,] and insisted that in other words, the trial court was concerned that brown attempted to exonerate himself by impliedly suggesting he stopped the sexual assault by insisting that he and his cohort leave. also, it was concerned that brown did not disclose to subia that he participated in tying up the victim prior to the sexual assault.8 account of the rape and residential burglary was inconsistent he preliminary hearing, and was an attempt to minimize his involvement. but broadly speaking, his statements were inconsistent because he omitted a material fact, i.e., his involvement in tying up the victim. also, that omission was a minimization. the trial court found that noting that accepting responsibility for his crimes, when given the opportunity to accept responsibility to [subia], he minimized and mitigated his involvement in the violent crime committed against a 66 year old woman in her home, which resulted in her being sexually assaulted, receiving 22 stitches to her vagina, and being this finding is based on a reasonable inference. (people v. ledbetter (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 896, 900 8 brown focuses on whether he was legally involved in the sexual assault as opposed to whether, more broadly, he was practically, knowingly and morally involved. the trial court was versus his more general involvement. 17 [the trier of fact may draw reasonable inferences from the record].) the trial court concluded that brown was minimizing his sexual battery offense based on the following evidence. he told subia he was arrested for the commitment offense because he looked like a pickpocket in the area. he denied any sexual misconduct and told subia he entered a plea to sexual assault because his attorney told him when dr. malinek was asked about the commitment crime, brown claimed that the drug and the sexual assault charges were untrue. once again, the finding is based on a reasonable inference. adverts to testimony from subia that he d attempts to deny or minimize his crimes and disciplinary history because that behavior is common from inmates during forensic interviews. tacitly, brown suggests the d and discount however, was the trier of fact, and was free to determine the (in re ernesto h. (2004) 125 cal.app.4th 298, 311, fn. 4 [the weight of the evidence is determined by the trier of fact in arriving at a decision].) also, because the trial court was able to evaluate the same historical facts as subia, it was not arbitrary for the trial court to disregard foreman & clark corp. v. fallon (1971) 3 cal.3d 875, 890 (foreman).) b. . based on the 2001 sexually explicit letter to a female correctional officer and 2008 chrono in prison, substantial 18 evidence that brown had two serious rules violations. this was evidence that brown was in re rozzo (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 40, 60.) in addition, the ethat brown attempted to minimize his violations. he told subia that he wrote the sexually explicit letter because he thought the officer liked him because she was always talking to him. according to brown, the letter. to dr. malinek, brown explained writing the letter this way: woman. that is what men these statements by brown are in the record. the only question is whether the trial court drew reasonable inferences. the answer statements, if believed, had the effect of either placing him in a better light or normalizing his conduct. in other words, they were attempts at minimizing. brown urges us to conclude the trial court placed too much emphasis on the 2008 chrono accusing him of leering at women and possibly masturbating. subia, brown tells us, found the even if that opinion, the trial court was entitled to decide what weight to give to the 2008 chrono. c. self-help programming. brown contends: [citation.] this finding violated due restated, he argues 19 findings and legal conclusions. we disagree. the only indication of self-help programming was a chrono that was reported by subia and which indicated that brown participated in self help lifers group for nine months from 2004 to 2005. the trial court found: period, [brown] has participated in no self-help programming to address his issues with exhibitionism, his issues with women, and his issues with authority. indeed, his attitude toward his criminal behavior and his misconduct in prison demonstrates that he has engaged in no self-reflection to address aspects of his personality that have contributed to his illegal and inappropriate these findings are sufficiently supported by the record. , various rvrs, warnings and chronos, and attempts to minimize his conduct support the finding that he has issues with women and authority that need addressing through self-help programming to enable him to avoid recidivist behavior. an issue with exhibitionism was supported by evidence that brown had exhibited himself in a sexual way on multiple occasions. regardless of what brown suggests, it does not matter that he was not diagnosed with an exhibitionism disorder. even if he was exhibiting himself based on anger or protest rather than a diagnosed mental disorder, it was troubling behavior nonetheless because it was offensive and showed a lack of both judgment and impulse control. using dr. malinek as a springboard, brown attacks s with 20 exhibitionism and authority. dr. malinek opined that brown did deviation which predisposes him to commit criminal sex acts. he exposed himself in prison and had episodes of boundary violating that are sexualldr. malinek ,which was related to a masturbation in prison, dr. malinek a part of an antisocial personality disorder, which has been confirmed in him at the time and not a marker of an enduring if brown was really an exhibitionist, dr. malinek concluded there was no such evidence. dr. malinek suggested s a thing of the past. tacitly, brown suggests the trial court was required to accept dr. malinek. but that is not the law. as long as the trial court did not act arbitrarily, it was free to reject dr. malinek, even if that testimony was uncontradicted. (foreman, supra, 3 cal.3d at p. 890.) to the in whole or part, it was not arbitrary because the trial court was able to evaluate the same historical facts as dr. malinek. brown indicates that according to subia, life inmates have restricted access to education and work programs until they have achieved a custody level of medium or better. we are informed by brown that he achieved this designation a few years ago. he he cannot meet. because this is just one of many factors, we see nothing kafkaesque here. moreover, because proposition 36 does not limit what a trial court can consider when deciding to deny a 21 petition, it is not an abuse of discretion for a trial court to -help programming, even if it was unavailable, if that contributed to a risk of dangerousness.9 d. postrelease plans and expectations. the trial court tyears of incarceration[, brown] has failed to pursue a skill or vocation, or even work in a marketable vocation. while [brown] claims he wants to work if released, and this is a key component 9 the trial court stated brown had not engaged in mental healdr. as eligible for mental health treatment in prison approximately ten years ago. he was apparently placed on an antidepressant and mood stabilizing medications . . . , but has not been seen as needing psychiatric care for many years. the diagnostic impressions in the medical records referenced intermittent exposure, mood disorder not otherwise specified, cocaine dependence, bipolar disorder, antisocial personality disorder and personality disorder not otherwise specified. most recent entries indicate that he has denied any pschiatric issues and was not seen as meeting diagnostic criteria for any psychiatric brown complains that he should not be faulted for not engaging in a mental health program when he has not been diagnosed with a mental illness. even if he is correct, and even if the trial court misunderstood the evidence on this one issue, -help programming. 22 of his transition plan, he also claims to be physically unable to physically unable to work is unsupported by the record because he had a hernia in 1999 but was cleared for full work duty in 2011 after hernia surgery. but it was neither arbitrary, capricious nor patently absurd for the trial court to rely on a franklin v. appel (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 875, 893, fn. outside the record, they are reliablposition on the facts as well as the law, and a reviewing court may make use of statements therein as admissions against the according to the trial court, brown lacked adequate transition plans. the trial court cited subia and dr. malinek as transitional program, and placed great weight on his acceptance dr. malinek, testified it was important for brown to be the subject of tight monitoring and rehabilitative efforts to decrease his risk of future violence, the trial court perceived that brown transition program and monitoring.the trial court stated: [brown] fails to acknowledge amity foundation as his transition plan in his letters to the court. indeed, even his family, who offered to give [him] a place to live and help support him did not in his reply brief not [t]o place him on post release community supervision this prompted the trial court 23 supervision or transitional services demonstrates that he has failed to address the causative factors of his criminal behavior and misconduct. [his] unrealistic views of his transition into free society should he be released further demonstrate that he currently poses an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety, specifically in light of his lack of self-help programming, claimed disability preventing him from working, and inadequate brown claims the trial court erred in its interpretation of nces, however, are reasonable. the fact that brown and his family members omitted references to amity foundation support an inference that they did not understand its importance, which supported the subordinate inference that they failed to appreciate what it would take for brown to be a law abiding citizen. this inference was should not be placed on post release community supervision. ight monitoring and indicated brown was not being realistic about his needs and responsibilities upon release. e. . criminal and disciplinary history do not, by themselves, establish dangerousness. the trial court recognized as much, correctly explaining that they must be examined in light of other facts in the record. (in re lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1221 [discussing the determination of dangerousness in the context of parole decisions]; people v. esparza, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at p. and disciplinary history in context. 24 an adequate post-release plan, his criminal history, while remote, remains it also determined that failure to accept responsibility for his actions, and his continued minimization of his inappropriate sexual conduct all cause the misconduct, paired with his failure to engage in meaningful programming and develop an adequate transition plan, does demonstrate that [he] continues to pose an unreasonable risk of dathe trial court acknowledged that to demonstrate that he does not currently pose an unreasonable risk of dangerousness. but the trial court concluded that these otherwise. the way the trial court perceived the record, brown contributed to his criminal lifestyle, his commitment offense, or his misconduct in prison. the factors in [his] favor are greatly outweighed by other factors which demonstrate he is an unreasonable risk of dang we must concur. the trial court carefully and methodically reviewed the evidence. cumulatively, the evidence permitted the 25 disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ______________________, j. hoffstadt _____________________, j.* goodman * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 