filed 4/10/18 p. v. pickens ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. demetrius pernell pickens, defendant and appellant. b278762 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na101082) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jesus i. rodriguez, judge. affirmed. thomas k. macomber, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant, demetrius pernell pickens, of one count of assault with a firearm on b.w. (pen. code,1  245, subd. (a)(2), one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)), and one count of resisting an executive officer, nathan dunn (officer dunn) ( 69). the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury in the course of resisting an executive officer ( 12022.7, subd. (a) (section 12022.7)). defendant waived his right to a jury trial on the prior conviction allegations. the trial court found true the allegations that defendant had suffered two prior strike convictions ( 667, subds. (b) - (i), 1170.12), one of which was also a serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the court also found true the allegation that defendant had served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the court sentenced defendant to a total of 55 years to life in prison, consisting of a term of 25 years to life for the assault conviction, pursuant to the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12), a five year enhancement term pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and a 25 years to life term for the resisting conviction, also pursuant to the three strikes law. defendant contends there was insufficient evidence to injury on officer dunn, and the trial court incorrectly instructed the jury on the m in responding to defendant also requests that we independently review the sealed transcript of 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the pitchess2 hearing. respondent does not object to our doing so. we conclude there was substantial evidence to support the serious injury on officer dunn, and the trial court correctly instructed the jury on the personal infliction element of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). we also conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling that there were no discoverable pitchess records. we affirm the judgment of conviction. factual summary on january 14, 2015, at about 1:00 p.m., b.w. was sitting on the front porch of his house on east 17th street in long beach, when defendant walked up the steps to the porch and told him to go inside the house. when b.w. did not immediately comply, defendant removed a gun from his backpack, pointed it at b.w., and told him to go inside. when b.w. again did not comply, defendant pressed the bartemple. b.w. went inside, locked the door, and called 911. neighbor also called 911. residents of the area spotted defendant running toward pacific coast highway (pch). long beach fire department captain robert cheng and his partner, long beach police department (lbpd) detective dennis zigrang, drove to the area, and ultimately saw defendant enter the back of a thrift store and exit the store onto pch. they pursued him, as did lbpd officer mary covarubias. officer dunn, who was in uniform and driving a marked patrol car at the time, responded to a radio call describing a man 2 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 4 with a gun on pch. he saw defendant running in the westbound lanes of pch. other officers were following defendant. officer dunn exited his patrol car and pointed his gun at defendant, who was running toward the officer. officer dunn ordered defendant to stop, but defendant did not comply. when defendant was about 20 feet away, officer dunn put his gun in his holster, but kept his hand on the gun. as defendant attempted to run around officer dunn, officer dunn gave defendant a shove with his left hand, hoping to push him to the ground. defendant stumbled forward. officer dunn followed defendant and caught up to him. office dunn put his left hand t-shirt and clenched the back of [the] t-shirt to grab [defendant] officer dunn explained that hen i caught up to him and grabbed his shirt, i did kind of a [somer]sault over him, defendant did not stop resisting once he was on the ground. although officer dunn testified that it was hard for him to remember, officer dunn stated, ground, doing kind of a [somer]sault. i remember not letting go of his shirt, just hanging onto that shirt. i remember being on the ground and him trying to get up again and me being in a really awkward position on the ground, trying to get to my feet with one arm and pulling him back to the ground. officer dunn was endant with his left arm. officer dunn then was able to pull defendant back to the ground. defendant was still not compliant. officer dunn was using his weight to press defendant onto the ground. defendant 5 continued to struggle. other officers arrived, and one of the officers told officer dunn meaning hand. officer dunn pulled defendath officer dunn did not remember whether defendant continued to resist while being handcuffed. officer covarubias, who had arrived to assist officer dunn, and who was one of the officers who piled onto defendant in an attempt to subdue him, remembered defendant resisting. she of still, and you can put the handcuffs on. i remember that constant movement. like this guy is not going to let us handcuff him stabilized so covarubias noted that it took herself, officer dunn, and at least one other officer to subdue the defendant on the ground. by the time of trial, officer dunn had a limited recollection of how he sustained his shoulder injury. he testifiedi did the [somer]sault, i felt my shoulder. and i rememberholding onto the shirt because it felt like my hand was working great. my shoulder was not. it was kind of like a rope. i was just holding on with my hand. i knew my shoulder was hurt. as soon as i got up from all of this, i knew my shoulder was hurt. his shoulder hurt and continued to hurt thereafter. officer dunn explained that in the weeks that followed, officer dunn also testified about his injuries: (1) a torn rotator cuff; (2) a torn labium; and (3) torn cartilage. officer 6 described the three injuries as a full thickness tear in his left shoulder labrum, a partial tear of his left shoulder tendon, and damaged cartilage that had to be surgically removed. the parties stipulated to the description of these injuries by officer dunn underwent two surgeries to repair his shoulder injuries. by the time of trial, he was still in pain and had only about 70 percent capacity in his left arm. discussion i. substantial evidence shows defendant directly contributed to defendant contends the true finding on the section 12022.7 enhancement must be reversed because as a matter of law, defendant did not personally inflict great bodily injury on officer dunn. instead, officer dunn injured himself when he somersaulted over defendant in their initial encounter. we disagree. there was substantial evidence to support an inference that defendant personally inflicted serious injury on officer dunn when defendant physically struggled on the ground with officer dunn, who was trying to subdue and handcuff the then noncompliant defendant. in reviewing the sufficiency of the evjudgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the people v. cuevas (1995) 12 cal.4th 252, 260.) 7 section 12022.7, subdivision (a) provides an enhancement term for person who personally inflicts great bodily injury on any person other than an accomplice in the commission of a this section applies only to injury to the vict (people v. cole (1982) 31 cal.3d 568, 579 (cole)merely aids, abets, or directs another to inflict the physical injury is not subject to the enhanced penalty of id. at p. 571.) cole distinct meaning and that its use in a statute signifies a legislative intent to punish only the actor who directly inflicts an people v. rodriguez (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 341, 348-349 (rodriguez).) cause injury without personally inflicting that injury. for instance, as noted in cole, an aider and abettor of a crime can commit a direct actaffirmatively blocking a victims exitwhich proximately causes injury, but does not constitute personal infliction of an injury. (cole, supra(rodriguez, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 349.) cole precludes a person from receiving enhanced sentencing treatment where he joins others in actually beating and harming the victim, and where the precise manner in whs injuries cannot be people v. modiri (2006) 39 cal.4th 481, 495.) similarly, when the injury is inflicted during a struggle between the defendant defendant of responsibility for personally inflicting injury on the victim. (people v. elder (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 411, 421.) even 8 accidental injuries suffice for purposes of section 12022.7, which was amended in 1995 to delete the requirement that the defendant act with the intent to inflict the injury. (id. at p. 420.) officer dunn sustained three major injuries to his left shoulder. defendant argues officer all the injuries to his left shoulder occurred when the officer somersaulted over him and there was no evidence that any injury occurred thereafter. [somer]sault, i this testimony demonstrates officer dunn sustained some injury somersaulting over defendant, but not the extent of that injury. we view the evidence in the light most ircumstantial evidence supports the inference that injuries were exacerbated during his subsequent physical struggle with defendant. officer dunn described his shoulder as not working great and feeling like a rope when he was first on the ground struggling to keep defendant down. he did not describe being in pain at that time. when he finally stood up after defendant was handcuffed, officer dunn indicated that his shoulder hurt. officer dunn explained that after the encounter had enough based on the evidence, the jury could have found that defendant from the ground pulled on officer , which the officer was . defendant then resisted being handcuffed. officer dunn was forced to pull in order to handcuff defendant, a two-handed maneuver during which 9 most likely would have put 3 the defendant of responsibility. (people v. elder, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at p. 421.) in sum, there was evidence that defendant struggled with, and resisted officer dunn after both men were on the ground; and shoulder; and officer dunnshoulder injury became more painful and serious over the course of his struggle with defendant. a reasonable trier of fact could infer from this evidence that as set forth above, section 12022.7 does not require that a that a defendant contribution to a victims injuries be quantifiable. (people v. modiri, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 495.) these facts and inferences constitute substantial evidence to great bodily injury on officer dunn. defendant relies on cole, supra, rodriguez, supra and people v. valenzuela (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 316 to argue that the evidence was not substantial. none of these cases is apposite. in cole, defendant verbally directed the attack on the the victim. (cole, supra, 31 cal.3d at p. 571.) in rodriguez, a police officer tackled a fleeing defendant, and fell and hit his head 3 officer on that his shoulder had to be immobilized in a sling once defendant was subdued. 10 on the sidewalk or a lamppost. (rodriguez, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 346.) struggle or initiate any contact with the officer during the . . . incident. (id. at p. 352.) in valenzuela, the issue was whether there was substantial reckless driving causing great bodily injury was a serious felony for purposes of doubling his sentence. defendant admitted in his plea that he drove recklessly and proximately caused great bodily injury to the victims. noting the paucity of the record on how the accident happened, the appellate court alone was insufficient evidence: proximately caused great bodily injury to another person does not establish that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury to (people v. valenzuela, supra, 191 cal.app.4th at p. 321.) given the limited factual record before it, the valenzuela court was not able to determine whether the defendant.4 here, defendant physically struggled with officer dunn. this is in contrast to colewhere the defendant merely blocked the facts adduced at trial here differ markedly from those in rodriguezhere there was no evidence that defendant initiated any physical 4 while the bare facts of his plea establish that defendants reckless driving was a volitional act, we are still left to speculate on the precise cause of the victims injuries. . . . [] . . . without additional facts regarding the crime, there is insufficient eviden conviction was for a serious fel (people v. valenzuela, supra, 191 cal.app.4th at pp. 322-323.) 11 contact with the officer. finally, unlike in valenzuela, the record here was well developed in the jury trial. these cases simply do not support a reversal here for insufficient evidence. ii. instruction on personal infliction was correct and not misleading during deliberations, the jury sent a note to the trial court that code [section] after consulting the parties, the trial court gave the following instruction: performs an act or acts that cause the physical injury. to prove personal infliction, the people need not prove that the defendant intended to cause the great bodily injury but only that the great bodily injury was personally inflicted as a result of the both in the trial court and on appeal, defendant contends the trial courtimproperly to equate proximate cause with personal infliction. we review the correctness of jury instructions de novo. (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569-570.) as defendant acknowledges, the first sentence of the above instruction uses language that is virtually identical to the language in cole, supra, 31 cal.3d enacting section 12022.7, the legislature intended the the enhancement to those who directly perform the act that causes the physical injury to the victimcole, supra, 31 cal.3d at p. 579 [emphasis added].) the trial emental instruction adequately conveyed the principle that defendant had to have directly caused 12 assuming ambiguous, we independently review whether there is a challenged instructions people v. olivas (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 758, 772-773; see people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 963.) defendant contends the instruction might have caused the jury to believe that defendant personally inflicted injury merely because over him. the pro clear that the people were basing the section 12022.7 enhancement solely on acts that occurred during the struggle between the two men on the ground after the tackle. (see people v. avena (1996) 13 cal.4th 394final argument as factor in determining whether jury might have misapplied ambiguous instruction].) under these circumstances, there was no reasonable likelihood that the jury understood the instruction in the manner posited by defendant. iii. pitchess hearing defendant requests that we independently review the sealed transcript of the in camera hearing on his pitchess motion for discovery of peace officer personnel records. respondent does not object to this request. pitchess motion sought seven categories of complaints against five of the lbpd officers involved in his arrest. the trial court gin part, finding good cause for discovery of complaints of excessive force complaints of perjury, or any arrests 13 for perjury or accusation of perjury against officer kosoy.5 on december 11, 2015, the court conducted an in camera review of the trial court did not disclose any records to the defense. when requested to do so by a defendant, we independently pitchess hearing to determine whether the trial court disclosed all relevant complaints. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1229.) we have reviewed the transcript of the in camera hearing and conclude that the trial court followed the proper procedures and further conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining that there were no relevant records to disclose to defendant. (see people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330 5 officer mark kosoy wrote the police report concerning officers. he did not testify at trial. 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j.* we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 