filed 5/25/18 p. v. maskovian ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hachik maskovian et al., defendants and appellants. b278097 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa076771) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, ronald s. coen, judge. affirmed. jennifer l. peabody, under appointment by court of appeal, for defendant and appellant hachik maskovian. lyna a. romero, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant hovanes maskovian. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 maskovian1 appeal from their convictions by separate juries for the attempted kidnapping and first degree murder with special affirm the judgments. factual background2 1. prosecution case a. events preceding the homicide defendants are brothers. a mutual friend described them eventually moved in together. kriss often spent time with john in 2009, john and west each purchased life insurance policies from state farm agent jodie boytos with the other $3.5 were consolidated for payment purposes such that one payment covered both premiums. the monthly payment was approximately $534. john and west broke up just after thanksgiving 2012. 1 because both defendants share a last name, for clarity we krisstrial. 2 this summary is limited to the evidence we deem relevant to the issues on appeal, and does not encompass all the evidence presented at trial. because defendants were tried in a single proceeding with separate juries, we specify when evidence was presented to only one jury. 3 er, although west and elmore had plans to move elsewhere. west told elmore that he was unhappy in the relationship with john because it was sexually unsatisfying and he did not like supporting john financially. he told both his father and elmore that john was still his life insurance beneficiary and he needed to change that. west had no plans to reunite with john, and was actively dating other people in 2013. on april 22, 2013, two days before he was killed, west told elmore that his cell phone was broken, and he was going to get a new phone from kriss. kriss, who repossessed cars for a living, sometimes had cell phones retained from those repossessions that he provided to west and john. on april 23, 2013, john called his state farm insurance agent veronica costa and said he had received a cancellation notice for the life insurance policies and wanted to make sure they were still in place. although john frequently called costa to pay his insurance premiums by credit card, and in the past had expressed concern about his automobile policies lapsing when he time he had asked her about the life insurance policies lapsing. the next morning, april 24, costa confirmed with the regional office that both policies were in place and informed john. b. the homicide on april 24, 2013, around 9:30 p.m., 14-year-old adriana s. was in her room in her second floor apartment on vinedale street in sun valley. kriss lived in the same apartment complex with his parents. adriana heard a car pull up. she looked out her window and saw a man standing next to a white car talking on his phone. she turned away from the window, but 4 returned later when she heard talking. a tow truck was now addition to the first one she had seen. they were talking but she could not hear what they were saying. they were talking in normal voices and did not appear to be arguing. adriana s. again stepped away from the window. a minute later, she heard someone screaming for help. she looked out the window and saw two of the men beating the first man she had seen. although adriana could not identify the men, other evidence indicated the attackers were defendants, and the victim was west. defendants were hitting west with their fists and a er doorway of the tow truck and slammed his head with the door. adriana told trial, however, adriana said it never appeared to her that the assailants were trying to put the victim in the truck, or that any head was in the truck. during the attack, the fourth man, identified by other the s. testified that the truck door would have blocked the view of the passing cars. adriana s. saw a woman in a black car slow down and yell at the assailants to stop. bayamdzhyan told her to keep moving. during this time, west got away from his attackers. he tried to get the attention of the woman in the black car. defendants got in the white car and drove after west, hitting him with the car from behind. the white car stopped and the person in the 5 passenger seat opened the door and grabbed the victim. at this point, adriana adriana heard several gunshots. adriana west with their fists and the truck door while a third man waved traffic by. saw the white car strike west, although he testified that only one of the attackers was in the car at the time. both her mother and father heard gunshots after they had turned away from the window. the woman in the black car, cheryl litchfield, testified that she was driving on vinedale when she saw a white tow truck parked diagonally with its front facing out into the street such that other cars had to go around it. a white mercedes was parked very close to the tow truck. the passenger door of the truck was open such that it almost touched the mercedes and blocked her view of whatever was happening behind it. as litchfield passed, she looked under the truck and noticed three pairs of feet. the two feet in the middle were stumbling. in her statement to the police, litchfield said it appeared that the person in the middle was being moved towards the truck. bayamtruck, rolled down the window and motioned her to keep moving. he told her everything was fine and they were just helping with a broken car. litchfield rolled her car forward past the truck and saw defendants beating west. one was hitting him with a crowbar, but told him she was calling the police. the white mercedes 6 drove past her and turned around, blocking her car. west had fallen to the ground, although litchfield did not see the white car hit him. litchfield heard gunshots and saw a muzzle flash. the mercedes drove back past her towards the tow truck. litchfield drove off. on cross-examination, litchfield said she never saw anyone try to put west in any of the vehicles. mile from the site of the attack. it appeared to have been discarded hurriedly. the medical examiner testified that west had suffered blunt and sharp trauma (the latter indicating injury from a sharp object), a fractured fibula and tibia, and had been shot in the chest from a distance between a few inches and three feet. west had also been bitten; a dentist confirmed the bite was human. the gunshot was fatal; the other wounds by themselves were not fatal. c. john was detained by police and interviewed on april 26, 2013. when the police told john that west had been murdered, ce told him witnesses had identified him and his car at the crime scene and that there was video of him at the location. the remainder of the interview was recorded and presented said he and west had met with kriss to get a new cell phone. kriss and west chatted, and suddenly kriss started hitting west. another man was there as well; he and kriss tried to put west in the tow truck as john tried to stop them. west broke away and ran. john got into his car. the car had a spare tire and john 7 could not control it. he hit west by mistake. john heard asked john if there had been a life insurance policy for west. john said no, and kriss accused him of lying. the police at that time considered john a witness, not a suspect, and let him go. kriss was arrested on april 27, 2013. kriss denied being present at the murder. the police interviewed john again on april 29, 2013. the recoapartment so that kriss could provide a phone. john began to cry while describing the meeting and the police stopped the interview. jonownes-whitaker and kimbra mcneal, who spoke with him after west was killed. john separately told both of them that he and west met with kriss so kriss could provide a new phone. kriss attacked and beat west, then shot him. later, john told mcneal that kriss had forced him to bring west over because kriss wanted the insurance. mcneal stated that john had changed his story to her several times; this was the third version. ony from elmore that when thing [john] could think of was that kriss was able to get d. a counts was in his apartment with him on may policy. counts suggested he focus on mourning west rather than looking for the policy, but john did not acknowledge her. he said 8 he had no money to pay his bills, and wanted to make sure he was stil also on may 1, john called state farm agent costa and made a credit card payment on the phone for the life insurance policies. after doing so, he cried and informed her that west had died. e. john and the police. in the first, dated june 14, 2013, john was interviewed on video at the crime scene on vinedale. john again said that the reason he and west went there was to get a cell nazohitting west as john tried to stop them. kriss tried to drag west inside the truck. west broke away and ran. john got in his car and floored west fell. john drove away. he heard gunshots. july 12, 2013. john said he had not seen kriss shoot west and that it was nazo who hit west with a tire iron. john said kriss had never discussed a life insurance policy with him. john was arrested on july 25, 2013. a search of his apartment revealed numerous unpaid bills. phone records indicated calls from collection agencies. f. evidence of prior insurance fraud before trial, the prosecution moved to introduce evidence of two prior insurance claims by john, one for damage to a home at sunset plaza drive in los angeles in 2010, and one for personal injuries from an automobile accident in 2011. the prosecution argued this evidence was admissible to prove intent, motive, and knowledge as to the charged murder, which the prosecution 9 the court ruled that evidence of the 2010 home insurance claim was admissible to show intent and motive, but disallowed it to prove knowledge. the court excluded the evidence of the 2011 auto insurance claim under evidence code section 352.3 the prosecution also sought to introduce evidence lease arrangement for the sunset plaza drive concerning the home that the owner purportedly was not involved in. the court found the evidence relevant and admissible. based on these rulings, the prosecution introduced the following evidence at trial. in 2006, wen jie huang started working as a real estate agent for a woman named jasmine. huang wanted to purchase an investment property, and jasmine helped him find one on sunset plaza drive in the hollywood hills. the house cost $1.5 million, and while huang had sufficient credit to obtain the loan, he did not have enough income to afford the monthly payment. jasmine said he could john as such an investor. huang and john entered into an oral agreement whereby john would rent the house for $10,000 per month. john was to deposit the money into a bank account jointly owned by huang and john. the monthly mortgage payment would then be 3 the court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. 10 deducted from the joint account. john made an initial deposit of $10,000, but never made any further deposits. huang found out in march or april 2007 that the account was frozen because of a negative balance; when he contacted john, john claimed he had deposited money and the bank had made a mistake. when the loan went into default, john said he could borrow money to pay the default and would work to repair huangnot do so. during this entire period, john and west were living in the house with at least two friends, none of whom paid huang any rent (although at least one friend paid john rent). other than the initial $10,000, huang never received any money from john. in january 2008, john said he had an idea to help huang sell the house. he found a real estate agent and asked huang to transfer title to her, which huang did via a grant deed. at the same time, john had huang sign a blank grant deed, claiming that if there were any problems with the deed transferring title to the real estate agent the blank deed could be used to make to the blank deed and kriss signed it. however, the house deeds; another deed signed by a maggie williams, of which huang was unaware, ultimately transferred title back to him in april 2008. the record does not establish the purpose of these transfers or their effect, if any. in may 2008, john purchased a home insurance policy for the sunset plaza drive house from state farm agent boytos (who was his business partner. boytos never met huang. at some 11 point, johof insurance when he bought the house in 2006, but had not bought additional insurance after it lapsed. in may 2010, huang asked john to make the house available to show to prospective purchasers. john refused, uck his friend nownes-whitaker call huang to stall him by claiming john had found a potential buyer. up until that point, nownes-whitaker had believed john was the owner of the house. also in may 2010, john called boytos and asked that huang be removed from the home insurance policy, leaving john as the sole insured. john explained that huang no longer had title to the home. huang, still not aware the insurance had been purchased in the first place, was also not aware of this change. a day or two later, state farm received a claim from john for water damage to the home stemming from one of the toilets. the damage was extensive, rendering the home unlivable. state farm investigated and found no fraud. state restoration, inc., a restoration contractor, estimated the repairs would cost $133,963.40. john received checks from state farm that he endorsed and signed over to state restoration for the repairs. john later decided not to have state restoration do the work and the contractor returned the money in a check payable to john. on july 12, 2010, kriss added john as a joint owner of his credit union account. that same day, there was a deposit of $129,280.92 into the account. over a six-month period, all but $6,000 was withdrawn. nownes-whitaker testified that more than a year later john and west told her they had deliberately broken some pipes 12 in the house to create the flood, and a portion of the insurance that was a the prosecution also introduced evidence that john declared bankruptcy on june 23, 2010, and west declared bankruptcy on august 18, 2010. 2. defense case kriss testified that john had called him about getting a apartment on april 24, 2013. john and west were already there when kriss and bayamdzhyan arrived. kriss left his truck running. although there was one street light closer to the apartment building, the area they were standing in was darker. kriss showed west several phones, and west became angry because kriss did not have a particular model john had said kriss would have. bayamdzhyan told west to calm down, and west responded with an anti-armenian slur. west and bayamdzhyan exchanged further insults while kriss attempted to intervene. then west swore at kriss, who began punching west. bayamdzhyan joined the attack wielding a jack handle. someone else did as well, although it was unclear if it was john or bayamdzhyan. at some point, bayamdzhyan went around the truck to direct traffic while kriss and west struggled. kriss never saw john hit west. west escaped and ran. kriss told john they had to get driving. the car had a spare tire equipped. when john pressed the accelerator, the car spun on the gravel and hit west. john kept driving. kriss told him to go back so they could take west to 13 the hospital. kriss heard gunshots. john turned the car around and drove back, and kriss saw west lying on the ground. kriss and bayamdzhyan put west into the truck and drove off. kriss said he knew his brother had a life insurance policy, but did not know west had one. he remembered in the past that t they never specified life insurance. as to the sunset plaza drive house, kriss testified that he signed the grant deed because john and west told him it would boost his credit. he added john to his bank account following the flood and allowed john to deposit the insurance money there because john was in bankruptcy proceedings and did not want the money taken from him. kriss denied having anything to do with the flood or knowing that it was faked. the he also cosigned the lease with west. john did not testify. procedure defendants were charged in an information with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)) and attempted kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a), 664). as to the murder, the information alleged three special circumstances that, if found true, would subject defendants to the death penalty or life imprisonment without the possibility of parole under section 190.2, specifically: the murder was committed during an attempted kidnapping ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)); the murder was carried out for financial gain (id., subd. (a)(1)); and defendants intentionally killed the victim by means of lying in wait (id., subd. (a)(15)). as to kriss, the information alleged firearms enhancements under section 12022.53. 14 defendants were tried in a single proceeding with separate under penal code section 1118.1 for a judgment of acquittal on all counts and special circumstances. the court denied the motion. both defendants were found guilty of first degree murder and attempted kidnapping, with all three special circumstances found true. the firearms allegations were found not true. for the murder, defendants were sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. for the attempted kidnapping, they were sentenced to two years six months, which the court stayed under penal code section 654. the court imposed fines and awarded credits. defendants timely appealed. discussion defendants (1) challenge the sufficiency of the evidence supporting their convictions, (2) argue the trial court erroneously instructed the juries on special circumstances and accomplice testimony, and (3) claim the court improperly admitted evidence we discuss these arguments in turn. 1. sufficiency of the evidence defendants argue the evidence was insufficient to support their convictions for attempted kidnapping and first degree murder and the true findings on the special circumstances. we disagree. in considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, 15 evidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66; see people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 57 (brooks) [standard of review for determining sufficiency of evidence is identical for convictions and special circumstances].) if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of facts findings, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60 (albillar(people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) a. attempted kidnapping defendants claim the evidence presented by the prosecution was insufficient to support their convictions for attempted kidnapping and the true findings on the special circumstance based on attempted kidnapping. thus, defendants argue, the court erred in not granting their motion for a judgment of acquittal on those allegations. we disagree. when ruling on a motion under penal code section 1118.1, a trial court applies the same sufficiency-of-evidence standard applied by appellate courts in reviewing convictions. on appeal from a denial of such a motion, we independently review the sufficiency of the evidence at the point the motion was made. (people v. maciel (2013) 57 cal.4th 482, 522.) penal code section 207, subdivision (a) very person who forcibly, or by any other means of instilling fear, 16 steals or takes, or holds, detains, or arrests any person in this state, and carries the person into another country, state, or county, or into another part of the same county, is guilty of kidnapping. an attempt to commit a crime consists of . . . a specific intent to commit the crime, and a direct but ineffectual act done toward its commission. (people v. johnson (2013) 57 cal.4th 250, 258, quoting pen. code,  21a.) unlike a completed kidnapping, attempted kidnapping does not require proof that the victim was actually moved. (people v. cole (1985) 165 cal.app.3d attempted kidnapping.].) courts have found the requisite intent people v. fields (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 954, 956-957 (fields) [evidence of attempted kidnapping sufficient when the defendant seized girl and ordered her into his car with the motor running]; see people v. loignon (1958) 160 cal.app.2d 412, 421 (loignon) [evidence of attempted kidnapping sufficient when the defendant pulled child into his car, quieted him, and started the motor].) here, the evidence was similar to that in fields and loignon. multiple witnesses testified that defendants pulled west towards the truck door. the juries heard witness adriana were trying to put west into the truck, and not simply position him to slam his head with the door. witnesses noted the truck was parked at an odd angle sticking out into the street, 17 suggesting kriss had positioned it so he could depart quickly.4 this was sufficient to support a conclusion that defendants intended but failed to kidnap west. tried to drag west into the truck. although john denied any involvement, the jury was free to reject that aspect of his testimony while otherwise accepting his description of the attack. (people v. fuiava properly may reject part of the testimony of a witness . . . and combine the accepted portions with bits of testimony or inferences from the testimony of other witnesses thus weaving a defendants point out that at trial adriana s. testified that it never appeared to her that any part of west was within the truck other than his head being hit with the door. but adriana did not deny that her statement to the police was accurate, and the jurors were entitled to accept her earlier statement as more credible than her testimony several years later.5 4 kriss testified that he left the motor running, but this fact was not before the trial court at the time of the motion for a judgment of acquittal. 5 in adriana part at trial, she drew a diagram of what she saw and indicated body was, likein the beginning half his body was inside and like his legs were like dangling out. and then by then they got to a beating him 18 the court did not err in denying the motion for a judgment of acquittal on the attempted kidnapping charge and special circumstance.6 b. first degree murder the juries were instructed on three theories that would support a finding of first degree murder: a willful, deliberate, and premeditated killing with malice aforethought; a murder committed by lying in wait; and an unlawful killing during the commission of an attempted kidnapping. defendants argue the evidence was insufficient to support any of these theories. we reject this argument. i. premeditation a willful, deliberate, and premeditated killing is murder in the first degree. deliberation refers to careful weighing of considerations in forming a course of action; premeditation means thought over in advance. brooks, immediately after the statement was read at trial, adriana himpull him up so that he couldthey could hit him with the at accurate, though, 6 as to the special circumstance, it is unclear if the juries found that one or both defendants actually killed west or aided and abetted the murder. assuming the latter, to find the attempted-kidnapping special circumstance true the juries would defendants do not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence in support of this element. regardless, their indifference was well established by the brutality of the attack. 19 supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 58a killing was deliberate and premeditated: (1) evidence of s prior relationship to the victim from which a motive to kill can be inferred; and (3) evidence of the manner of killing suggesting a preconceived design. (id. at pp. 58-59.) these categories are whether the evidence is supportive of an inference that the killing was the result of preexisting reflection and weighing of considerations id. at p. 59.) here, there was evidence in all three categories. to begin relationship with west, namely the fact that john was the circumstance in jeopardy now that john and west had broken up. while kriss argues there was no evidence that he knew of the policy or that his brother was the beneficiary, there was evidence of the close relationship between defendants, the comingling of their finances at various points in their lives, and testimony that defendants had previously cooperated in staging a flood with the intent and motive of collecting insurance proceeds (after which kriss allowed john to deposit the proceeds in his bank account to conceal it from the bankruptcy court). based on this evidence, the jury could fairly infer that kriss did not spontaneously join john in attacking west, but did so because he knew of the insurance policy. there was also evidence of planning. in advance of the insurance was in place. the evidence showed that despite john and west having 20 broken up months earlier, and john having unpaid bills and calls from collection agencies, john was continuing to pay the murder john called his insurance agent to confirm the policy was still valid, something the agent did not recall john ever having done before. the agent assured john the policy was valid the morning mediately before the killing belies the notion that the attack on west was impulsive and unplanned, and further supports the inference that the insurance was the motive behind the attack. the circumstances of the killing also suggest a preconceived design even if, as defendants argue, there was no direct evidence that defendants communicated about the killing beforehand. defendants arranged a meeting at night with west parked at an angle close to the mercedes such that any activity was concealed from the street. although the meeting ostensibly was to provide a cell phone to west, at least one of the assailants brought a gun. the evidence also showed that both defendants and bayamdzhyan joined in the attack, with bayamdzhyan stepping away from time to time to wave traffic by and further conceal the attack. jurors could reasonably infer from this that defendants and bayamdzhyan had arranged in advance to attack west in a manner that would minimize risk of discovery, rather than attacking him spontaneously during an otherwise innocent meeting. testimony, from which the jurors arguably could infer a killing induced by sudden rage rather than a premeditated murder. kriss also points out that there are possible innocent 21 explanations for, among other things, the choice of meeting location and the manner in which the car and truck were parked. esimply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding(albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60.) ii. lying in wait . . . lying in wait . . .  189.) defendants contend that the evidence was insufficient to support first degree murder under a theory of lying in wait, nor did it support a true finding on the lying-in-wait special circumstance. more stringent requirements. [citation.] if, as we find, the evidence supports the special circumstance, it necessarily people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1073 (mendoza).) the lying-in-wait special circumstance requires an intentional murder, committed under circumstances which include (1) a concealment of purpose, (2) a substantial period of watching and waiting for an opportune time to act, and (3) immediately thereafter, a surprise attack on an unsuspecting victim from a position of advantage. . . . (mendoza, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1073.) the first element does not require that the defendant literally be concealed from (mendoza, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. a defendant acts insidiously from those in which he acts out of 22 ibid.) even a few minutes can suffice so long as ibid.the supports a finding that a killing was accomplished by lying in wait. (people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1310.) the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment, was suevidence showed that west met with defendants because he was told kriss would provide him with a new phone. given the circumstances of the meeting and the attack that followed, the juries could reasonably conclude this was a pretext. the meeting, which was arranged by defendants, was scheduled for late in the evening in a dark area of the street. defendants parked their cars such that their activities were concealed from the street. kriss brought a third compatriot, bayamdzhyan; three attackers against a single unaware victim in a dark, concealed area certainly constituted a position of advantage. there was also evidence of watching and waiting; witness adriana s. testified she first heard the group talking in normal voices, with no indication of argument; this supports an inference that defendants chose their moment to launch their attack and weighs exchange of insults. the juries could also reasonably conclude defendants had the intent to kill. as discussed above, there was evidence the could only realize the benefits of that policy if they killed west. moreover, the brutality of the attack, which included repeatedly 23 iron, and running him down with a car, evidenced an intent to kill regardless of who ultimately shot him. [ed] an unsuspecting victim into a situation of vulnerability and attack[ed] him by surprise. rather, this entire incident occurred own parent these arguments ignore the evidence that the attack took place at night, in an area kriss himself described as dark, behind cars positioned such that passing motorists could not easily see what was happening. the juries could reasonably conclude that these circumstances were inconsistent with a friendly meeting to provide a cell phone, and the attack that followed was a planned ambush in a concealed area. the evidence was sufficient to support both a first degree murder conviction based on lying in wait and a lying-in-wait special circumstance. iii. attempted kidnapping . . . which is committed in the perpetration of, or attempt to perpetrate . . . kidnapping . . . is murder of the first  189.) as discussed, the evidence was sufficient to support the conviction for attempted kidnapping. therefore, it was also sufficient to support a first degree murder conviction based on that theory. 24 c. special circumstances as discussed above, the evidence was sufficient to support the special circumstances of lying in wait and attempted kidnapping. it was also sufficient to support the special circumstance based on financial gain. a defendant convicted of first degree murder may be sentenced to life without th prerequisite to, [citation.] obtaining life insurance benefits falls within this description, because the death of the insured is an essential people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 519.) as discussed above, there was sufficient evidence defendants murdered west to collect his life insurance proceeds: john prioritized premium payments over other unpaid bills even though he and west had broken up, and john confirmed the validity of the policy the day before the murder, something he had never done before. there was also evidence that after the murder john was focused on finding the insurance policy rather than grieving, and in fact paid the premium immediately before breaking down in tears and telling his insurance agent that west had died. finally, the juries heard evidence that defendants had previously cooperated in unlawful acts (the house flood) with the intent and motive of collecting insurance money, supporting an inference thareason. 25 kriss again argues there was no evidence that he was relationship and past history, including cooperating in insurance fraud,7 it was a fair inference that kriss joined in the killing because john had told him about the policy. although kriss offers other possible motives for the killing, such as the anti-armenian slur, the juries were entitled to draw their own conclusions based on the evidence. this evidence also supports the conclusion that defendants acquire the insurance proceeds. 2. jury instructions a. special circumstances defendants argue that the jury instructions were erroneous because they permitted the juries to find the financial gain and lying-in-wait special circumstances true even if defendants did not have an intent to kill. but even assuming the instruction was in error, n erroneous instruction on the intent to kill element of a special circumstance . . . does not require reversal if a reviewing court concludes that the error is harmless beyond a 7 kriss argues that witness nownes-whitaker testified that john and west, not john and kriss, created the flood. in fact, nownes-whitaker said both. she first testified that john and west told her they had created the flood with the intention of sharing the money with kriss, but she later quoted john as people v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 44.) we presume the jurors believed the second account over the first, or, alternatively, inferred from the first account that kriss was involved since some of the proceeds were intended for him. 26 reasonable doubt. (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 928.) we conclude any error here was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt and reversal is not warranted. find that a defendant was not the actual killer of a human being, or if you are unable to decide whether the defendant was the actual killer or an aider and abettor, you cannot find the special circumstance to be true as to that defendant unless you are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that such defendant with the intent to kill aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, solicited, requested, or assisted any actor in the commission of murder in the first degree, or with reckless indifference to human life and as a major participant, aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, solicited, requested, or assisted in the commission of the crime of attempted kidnapping which resulted instruction would allow the juries to find true the special circumstances of lying in wait and financial gain if defendants, though lacking an intent to kill, aided and abetted an attempted kidnapping with reckless indifference to human life. this would be in contravention of penal code section 190.2, subdivision (c), which extends those two special circumstances to aiders and assuming for the sake of argument that the juries did not find that either defendant was the actual killer, it is implausible beyond a reasonable doubt that any juror found the special circumstances true without also finding that both defendants had an intent to kill. here, the instruction for the lying-in-wait special circumstance received by the juries required a finding 27 extent there was any ambiguity in the instruction defendants are challenging, this additional instruction made clear that the defendant himself must have intended to kill, and not merely participated in an attack in which another defendant intentionally killed west. (see people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th the absence of an essential element in one instruction may be supplied by another or cured in light of the instructions as a whole. defendants argue that the juries were instructed that the otherwise, and therefore the juries might assume that the -in-wait instructions could be the codefendant or even bayamdzhyan. this is at best a strained reading of the instruction and not one the jurors were likely to adopt. regardless, to the extent there was any confusion, the verdict forms made clear whose intent the jurors were deciding. (see people v. majors (1998) 18 cal.4th 385, 410 [finding instructional error harmless in part based on text of verdict committed by defendant, hachik maskovian and that the defendant intentionally killed the victim by means of lying in wait . . . ascribed the intent to kill to the defendant whose guilt they were deciding, and not his codefendant. that each jury found that the defendant whose guilt they were 28 considering, and not solely the codefendant, carried out the crime for financial gain. the only financial gain suggested in this case of the financial-gain circumstance necessarily required a finding defendants could collect the insurance. thus, defendants have failed to show any prejudice from the purported ambiguity in the jury instructions, and reversal on that ground is not warranted. b. accomplice testimony john argues that the trial court erred in not instructing the jury that the testimony of kriss, as an accomplice, should be requesting such an instruction. we hold that any error was harmless. when an accomplice to a crime is called as a witness, the court must instruct the jury sua sponte that any testimony tending to incriminate the defendant should be viewed with caution. (people v. box (2000) 23 cal.4th 1153, 1208 (box), disapproved of on another ground by people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 948, fn. 10.) john contends that when an accomplice is a codefendant and testifies on his own behalf, the instruction must be given at the request of the other codefendant.8 because 8 that even when a codefendant testifies on his own behalf the court should give the instruction sua sponte. (see people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 104 [stating that when was required to instruct the jury that an accomplice-testimony should be viewed with distrust to the extent it tended 29 he was denied effective assistance of counsel. john cannot show that any error was prejudicial. courts are required to instruct jurshould be viewed with caution because such testimony is promoting his . . . own self interest by inculpating the box, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 1209.) but here, that he never saw john join in the attack on west. he disclaimed theory that the murder was for financial gain. at no point did kriss seek to shift blame from himself to john or otherwise testimony portrayed himself as the primary bad actor, with john only peripherally involved. testimony put john at the scene of the crime and confirmed that the meeting had been set up by john to obtain a phone for west. but this evidence was corroborated by people v. avila (2006) accomplice liability . . . the spare tire. the instruction, we need not resolve the question. 30 corroborated by witness adriana s. john points to other testimony by kriss he claims testimony that he told john to go back after john had struck when litcexaggerated stories, which john claims branded him as a liar. and kriss provided a motive for the crime by testifying that west had been verbally abusive to john. again, none of this evidence incriminates john in the sense testimony firmly taking the blame for the attack. to the extent the evidence reflects poorly on john, any prejudice would be minimal relative to the other evidence introduced in this case from sources other than kriss, including testimony from multiple witnesses that john fully participated in the brutal attack on e jury would have reached a result more favorable to defendant had it been (box, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 1209.) because any error was harmless, we need not address the claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1003 [to prevail on that there is a reasonable probability that defendant would have obtained a 31 more favorable result [purported] shortcomings].) 3. evidentiary challenges a. evidence of prior insurance fraud defendants argue that the evidence of john not paying rent on the sunset plaza drive house and deliberately flooding it to make an insurance claim, which the court admitted for the purpose of proving intent and motive, was improper character evidence. defendants also argue that the probative value of the evidence was outweighed by its potential prejudicial effect. we disagree. i. applicable law character evidence, sometimes described as evidence of propensity or disposition to engage in a specific conduct, is generally inadmissible to prove a persons conduct on a specified occasion. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act may be admitted, however, not to prove a persons predisposition to commit such an act, but rather to prove some other material fact, such as that persons intent or identity. (id.,  1101, subd. (b).)people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 841.) evidence of prior acts may also be admitted to prove motive. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (b).) must be relevant to prove a fact at issue (evid. code,  210), and its admission must not be unduly prejudicial, confusing, or time consuming (evid. code,  (people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 597-598 (leonwe review the trial courts decision whether to admit evidence, 32 including evidence of the commission of other crimes, for abuse of discretion.harris, supra, at p. 841.)9 for evidence of other acts to be admissible to prove intent, current charges] to support the inference that the defendant (leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 598.) our supreme court has there must be sufficient evidence for the jury to find defendant committed both sets of acts, and sufficient similarities to demonstrate that in each instance the perpetrator acted with the same intent or motive.people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th degree of similarity (between the uncharged act and the charged degrees of similarity are required to prove the identity of the leon, supra, at p. 598.) people v. jones (2011) 51 cal.4th 346, 371 (jones).) in jones, for example, the supreme court approved of the admission of evidence of a 1985 robbery on a public street to prove that a defendant accused of a 1993 home 9 -people v. seijas (2005) 36 cal.4th 291, applied it not to an evidentiary that a witness could assert the privilege against self-incrimination. (id. at pp. 303-304.) 33 whom defendant selected. evidence that defendant intended to rob the . . . victims [in 1985] tended to show that he intended to ibid.) ii. analysis unquestionably dissimilar in many respects, they share at least (jones, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 371.) first, both crimes involved unlawful acts resulting in actual or potential insurance payments from state farm to john. second, both crimes involved defendants working together towards the same unlawful goal. (see people v. thompson (2016) 1 cal.5th 1043, 1115-1116 [evidence that accomplice in charged these similarities were sufficient to create an inference that defendants in murdering west had the same intent and motive as when they flooded the house, namely to recover insurance proceeds from state farm. the differences between the past crimes and current offenses did not render those past crimes people v. mccurdy, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1098.) the court also properly admitted the evidence that john had failed to pay rent and had engaged in questionable deed transactions of which the homeowner was unaware, as this evidence was relevant to establish that the insurance claim was fraudulent. it showed that john had no legal claim to the home, and therefore had little reason to obtain insurance to protect it. this in turn created an inference that john obtained the 34 insurance for another reason, namely to make a fraudulent claim and flee with the proceeds rather than repair the home. given that intent and motive were very much at issue in this casenot least because of the alleged financial gain special circumstance that defendants denied below and continue to challenge on appealthe evidence of the past insurance fraud was sufficiently probative to outweigh the prejudicial effect of its admission. this is especially so given that the past crimes were people v. mccurdy, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1099; see leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. pardefendants suggest that because they were never criminally charged or held civilly liable for the earlier fraud and other misconduct, the juries might have been improperly motivated to punish them for those acts rather than the charged conduct. but it is highly improbable that the juries were motivated to convict based on those past financial crimes rather than the strong -boyfriend to collect life insurance proceeds. to the extent there was some risk of the juries misusing or being confused by the evidence, the trial court mitigated this by instructing the juries to consider the evidence of past crimes only for the limited purpose of determining intent or motive, and prohibiting them from (see leon, supra, at p. 600, fn. 11.) kriss argues there was no evidence he was involved in the earlier flood and insurance claim, and therefore evidence concerning those past crimes was irrelevant and prejudicial as to 35 him. but as previously discussed, witness nownes-whitaker testified that john had told her kriss had created the flood with him. moreover, it was undisputed that the proceeds from the this was sufficient to link kriss to the flood and insurance fraud, and the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding evidence of those crimes admissible and relevant to kriss as well as john. kriss further argues that the evidence was insufficient to establish the insurance fraud in the first place, given that state farm investigated the flood, found no fraud, and paid the claim. this evidence certainly tends to show that the claim was valid, in contrast to some of the other evidence discussed above. nevertheless, it was for the juries to weigh the evidence and make their own determinations, and we will not reverse the conclusion. (see albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60.) john argues the earlier acts were insufficiently similar or related to the charged crimes to prove intent and motive. he notes that the insurance fraud took place several years before the murder, and there was evidence that west himself was involved. but jones approved of the admission of evidence of crimes committed eight years before the charged offenses; surely, then, the three-year gap between the insurance fraud and the murders is not too long to render those past acts irrelevant to the question of intent and motive. (see jones, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 351, involvement in the earlier crimes precluded john or kriss from harboring the same intent or motive when committing a later crime against west himself. 36 john argues that the previous crimes did not involve violent that is true, but the previous crimes did involve unlawful acts for the purpose of obtaining insurance proceeds, and were relevant to show that particular intent and motive. john arg flood was unnecessarily cumulative and prejudicial. he cites people v. balcom (1994) 7 cal.4th 414, 423 (balcom), but this authority is unavailing. in balcom, the prosecution sought to prove that the defendant had engaged in sexual intercourse with victim denise against her will by introducing evidence that the defendant had raped another victim several weeks later. (id. at pp. 421-422.) denise testified that the defendant had put a gun to her head and forced her to engage in sexual intercourse; the id. at pp. 422-reasonable juror considering this evidence could have concluded that defendant committed the acts alleged by the complaining witness, but lacked the reid. at p. 422.) here. in balcom, the jury could not reasonably conclude that the defendant, who admitted having sex with the victim, had put a gun to her head for some reason other than forcing her to have sex with him. here, in contrast, the jury could have concluded that defendants attacked west for reasons other than to kill him 37 to collect his life insurance proceeds. for example, the jury could have believed spontaneously after west insulted him. thus, the issue of intent (and motive) was not compellingly established by the circumstances of the crime itself such that the evidence of other balcom, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 423.) we find no abuse of discretion. the evidence of the prior insurance claim was properly admitted. b. john argues that the evidence of his financial insolvency, such as his unpaid bills and calls from collection agencies, was prejudicial and should not have been admitted. john cites people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856 (clarkordinarily, [e]vidence of a defendants poverty or indebtedness, without more, is inadmissible to establish motive for robbery or theft because it is unfair to make poverty alone a ground of suspicion and the probative value of the evidence is deemed to be outweighed by the risk of prejudice. (id. at p. 929.) john fails to explain how the principle stated in clark applies here, where the charge is murder and attempted clark, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 929.) even if it were improper to suggest that a person in need of funds is more likely to commit murder for financial gain, an issue we do not decide, here the prosecution sought to admit the evidence for another purpose, that is, to establish that john was prioritizing payment oother more pressing financial needs. as discussed above, this 38 financial-gain special circumstance. the court did not err in admitting the evidence. john notes that the court admitted not only evidence of but also evidence of his bankruptcy in 2010. john argues the bankruptcy could not be relevant to a murder that took place three yecontinuing prioritization of the life insurance even in times of extreme financial distress, which the trial court at its discretion could conclude was information relevant to the question of motive. regardless, given the properly admitted evidence of is no reasonable probability that admission of evidence that he declared bankruptcy affected the outcome of the trial. argument and notes that evidence of kriss as well. even if the evidence was not relevant to kriss, he does not explain how the admission of this evidence was prejudicial to him; instead, his prejudice argument focuses on the evidence of the insurance fraud and the questionable deed transactions that we addressed above. c. evi various witnesses as evidence of his mental state was improper and prejudicial. specifically, defendants object to the admission had broken up; that west was helping john financially and was frustrated that john was not working; that west had no plans to reunite with john; 39 that west and john had not been sexually intimate in some time and west was dating other people; that west and elmore planned to move into an apartment together; that west was sexually dissatisfied; that west was concerned john would pawn a ring west had given him rather than returning it to west; that west wanted to change his life insurance beneficiary; and that west 10 we need not decide whether admission of these statements was proper because, even assuming they were admitted in error, defendants have failed to show any prejudice. john suggests that the statements respect to the centrcannot agree. the statements are innocuous, especially in relation to the other evidence introduced against defendants, not least of all the brutal killing in which they took part. we do not see how the stamental state; to the extent john is implying that the jury might of murder, such capability was illustrated far more compellingly by the evidence of his participation in the murder itself. in light 10 in his opening brief, john objects to statements concerning these statements attributed them to john, not west, as john acknowledges in his reply brief. 40 of the foregoing, it is inconceivable that any of the challenged statements could have affected the outcome of the trial.11 disposition the judgments are affirmed. rogan, j.* we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 11 because most if not all of the evidence challenged by defendants was properly admitted, and any evidence admitted in error was reversal. * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 