filed 3/13/18 p. v. grzeslo ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james duane grzeslo, defendant and appellant. b278205 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa079092) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, elden s. fox, judge. affirmed. james duane grzeslo, in pro. per; and david andrew andreasen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and william n. frank, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 a jury convicted james duane grzeslo (defendant) of first degree murder of his girlfriend cathy ann carrasco-zanini (cathy)1 (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)).2 the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally used a knife in the commission of the murder. ( 12022, subdivision (b)(1).) the trial court sentenced defendant to 25 years to life in state prison for the murder conviction, plus a one-year enhancement term for use of the knife.3 defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. appellate counsel contends the trial court erred in failing sua sponte to hold a hearing on whether defendant was competent to continue to represent himself. counsel also contends the trial court abused its discretion in admitting (1) statements defendant made to his co-workers about slitting the throats of enemy soldiers in vietnam (enemy statements); and (2) the opinion , paul delhauer, concerning the manner in which cathy was killed. specifically, he contends the enemy statements were irrelevant, supporting only speculative inferences and unduly prejudicial even if relevant, and topinion that cathy was killed in was also mere speculation. for the reasons set forth below, the record does not raise a 1 we refer to the victim, cathy carrasco-zanini, by her first name for convenience and ease of reference. we intend no disrespect. 2 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the trial court also ordered defendant to pay a restitution fine of $10,000. ( 1202.4, subd. (b).) 3 himself; the trial court thus did not err in failing to hold a competency hearing. we conclude denemy statements were relevant to show intent and premeditation and not unduly prejudicial, nor was topinion on the physical . we thus affirm. factual background cathy began dating defendant in 2010. in the spring or summer of 2011, defendant began visiting anger management counselor martin brenner (brenner). at some point, cathy accompanied defendant at these counseling sessions. brenner explained office. brenner also said defendant had a history of verbally and sometimes physically attacking cathy and that was why defendant had come to see brenner. the defendant told co-worker michelle dorch carte (carte) that he went to a counselor for anger management and that cathy wanted to go to counseling with him before they would move in together. according to carte, defendant moved out of his apartment, expecting to live with cathy. he gave much of the [h] moved out of his apartment, cathy refused to live ring first and wanted to get marrieupset. carte believed this happened in september or october of 2011. in the early evening of october 25, 2011, cathy met her girlfriend jamie grauman (grauman) to work out, as was their habit on tuesdays. as usual, they had dinner together 4 afterward. unusually, cathy was not wearing makeup. she looked tired and drawn. she did not want to discuss what she and defendant had done the previous weekend. grauman thought cathy seemed depressed. at about 9:00 p.m., cathy called her long-time friend linda cherry (cherry). cherry said cathy sounded very tired and a little depressed. the two women spoke for about two hours, which was an unusually long conversation. cathy was sad and very concerned about her relationship with defendant. on october 26, 2011, about 8:18 a.m., video from a security had many of the same distinctive features as defendant about 8:33 a.m., the camera showed the same car driving past the building and awa apartment at that time. those records showed defendant called his brother, thomas grzeslo (thomas)4, at 8:33 a.m.; cell phone thomas and then, killed somebody.homas thomas phone. 4 we refer to relatives by their first names only for clarity and ease of reference. we intend no disrespect. 5 thomas soon called defendant back and tried to convince defendant to turn himself in to the police. defendant replied, thomas asked defendant what he homas ithen the consonant homas ended. several hours later, thomas called defendant back and again tried to convince him to turn himself in to the police. defendant replied that he was going to see his therapist. defendant also called his sixteen-year-old son, travis grzeslo (travis)5, who lived in north carolina. they spoke sometime between 11:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. defendant said that he had been relieved from his job and his relationship with cathy was over. defendant said . . . he had made a mistake travis was confused, but defendant said they would talk about it later. that was the end of their conversation. in between speaking with thomas and travis, defendant called his counselor brenner. they spoke at about 9:00 a.m. i did something bad. i had a dream. i think i hurt my girlfriend or fianc brenner agreed to see defendant at 1:45 p.m. when defendant arrived for his appointment with brenner, [h]ad no affect. he was white. he looked like he just saw a 5 see footnote 4. 6 brenner asked, brenner called cathy but there was no answer. brenner then asked defendant to take everything out of his pockets. defendant complied. one of the items defendant took out was a pocket knife. he also removed some keys from his pocket. brenner called the police because he wanted defendant to he was concerned about . beverly hills police department (bhpd) officer gary office. officer castaldo handcuffed defendant and patted him officer castaldo sat down next to defendant and conversed with him for about 11 minutes to build rapport. defendant told the officer that he had a girlfriend but they were having relationship problems. he used to live with her, but no longer did. the past weekend had been good between them. on tuesday night, she went out with some girlfriends and not have any friends to go out with and that caused a little fight. sometime around 8:00 a.m. the next morning (october 26), defendant used his key to enter her apartment. they got into an killed m 7 defendant also said it was like a nightmare and it was foggy. he was not sure what happened. defendant was taken to the beverly hills jail. there, bhpd forensic specialist segalit oz (oz) photographed defendant. the photographs showed fresh cuts on the index mark on his left hand, and a fresh scratch on his right forearm. oz testified that the cu bhpd officer eric olson obtained the keys that defendant had surrendered in and apartment. officer olson used one of the keys to unlock one of the doors of the apartment. he immediately saw cathy lying face down in the kitchen. there was a large pool of blood around her upper torso. officer olson summoned paramedics, who entered the apartment and pronounced cathy dead. officer olson then conducted an inspection of the apartment to make sure no one else was inside. there was no one. officer olson did not see any signs of forced entry into the apartment. he did not see any obvious disturbance. when officer olson entered the hallway, he saw large smears of blood on the floor, and some blood on the wall as well. the blood went about halfway down the hallway, a distance of 10 to 12 feet. bhpd forensic specialist jeannine cascadden (cascadden) soon arrived at the apartment. she took numerous photographs to document the condition of the interior of the apartment. there was no sign that the apartment had been ransacked. in the bedroom, cascadden observed that one side of the bed appeared to have been slept in. she did not see any blood in the bedroom, living room, or family room. cascadden did observe blood on the threshold between the bathroom and the hallway 8 and drops of blood inside the bathroom. she found a broken toothbrush in the bathroom wastebasket. cascadden saw a pool of blood in the hallway with a trail of blood leading to the kitchen. she characterized the trail of -soaked being dragged along the floor. cascadden opined that cathy dragged herself down the hall, but then acknowledged on cross-examination that she pulled herself. cascadden saw blood on the wall between the kitchen doorway and the hall closet doorway. at trial, defendant showed cascadden the photograph cascadden took of the wall and asked . not notice, but what i see, i do see a possib[ility] that performing her photographic documentation of the scene. a phone cord was intertwined in her left fist. she had a shoe on her left foot but not her right foot. cascadden found the right shoe in the hallway towards the bathroom. the kitchen area itself contained a lot of blood. cascadden observed a knife, spoon, colander, and soap in the kitchen sink. on cross-examination, she acknowledged that she did not see any water or debris on the knife, or any light red or pink liquid around or under the knife. apartment that afternoon and searched it. he found a still-warm dishwasher with two knives in it. no blood was found on the knives. detective coulter found a few items of damp clothing and 9 his dryer. these items tested negative for blood. on cross-examination, detective coulter acknowledged that he had never been involved in a case in which a criminal left his clothes in the washer and dryer. detective coulter found band-aids and two towels on a counter in the bathroom. one towel had red stains; the stains apartment, including a book titled i did it about the o.j. simpson trial. the detective also found a composition book in the apartment. the book contained handwritten entries dated between july 28, 2011 and september 21, 2011. the entries were mainly about jealousy and control issues relationship with cathy. in a september 13 entry, defendant out of this that cathy yelled at him over the phone and was verbally and emotionally abusive. sergeant marcia deanda worked in the twin correctional facility that housed defendant. she testified that detective coulter asked her to locate and review video of defendant working out at that correctional facility. she testified that the video depicted defendant to a towel wrapped around the top rail [of his cell] and using his body weight to exercise up cross-examination, sergeant deanda admitted that she saw defendant use only his left arm to wrap the towel around the bar. 10 los pathologist dr. job augustine performed an autopsy on cathy. he observed two superficial incised wounds to her neck and one 7.25-inch-long incised wound that went from left to right across her neck. the wound included a cut to her jugular vein, which was the cause of death. the wounds were consistent with a right-handed person neck from behind. cathy had only minor defensive wounds on her hands and arms, which made it more likely that she was attacked from behind rather than from the front. in the pathologinjuries to the forearms, large gashes to the wrists. . . . with . . . cuts to the palms and multiple fingers. at trial, ers testified about his . all three gave similar accounts of working with defendant. marcia lang was a registered nurse at los robles hospital in 2010 and 2011. she worked with defendant, who was a contract nurse in the catheter lab. zandra miller (miller) and carte were registered nurses who worked at west hills hospital in 2011. they worked with defendant in the cardiac catheter lab while he was a contract nurse at that hospital in 2011. his duties included sedating patients, administering medications, and making sure patients were stable during cardiac procedures. defendant told all three coworkers that he had had a stroke. none of the women noticed defendant having any difficulty performing his job duties. miller noticed defendant slightly dragging one of his feet, but this did not affect his ability to perform his job duties. 11 defendant told lang that he had a second occupation doing nsiclike he told carte that he had a ph.d. in forensic accounting and had a business that did audits of bring down defendant also told all three coworkers that he had been in a special forces unit in vietnam. lang and miller lang the teeth in the skull represented the people he had killed. when lang asked defendant if he had shot the people with a gun, defendant replied that he snuck up behind them and slit their defendant told her that he was in the special forces in vietnam and that when defendant said this, he and down, . . . like a pez dispenser would open and close, the defendant also told carte that when he was in vietnam, he illustrated this statement by drawing his index finger across his throat and flipping his head back. at trial, the prosecutor asked carte whether she thought defendant was joking or serious when he really i all three coworkers described instances when defendant had displayed jealousy related to cathy. lang testified defendant was upset that cathy displayed photos of her ex-husband and her children. miller stated defendant did not like it when cathy went out dancing with her friends. defendant also mentioned that cathy had a homosexual friend, and 12 defendant said he would not have any trouble killing him. carte testified defendant told her that cathy had a client who was cathy. defendant stated he would kill the man if he did not leave cathy alone. defendant also said that someone had flirted with cathy at a family event and that he would have no problem killing him. charles yancy (yancy) personal trainer at a gym at which defendant worked out occasionally. cathy and he were friends and were in contact even after cathy stopped training with him. yancy testified that he had opportunity to observe defendant using weight machines at the gym and that defendant definitely appeelaborated that defendant was able to use both his arms without favoring one over the other, and upon cross-examination, yancy testified that he had not observed defendant using all the available machines and weights, downtown hotel to have drinks after working out at which he, cathy and defendant were present. he admitted that he was there sitting on his lap. he also admitted being facebook friends with cathy. he denied ever stating in an email to cathy on facebook cathy had a gay male friend named tarpon london who worked at a gym cathy frequented. defendant also used this gym. london saw defendant working out, and it did not appear to london that defendant had any physical problems preventing him from using the machines or working out. 13 at some point, london and his partner david went out for dinner with cathy and defendant. london observed that defendant was not comfortable when the matre that defendant to assist cathy. on another occasion, defendant told london he was a surgeon, but he had injured his hand and was no longer practicing medicine. defendant showed london a cellular phone photograph of a man dressed in scrubs and a surgical mask standing in a surgical environment. defendant said he was the man in the photograph defendant made this statement quietly and in a low tone. london told defendant not to talk to him like that ever again. a crime scene reconstruction expert. delhauer offered opinions in several different areas. first, he opined that cathy was killed in kan attack so rapid and violent that that the victim had little chance to resist. delhauer opined that the delhauer also opined that the blood evidence in the apartment hallway showed that cathy survived the attack and dragged herseon the wall in her own blood. in the kitchen, cathy tried to pull the telephone down to her, but inadvertently pulled the phone out of the wall jack. delhauer testified that blood stains in the bathroom indicated that blood was washed off someone or something in that room. delhauer further consistent with defendant being the assailant in a knife attack, and that the knife used to kill cathy had a serrated edge. the 14 its being the murder weapon. delhauer testified that the killer washed the knife dna. defendant called two forensic experts in his defense. the first expert, david sugiyama, was a forensic specialist with expertise in physical evidence and interpreting dna and other laboratory reports. his testimony focused on the absence of blood sugiyama explained there could be a number of reasons for these absences: the dna/blood was never deposited, the dna/blood was removed, or the dna/blood was in quantities too small to be detected or to be useful. sugiyama also discussed the absence of fingerprint evidence at the crime scene. sugiyama agreed that in the reports and documents he reviewed, there was no physical evidence linking defendant to the crime scene. , a forensic specialist with expertise in dna analysis. in arriving at his opinions, taylor primarily reviewed testing reports from other agencies. taylor testified that the reports demonstrated that no blood was observed on the floor mats or steering wheel of defendantpresumptively6 positive for blood. 6 presumptive test for . . . relies on certain characteristics of the hemoglobin terribly specific 15 taylor testified that cars are known to produce a lot of false positives on presumptive blood tests. the false positives come from the driver touching batteries, oxidizing agents and other chemical agents associated with motor vehicles. taylor also tested presumptively positive for the presence of blood, but that too could be a false positive result. he explained that a false positive result could come from copper salt, bacteria or similar materials. taylor examined a report showing that defendantwas found partment. the report opined that based on the amount of that dna, it was unlikely to be dna from blood. taylor also reviewed a report showing that male w, but that the level of dna was low. taylor elaborated that people who cdna under their fingernails just from household interactions. he testified 12 to 15 percent of office workers were found to have on cross-examination, taylor explained that it would be unusual to get a piece of skin that one fingernailnose, mouth, or eye. fingernails. taylor opined that none of the dna test results in the reports he reviewed provided insight into whether defendant was react with other things. end up causing . . . i 16 discussion we divide our discussion into three sections addressing competency argument, and second and admission of enemy statements and expert opinion. i. the record does not support that defendant was not competent to represent himself, and the trial court thus did not err in failing to hold a competency hearing. appellate counsel contends although defendant was competent to stand trial, there was substantial evidence that he was not competent to carry out the basic tasks needed to present his own defense without the assistance of counsel. he further contends that or to and during the proceedings in this case, behavior at trial, motions and , defense strategy, and implementation of that strategy, the trial court should have sua sponte held a hearing to determine whether defendant was competent to continue to represent himself. preliminary to our discussion, we note appellate counsel does not specify the point at which the trial court should have conducted a competency hearing. the trial court heard -representation on may 27, 2015, and granted that motion on the same day. appellate counsel does not identify the hearing on self-representation that counsel contends would have raised a reas 17 represent himself.7 the transcript of that hearing demonstrates defendant understood the status of his case, had begun to plan his defense, and was aware of the disadvantages of self-representation. defendant properly filled out an advisement and waiver of the right to counsel form. accordingly, we begin our th8 7 appellate counsel contends that the trial court should have been concerned about defendtestimony from the preliminary hearing. for example, according to counsel, evidence at that hearing showed defendant had and professional accomplishments, and the record revealed he had anger management problems since childhood. we note that self-representation motion in may 2015 was not the same judge who presided over the preliminary hearing in november 2013. appellate counsel has not demonstrated that the trial judge deciding the self-representation motion had read, or was required to read, the preliminary hearing transcript at the time that judge ruled on defendant-representation. even assuming that the trial judge who granted -representation motion had read the preliminary hearing transcript, as we discuss later in this opinion, defendantmilitary service and professional accomplishments, and choice of an identity defense do not raise a reasonable doubt about 8 at oral argument, appellate counsel clarified that the esent himself about at the time motions in limine were heard. we note -representation motion 18 barguments are several, we discuss each of those arguments in separate subsections. as set forth in detail in those subsections, once defendant began representing himself, he filed numerous pretrial motions. his motions were internally coherent and contained accurate legal citations. generally, his factual claims were contextually appropriate, that is, if the factual claims were found to be true, then they would have warranted the relief he sought. defendant engaged the services of two forensic experts to offer relevant testimony in support of his chosen defense. at trial, defendant made opening and closing statements setting forth his defense theory. he asked questions of the -examination that were designed that he was not the killer. defendant questioned his own experts in a manner that highlighted his defense theory. both before and during trial, defendant was polite and cooperative in the trial court. he also responded readily to suggestions or corrections from the trial court. in sum, our review of the record leads us to conclude there was no substantial evidence raising a reasonable doubt competence to represent himself at trial. a. applicable law and standard of review under the united states constitution, a defendant in a criminal case has the right to represent himself. (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806.) my and dignity underlie this right are not defeated by occurred in may 2015 and the trial began more than one year later in august 2016. 19 likelihood that an unskilled, self-represented defendant will perform poorly in conducting his or her own (people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 206 (mickel).) a self-represented defendant need not meet the standards of an (ibidted - ibid.) a defendant also has the right under the u.s. constitution not to be to subject to a criminal trial while he is mentally incompetent. mental competence in this context means that the rational as well as a factual understanding of the dusky v. united states (1960) 362 u.s. 402 (dusky).) some defendants a mental condition that falls in a gray area between duskys minimal constitutional requirement that measures a defendants ability to stand trial and a somewhat higher standard that measures mental fitness for another legal purposethat is self-representation. (indiana v. edwards (2008) 554 u.s. 164, 172 (edwards).) the united states supreme court has held that states may, but need not, deny self-representation to -area defendantsthose defendants who are competent to stand trial but lack the mental health or capacity to represent themselves. (id. at p. 174.) the california supreme court has held that [c]onsistent with long-self-representation in those cases where edwards permits such 20 (people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 528 (johnson).)9 as the california supreme court made clear, under edwards, supra, 554 u.s. 164, competence to represent oneself at johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 530.) the basic tasks defense, making motions, arguing points of law, participating in voir dire, questioning witnesses, and addressing the court and edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at p. 176, italics omitted, citing mckaskle v. wiggins (1984) 465 u.s. 168, 174.) as with other determinations regarding self-representation, we must defer largely to the trial courts discretion. [citations omitted.] the trial courts determination regarding a defendants competence must be upheld if supported 9 appellate counsel states the california supreme court observed in people v. taylor court in edwards did not hold, contra to godinez[ v. moran (1993) 509 u.s. 389], that due process mandates a higher standard of mental competence for self-representation than for tpeople v. taylor, supra, at p. 877.) counsel contends that even if edwards does not mandate the application of a higher standard of mental competence for self-representation, the california constitution does. appellate counsel arguesua sponte to hold a constitutional right to due process and the assistance of counsel. (cal. const. art. 1,  7, subd. (a) & 15.) we need not, and do not reach these issues because we hold there was not substantial represent himself. 21 (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 531.) a trial court reversibly errs if it fails to hold a competency hearing when one is required under the substantial evidence test. [citation.]mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 195.) b. analysis indicia of behavior meriting a competency hearing. articulate, and . . . appellate counsel acknowledges that defendant was able to file simple uncontested motions involving matters such as requesting still, appellate counsel maintains and behavior, as well as the quality of his more complicated motions constitute substantial evidence, raising a reasonable doubt about basic tasks necessary to represent himself. appellate counsel also contends that n identity defendant displayed an inability to present that defense properly. the evidence cited by appellate counsel falls into two categories: (1) evidence that counsel characterizes as demonstrating psychological ; and (2) evidence of onduct in the trial court that counsel characterizes as providing reason to believe that psychological issues left him unable to carry out basic defense tasks. 22 1. sychological problems did not merit a competency hearing. appellate counsel describes three categories of evidence that demonstrate defendant serious psychological problems: (1) made about himself before proceedings began; defendant before proceedings began; and (3) pretrial motions containing -sounding and generally implausible claims here, regardless of how behavior, and claims are characterized, they do not raise a doubt that he was competent to represent himself. a. outlandish claims about himself appellate counsel argues about his military service and professional and education status were so outlandish that no one would believe them, and a rational person would not make them. appellate counsel suggests defendant could only have made those claims because defendant was delusional, in other words, he believed the claims. on the contrary, there is ample evidence that defendant did not in fact believe the claims he made about his military service and professional and educational achievement, and that his self-aggrandizing claims, albeit hyperbole, were strategic. appellate counsel contends there was evidence that decoworkers and his brother about having been in a special forces unit in vietnam, where he killed people and had received awards for his service. 23 as confirmed in military brother, defendant left high school a year early and enlisted in the marines in 1974. during a hearing under evidence code section 402, when the trial court asked defendant about his military service, defendant acknowledged he had never served overseas. he stated that he had been temporarily assigned to a and to other units. while defendant may have been exaggerating about the extent of his military service in the past, he was not delusional in the proceedings in this case; the latter testimony demonstrates that defendant did not in fact believe the claims he had made about serving in vietnam. appellate counsel contends the trial court should have been concerned mpetency because defendant made numerous misrepresentations about his education and professional qualifications. appellate counsel claims that pediatric surgeon, a cardio thoracic surgeon, and a forensic fraud examiner. appellate counsel also cites a photograph defendant kept on his cellular phone that defendant once claimed showed him performing suthat defen addressed as a nurse rather than a doctor. defendant was a nurse and worked in at least two hospitals. there was no evidence that he told his coworkers there that he was a medical doctor. the record shows that he made his claims about being a surgeon to social acquaintances. defendantular phone photograph is not evidence of being delusional. defendant assisted patients during cardiac 24 labs, and the photograph simply showed defendant dressed in scrubs in what appears to be an operating room. defendant claimed to have a ph.d in forensic accounting, and it was for this reason he sought to be called doctor rather than nurse by his coworkers. the most reasonable inference from this evidence is that far from being delusional, defendant was aware that he was not a medical doctor. appellate counsel also contends the trial court should have been concerned because defendant sent a letter to united airlines in 1999 that caused united to believe defendant was an attorney due to we fail to see how united in 1999 suggest that defendant believed he was a lawyer or that he was delusional during the proceedings in this case. when defendant told his brother that defendant was a broadcast had only . the brother testified that he was the one with the fcc license required to be a broadcast station engineer. appellate counsel maintains that defendant was [delusional] because defendant was a broadcast engineer and, if not delusional, he would also have known that his misrepresentation would not be believed. this conversation details. nothing in this old and vague conversation is probative mental health during the proceedings in this case. 25 b. behavior raising an inference of incompetency to represent himself appellate counsel describes two incidents he contends are ind. counsel first cites , defendant told her and other coworkers they could come to his apartment and take anything they wanted because defendant was moving into a new apartment. counsel contends defendant of his furniture, none of which would indicate that defendant was incompetent or mentally ill. there was testimony that defendant anticipated moving in with cathy; she may not have liked his household belongings or have had room for them. defendant was working as a nurse at the time he made the offer of his household belongings. thus, it is far from clear that he was indigent, and appellate counsel provides no evidentiary supsupposed impecunity at the time defendant made his offer. counsel also points to statement-wives statements identified by counsel are written summaries in the -testimony that defendant was physically violent and a liar. counsel does not point to any actual testimony by the ex-wives on these topics. also, much of the alleged behavior occurred several decades before the proceedings began. the trial court ruled that character were not admissible. 26 brother that defendant displayed anger management problems since he was a child, and to testimony that defendant had been in anger management counseling for several months bemurder. were true and that some of the family incidents involved recent behavior against his family members did not raise a reasonable doubt that defendant was unable to perform the basic tasks necessary to represent himself at trial. appellate counsel does not identify any instances of uncontrolled anger by defendant during the proceedings in this case. family members thomas and travis testified at trial, and defendant cross-examined both without incident. 2. lack of competency to represent himself appellate counsel identifies two groups of motions that counsel characterizes as -sounding and [containing] generally implausible claims about what various people were doing with re counsel first points to four miscellaneous pretrial motions, but acknowledges that the claims in those motions might have been -serving. counsel then argues that defendant-by counsel and stand-merely self-serving.10 10 counsel compares pretrial motions filed by the defendant in johnson, supra. not remotions in johnson. the exemplar motion attached by the 27 appellate counsel notes that in one motion, defendant . . . planted evidence, . . . falsified police reports, tampered with witnesses and suborn[ed] perjury against him. defendant made these allegations in a pitchess11 motion seeking discovery of complaints against the police officers involved in this case. these kinds of allegations are typical in pitchess motions. (see, e.g. warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1017 [defense counsel sought complaints against officers for making claimed].) appellate counsel cites a second motion in which defendant argued that search warrants were altered or forged. defendant made these claims in his franks12 motion, a motion that seeks to challenge a search warrant on the basis that the affidavit contained material omissions or misstatements of fact. (see people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1297.) at the hearing on the franks motion, defendant did identify some potential inaccuracies or inconsistencies in the documents; defendant believed those inconsistencies showed someone had tampered with the documents. although the trial court denied the motion, johnson court begins: efficient proffessional salutations. as to the chief unparallel tainted tailspin exploition, incomplete concord tactical operation submission of facts. (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 533.) the motions cited by appellate counsel here were internally coherent and contained at least some relevant legal authority. 11 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d (pitchess). 12 franks v. delaware (1978) 438 u.s. 154 (franks). 28 motion does not raise an inference that it was the product of delusions, nor is it substantial evidence supporting reasonable doubt to represent himself. appellate counsel maintains that in a third motion entitled st attorney(s): [] perjury [] subornation of perjury, defendant claimed the prosecutors suborned perjury from numerous witnesses. this motion was in essence a discovery motion. defendant believed that the prosecutors falsely claimed under oath to have turned over copies of the search warrants on certain dates. defendant appears to have believed that subornation occurred because the prosecutors worked together to make these false statements. we fail to see how these arguments support a finding, much less substantial evidence of delusion. finally, appellate counsel notes that in a fourth motion, defendant claimed bhpd detectives tampered with witnesses at the p this reference was made in from the courtroom during trial. it is not delusional to suggest that an audience member might try to encourage or deter a witness on the stand during the preliminary hearing by using body language or similar means. defendant may indeed have even if he , the motion was not indicative that he was delusional. we observe that in general, dmotions were internally coherent and his legal citations were accurate. his claims were also contextually appropriate, for example, his 29 claims of police misconduct to support his pitchess motion. his arguments generally aligned with his defense, which was that he was not the killer and that he was being framed. defendant did not unskilled, self-represented defendant will perform poorly in (mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 206.) appellate counsel motion involving appointed counsel jones and two motions involving standby counsel clark that appellate counsel views as particularly as to jones, the motion appointed trial counsel before being relieved, and was made after the trial court granted self-representation. appellate counsel argues he filed this motion except having counsel reported to the state bar and having the court agree that counsel was incompetent. in fact, part of the motion involved a claim that former counsel had not turned over all discovery in a timely matter. there was some truth to this; counsel had not given defendant some discovery related to defendantbecause that discovery needed to be reviewed first by the trial court. counsel turned it over just prior to the hearing on the motion. defendant may have been expressing his unhappiness with jones, but the motion does not create an inference of defendant being delusional. the two motions regarding clark related to defendanattempt to terminate standby counsel and to standby 30 . this was standby counsel; he believed that the trial court was unresponsive to his first attempt. that standby counsel behaved inappropriately and lacked relevant legal experience was unlikely to succeed, those claims can reasonably be understood as exaggerations designed to capture attention. to a degree, this tactic worked. the trial court heard state his experience for the record. the court also instructed stop providing informal assistance to defendant such as delivering documents or clothing for court appearances. 3. ddemonstrates that he was competent to represent himself key prosecution motions were riddled with unexplained nonsequiturs and disparagement of witnesses and the and evidenced that left him unfit to represent himself in a case involving a potential life sentence. appellate counsel also choice of an iand his failure to present that defense effectively demonstrated defendant was 31 a. motions did not evidence incompetency to represent himself defendant opposed to (1) introduce , and (2) killing the enemy in vietnam. was successful and one was not. under evidence code section 1109 to t conduct against his ex-wivevidence but sought to impugn the integrity of his ex-wives in the statements cited by appellate counsel attacked credibility either by showing that they had lied in the past or that they had a motive to lie about defendant. incidents of domestic violence if true, were relevant and admissible to any issues in the current proceedings. this was understandable given shifting and somewhat illogical relevancy arguments. at the hearing on the motion, the court noted that there were two motions, one described as [an] identified also the court asked the prosecution to clarify the relevance of the ex- the trial court stated, described a the prosecution replied, the prosecutor added that the prior acts of domestic 32 violence that defendant killed cathy in this case. as the trial court pointed ouinvolving alleged striking or hitting a spouse. you have one that the other incidents described by the prosecution involved property destruction. thus, even the trial court had difficulty of admissibility. the trial court found that the ex-relevant to the issues of intent or identity. we fail to see how confusing and ultimately unfounded motion raised a reasonable doubt as to competency to present a defense. statements about killing the enemy in vietnam raised a competency to present a defense. statements in greater detail infra. here, however, defendant merely attacked the credibility of his coworkers in opposing the at the hearing on the motion, when the trial court informed defendant that witness credibility would be an issue for the jury, defendant promptly raised a different argument, thus indicating his jury question. instead, defendant argued that his statements to coworkers were not relevant because he was joking when he made them, or intended gument mirrored a similar one made by 33 experienced counsel in people v. spector (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1335 (spector). there, counsel argued , ,w because defendant there was not serious in making the threat. (spector, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at pp. 1396-1397.) the fact that defendant here made the same argument previously advanced by experienced counsel in a high-profile case is hardly evidence of b. decision to defend on the basis of identity was not irrational defendant elected to he murder. appellate counsel contends an defense should have alerted the trial court to competency because no rational person would have chosen that defense in this case. counsel observes that the trial court stated it too was identity defense. appellate counsel opines that the evidence was so overwhelming that defendant was the killer, an identity defense could not possibly have been a appellate counsel claims that under johnsonhis chosen defense with a plausible reason may be a relevant factor in deciding whether [he] is competent.(johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 529-530.) counsel miscites johnsona law review article the johnson court quoted -representation than the one set forth in edwards. (johnson, 34 supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 529-530.) to the contrary of endorsing this factor, the johnson court s . . . think it best not to edwards. (johnson, at p. 530.) incompetency to represent himself. as the testimony of was found only trace amounts in her apartment. defense expert taylor opined that the low levels of dna were to be expected because defendant was in a personal relationship with cathy. even anger management counselor did not seriously initially. thus, defendant might have concluded that it was possible to create reasonable doubt in the minds of jurors that he was the killer. appellate counsel asserts that defendant should not have chosen an identity defense because defendant for defending h counsel suggests defendant should have argued that he killed in response to provocation and was thus guilty only of voluntary manslaughter or second degree murder. a defendresult in imposition of the highest possible penalty is not itself a sign of incompetence. (see mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 206 [a self-represented defendant may rationally prefer the death penalty to life in prison without the possibility of parole, and may choose a defense strategy that reflects that preference].) indeed, a decide to present no defense. (id. at p. 209 citing people v. clark 35 (1990) present no defense and to take the stand and both confess guilt defendant was 59 years old at the time of trial. he could have rationally decided that there was no meaningful difference between the penalty of 15 years to life in prison for second degree murder and the penalty of 25 years to life for first degree murder. both sentences offered defendant only the possibility of parole, with no guarantee of success. even with a second degree murder sentence, defendant would have been in would have been eligible for parole consideration. defendant could have rationally decided to choose a strategy that offered the possibility, however slim, of an acquittal rather than one that offered a it is not clear that a strategy geared to a potential voluntary manslaughter conviction would have been productive given morning, the lack of any evidence of provocation that morning, enemies. even if successful, a manslaughter conviction would have carried the possibility of imposition of the upper term of 11 years. someone could have rationally decided to take a chance on obtaining a complete acquittal, rather than going for an unlikely voluntary manslaughter conviction. appellate counsel argued defevidenced that counsel maintains defendant suggest an alibi or an alternative suspect, or explain his admissions of the killing. 36 these arguments are just that. appellate counsel offers no proffer of . there certainly is nothing in the record on appeal to suggest that defmurder. defendant could have identified an alternative suspect but failed to do so. in fact, at trial, defendant intimated that cathy had relationships with other men; another boyfriend could have been viewed as a in this regard was unsuccessful. while appellate counsel may be technically correct that about killing cathy, defendant did attack the credibility of the witnesses who recounted those admissions. defendant cross-examined thomas on financial incentives for incriminating defendant, pointed out that travis was only a minor when he received , and asked questions designed to highlight the inconsistencies in statements. there appears little more defendant could have done without testifying himself. appellate counsel also suggests had a faulty right arm shows defendant was disconnected from objective reality and his cross-yancy counsel is correct that there was evidence showing defendant had full use of his right hand and arm. defendant clearly recognized the existence of this evidence and understood its significance. much of this evidence involved observations of defendant exercising, and defendant cross-examined the witnesses who saw him exercising to show that they could not 37 determine simply from watching him whether he was using both arms equally. even in the case of the video showing defendant performing pull-ups in jail, defendant succeeded in pointing out that he used his left hand to prepare the pull up bar. defendant mentioned his asserted right arm weakness only in passing in his closing statement. -examination of yancey-described friend, was not clear. s-examination of yancy seemed designed to demonstrate that yancy was more than friend. inadvertently have provided a motive for defendant to kill cathy. on the other ve been intended to demonstrate that yancy had a motive to kill cathy for spurning his romantic interests in her. overall, defendant presented a coherent defense. defendant esses on cross-examination that y. defendant questioned his own experts in a manner that highlighted his defense theory. we conclude dpresentation of his defense did not raise a reasonable doubt as to competency to represent himself. 38 ii. the trial court did not abuse its enemy statements because they were relevant to his contemplation of killing cathy and the method for doing so; the statements were not unduly prejudicial in light of the other evidence of guilt. a. the enemy statements were relevant. before trial, the prosecutor moved to admit the enemy statements, i.e., statements defendant made to his co-workers in the about sneaking up from behind to kill enemy soldiers in vietnam, slitting the turning enemies it was undisputed defendant never served in vietnam. the prosecutor, however, was not offering the enemy statements to prove the truth of the matter asserted in those statementsthat defendant killed enemy soldiers in vietnam. instead, the prosecutor proffered the enemy statements to show defendants intent and premeditation to kill cathy, and his state of mind as to how to kill her. it was undisputed that there was also evidence that she did not have time to defend herself before her throat was cut. defendant objected that the evidence was not relevant and was too prejudicial in comparison to its probative value. the trial court disagreed and admitted the enemy statements because the evidence was very probative as to certain issues involving [defendant] and his relationship with the deceased. ion to admit the enemy statements for abuse of discretion. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 197.) we are mindful that relevance and prejudice within the meaning of evidence code section 352 must 39 be viewed in the context of the other evidence at trial. this is the lens through which we , logically, naturally or by reasonable inference to establish a people v. yu (1983) 143 cal.app.3d 358, 376.) in the context of the evidence cathy and used a method of killing cathy that he reserved for his enemies. defendants written statement about digging a grave for his enemies in a journal he kept about his jealousy-riddled relationship with cathy supports an inference that defendant had come to view cathy as an enemy. this inference is strengthened by cartes testimony that defendant was angry and upset when cathy refused to let defendant move in with her in september or october. a 7.25 inch described the murder weapon as a knife as confirmed by there was percipient or expert testimony that there were no signs of forced entry, and that the killer had at some point been behind cathy when her throat was cut. generic threats are relevant to prove intent to kill, premeditation and manner of killing. (spector, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at pp. 1396-1397.) appellate counsel contends defendants enemy statements are not generic threats because they were not directed at a group to which cathy belonged, and the statements involved past rather than future violence. 40 ear to comport with the record. defendant was not reminiscing about his service in vietnam when he made the enemy statements to his coworkers. he never served in vietnam. instead, the evidence supports the inference that defendant made these statements to coworkers to tell them what he would do if he were threatened by someone whom he perceived as an enemy. as set perception of cathy as his enemy. generic threats may involve hypothetical situations. they do not have to be directed at the actual victim. (people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612 (karis).) the hypothetical threats need not be explicit. a defendant need not state that he would harm the victims or specify the circumstances under which he would cause the harm. (spector, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1396 [statement cunts, they all constituted a generic threat]; see people v. manson (1976) 61 cal.app.3d 102, 139 [defendants sthad to be willing to kill pigs to help the black people start t was admissible as a generic threat].) the potentially large size of the targeted group does not necessarily negate the threats relevance. (spector, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1396 [threats against women in general are admissible]; see people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 842 [defendants statement that i think i would like to kill someone, just to was admissible as a generic threat].) appellate counsel contends the trial court abused its discretion in admitting defendantdefendant might have been merely joking, delusional, or attempting to gain respect when he made the statements. 41 counsel further contends a jury could only have guessed which of . because the jury could not have known why defendant made the statements, any inferences from those statements would have to have been speculation. we disagree. there was no testimony other than statements13 that defendant made the enemy statements to gain respect or in a joking manner. defendant did not testify at that hearing or at trial. defendant acknowledged to the trial court that he did not serve in vietnam, and so there was no evidence that he delusionally believed he actually killed the enemy in vietnam. indeed, during the hearing on the ements, defendant appeared clearheaded in detailing his military service in bases in alabama few. because defendants enemy statements reflected his thoughts, they were admissible evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a).14 evidence code section 1250, 13 as set forth supra, at the hearing outside statements, defendant opposed the motion in part by arguing that he was joking when he made them. the trial court responded that whether defendant was joking when he made the enemy statements was an issue of credibility for the jury. 14 evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a) provides: subject to section 1252, evidence of a statement of the declarants then existing state of mind, emotion, or physical sensation (including a statement of intent, plan, motive, design, 42 subdivision (a)(2) permits the use of statements to prove or explain acts or conduct of the declarant. (see spector, supra, 194 cal.app.4th karis[, supra, 46 cal.3d 612] held this purely hypothetical threat was admissible under section 1250acts or engage in certain conduct is admissible to prove that he did those acts b. admission of the enemy statements was not unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. appellate counsel contends the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to exclude the enemy statements pursuant to evidence code section 352. he further contends the erroneous admission of this evidence violated constitutional right to due process. exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or mental feeling, pain, or bodily health) is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when: [] (1) the evidence is offered to prove the declarants state of mind, emotion, or physical sensation at that time or at any other time when it is itself an issue in the action; or [] (2) the evidence is offered to prove or explain acts or conduct of t 43 expressly weigh prejudice against probative value or even expressly state that it has done so, if the record as a whole shows the court was aware of and performed its (people v. taylor (2001) 26 cal.4th 1155, 1169.) is left to the discretion of the trial court, on appeal we apply the abuse of discretion standard of review. [citation.] under that standard, there is no abuse of discretion requiring reversal if there exists a reasonable or fairly debatable justification under that decision falls within the permissible range of options set by cahill v. san diego gas & electric co. (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 939, 957.) here the trial court expressly referred to evidence code section 352 during argument, and asked defendant for his input on the application of that section. this is sufficient to demonstrate the trial courts awareness of its duties under section 352 in making its ruling. (see people v. taylor, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 1169.) when evidence is properly admitted under state law, its admission ordinarily does not raise due process issues. (see estelle v. mcguire (1991) 502 u.s. 62, 70; people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 464.) even when the admission of evidence is erroneous under state law, that admission results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair. (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) appellate counsel argues that the enemy statements were cumulative of other evidence of identity and intent to kill so its probative value was minimal. to compound the problem, the prejudicial potential of the statements was high because the 44 statements could have caused the jury to view defendant with contempt for lying about his military service. the enemy statements were not cumulative of other evidence. to his brother, son, anger management counselor, and the police that he killed cathy. these confessions did not admit planning or premeditation. the enemy statements were not cumulative on those elements of a first degree murder charge, nor were they unduly prejudicial in light of the other evidence at trial including for all the above reasons, the enemy statements had substantial probative value and little potential for undue prejudice, their admission did not render the trial fundamentally unfair, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting them, and defendant due process rights were not violated. iii. crime scene reconstruction expert delhauspeculative. when the prosecutor asked crime scene reconstruction expert delhauer was murdered, . . . defendant objected that the question called for speculation. appellate counsel argues there was no evidentiary support for appellate counsel further contends that the 45 opinion . . . implies the defendant waited for an opportune time to 15 admit or exclude expert testimony [citation], and its decision as to whether expert testimony meets the standard for admissibility (people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 426.) a witness may testify as an expert sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an (evid. code,  801, subd. (a).) (people v. wright (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 537, 546.) inferences based solely on speculation are insufficient support for expert opinion. (ibid.) description a surprise nor does the record support . . . implies the defendant waited for an 15 appellate counsel also argued was improper at the time he gave it because delhauer had not yet been provided any evidence upon which he could base an qualifications and state in general terms the materials he had considered. counsel acknowledges that if sufficient foundation for the opinion were subsequently laid, then any error in admitting the opinion would be harmless. delhauer subsequently described in considerable detail the evidence upon which his opinion was based. any timing error was thus harmless. 46 when asked fattacked, delhauer would be consistent with a blitz assault, meaning something that was sudden and that she had minimal opportunity to defend against. she was on her feet for a very short period of time. she was taken down rapidly. her throat was slit from a position from when the prosecutor later asked delhauer to confirm that a blitz delhauer explained, initial contact, it may have started from behind; it may have started frontally, but it was very quicklyit moved. the offender attack. he explained that a blitz attack has two components: speed and overwhelming violence. the expert used the word assault is characterized as something that happens suddenly. that the attack is coming. so when violent or so violent that the person has very little, if any, chance almost immediately put in a position where they no longer have the abilit description of a blitz attack was simply a description of a type of attackone of such speed and overwhelming violence that the victim is unable to defend herself. 47 at no point during his testimony did delhauer opine on the thought processes behind a blitz attack, nor did he opine on whether a blitz attacker typically waits for an opportune moment to attack. attack theory was his belief that the relatively small number of defensive wounds meant [cathy] had not had time to defend herself. underlying this theory was the assumption that, had [cathy] not been taken by surprise, she would have tried to fight off her attacker and would have suffered as set forth above, appellate delhauer it is true dethat cathy died in a blitz attack was based in part on the small number of defensive wounds argument that there was no way for delhauer to know whether cause [cathy] had no time to fight back or because she chose [to] -wielding attacker with her first, appellate counsel offers no evidentiary support for the argument that victims of violent attacks behave rationally. to the contrary, the pathologist testified her arms in defense as an existential response, and delhauer testified that gunshot victims also raise their arms defensively even though their hands cannot stop or deflect a bullet. second, initial contact, it may have started from behind; it may have 48 started frontally, but it was very quicklyit moved. the offender appellate throat was slit by a person standing behind her. third, was delhauer also relied on evidence showing that cath delhauer used a crime scene photograph depicting the sole of one rapidly. delhauer pointed out that although there were blood stains on the floor around the shoe, there were no blood stains on the bottom of the shoe. delhauer explained, this time that she was upright, she was not stepping in blood. means there was very little blood, if any, on the floor at the time of the blood as blood began to opinion that the attack was rapid and overwhelming. he cathy had on her hands as consistent with wounds from an attack from behind. delhauer noted that these defensive wounds a minimal period in which she had to defend herself. as ed the defense wounds and the greater the number of defense wounds, 49 in short, attack was based on the lack of any significant defensive wounds, regardless of whether from a frontal or rear attack, coupled with the short time she remained standing. delhauer did not assume that defendant initially approached cathy from behind; delhauer expressly disavowed that scenario. for all these reasons, the trial court did not abuse its dispostion the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j.* we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 