filed 11/8/18 p. v. castaneda ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jaime mendez castaneda et al., defendants and appellants. b278764 los angeles county super. ct. no. ya092302 appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, steven r. van sicklen, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with instructions. james r. bostwick, jr., under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jaime mendez castaneda. linda l. gordon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant walter maradiaga. julie schumer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant byron zamora. 2 xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, william h. shin and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ after a three-defendant trial, a jury convicted jaime mendez castaneda of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211),1 convicted castaneda, walter maradiaga, and byron zamora of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), and found true that zamora personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). all three defendants appeal. we strike the protective orders naming the defendants, vacate maradiagance and remand for resentencing, and otherwise affirm the judgments. background an information charged that on or about april 14, 2015, castaneda, maradiaga, and zamora robbed michael w., in violation of section 211 (count 1), and assaulted michael w. with a deadly weapon, in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1) (count 2); and alleged all three defendants personally inflicted great bodily injury on michael w., under section 12022.7, subdivision (a). the information alleged all three defendants had prior felony convictions. castaneda, zamora, and maradiaga all pleaded not guilty. before trial, the court allegation that he had a prior serious felony conviction. at trial, 51-year-old michael w. (described by the prosecutor as developmentally disabled) testified that on 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 april 14, 2015, he was riding his bike near the el zorro market when he saw a small dog. he (and without meaning to hurt it), because dogs used to chase him when he was younger, and one had bitten him. castaneda, maradiaga, and zamora (whom michael w. had never seen before) were outside the market. castaneda said, my dog,and ordered michael w. not to run off. michael w. testified that castaneda told him, i had to get beer for them, or going to beat me, you know, crap out of me. the prosecution played a surveillance video for the jury. afraid all three men would beat him up if he did not buy beer, and hoping to make castaneda less angry, michael w. went inside the market, followed by castaneda and zamora, who stood in line behind him. michael w. bought three beers. back doors were locked so he could not leave, and when he asked to use the phone to call the police, the cashier said, o. maradiaga entered the market and asked michael w. to buy him a soda, but michael w. responded he did not have enough money. michael w. went back to the cooler to get more beer for himself, paid for two beers, and went outside. the defendants were waiting, and sneaked up on michael w. from behind. maradiaga said, . michael w. pulled his wallet out halfway and put it back in his pocket. michael w. testified, o stabbed him, michael w. first said either zamora or maradiaga stabbed him, although maybe one held him down, or one or both stabbed him and held him down. he then said maradiaga stabbed him while to die too fast. i do the three men ran off. 4 michael w. went back inside the market and told the cashier, this guy stabbed me. the cashier would not let him use the phone to call 911. he rode his bike to a nearby auto parts store, where someone called 911 for him. police and paramedics arrived and took michael w. to the hospital. they tried to interview him, but he could hardly talk. michael w. was in the hospital for about eight days. he had 40 stitches in his stomach. michael w. had a long surgical scar from his chest to his belt line, and two knife marks on the left side of his belly. michael w. identified a prosecution exhibit as the folding knife used to stab him. he had not seen the knife handle at the time of the stabbing, but had seen the blade, which was about three inches long. on cross-examination, michael w. testified castaneda said as going to beat the living shit out of meichael w. volunteered to buy castaneda a beer because he was afraid, and castaneda then asked him to buy a beer for his friends. after he bought three beers for castaneda, maradiaga, and zamora, he went back into the store and bought two more beers for himself. michael w. testified that zamora held him during the stabbing. he then said all three were holding him. michael w. agreed the surveillance video did not show him asking the cashier to call 911 when he bought beer for the men. outside, the three men had circled him like hawks or hyenas and then he went down. looking at the video, michael w. said zamora stabbed him, and castaneda stood apart during the attack. when michael w. went back into the store after the stabbing, he asked for a bag for his beer and then told the t castaneda came up to him and 5 asked, michael w. responded, michael w. agreed that new situations scared him and he was a little afraid whenever he met new people, including the first time he met the prosecutor. he said, an inglewood police department officer testified she responded to the 911 call and found michael w. sitting outside the auto parts store. michael w. showed her the injuries on the left side of his abdomen, and told her three male hispanics were involved (without saying who stabbed him). he described two of the men by their clothing, and the third had a tattoo on his chin. the officer detained maradiaga and castaneda. when she searched castaneda, she found the folding knife; the blade was bent. a detective testified he arrested zamora in the course of the investigation. castaneda, maradiaga, and zamora all told the detective they were at the el zorro market, but gave no more information. the defendants rested without presenting any evidence. the trial court granted maradiaga and zamorajudgment of acquittal under section 1118.1 on the robbery count, finding there was insufficient evidence that michael w. was afraid of anyone other than castaneda when he bought the beer, or that the other defendants knew castaneda had threatened michael w. the trial court also granted section 1118.1 motion on the great bodily injury enhancement ( 120227, subd. (a)), because the enhancement applied only to the defendant who stabbed michael w. 6 the jury found castaneda guilty of robbery and assault with a deadly weapon, maradiaga guilty of assault with a deadly weapon, and zamora guilty of assault with a deadly weapon, also finding true that zamora inflicted great bodily injury. the trial court sentenced castaneda to two years in state prison (the low term) for robbery, with a concurrent term of two years for assault with a deadly weapon. in a bifurcated proceeding, maradiaga admitted to a prior felony conviction for assault with a deadly weapon, within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and section 1170.12, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced maradiaga to a total of nine years in state prison, including enhancements. in a bifurcated proceeding, zamora admitted a prior felony conviction for voluntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (a)), within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and section 1170.12, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced zamora to a total of 16 years in state prison, including enhancements. all three defendants filed notices of appeal. discussion 1. castaneda castaneda argues insufficient evidence supports his convictions for robbery and for assault with a deadly weapon. on a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence, we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1175 (young)support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could ibid.) 7 possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear. ( 211.) an intent to steal. (people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994.) castaneda argues the evidence does not establish that he ey to buy beer) against his will. he admits he struck fear in michael w. by living demanded that michael w. hand over any property, arguing it defendants. substantial evidence thwarts this argument. michael w. testified although on cross-examination he testified he volunteered to buy the beer because he was afraid of castaneda, he added that castaneda had asked him to buy the beer. finding that castaneda was guilty of robbery, sufficient evidence supported against his will. castaneda also argues he was motivated by anger at michael w. for chasing his dog, not by a desire to take michael . while that is one possible interpretation of the evidence, a rational jury also could have concluded that castaneda was motivated by a desirto buy the beer. as to his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon, castaneda argues the jury concluded that zamora was the stabber (by finding true that zamora personally inflicted great 8 bodily injury), and no substantial evidence shows he aided and abetted zamora. here too we conclude the evidence supported conviction. an aider and abettor is guilty as a principal. ( 31.) a criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of committing, or of encouraging or facilitating commission of, the offense (people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 161.) intent is rarely shown by direct proof and usually must be inferred from the circumstances surrounding the offense. (people v. pre (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 413, 420.) while mere presence at the scene or failure to prevent a crime alone is not sufficient, the jury may consider sence at the scene of the (people v. campbell (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 402, 409 (campbell).) ependently happen by the scene of (ibid.) before the stabbing, he threatened michael w. with a beating, instructed him to get beer, and accompanied him into the market with zamora. he then waited outside the market with zamora and maradiaga, circling michael w. when he exited (although not holding michael w. down during the stabbing). after the stabbing, michael w. testified castaneda asked him w[bed] you like and castaneda argues the jury could infer castaneda was surprised by the knife attack. yet the folding he was arrested, which supports an inference that the knife may have been his to begin with and that he gave it to zamora to use. even when the circumstances shown by the evidence might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding, we nevertheless 9 will not reverse a judgment for insufficient evidence. (people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 139.) castaneda] played an affirmative supportive role in the [stabbing] and was not (campbell, supra, 25 cal.app.4th at p. 410.) robbery and assault with a deadly weapon. 2. maradiaga a. like castaneda, maradiaga argues insufficient evidence supports his conviction for aiding and abetting assault with a deadly weapon. michael w. testified that after he bought the beers for castaneda and zamora, maradiaga came into the market and asked michael w. to buy him a soda; michael w. refused. maradiaga, like castaneda, was outside the market with zamora when michael w. exited, and maradiaga said, rst michael w. testified maradiaga stabbed him, but then said it was zamora, and zamora and/or maradiaga held him down. the video shows maradiaga very close to michael w. during the stabbing. the jury could reasonably conclude that maradiaga engaged in concerted action with castaneda and zamora before the stabbing, implying a common purpose, and that, like castaneda, maradiaga intimidated and blocked michael w. from leaving after he exited the market. a jury could also conclude that maradiaga played an affirmative supportive role in restraining michael w. during the stabbing and was not liability attaches to anyone 10 however slight such concern may be.people v. swanson-birabent (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 733, 743.) b. the record does not affirmatively show maradiaga voluntarily and intelligently waived his constitutional rights when he admitted his prior conviction maradiaga also argues he did not voluntarily and intelligently waive his constitutional right to trial before he admitted his prior conviction. the information alleged maradiaga had a prior conviction in april 2012 for assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). maradiaga agreed to bifurcate trial on the allegation. after excusing the jury to deliberate, the trial court noted that both maradiaga and zamora had strike priors charged against themjurythis jury to decide that should the jury come back with a verdict that could make these priors relevant. or whether they would allow me to determine whether these priorsthe gentlemen, you have the right to have a jury trial on that issue. priors were charged against the two of you as sentence jury trial, and zamora agreed he was willing to have the court, rather than a jury, decide whether the prior occurred. the court asked maradiaga if he agreed; he answered yes, and waived his right to trial by jury on the prior. 11 at sentencing six weeks later, the court advised maradiaga: the prior that was charged against you . . . to plea or verdict had occurred indeed the prior that was charged against you [under] penal code 245(a)(1) in case ya081756. not contesting that you were convicted of this and want to admit that, then you are waiving your right to have a trial on the issue. a jury. and all i would determine is whether or not there are documents in existence that reflected that this conviction occurred. do you after counsel and maradiaga conferred, counsel stated, 2 the court respondedthe only issue legally is whether that prior [conviction] occurred on or about april 2nd, 2012, and that the prior conviction alleged is a violation of penal code n, counsel and maradiaga conferred. the court continued: if you admit the prior, then i would not ask to look into the documents that the people would 2 status. later, the prosecutor stated that maradiaga had been off probation for the prior strike only 12 days before he committed the current offense in 2015. 12 give me to determine whether this occurred. and the trial would simply be me essentially looking at the documents. are you willing to waive your right to a trial and admit the prior conviction? after conferring again with maradiaga, counsel asked the court to repeat the question, and the court stated: not you have a prior felony conviction on your t on april 2nd, 2012, you either entered a plea or were found guilty of violating penal code section 245(a)(1), which is a felony assault charge.3 simply asking whether you admit this prior maradiaga answered, y]es, and the court found the prior allegation true. the court imposed the low term of two years, doubled the sentence to four years for the strike prior, and imposed an additional consecutive five year enhancement under section 667(a)(1) for a total sentence of nine years. before a defendant admits the truth of an allegation of a prior conviction, the trial court must advise the defendant that by admitting the conviction, he waives his constitutional rights to a jury trial, the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses, and the privilege against self-incrimination. (people v. mosby (2004) 3 three days before the sentencing hearing, maradiaga filed a motion to strike his prior strike conviction which he described (a)(1) [sic] there is no other record evidence of a guilty plea. 13 33 cal.4th 353, 359-360 (mosby).) the trial court must also advise the defendant of the penal consequences of the admission, he penal consequences, the error is waived if not raised at or before people v. wrice (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 767, 770-771; in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857, 864-865.) here, on the day the jury began deliberations, the court advised maradiaga of his right to a jury trial, and he waived that right. nevertheless, at sentencing six weeks later, the court did not advise maradiaga of his right against self-incrimination and his right to confront adverse witnesses before maradiaga admitted the prior conviction, nor did the court advise him of the penal consequences. his admission resulted in a doubling of his two-year sentence to four years and an additional five year enhancement.4 as the court advised maradiaga of his right to a jury trial, but not his right to remain silent and his right to confront adverse witnesses, (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 363.) mosby held that immediately after a jury verdict of guilty, a defendant admits a prior conviction after being advised of and waiving only the right to trial . . . that admission [can] be voluntary and intelligent even though the defendant was not told of, and thus did not expressly waive, the concomitant rights to remain silent and confront adverse witnesses . . . if the totality of the circumstances surrounding the admission supports such a conclusion.id. at p. 356, italics added.) had just 4 rlier the same morning (at which maradiaga was not present), the court did advise zamora of his right to confront witnesses and to testify in his own behalf before zamora admitted his prior conviction. 14 undergone a jury trial would have known of, but had just exercised, his right to remain silent at trial,at that immediately concluded trial, [so] he would have (id. at p. 364.) the criminal justice system also was relevant to whether he knowingly waived his constitutional rights, and as prior conviction had followed his plea of guilty, he would have been advised of his rights in the earlier case and had experience in waiving his trial rights. (id. at p. 365.) in people v. lloyd (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 49, 59 (lloyd), as here, when the jury began deliberations, the defendant waived his right to a jury trial on his prior conviction and the court advised him of his right to a court trial. his admission of his five counsel declared a conflict of interest and was relieved as counsel of record, new counsel was appointed to represent defendant, and the matter was continued a number of times for trial on the state (ibid.) sentencing did not occur until seven months after trial, defeating an inference that the defendant was aware of the rights he had exercised at trial. (ibid.) there was no information whether any of his prior convictions were guilty pleas in which he would have received advisements of his trial rights. (id. at p. 60.) under those circumstances, the court of appeal held the totality of the circumstances did not demonstrate a knowing and intelligent (id. at pp. 59-60.) 15 in people v. christian (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 688, 691-692 (christian), the defendant (who had five previous convictions of serious felonies) pleaded no contest to robbery and admitted one prior strike conviction and two prior serious felony convictions, for a total prison term of 20 years. before the defendant accepted the plea and admission, the trial court stated the district attorney would apprise the defendant of his constitutional rights, which applied not only to the robbery charge but also to the allegations of a prior strike and two five-year priors. e rights in (id. at p. 692.) the prosecutor advised the defendant of his right to jury trial on both the robbery and the priors, and explained that admitting to the priors would mean in the future he would be treated as a third-strike offender, with a minimum sentence of 25 years to life. (id. at pp. 692-693.) the trial court found he had expressly and intelligently waived his rights and the plea and admission were a and admission, and imposed the 20-year sentence. (id. at p. 693.) on appeal, the defendant argued that because the court did not advise him of his rights to confront witnesses and self-incrimination, his plea to the substantive offense and the priors was invalid. (christian, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at p. 693.) we pointed out that the defendant had not just participated in a trial where he might exercise his rights to confrontation and to remain silent; instead, al on the substantive charges as id. at p. 697.) the record showed defendant had five prior convictions, but not whether those convictions were reached by plea or trial, infer that he would have received advisements in his prior cases 16 (ibid.) his most recent prior conviction was nine years before the present charges. (ibid.) we therefore could not infer that his sent (id. at p. 698.) although the defendant consulted with counsel about the plea offer, the substance of that conversation was not in the record. (ibid.) while nothing mandates that the trial judge be the one to advise a defendant of his constitutional rights (lloyd, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 57, fn. 6), without a record of any conversations with counsel e will not presume appellant was informed of his . . conversation with his c (christian, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at p. 698.) similarly, this record does not affirmatively show that remain silent was voluntary and intelligent. maradiaga waived his right to jury trial while the jury was deliberating, but did not waive his right to a court trial until six weeks later. we thus do not have the assurance that he had just exercised his rights to remain silent and to confront witnesses as in mosby, supra, nor that he would understand that those rights adhered in a court trial as well as in a jury trial. in the probation report showed a felony conviction for possession of a controlled substance in 2008, a misdemeanor conviction for possession of a dangerous weapon in 2010, a misdemeanor conviction for marijuana possession in 2011, and the prior alleged in this case, the felony conviction for assault with a deadly weapon in 2012. criminal history is not so extensive or so recent that we may presume he understood his constitutional rights at the time of sentencing in this case. although maradiaga repeatedly consulted with trial counsel 17 before admitting his prior conviction, we lack any information about the substance of those consultations and have no assurance that counsel informed maradiaga of the rights he was about to waive. we cannot conclude the record affirmatively shows that knowing and voluntary waiver of his (people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, 1179, italics added.) maradiaga thus is entitled to reversal of the portion of his sentence based on the prior conviction allegation. on remand, the trial court may proceed to try the prior conviction allegation or accept an admission to the allegation, after securing an adequate a court trial and his other constitutional rights. 3. zamora zamora argues insufficient evidence establishes that he stabbed michael m., or aided and abetted in the stabbing. he also argues calcrim no. 331, an instruction on evaluating the testimony of a person with a developmental disability, is unconstitutional, and insufficient evidence supported giving the instruction in this case. finally, he argues the court abused its discretion when it failed to strike his prior strike conviction. a. zamora argues no forensic evidence connected him to the actual stabbing, the video made it difficult to see who wielded the unreliable, and castaneda, not zamora, had the knife when the defendants were arrested. again, to determine whether the evidence is sufficient we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment, presuming the existence of every fact 18 the jury could reasonably infer from the evidence. (young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1175.) we resolve neither witness credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts: inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support id. at p. 1181.) taking into account the testimony and the video evidence, the evidence is sufficient to establish that zamora stabbed michael w. michael w. testified that zamora was with castaneda and maradiaga outside the market, and zamora and castaneda went into the market with him after castaneda threatened to beat michael w. unless he bought them beer. zamora was outside with castaneda and maradiaga when michael w. exited the market. the men surrounded michael w., who testified that either maradiaga or zamora stabbed him and . after viewing the video, michael w. testified that zamora stabbed him. zamora calls michael w. points to inconsistencies in his testimony, but we resolve credibility issues and conflicts in testimony in favor of the judgment. viewing the surveillance video in the light most favorable to the judgment, we conclude it is stabbed michael w. b. calcrim no. 331 is not unconstitutional, and substantial evidence supported the instruction the trial court gave calcrim no. 331 to the jury: with a developmental disability, consider all of 19 testimony, including his level of cognitive development. even though a person with a developmental disability may perform differently as a witness because of his level of cognitive development, that does not mean he is any more or less credible than another witness. you should not discount or distrust the testimony of a person with a developmental disability solely because he has such a none of the three defendants objected to the instruction. proceeding in which a person with a developmental disability, or cognitive, mental, or communication impairment testifies as a witness, upon the request of a party, the court shall instruct the as given to the jury in this case. in people v. catley (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 500, 508 (catley), the court of appeal noted that , like the instruction advising a jury on the testimony of a child, the credibility of a class of witnesses as to whmay previously have biased the factfinding (catley, at p. 508.) the statutory history describes the legislative intent of section 1127g as protecting the rights of developmentally disabled persons and other dependent persons who are witnesses in criminal cases and ensuring that they are given equal access to the criminal justice system,and the use of 20 (catley, at p. 508; people v. keeper (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 511, 520.) unduly inflatethe testimony of the witness. (catley, at p. 507.) instead, the entitled to fairness, but just as obviously he or she cannot complain of an instruction the necessary effect of which is to increase the likelihood of a fair result. there was no denial of due processibid.) we agree the instruction is not unconstitutional. zamora also argues the evidence was insufficient to show that person. (catley, supra, 148 cal.app.4th at p. 508.) we disagree. dependent person has a physical or mental impairment that substantially restricts his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or developmental disabilities or whose physical or (ibid.) the prosecutor and all three defendants argued at trial that michael w. was developmentally disabled. the opening statement began: . . . michael [w.], the victim in this case in closing, the developmental disability when considering how he described the events surrounding his stabbing. described michael w. a-speaking with childlike innocence and not knowing how to lie or manipulate. michael w. was 21 at maradiagacourt given his disability, was the equivalent . . . of what we might otherwise call a hate crime,and took advantage of michael w. ncludes anyone with a physical or mental impairment substantially restricts his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights, including . . . persons who have . . . developmental disabilities. (catley, supra, 148 cal.app.4th at p. 508, italics added.) as a developmentally disabled person whose disability restricted his ability to protect his rights, michael w. was included in the definition. c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in the information alleged that in 1988, zamora was convicted of voluntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (a)), within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12). before trial, zamora filed a motion to dismiss the prior strike conviction under section 1385 and people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. zamora argued the 1988 and he was remorseful after the current crimes. at a hearing on the motion, the court noted that zamora had a racketeering and firearm case in texas 10 years after his 1988 manslaughter conviction, a probation violation in 2007 for which he was ordered to drug rehabilitation, and a possession of drug paraphernalia case in 2015. zamora continued to engage in criminal activity, and at age 48 was a risk to public safety. , . counsel argued zamora had not had an opportunity to address his substance 22 abuse. . . . i do remember seeing evidence where the victim was ordered or asked to go in and buy beer for these guys, and what he got for it was basically a knife in the b zamora has the burden to show clearly that the ruling was e that showing, we presume the trial court acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 376-377.) the motion. the court considered the nature and circumstance of a deadly weapon; his prior violent felony and his continued involvement in criminal activity; and the particulars of his prospects (his remorse and his need for substance abuse treatment), all of which had support in the record. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) zamora did not present to the trial court, and does not identify on appeal, any reason why the denial of his motion to strike his prior strike conviction was outside the bounds of reason. (people v. cluff (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 991, 998.) 4. the criminal protective orders must be reversed castaneda, maradiaga, and zamora all challenge the criminal protective orders, and respondent agrees the orders are improper. at the sentencing hearings, the trial court granted the prosecutios restraining castaneda, maradiaga, and zamora from contact with michael w. for 10 years, without defense objection. the protective orders were on a judicial council form stating the orders were under section 136.2, subdivision (i)(1), which provides for restraining 23 [i]n all cases in which a criminal defendant has been convicted of a crime involving tion as a sex offender. none of the appellants was convicted of a crime of domestic violence or a crime requiring registration. the orders thus are unauthorized sentences jurisdiction, which may be challenged even without objection in the trial court. (people v. ponce (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 378, 381-382.) the protective orders must be stricken. disposition the criminal protective orders are stricken. walter maradiagasentence is vacated, and the matter is remanded for a new court trial and resentencing on the prior conviction allegation. in all other respects, the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. dhanidina, j. 