filed 4/26/18 p. v. freeman ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marcus freeman, defendant and appellant. b279667 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba441772) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. jose i. sandoval, judge. affirmed. daniel g. koryn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stacy s. schwartz and christopher g. sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted marcus freeman (defendant) of pimping (pen. code.,  266h, subd. (a))1that is, of knowingly deriving support and maintenance form a person he knows to be a prostitute. when the victim-prostitute could not be located in the months leading up to trial, the court admitted her preliminary hearing testimony in lieu of her live testimony at trial. defendant asserts this violated his constitutional right to confront witnesses. we reject this assertion, and affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts in early november 2015, police officers watched as chloe a. (chloe)2 chatted with lone male motorists along figueroa street in los angeles. the motorist drove to a motel, the two engaged in sexual acts for approximately 20 minutes, and he eventually returned her to figueroa street. chloe then called defendant on her cell phone. he drove up moments later, and they did a swap: she handed him money, and he handed her condoms. moments later, police arrested chloe and defendant. chloe had a cell phone and condoms (but no money), and defendant had $2,330 in cash. police found a cell phone used 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 because chloe was a minor at the time of her arrest, the do the same. 3 ii. procedural background a. charge the people charged defendant with a single count of pimping ( 266h, subd. (a)); specifically, the people alleged that derive[d] support and maintenance in whole [or] in part frprostitution earnings. b. preliminary hearing the court conducted a preliminary hearing on this charge on february 16, 2016. the investigating police officer had served chloe with the subpoena to t the her own transportation to the hearing. chloe was the sole witness. she testified that defendant, about a month after they met, had introduced her to the world of prostitution. she had become a p nevertheless, defendant decided which nights she would work; he drove her to one of the three western or on figueroa in los angeles or in pomona); he and she together set the prices to be charged for various sex acts as well as her n; he ; and he ings from prostitution, which were used to buy food and clothes for both of them. c. first trial date the date first set for trial was august 30, 2016. five days earlier, on august 25, 2016, the investigating police officer on the case attempted to serve chloe with a trial subpoena. (where the subpoena to testify at the preliminary hearing had 4 been served), and (2) at a second address chloe had listed as an alternate residence. spoken with chloe in two months, and no one answered at the alternate residence. the officer left her business card at the to all of the law enforcement agencies in los angeles, orange, riverside, san bernardino, and ventura counties. she received no positive response. on the morning of trial, the people answered unable to proceed. the people then dismissed the charge against defendant anfiled it pursuant to sections 1382 and 1387.2 d. second trial date trial was next set for november 2, 2016. that morning, the people reported that they had yet to locate or subpoena chloe and asked to use her preliminary hearing testimony at trial. to secure chloe as a witness. the investigating officer and another member of her team between august 30 and november 2. the officers had gone back d refused to give them a phone number. on november 1, they again three occasions, once in late september and twice in mid-october. band because chloe had said she usually worked the figueroa 5 time periods ranging from 45 minutes to five hours. the investigating officer resent the angeles county database to see if chloe had been arrested, and also checked the every effort came up negative. on the day of the due diligence hearing, the officers database yielded no hits, address as the alternative address the officers had been surveilling. the line. when the officers told her that her testimony was he phone, and adamantly refused to testify, explaining that defendant had killed someone and had posted a $5,000 reward for her murder. chloe refused to divulge her location and hung up. the trial preliminary hearing testimony at trial. the court reasoned that r best to evade service of . . . t showing [of] due the trial court permitted the prosecutor to read all of ng testimony into the record. the jury returned a guilty verdict. e. sentencing the trial court imposed a three-year prison sentence. f. appeal defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. 6 discussion sole claim on appeal is that the trial court hearing testimony at his trial. the sixth amendment guarantees . . . to be confronted with the witnesses s. const., 6th amend.people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 892, 897 (cromer).) as spelled out in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawford), the confrontation clause is not violated when the people introduce the statements of an absent witness if (1) that witness is unavailable to testify at trial, and (2) the defendant had a previous opportunity to cross-examine that witness. (id. at pp. 62, 68; people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 680; evid. code,  1291, subd. (a)(2).) if these conditions are preliminary hearing testimony at trial. (e.g., people v. herrera (2010) 49 cal.4th 613, 621 (herrera).) i. unavailability rom the hearing and the proponent of . . . her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure . . . (evid. code,  240, subd. (a)(5); cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 898 [using this definition for confrontation clause purposes].) the prosecution bears the burden of establishing reasonable diligence. (herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 623.) we review the determination of reasonable diligence de novo. (cromer, at pp. 900-901.) 7 reasonable diligence is a flexible standard aimed at were people v. bunyard (2009) 45 cal.4th 836, 856; cromer, suprapersevering application, untiring efforts in good earnest, efforts of demands the people v. cummings not prescient perfection(people v. diaz (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 695, 706 (diaz)). in whether the search was timely (2) cromer, at p. 904.) what matters is the reasonableness of what the people did, not whether additional efforts or other lines of inquiry would have been more fruitful. (people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 342 (wilson).) applying these factors, we independently agree with the diligence in attempting to locate chloe. the investigating police officer and her team started looking for chloe on august 25nearly 10 weeks before the november 2 trial date. that the officers began looking for chloe five days before the august 30 trial date is, contrary to what defendant suggests, of no moment because the trial date was moved and, more importantly, the search for chloe continued. although the testimony of the man who drove her to the motel, the surveillance officers, and the arresting officers established that 8 chloe was selling sexual services, that she and defendant were working together, and that she gave defendant all of her cash confirmed the circumstantial evidence showing that defendant was knowingly from prostitution. and the officers competently explored numerous leads. -starter, they started looking for chloe at her alternate pertinent law enforcement databases. indeed, their efforts finally succeeded when they reached chloe on the first day of remain hidden. efforts similar to these have satisfied the reasonable diligence requirement. (e.g., people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 292-293 [reasonable diligence shown where investigator attempted to reach the witness by phone, visited his home once, checked dmv records and visited two other apartments listed in those records, spoke with five or six neighbors but received no leads, rreal estate records, and court records]; people v. wise (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 339, 344 [reasonable diligence shown where prosecution attempted to serve the witness three times at one address, twice at others, and contacted the jail, hospital, coroner, and post office].) defendant raises three arguments in response. first, he asserts that the people did not exercise reasonable diligence because they waited too long to start looking for chloe. in his view, the people should have served chloe with some sort of subpoena right after she testified at the preliminary hearing. for support, he cites people v. louis (1986) 42 cal.3d 969. we reject 9 this assertion. louis holds that the reasonable diligence standard is not met if the people fail to take adequate measures to prevent a crucial witness from fleeing if the prosecutor or investigators know of a substantial risk the witness will flee. (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 68; people v. snchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 446-447; louis, at pp. 990-992.) even if we assume that chloe is a crucial witness, the people knew she was at most uncooperative; they did not knowor, for that matter, have any reason to knowthat she was a substantial flight risk. after all, she showed up to testify at the preliminary hearing on her own. in louis, by contrast, the people agreed to let a critical eyewitness out of custody on his own recognizance for a weekend [i]n [his] mind there was a very real possibility that the man would (louis, at p. 992.) the prosecutor here suspected no -ing. further, to the extent defendant chloe between february and august 2016, the law is to the contrary. (see people v. fuiava [w]e could not properly impose upon the people an obligation to keep on every material witness in a second, defendant crawford, however, the reliability of her testimony is no longer relevant to the confrontation clause analysis. (wilson, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 343.) lastly, defendant argues that the people should have called hearing. as noted above, however, reasonable diligence is to be measured by what the people did, not what they might have done. (wilson, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 342.) more to the point, 10 and the conversation with chloe herselfreasonably diligent efforts to locate chloe would have lead to naught because chloe adamantly refused to disclose her whereabouts or to testify. (accord, diaz, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at pp. 706-to reasonable diligence inquiry].) ii. prior opportunity to cross-examine the exception for prior testimony of an unavailable witness applies as long as the defendant had a prior opportunity to cross-examine the absent witness. (crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at pp. 62, 68.) that requirement is met if the defendant had a similar -examine that witness at the prior proceeding as he would have at the upcoming trial. (people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 332 (harrissimilar. (id. at p. 333.) the prior cross-examination in the prior proceeding need not be -examination at trial because the effective cross-effective prosecution.people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 850.) in this case, defendant had the prior opportunity to cross-examine chloe at the preliminary hearing. and, in fact, he took that opportunity and asked her several questions about the details of her arrangement with defendant, about her personal choice to be a prostitute, and about potential lies she had made to law enforcement in the past, all of which the jury heard at what is more, the trial court imposed no limits on this cross-examination. 11 defendant asserts that his prior cross-examination was could not question chloe about it. it is well settled, however, that interest and motive at a second proceeding is not dissimilar . . . simply because events occurring after the first proceeding might have led counsel to alter the nature and scope of cross-(harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 333.)3 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p. j. lui _________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 3 because we conclude there was no error, we have no occasion to evaluate the question of prejudice. 