filed 4/23/19 p. v. figueroa ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan martin figueroa, defendant and appellant. b279062 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba441336 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. dan mrotek, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, yun k. lee and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant juan martin figueroa of one count of first degree murder with a true finding that he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death. the trial court sentenced figueroa to a total term of 50 years to life in prison. on appeal, figueroa contends the court prejudicially erred when it precluded a motion. establishing a claim that the people violated his right to compulsory process under the state and federal constitutions by misrepresenting that the witness was unavailable to testify at trial. figueroa also argues we should remand this matter for resentencing to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion to impose or to strike his firearm enhancement under penal code1 section 12022.53, subdivision (h), which was recently amended by senate bill no. 620 (s.b. 620). we remand the matter for resentencing in light of s.b. 620 but otherwise affirm the judgment. factual background figueroa, frank martinez, art gomez, and jesus rendon were members of the state street gang based in the boyle heights neighborhood of los angeles. during the evening of november 30, 2011, figueroa, martinez, and about three other men and two women were hanging out in the front yard of a house on city view avenue in boyle heights. 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 gomez, who was driving with several other people in his group of people standing outside. gomez then drove away and dropped off some of his passengers before returning to the house. gomez walked up to the front yard and started throwing punches at some of the people standing in front of the house. the group did not immediately fight back. gomez walked away from the group and made a phone call. shortly after gomez made the call, rendon drove up and parked his car outside the house. gomez and rendon met up in the street. they then walked back toward the house, at which point standing outside. as gomez and rendon walked toward the house, figueroa and martinez started shooting at them. figueroa shot rendon several times, killing him. gomez was also shot several times and later died from his injuries. procedural background in december 2015, the people charged figueroa with two counts of murder ( 187, subd. (a) [count 1 gomez; count 2 rendon]). as to both counts, the people alleged figueroa personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death or great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subds. (b)(d)). the people also alleged that counts 1 and 2 together constituted a multiple-murder special circumstance ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3)). 2016, the court declared a mistrial after the jury deadlocked one to eleven in favor of not guilty on count 1, and two to ten in favor of not guilty on count 2. 4 figueroa guilty of first degree murder on count 2 and found true the firearm enhancement as to that count; the jury acquitted figueroa of count 1. in september 2016, the court denied figuea new trial. the court sentenced figueroa to a term of 50 years to life in prison, consisting of 25 years to life on count 2, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). figueroa filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion 1. new trial. in his new trial motion, figueroa argued the people violated his right to compulsory process under the state and federal constitutions when they claimed fernando ibarra, a appearing as a witness at the second trial. figueroa sought to call ibarra as a witness at the hearing on the new trial motion to testify about whether he had in fact avoided testifying at the ibarra to testify at the new trial hearing precluded figueroa from establishing whether the people violated his right to compulsory process. figueroa asks us to conditionally reverse his judgment and remand the matter for a new hearing on his new trial the people falsely represented that ibarra was unavailable to appear as a witness during their case-in-chief at the second trial, 5 own defense. 1.1. applicable law and standard of review the sixth amendment to the united states constitution and article i, section 15, of the california constitution guarantee a criminal defendant the right to compel the attendance of people v. jacinto (2010) 49 cal.4th 263, 268269 (jacintothe right of an accused to compel witnesses to come into court and give evidence in the s defense is a fundamental one. as the high court has the right to offer the testimony of witnesses, and to compel their attendance, if necessary, is in plain terms the right to present a defense, the s version of the fs to the jury so it may decide where the truth lies. just as an accused has the right to confront challenging their testimony, he has the right to present his own witnesses to establish a defense. the right is a fundamental ibid.) the prosecution can infringe witnesses to testify in a number of ways, such as by threatening to prosecute a witness for any crimes he or she reveals or a defense witness before he or other defense witnesses have given their testimony.[citation.] (jacinto, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 269.) to establish a compulsory process, the defendant must prove: (1) prosecutorial misconduct; (2) the s misconduct was a substantial cause in preventing the defendant from calling the witness to 6 testify; and (3) the testimony the defendant was unable to present was material to his defense. (id. at pp. 269270.) unlike most other sixth amendment rights, the protections afforded by the right to compulsory process do not arise automatically out of the initiation of the adversary process. (jacinto, suprashield the defendant from potential prosecutorial abuses, the right to compel the presence and present the testimony of witnesses provides the defendant with a sword that may be employ it in a particular case rests solely with the defendant. the very nature of the right requires that its effective use be preceded by deliberate planning and affirmative conductibid., quoting taylor v. illinois (1988) 484 u.s. 400, 410.) thus, to establish a sory process, the jacinto, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 273.) a defendant may move for a new trial on the ground that the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during trial. ( 1181, subd. (s ruling on a motion for a new trial under a deferential abuse-of-discretion standard.s ruling on a motion for new trial is so completely within that courts discretion that a reviewing court will not disturb the ruling absent a manifest and unmistakable people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 140.) 1.2. relevant proceedings ibarra testified as a witness to the shooting during the case-in-7 that she had spoken to the jurors who had served on the first trial. several of the jurors believed discrepancies between ibarrwitness to the shooting, contributed to the jury deadlocking on discrepancies that were highlighted are things that can be addressed by other evidence in the case more effectively the prosecutor told the jury it would hear testimony from ibarra. ify any of the shooters, but he would provide an account of the of two other witnesses. -in-chief, the prosecutor ome serious difficulties people would rest without calling ibarra as a witness. defense counsel stated he was surprised the people were counsel asked the court to continue the trial to the next day to it would allow the people to reopen their case the next day if they were able to contact ibarra. the next day, figueroa presented his defense. figueroa never told the court he wanted ibarra to testify as a witness for his defense, nor did figueroa ask the court to make a finding that ibarra was unavailable to appear as a witness. 8 before his sentencing hearing, figueroa filed a new trial motion, in which he argued, among other things, that the people oa explained that, after trial, one of his investigators contacted ibarra, who claimed he had always cooperated with the people and had been in contact with one of the their investigators during trial that they could not contact ibarra, figueroa insisted he would have called ibarra to appear as a defense witness. what transpired[, and,] [i]n his testimony from the first trial, he states that [] figueroa was not present and was not the person motion. figueroa acknowledged he never informed the court or the people during the second trial that he wanted ibarra to appear as a witness for his defense. when the court questioned why figueroa never asked the court to make a finding that ibarra was unavailable to appear at the second trial, defense believe this person was evading process when this person was a witness that had assisted them in the preparation for the first figueroa requested that the court allow him to call ibarra as a witness at the hearing on the new trial motion to testify on for 9 that this is an issue that rises to a level for a motion for new trial, especially since the witness had previously testified and there was the obvious remedy of asking that the witnes2 1.3. analysis figueroa has failed to show the court erred in denying his request to have ibarra appear as a witness at the hearing on the testimony would have shown some form of prosecutorial misconduct, figueroa cannot establish any violation of his right to compulsory process because he made no attempt during trial to figueroa never informed the court or the people that he wanted to call ibarra as a witness during the second trial. (see jacinto, supra to the extent figueroa claims he reasonably relied on any representations the people may have made availability in deciding not to attempt to call ibarra as a defense witness at the second trial, such reliance would not support a the court explained during the hearing on fmotion, other mechanisms were available to figueroa through 2 it is also unclear whether ibarra could have testified at the new trial have mr. ibarra come before this court and articulate whether, in fact, person [who] is not 10 example, figueroa could have informed the court he intended to call ibarra as a witness and requested a continuance to allow figueroa additional time to locate ibarra and secure his presence at trial. accordingly, even if the court erred by not allowing ibarra to testify at the hearing on the new trial motion, the error was harmless under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. because figueroa failed to take any steps before or during his right to compulsory process was violated by any availability to testify at the second trial. (see jacinto, supra, 49 cal.4th at pp. 273274.) we therefore conclude the court did not 2. remand is necessary for resentencing in light of s.b. 620. in his reply brief, figueroa argues we should remand this case for a new sentencing hearing to allow the court to exercise its discretion to impose or to strike his firearm enhancement under recently amended section 12022.53. (stats. 2017, ch. 682.) at the time it sentenced figueroa, the court was required to impose any firearm enhancements found true under sections 12022.5 and 12022.53. (see former  12022.5, subd. (c) notwithstanding section 1385 or any other provision of law, the court shall not strike an allegation under this section or a finding bringing a person within the provisions of this section12022.53, subd. (h) [same], amended by stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) after s.b. 620 went into effect on january 1, 2018, however, 11 sentencing courts may exercise discretion under sections 12022.5, subdivision (c), and 12022.53, subdivision (h), those statutes he interest of justice (h).) trial courts with discretion, which they formerly did not have, to dismiss or strike a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing that were not final when it went into effect. (people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 972973.) as the people acknowledge, the matter must be remanded for a new sentencing hearing to allow the court, in the first instance, to exercise its discretion to impose or to strike subdivision (h). in remanding the matter for resentencing, we offer no opinion on how the court should exercise its discretion under that statute. 12 disposition is vacated and the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the court to exercise its sentencing discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), as amended by sb 620. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j. 