filed 1/3/19 p. v. southward ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. henrico southward, defendant and appellant. b279209 los angeles county super. ct. no. na024609 appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and gregory b. wagner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant henrico southward, currently serving a third strike sentence, appeals from the denial of his petition under penal code section 1170.126 to recall his sentence. we find no abuse of discretion and affirm. facts and procedural background 1. about 10:00 p.m. on may 10, 1991, a husband and wife were walking on a jogging trail in walnut, california. victims heard footsteps, they turned and saw southward holding a .32-caliber mauser pistol. southward pointed the gun at the male victim i have keys; he told the victims not to call the police and walked away. a short time later, police saw a cadillac leaving the area. southward was in the car with two other young men. police found a .32-with one round in the chamber and six in the magazine. southward told an officer he had done the robbery, his -only weapon in the car. southward told the officer he was a the female victim later told the probation department that she and her husband were both very scared. after the incident, the male victim had trouble sleeping and had to go to the doctor because of chest pains. the victims did not go outside as much as they once had, and they did not walk or jog on the trail anymore. they were considering moving out of the area. the female victim 3 told probation it had been a terrible experience but she was thankful southward had not killed her. he was 10 years old and who was on parole from the california youth authority (cya) at the timeuvenile court. he pleaded no contest to two counts of attempted second degree robbery and admitted the allegation that he personally used a firearm in the commission of the crimes. southward was sentenced to six years and eight months, to be housed at the cya. 2. on may 27, 1995, at about 11:40 at night, long beach police officers noticed a monte carlo driving oddly. the officers then saw the car had expired tags. they turned on their red lights and siren but the car sped away. the officers pursued the car, which accelerated to 60 miles per hour, made erratic lane changes, and ran a red light. eventually, the monte carlo hit a stop sign and stopped. the officers found southward at the wheel and arrested him. according to the probation department report, southward yeah, the four corner block shot at me tonight and i was gonna ak-47. a jury convicted southward of felony evading in violation of vehicle code section 2800.2. in december 1996, the trial court sentenced southward to a third strike sentence of 25 years to life. 3. in april 2013, southward filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the superior court. southward referred to a 4 petition to be a petition for recall of sentence under proposition 36, penal code section 1170.126.1 the court issued an order to show cause. in june 2013, the people requested, and the court granted, an extension of time. in july 2013, southward filed another pleading entitled, motion for immediate resentence under section 1170.126 in the furtherance of justice. in late july 2013, the trial court on its own motion appointed counsel for southward. the people eventually filed their opposition, with exhibits, -of waiver of his personal presence. the trial court held a status conference in december 2014. over the next 18 months or so, the parties conducted further proceedings, including litigation over ththe california department of corrections and rehabilitation 2008 inmate plan to attack staff. 4. the suitability hearing judge rand s. rubin for the suitability hearing. the court conducted the hearing on august 30, 2016. the court stated at the outset resentenced unless the court in its discretion determines that [re]sentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 5 public safety pursuant to penal code [section] 1170.126 the court said it had read all of the pleadings, the exhibits submitted by both the people and southward, and a. southward called richard subia as a witness. subia testified he had worked for nearly 27 years in corrections in california. while at cdcr, subia was involved in conducting relationships in the communi in-custody behavior, participation in programs, and violation of policies and procedures. subia used this same assessment process to evaluate southward. subia testified that, in his opinion, southward reports indicate[ ] that those incidents were identified as gang- subia also acknowledged that an april 2008 cdcr southward. but, subia said, there was no indication in the file 6 ion was in 2008 and, since he completed a behavior modification program, he had -inmate manufactured weapon rod-like piece with plastic melted on one end and felony charge for that weapon, subia said. subia questioned couple of years in a yard maintenance crew where he received en some courses in life skills, substance abuse prevention, and anger management while in the behavior modification unit. subia also noted southward had been working as a porter for about three years. subia said southward on cross-examination, subia acknowledged that southward had been arrested for residential burglary when he was 10 years old and that he joined the compton neighborhood crips at 11. 7 when asked about a cya s subia acknowledged that while at cya southward threw a rock at an instructor, hitting him in the head, and engaged in sexual misconduct.2 was in the car with the intention of going to take action against a rival gang . . .[;] he had been shot at by a gang earlier in the day sta entrenched in the gang culture from age 10 or 11 all the way active in the criminal ga subia conceded southward had committed 14 serious rules -participation in prison riots, battery, possession of a deadly weapon, and mutual combat. five of these were serious enough 2 cdcr records stated that southward, while at cya, s 8 that southward was sent to the security housing unit, the so-called shu. share a cell with any other inmate who was not a member of the crips. the prosecutor inqu[would be] disassociating themselves with [sic] the crips, or are would say they are still associating with them. whether they are still actively injust . . . in his case, he was denying cellmates for a long time, and in there he said as long as he is a crip, you can put him in here, s cdcr asked inmates to sign. according to the prosecutor, the any sort of gang activity and what type of behavior is expected of [inmates] [in] a subia testified it was 90 when southward entered prison in 1997. as of february 2016, it was 118. as of year-end 2016, subia predicted it might be reduced to 110. the lowest possible score for an inmate serving a life sentence is 19. compas needs assessment was 4 9 subia conceded southward would have posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety as a juvenile and when arrested for evading. but, subia saidconduct over the last eight years after completing the behavior modification program b. the exhibits at the conclusion of the hearing, the court admitted into the exhibits consume some 1,224 pages. they show these facts: classification scores january 2001it had risen to 144. for the next 12 years it fluctuated between 128 and 154. by june 2015, it had fallen to 118. in february 2016, it was 110still 20 points higher than at s work assignments: upon admission to the state prison iews dated august 1997, november time of the suitability hearing in 2016, southward had worked for several years as a porter. for one three-month period in 2013 and 2014, he received all supervisor recommended a pay increase. in february 2000, prison officials recommended that southward get his ged. there is nothing in the record to indicate he ever did. 10 : subia prepared a written report. essentially, the report tracked his testimony at the suitability hearing. subia interviewed southward in december southward was questioned regarding his gang activity. he southward stated that when he came to prison, he began hanging out with other crips. he said he never validated : southward told prison officials he coul : southward submitted (1) a letter from homeboy industries stating it could provide him n finding employment; (2) a flyer regarding three months of transitional housing the weingart center provides for homeless individuals on post-release community supervision; (3) a flyer letter from the anti-[southward] gets on his -11 [his] money in starting [his] own urban book publishing 5. on november 9, 2016, the trial court issued its 17-page memorandum of decision. after summarizing the applicable legal standards, the court detai the -half months after itted his third strike offense of felony evading. during his incarceration, noting the last one was in 2008. the prison riots in 2003 and 2008 and his involvement in fights. the three years of work as a porter. eastside neighborhood compton crips. the court noted southward had refused as recently as june 2015 to share a cell with anyone other than a fellow crip, and in 2016 he refused to participate in gang behavio some detail. csra scores. citing cases, the trial court stated that, although y be remote in 12 dangerous misconduct in prison, his in-custody conviction for possession of a weapon, and his insufficient rehabilitative programming, his criminal history, while remote, remains as a gang member in prison, it is apparent that he continues to mechanisms to act with autonomy and to reject the gang lifestyle he has embraced since h of the behavior modification program and the absence of any rules violations since 2008. but, the court syears of incarceration, petitioner has only participated in one year of self-worked as a porter for three years, he has developed no professional or vocational skills that would translate into the free based on all of the reasons detailed, the trial court found, in its discretion and under section 1170.126, subdivision (f), that resentencing southward would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. the court therefore discharged the order 13 discussion 1. proposition 36, the three strikes reform act of 2012 in november 2012, california voters enacted proposition 36, the three strikes reform act. with some exceptions, conviction is not serious or violent. (people v. valencia (2017) 3 cal.5th 347, 350 (valencia).) it also enacted a procedure governing inmates sentenced under the former three strikes law whose third strike was neither violent nor serious, permitting them to petition for resentencing in accordance with proposition determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an subd. valencia, supraibid.) in valencia, ouexercising its discretion to deny resentencing, the court has broad history, including the types of crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an 14 (g)(1)-id. at p. 354.)3 unreasonable risk of the evidence. (people v. frierson (2017) 4 cal.5th 225, 239 (frierson); people v. superior court (kaulick) (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 1279, 1301-1305.) 2. standard of review we review a denial of resentencing based on dangerousness under a mixed standard. we review the facts and evidence on which the court based its finding of unreasonable risk for substantial evidence. (frierson, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 239; people v. losa (2014) 232 cal.app.4th 789, 791.) we review the trial of danger to public safety under the abuse of discretion standard. (losa where, as here, a discretionary power is 3 in his opening brief, southward argued the definition of the safe neighborhood and schools act, section 1170.18, should apply to proposition 36 cases as well. in his reply brief, southward withdrew this argument in light of the supreme valencia. southward language is unconstitutionally vague. as the valencia court 1170.126, subdivision (f), is unconstitutiovalencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at pp. 354-355, citing people v. garcia (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 763, 769-770; people v. flores (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1070, 1075.) 15 statutorily vested in the trial court, its exercise of that discretion must not be disturbed on appeal except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. [citations.]people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124-people v. jackson people v. jefferson (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 235, 242-243.) 3. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying hundreds of pages of exhibits. the court issued a lengthy, thorough, and thoughtful memorandum of decision. the court conviction history, his record of discipline and rehabilitation, and other evidence the court determined to be relevant. remote, present considerable cause for concern. southward tried to rob two hikers with a loaded semiautomatic firearm, leaving them frightened and grateful they had not been killed. less than five months after being released from custody, he led police on a high-speed chase and admitted he had been planning to get an ak-47 and shoot a rival gang member. southward committed serious misconduct in prison, leading to another felony conviction for possessing a shank. he was cited for battery, mutual combat, and participating in riots, as well as lesser violations. while southward is to be commended for completing the behavior modification program and remaining discipline-free 16 between 2008 and 2016, the trial court properly focused on with the crips, and (2) his lack of any realistic reentry plans upon release. southward told prison officials he would share a -year period as a porter, southward never explained how his work as a porter could translate into job skills or employment outside of prison. instead, southward wrote that he planned to establish his own publishing company, publish his autobiography and other manuscripts, and train and manage professional boxers. these plans reflect a lack of any appreciation of the real world outside of prison or any concrete steps that southward can take toward gainful employment. finally, his classification score remains higher than it was upon his admission to prison in 1997. southward never brought his score down to anything close to the score of 19 that an inmate serving life can achieve. but that is not the issue. the issues are whether the people have resentencing would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety, and whether the trial court abused its broad discretion in reaching the conclusion that the people had met their burden. on this record, we can find no abuse of discretion. 17 disposition petition for resentencing. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. i concur: edmon, p. j. kalra, j.,* dissenting. respectfully disagree with the ultimate holding. for 23 years henrico southward has been incarcerated in state prison for committing a nonviolent felony when he was 21 years old. despite eight years of discipline-free conduct, glowing prison job performance reviews, strong community and family support, the trial court, nevertheless, denied his petition to recall his sentence, finding southward would pose an unreasonable risk of based upon facts, critical to its decision, that the prosecution did not prove by a preponderance of the evidence. most significantly, substantial evidence did not sdangerousness, i respectively dissent. accordingly, i would sentencing hearing. 1. proposition 36 in november 2012, the electorate passed the three strikes reform act of 2012 (proposition 36) which sought to ameliorate the had been sentenced under the previous sentencing scheme to otherwise be spent incarcerating an inmate who has served a * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 2 sentence that fit(people v. johnson (2015) 61 cal.4th 674, 695.) proposition 36 sentence that would have yielded a second strike sentence under determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safetysubd. people v. valencia (2017) 3 cal.5th 347, 354, italics added.) in exercising its discretion to deny resentencing in response the type of crimes committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitments, and the remoteness of the other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an subd. (g)(1)people v. valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 354.) ether the petitioner currently poses people v. esparza (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 726, 746 (esparza).) the people have the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the facts upon which the trial court predicates a finding that the southward poses such an unreasonable risk. (people v. frierson (2017) 4 cal.5th 225, 239; people v. buford (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 886, 899.) we review those facts for 3 substantial evidence (frierson, at p. 239; buford, at pp. 893, 901) and the finding for abuse of discretion. (buford, at pp. 895, 901.) evidence and not mere speculate about any number of scenarios that may have occurred. . . . a reasonable imagination, speculation, supposition, surmise, conjecture, or guess work. [] . . . a finding of fact must be an inference drawn from evidence rather than . . . a mere speculation as to people v. morris (1988) 46 cal.3d 1, 21, disapproved on another ground in in re sassounian by a preponderance of the evidence, it cannot form the basis for a people v. buford, supra, 4 cal.app.5th at p. 901.) thus, it is an abuse of discretion if the trial court relies on facts, critical to its decision, that were not proven by the prosecution. (esparza, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at pp. 744745; people v. cluff (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 991, 998.) the facts of esparza, supra, 242 cal.app.4th 726 are instructive. in esparzarequest for resentencing under proposition 36, finding the defendant posed an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. the trial court based its dangerousness assessment on the been attending for six months. (id. at p. 744.) in actuality, the record established that the defendant had been attending aa meetings for two years, months before the act passed. (ibid.) the prosecution presented no evidence to the contrary. thus, 4 esparza found there was not substantial evidence to support the finding that the defendant was only in treatment for six months and that he commenced his treatment in response to the act. (ibid.) moreover, because these facts were critical to the trial esparza reversed the trial hearing. (id. at pp. 744745.) similarly here, as shown below, the trial court made findings of fact, critical to its finding of current dangerousness, that were not proven by the people. 2. no substantial evidence that southward was an eastside neighborhood crips as recently as june 2015 finding of fact that southward was an eastside neighborhood compton crip (eastside) in 2015, just one year before the trial court held the suitability hearing in 2016. there was no substantial evidence to support this factual finding. on the southward was an eastside gang member in 2015. richard subia, who performs risk assessments for offenders, testified that been filled out on june 5, 2015, it was actually based upon entire prison history.1 as unchallenged on this point. to be sure, southward never disputed that he was an eastside from about age 10 to 22, before 1 subia explained that the california department of corrections and rehabilitation (cdcr) created the form in response to racial bias litigation to dispel the allegation that prisoners were being locked down based on racial factors. 5 he was incarcerated. his initial prison intake report from 1997 reflected this admission in his california department of corrections (cdc) 812.2 thus, as expected, the assessment form had a box checked for being associated with eastside on cdc 812. however, while the box was marked, southward there was no date or source document associated with the entry. affirmatively noted no prison gang. after a thorough search of prison documentation showing that southward was ever in a prison gang or engaged in gang activities. furthermore, subia opined that the eastside reference in confidential information disclosure form. the extent of the disclosure was limited. according to the form, confidential information was received that three crip gang members were actively recruiting other black inmates to attack staff. southward was not named or identified as a crip member, but notably, southward was never charged with misconduct related to these allegations even though inmates can be charged based upon confidential accusations alone.3 the only other gang 2 there are numerous references to a cdc 812 and cdcr 812 in the record, but nowhere in the record is there a description of the purpose of this form. 3 although judge rand s. rubin presided over the suitability hearing, judge william c. ryan had previously reviewed the full confidential document in camera and 6 preconviction . source of the cdc 812 connection to eastside referenced in numerous documents that repeatedly noted the following: er/associate of . . . eastside . . . stg-ii per por dated 2/04/2007 document, the por dated february 4, 2007, presumably prepared in 2007, not 2015, was not part of any exhibit. further review of the exhibits admitted into evidence reveal that many of these documents that referenced this 2007 report set forth the case informationsafety of persons (non- persons (non-confidential enemies) suggests that this gang association year to protect southward from potential enemies because of his past, pre-prison gang association, not to indicate that he was currently a member of a gang or involved in gang activity. in any event, while it may not be clear why a box for gang connection evidence announced that, in 2008, prison investigators concluded that southward was involved iexhibit 22 contained prison records dated april 4, 2008 that state 7 that southward was an active eastside gang member as recent as 2015. once the premise that southward was identified as an active gang member in 2015 fails, the following three additional ecord suggests that [southward] has developed the mechanisms to act with autonomy and to reject the gang lifestyle he has embraced demonstrated that he has developed the skills to resist this pattern of [turning to gang culture and violent criminal] behavior sustaining himself outside of his gang association and criminal the prosecution failed to establish by a preponderance of evidence that southward could not act with autonomy, had not developed skills to resist his past behavior, or had little method of sustaining himself outside of his gang associates and criminal behavior. since graduating from the behavior management unit program in 2009 where he successfully completed anger management, life skills, and substance abuse classes, southward demonstrated a dramatic shift in his behavior. he has not committed any violent acts, or received any serious rule violations reports or a single counseling chrono for even a minor since 2008 has been remarkable. while incarcerated, southward developed marketable skills that could sustain himself in the outside world. (see cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subd. (d)(8).) southward taught himself to read and write and even authored three books. southward participated in numerous vocational programs including 8 carpentry and painting. for the preceding three years, he was a including attitude toward his supervisor, staff and fellow inmates. southward made detailed plans for sustaining himself in the future upon his release. (see cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subd. (d)(8).) he was accepted to the anmity program which would provide him with housing and even pick him up directly from prison. the wiengart center and homeboy industries also accepted southward. each program offers comprehensive wrap around services including counseling, vocational training and job placement. his mother promised him housing and a job as a home health provider.4 southward personally presented the trial court with a thorough and reflective 13 point plan for his future, proclaimintaking full responsibility for all [his] actions and [is] willing to in sum, the people failed to prove that southward was unable to sustain himself outside of a gang lifestyle and to develop the life skills to resist violent criminal behavior if released. the record is replete with evidence to the contrary in re lawrence (2008) 44 cal.4th 1181, 1227.) as shown, four facts were not proven by the people. yet, southward would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public 4 sadly, his mother has passed away since making her offer. her husband, southwsouthward. 9 safety if resentenced. it is true that substantial evidence supported other facts, noted in the majority opinion. while these finding, it is not our role as a reviewing court to reweigh the evidence. our evaluation is limited to determining if the above qudecision. the unproven fact that southward was identified as an active gang member in prison documentation as late as 2015 was had a spillover effect and was inseparably connected to three other not proven, critical facts.5 more significantly, from that 5 it is also questionable whether there was substantial evidence to support the factual assertion that while southward has worked as a porter for three years, he has developed no professional or vocational skills that would translate into the free community (italics and boldface added.) while prison records those same undisputed prison records established that, in addition to working as porter for over three years, southward learned numerous vocational skills in various prison work assignments. for example, from 1997 to 1998, he received positive reviews for his work in the yard crew and as a kitchen porter. from 1998 to 1999, he was assigned to a carpentry crew where his classification score was adjusted down due to this positive programming. in 2000, he continued to be assigned to a carpentry and painting crew, but due to institutional wide the programming was limited. while attending the behavior management unit program at pelican bay prison, southward worked as a porter. moreover, southward himself presented evidence that he entered prison unable to read well, but by 2016, not only was he literate, he had written three books and hoped to publish them. 10 criminal history,6 his past prison misconduct,7 and his ability to function within the law upon release. (see cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subd. (d)(9).) w]e believe that a trial court may properly deny resentencing under the act based solely on immutable facts such only if those facts support the ultimate conclusion that an inmate continues to pose an in re] lawrence, supra, [44 cal.4th] at p. relevant inquiry is southward provided excerpts from his writing that demonstrated his thoughtful and effective communication skills. in sum, although it is doubtful that the prosecution proved that southward had only worked as a porter for three years and had no skills that would translate into work in the free community, it ruling. 6 was a youthful offender. he committed his controlling offense when he was 21, his strike offenses when he was 17 and various other offenses between the age of 10 and 17. recent developments and further reflection has informed courts and guided our california legislature to view youthful offenders as in re jenson (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 266, 276.) 7 probative of his current dangerousness given his intervening good behavior. (see in re rozzo (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 40, 60.) 11 when considered in light of other facts in the record, are such that they continue to be predictive of current dangerousness many years [later]. this inquiry is . . . an individualized one, and cannot be undertaken simply by examining the circumstances of consideration of the passage of time or the attendant changes in in re] shaputis [(2008) 44 cal.4th 1241,] . . . 1254esparza, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at pp. 745746.) passed since southward had engaged in any misconduct10 years. nevertheless, dated criminal history and prison misconduct in order to deny relief. it is unquestionable that the trial court connected on the unsubstantiated fact that southward was identified as a gang member in 2015. where, as here, a trial court relies on facts, critical to its decision that were not proven by the prosecution, the trial court abuses its discretion. (esparza, supra, 242 cal.app.4th at pp. 744745.) (id. at p. 745.) since the trial court relied on facts not proven by a preponderance of the evidence that were critical to the trial hearing where the prosecution will bear the burden of establishing that he currently poses an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. 12 remand for a new sentencing hearing. kalra, j. 