filed 7/25/18 p. v. fimbres ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael fimbres, defendant and appellant. b279962 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba430666) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. judith kahn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and thomas c. hsieh, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted michael fimbres of murdering frank taylor. the trial court sentenced fimbres to a prison term of 50 years to life. fimbres appeals, arguing his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance and the evidence was insufficient remand for the trial court to hold a new sentencing hearing under amended penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (h), and otherwise affirm. factual and procedural background a. stolen drugs taylor, known as diablo, and monica andrade were in a dating relationship. they were homeless and lived in a tent near a street corner. andrade was one month pregnant with child. taylor and andrade both used methamphetamine regularly, and taylor also used heroin. they socialized with fimbres, whom they knew as rock from the criminal street gang white fence, at his house on maple avenue, where fimbres sold methamphetamine and heroin. fimbres knew that taylor, when he walked home from house, took the same route every day. on july 1, 2014 taylor and andrade went to get a pizza. they had an argument, and andrade walked away. andrade went to aple avenue and found him there. fimbres, who had a .38 revolver in his waistband, told andrade that taylor had stolen some of his drugs. fimbres said he knew 3 and, because andrade was pregnant and ,he was not going to kill taylor for stealing the drugs imbres gave andrade some money to buy breakfast. andrade called taylor on his cell phone to warn him . b. disrespect daisy cordero was seven months pregnant on july 1, 2014. she called fimbres, whom she considered to buy groceries. fimbres picked cordero up in his truck. on the way to the market they stopped at to get his cell phone. as they drove in the alley behind the house, they saw taylor waiting for fimbres by the garage door. ,and something in his pockets or in his waistband and he was just all angryin his waistband or something, like he was going to reach for appeared hcordero fimbrefimbres said, what the fuck you talking about? i gave your girlfriend . . . $8 cordero said $8 or $10 dollars 4 . . . . . . also fimbres added, ke my kindness for weakness. i taylor left, and fimbres went inside the house to get his cell phone. when he returned, he got back into the truck and drove with cordero to a local dairy on maple avenue . c. retaliation fimbres and cordero soon encountered taylor again. as they crossed some train tracks, cordero dropped her ebt card in the car and began looking for it.1 when fimbres parked his truck, taylor walking on the sidewalk and in the street. and walked 1 ebt stands for electronic benefits transfer. (people v. johnson (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 1026, 1030card used to issue food stamp benefits to recipients, who can then use the ebt card to make purchases using those benefits in a anderson v. dolgencorp, llc (m.d. ala., oct. 28, 2014, no. 1:14cv920-csc) 2014 wl 5471933, at p. 2.) 5 rapidly fimbres got out, and the two men approached each other and exchanged words. it appeared to cordero that taylor might have a weapon, and she said to fimbres she thought taylor had a gun. cordero so she looked down because and continued to cordero heard ahhh, and she saw him fall to the ground.2 cordero hand. after taylor fell, fimbres got back into the car and drove cordero elike he felt like he cried. as they drove away, fimbres dropped a metal object out of the window that made a clinking sound as it fell. video from surveillance cameras in the area ooting. a witness was sitting in front of her house near the dairy on maple avenue, facing the train tracks. she saw a truck stop . fimbres, whom the witness identified in court, got out of the truck and met taylor, whom the witness identified in a photograph, as he was coming from the other side of the street. the two men, who seemed to know each other, met in the middle of the street. fimbres did not look angry. fimbres lifted his arm and shot taylor from about six or eight feet away. the witness heard the gunshot. taylor grabbed his chest and collapsed. fimbres 2 when asked if she was shocked, cordero really shocks you in east l.a, honestly 6 turned around, walked back to his truck, got in, and drove away. he did not seem agitated or upset. as the truck drove away, the witness saw a woman in the passenger seat. police investigators did not find any casings at the scene, indicating the gun that killed taylor was a revolver. tincluding heroin, methamphetamine, and phencyclidine (pcp). d. confidential information on july 8, 2014 police detectives arranged for a confidential informant who knew fimbres to assist the investigation by contacting cordero. the confidential informant met cordero in a car in the parking lot of a convenience store. the confidential informant convinced cordero to meet with him by making up a story about how taylor was connected with gang members who believed fimbres killed taylor in a drive-by shooting. the confidential informant saying that it was a drive-by and [fimbres is] in a lot of trouble with some important people she should help him find fimit could be dangerous to him from 3 he also said people were looking for her, and he 3 the prosecutor later explained he wanted to ask more questions on the issue of drive-by shootings -bys are not allowed in latino gangs. the fact that [fimbres] actually got out of his car to commit the shooting i believe goes to his premeditation on the fact that he was not . . . under the influence of heat of passion, not under the influence of provocation. he was thinking clearly and he was staying inside of the rules and he got 7 needed to contact fimbres for his safety because he could be killed by high-ranking gang members. cordero said she was not supposed to be talking about the incident and did not give the confidential informant much information. the confidential informant eventually received a call from fimbres, and the two of them met in an apartment where fimbres was staying. the confidential informant wore a recording device, although it malfunctioned and did not record his conversation with fimbres. fimbres told the confidential informant he had given girlfriend some money earlier in the day, and taylor was upset because his girlfriend used the money to buy drugs. fimbres told the confidential informant he killed taylor because taylor disrespected him. according to the confidential informant, his hood and whatnot, and said he did not say that he acted in self-defense or that taylor had a weapon. the confidential informant also told fimbres that, for $10,000, he could help fimbres escape to mexico. the next morning the confidential informant picked up fimbres at the apartment, and they had breakfast at a table service diner-style restaurant. because the confidential informant had learned the recording device had not functioned properly the previous day, he tried to get fimbres to talk again about shooting get into a lot of discussion as to the mexican mafia, who they are and what they do and how they control street gangs . . . . i understand your argument is premeditation. . . . i mean, i just think we ought to stay away from the mexican mafia. just 8 4 the two of them left the restaurant and drove to a gas station, where police arrested fimbres. counsel for fimbres impeached the credibility of the ith multiple felony convictions and admissions that law enforcement assisted him in getting more lenient sentences for his help in police investigations. the confidential informant also admitted he had received over $60,000 for providing information to law enforcement. e. verdict the people charged fimbres with first degree murder. the people alleged fimbres personally used a firearm within the meaning of penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (b),5 personally and intentionally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (c), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the people further alleged fimbres committed the offense for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members, within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), although the court dismissed this allegation during the trial. 4 the prosecutor did not play the recording of this 5 statutory references are to the penal code. 9 the jury found fimbres guilty of first degree murder and found true the allegation fimbres intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the trial court sentenced fimbres to a prison term of 25 years to life for the murder conviction, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement. fimbres timely appealed. discussion a. counsel for fimbres did not provide ineffective assistance 1. relevant proceedings fimbres filed a motion to bifurcate the trial on the gang allegation, and on the first day of trial there was a discussion about that allegation. the court, referring to a prior discussion off the record, had this discussion with the attorneys: motion in limine filed by the defense. one of the issues that came up was the fact that there is a gang allegation in this case. the have the gang allegation, as long as you get into evidence gang membership and tendencies of gang members, is that your thought? me. have the defendant being acknowledged as a gang member, but not that this is a gang crime? 10 sel for fimbres:] your honor, i need to fully discuss people just provided the parameters of what they want a stipulation to. so i respectfully request if i could just have the lunch hour. minute and we have to tell them what the allegations are in the case. the charges are murder, the use of a gun, and it will be pretty hard to dance around the gang allegation. i can try to get later, before the testimony of the confidential informant, the following exchange occurred: handle the stipulation right now about the gang allegation. we can do that later. and i can repeat it in front of the jury. counsel, do you stipulate that your client, michael fimbres, at the time of this crime, was a member of white fence, a criminal street gang? just read it into the record in front of the jury. the [gang] allegation? gang allegation and i approve of 11 counsel subsequently stated the stipulation in the presence of the jury. the trial court instructed the jurors to accept the stipulated fact as if it had been proven at trial through the testimony of a witness. 2. officer mario morales, an expert on the white fence criminal street gang, testified for the prosecution. he stated white fence had approximately 500 members in two separate territories, one in hollywood and the other in boyle heights. after officer morales stated white fence was known for questioning and asked the attorneys to approach for a sidebar conference. going with this man. what is his purpose in testifying in this case? . . . about the existence of a gang and the facts that have to do with the gang culture. i was about to get there, judge. d i applaud the people for dropping the gang allegation because i -related shooting. this is a single incident. i thought the purpose of introducing gangs was to say in a that and the prosecutor did. officer morales testified that respect is important in gangs and t 12 interrupted the questioning again. point is people join gangs for various reasons and principally irespect; is that correct? neighborhood fear them, is that also correct? big deal for a gang member? [to the prosecutor] the prosecutor proceeded to question officer morales about respect and the consequences of disrespect for gang members. the officer testified that showing disrespect to a gang member in public shows weakness, and a member of one gang saying to a and would result in a violent response, particularly if the girlfriend of the gang member who received the insult is present. officer morales also testified that fimbres admitted to him that he was a member of white fenc commitment to his gang. on cross-examination, officer morales testified that taylor was a member of the vail street gang and that there was no rivalry between white fence and vail street. he also testified members from the two gangs could have a personal relationship and socialize with each other. he repeated his testimony about the importance of respect to gang members. and then this: 13 now, there is something about gang justice system, yes, to an extent. so we have our criminal justice system, doing right now in court, right? but there is a separate parallel gang justice system operating also, right? yes. and in that gang justice system, there is a hierarchy of individuals who are influential, right? yes. they determine that if a gang code is broken, that they will mete out their own punishment, correct? including killinggreen lighting somebody, right? yes. basically putting a hit on them, right? yes. which caused the court to interrupt again and have another discussion with counsel outside the presence of the jury at sidebar. [to counsel for fimbres]district attorney wants to get into mexican mafia. that seems to :] 14 f is this is not a gang shooting. this is a shooting over the problems that occurred between the two parties who were apparently in the narcotics business together. where do you hope to go with these questions? l for fimbres: the] people have brought in a statement from my client that he basically boasted to the [confidential informant] that he killed somebody out of disrespect. now in gang culture, you . . . cannot appear weak because if you appear weak, you are now a coward and you are now open for a hit. him right down the road that the people derstand your thought process to either side. yes, the mexican mafia set out an edict probably 10 to 12 years ago where they said no more drive-by shootings. we still have some drive-by shootings. but the point is, they wanted walk-up shootings because too many people were getting shot in drive-by shootings into that in this case. it has nothing to do with this particular expert is going to say. . . . i am uncomfortable with gangs being i let the people have some l counsel for fimbres then returned to the topic of disrespect, and officer morales testified a gang member is 15 expected to react violently to public disrespect. the officer stated after the trial court sustained objections to two hypothetical questions by counsel for fimbres, officer morales admitted that many crimes committed by gang members are unsolved. the trial court sustained two more objections to questions about what kind of weapon officer morales carried and about whether reaching for a waistband means a person may have a weapon, and counsel for fimbres did not ask the officer any more questions. 3. trial counsel for fimbres did not provide ineffective assistance fimbres argues his trial counsel was constitutionally of gang members that complains his trial was a member of a criminal street gang and went on to elicit criminal activitieseven after the trial court interposed its own clear that the only gang evidence the prosecutor could elicit was 6 6 the record does not contain a formal order limiting gang evidence to this issue, bustipulatlimit the admissibility of gang evidence in this way. fimbres does not argue the trial court erred in admitting evidence about the importance of respect, and the consequences of disrespect, for 16 about the white fence g objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing prejudicial, i.e., there is a reasonable probability that, but for o a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome.(people v. rices (2017) 4 cal.5th 49, 80; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687; people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198.) if the defendant fails to satisfy one of these requirements, we need not address the other. (strickland, at p. 697; people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, 52.) appellate claim of ineffective assistance. on direct appeal, a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance only if (1) the record affirmatively discloses counsel had no rational tactical purpose for the challenged act or omission, (2) counsel was asked for a reason and failed to provide one, or (3) there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. all other claims of ineffective assistance are more appropriately resolved in a habeas corpus (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009; accord, people v. gallardo (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 51, 79; see people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at pp. 198-counsel claims are rarely successful on direct appeal because the gang members. fimbres argues only that his counsel was ineffective by asking questions beyond the scope of this topic. 17 appellate record will often not sufficiently reveal why defense counsel acted or failed to act on any given to the extent fimbres argues his trial counsel was fimbres has not shown deficient performance because his trial counsel had a rational and eminently sound reason for stipulating fimbres was a member of white fence: the people agreed to move to dismiss the gang allegation against fimbres under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the court granted the motion and dismissed the gang allegation, allowing the parties to introduce evidence only that fimbres was a gang member, respect is important to gang members, and disrespect can lead to physical retaliation. by obtaining dismissal of the gang allegation, counsel for fimbres drastically reduced the amount of evidence the jury would hear about white fence, involvement with the gang, and gangs in general. fimbres argues his trial counsel was ineffective because she elicited testimony from officer morales beyond the importance of respect in a gang and the consequences of disrespect. counsel for fimbres, however, had a rational and tactical reason for attempting, for the most part unsuccessfully, to obtain testimony from officer morales about white fence: it -defense and imperfect self-defense theories. having established through the stipulation and officer member would expect another gang member to have a gun. counsel for fimbres also argued there was no premeditation a gang 18 person is dead. okay. this was a shot from about six to eight feet . . . with a moving target, ladies and gentlemen, that is not easy. tdead on, consistent with frank taylor coming atcoming at mr. reference in closing argument to explain why fimbres tried to flee with the (supposed) assistance of the confidential informant. s may not have been persuasive, but they show counsel had additional tactical reasons for questioning officer morales. finally, fimbres has not shown prejudice. (see people v. avila ineffective assistancpeople v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d was deficient, a criminal defendant must also establish prejudice before he can obtain relief on an ineffective- as noted, fimbres argues that, in addition to questioning officer morales about the importance of respect in a gang and the consequences of disrespecteviously sought to exclude and introduced and rivals. the record shows, however, there was no mountain. most e importance of respect and perception to a gang member and the consequences of disrespecting a gang member in public. counsel for fimbres also asked questions establishing taylor was in a gang that did not 19 she did not elicit any evidence about the kinds of crimes white fence committed, predicate acts that would establish a pattern of criminal activity, common practices of gang members, field investigation cards or testimonial hearsay, creating fear in the community or intimidating witnesses, flashing gang signs or wearing gang colors, turf battles over territory, or any of the other things gang experts usually explain.7 she did ask six or seven questions line of questioning. these questions, which the trial court noted were beyond the scope of issues relating to respect and disrespect, were confined to one brief exchange with one witness. thus, even if the trial court had interrupted counsel for fimbres a little sooner and precluded her from asking the additional handful of questions about how gangs operate, there is no reasonable probability the result of the trial would have been any different. (see people v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1241 8 7 when the prosecutor tried to ask officer morales about the kinds of crimes white fence was known for committing, counsel for fimbres objected and the trial court precluded the witness from answering the question. the court limited the prosecutor to asking questions about the importance of respect and disrespect in gang culture. 8 fimbres a to this comment and 20 b. there was substantial evidence of premeditation occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection rather premeditatedconsidered beforehand, and deliberate means formed or arrived at or determined upon as a result of careful thought and weighing of considerations for and against the proposed course of action. [citation.] we normally consider three kinds of evidence to determine whether a finding of premeditation and deliberation is adequately supportedpreexisting motive, planning activity, and manner of killingbut to find substantial evidence of premeditation and deliberation(people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 645.) these factors the evidence is supportive of an inference that the killing was the result of preexisting reflection and weighing of considerations people v. brooks of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly, but the express requirement for a concurrence of deliberation and premeditation excludes from murder of the first degree those homicides . . . which are the result of mere unconsidered or rash impulse hastily executed.(id. at p. 58.) mafia and possible interest 21 here, fimbres had a motive, a plan, and a gun. he had accused taylor of stealing his drugs and told andrade he was going to physically retaliate. (see people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 295 [desire to retaliate is evidence of motive supporting premeditation and deliberation].) fimbres drove to a spot along the route he knew taylor routinely traveled. he and took it with him when he got out of his truck to confront taylor, thus demonspeople v. salazar (2016) 63 cal.4th 214, 245; see people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th him on the night [the victim] was killed, indicating he had premeditation]; people v. adcox (1988) 47 cal.3d 207, 240 [bringing a loaded gun and using it to kill the victim from less than six feet away was evidence of prior planning and premeditation].) that earlier in the day fimbres was considering only hurting taylor [ing] without actually killing him shows only that fimbres was weighing his options and reflecting on how (and how much) he would retaliate against taylor for a longer period of time. (see people v. cage deliberation].) and when fimbres finished reflecting on his options and finally decided to shoot taylor, he did so in the chest at close range. (see people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, people v. elliot (2005) 37 cal.4th 453, 471 [method of killing can suggest premeditation]; people v. koontz 22 had fimbres shot taylor in the alley behind his house would have been able to make a stronger argument to the jury that he acted without premeditation and deliberation. but fimbres waited until later, and went to a place, unlike the alley, that he believed police activity. he made plans and executed them. there was ample that taylor was premeditated. fimbres suggests the evidence of planning and reflection killing was partially obstructed, taylor appeared aggressive and had methamphetamine and other drugs in his system when he dunreliable [it] should be discredited in toto because he sustained numerous felony violations and, quite literally, made a living out of testifying for the prosecution, since he earned over $60,000 by the weight of the evidence and the credibility of the witnesses, not supported by substantial evidence. (see people v. brown people v. manriquez there is substantial evidence of a lesser offense, courts should not 23 c. fimbres is entitled to a new sentencing hearing when the trial court sentenced fimbres, section 12022.53, subdivision (h), prohibited the court from striking the firearm enhancement. the legislature, however, amended section 12022.53, subdivision (h), effective january 1, 2018, to give the trial court discretion to strike a firearm enhancement under section 12022.53. the may, in the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur pursuant to any other law. in supplemental briefs, fimbres and the people agree the amended statute applies retroactively to this case. fimbres and the people also agree remand for resentencing is appropriate here because the trial court gave no indication how it would have exercised its discretion under section 12022.53 if the court had had such discretion at the time of the sentencing hearing. we agree that remand for resentencing is appropriate for the trial court to exercise discretion under the amended statute. (see people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1081-1082; people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 424.) 24 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the sentence is vacated. the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to conduct a new sentencing hearing and to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. feuer, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 