filed 10/23/17 p. v. cordero ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. angel moreno cordero, defendant and appellant. b279161 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka111110) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles, mike camacho, judge. judgment of conviction is affirmed and the matter is remanded for resentencing. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer, and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 angel moreno cordero was convicted of sexual penetration by a foreign object (digital penetration) (pen. code,  289, subd. (a)(1)(a) (count 1)),1 sexual battery by restraint ( 243.4, subd. (a) (count 2)) and assault with intent to commit rape ( 220, subd. (a)(1) (count 3)). the court sentenced cordero to an aggregate state prison term of seven years four months: the middle term of six years on count 1, digital penetration, and a consecutive term of one year four months (one-third the middle term of four years) on count 3, assault with intent to commit rape. the court imposed and stayed pursuant to section 654 a middle term of three years on count 2, sexual battery by restraint. on appeal cordero argues the sentence for assault with intent to commit rape should also have been stayed pursuant to section 654. we agree and remand the matter for resentencing, but otherwise affirm the judgment of conviction. factual and procedural background 1. the evidence at trial established that cordero attacked mayra doe late in the evening of october 3, 2015 at the home of -in-law. mayra had worked all day helping with the arrangements for a backyard party to celebrate 49th birthday. around 11:00 p.m. mayra, who had had several shots of tequila during the party and was tired, went upstairs to the master bedroom to take a nap. she closed the door, left the lights off, lay face down on a comforter on the floor (her two children were going to sleep in the bed later that night), and fell asleep. 1 statutory references are to this code. 3 party, entered the bedroom, shut the door and straddled mayraback. mayra attempted to get up and push him off. cordero forced her back down and caressed her legs and body. mayra told him to get off, but cordero did not respond. cordero pulled up her dress, slid his hands under her spanx (sometimes referred to as a girdle at trial) and digitally penetrated her labia. as she continued to try to free herself, she heard the sound of a zipper. mayra became more aggressive at that point, testifying she feared her assailant was going to rape her. cs in succession during the attackwhich mayra testified means, had not seen the attacker before the call, thought she recognized when he spoke on his cell phone. she then identified him from a quick view of his side as he ran out the bedroom door. when cordero was gone, mayra went downstairs, crying and very upset. she and her husband left the party. (her sister-in-law said she would watch their children.) once mayra and her husband were at home, she told him she had been sexually assaulted and believed cordero was the attacker. several times around 11:00 p.m. when cordero finally answered, he said he would be right there. murillo then saw cordero a few minutes later; cordero told him he had gone upstairs to use a bathroom. 4 following the assault, and each testified cordero admitted having touched mayra. cordero did not testify or call any witnesses in his defense. his counsel suggested mayra and cordero had both been drinking at the party, they had danced together, she had perhaps been flirtatious, and the contact may have been consensual or cordero was so intoxicated that he did not really know what he was doing. 2. the timing of the cell phone call in her direct testimony mayra said she heard the sound of the zipper before the missed cell phone calls. on cross-examination mayra repeated, albeit with less certainty, that the i knowledged she had told los angeles slid his hand underneath her girdle and she heard the zipper ps how it happened. i just phone call, he was first trying to pull her girdle down, but because it girdle, moved it to the side, rubbed his fingers on her vagina. she heardshe was squirming around, trying to tell him to get off, but her face was in the pillow because he was holding her down so hezipper, what sounded like a zipper. she said she got really 5 panicked because she thought she was going to be raped with her family downstairs. she started squirming more, was able to kind of roll up on her si in her closing argument the prosecutor told the jury cordero had committed assault with intent to commit rape when he unzipped his pants while restraining mayra. the prosecutor acknowledged tally sure anymore if the zipping mayra had said her memory was better when she talked to the police. relying on chronology in those reports, the prosecutor argued both the digital penetration and assault with intent to begins to rub her vagina, digitally penetrates her, and then she hears the zipper unzip. this is important. this is what the 3. finding cordero guilty on all three counts, defense counsel argued count 2, sexual battery by restcounts pursuant to section 654. she urged the court to sentence cordero to the low term on count 1 (digital penetration) with a consecutive sentence of one-third the middle term on count 3 (aggravated sexual assault). the people did not file a sentencing memorandum, but the prosecutor agreed during the sentencing the court, after hearing a victim impact statement given on behalf of mayra by the prosecutor and listening to argument, asked 6 encounter, and obviously the conduct displayed during that encounter could warrant separate violations of law, but in terms of 654 can there be an argument made that count 3 somehow the prosecutor argued for separate punishments for the two offenses, stating the evidence showed that the digital penetration and assault with intent to commit rape (based on the cell phone call, and thus were distinct crimes. acknowledging that she did not remember the evidence or her closing argument very well, the prosecutor said she believed she had argued that separation to the jury. defense counsel stated her memory was the court concluded section 654 did not apply to count 3. only did it interrupt the encounter, but also it gave the defendant time to reflect upon his initial assault upon mayra. and despite that interruption he made an effort to complete the attack. and r not this was one continuous encounter despite the phone call interruption or could it result into two separate offenses being committed for 7 discussion 1. section 654 and separate punishments for discrete sexual offenses section 654 prohibits a court from punishing a defendant basis for multiple convictions. ( 654, subd. (a).)2 section 654 also applies when the defendant engages in multiple acts that are part of a single course of conduct. (people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 885-886; people v. pinon (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 956, 967.) generally, the divisibility of a course of conduct depends upon the intent and objective of the actor. (people v. capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 885.) if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of such offenses but not for more than one(ibid., quoting people v. rodriguez (2009) 47 cal.4th 501, 507.) if the evidence discloses that a defendant entertained multiple criminal objectives which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, the trial court may impose punishment for independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of conduct.people v. pinon, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at p. 968; accord, people v. rodriguez (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 1000, 1007 2 that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. . . 8 .) notwithstanding this general rule, in certain types of cases where a defendant has repeatedly committed discrete acts with a single objective or intentsuch as committing multiple sexual assaults or firing a gun multiple times from a carthe application of section 654s ban on multiple punishments turns on whether the discrete acts were separated by periods of time during which reflection was possible. (see people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 337-338 [separate and consecutive punishments proper in single victim, multiple count sexual assault case; defendant had a separate intent to obtain sexual gratification each time he committed a sexual penetration and had an opportunity to walk away from the victim rather than resume his sexually assaultive behavior between penetrations]; people v. perez (1979) 23 cal.3d 545, 552-553 [an intent and objective to obtain sexual gratification is too broad to determine the applicability of section 654; achieve sexual gratification by committing a number of base criminal acts on his victim is substantially more culpable than a defen see also people v. hicks (1993) 6 cal.4th 784, 788, fn. 4; people v. trotter (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 363, 367-368.) defendant had a chance to reflect between offenses and each offense created a new rissection 654, a course of conduct divisible in time, though directed to one objective, may give rise to multiple convictions and separated in such a way as to afford the defendant opportunity to 9 reflect and renew his or her intent before committing the next one, thereby aggravating the violation of public security or policy people v. lopez (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 698, 717-718; accord, people v. felix (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 905, 915.)3 section 654 does not apply for substantial evidence. (people v. brents (2012) 53 cal.4th 599, 618; people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 730; people v. rodriguez, supra, 235 cal.app.4th at p. 1005; see people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890 reasonable, credible, and of solid value].) 3 as the attorney general explains, section 667.6, subdivision (c), operates as an exception to section 654. it offense specified in subdivision (e) if the crimes involve the same foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1)(a)) and assault with intent to commit rape ( 220, subd. (a)(1)) are specified in section 667.6, subdivision (e). however, the trial court must indicate it is electing to sentence the defendant under section 667.6, subdivision (c), rather than section 1170.1 and also must state reasons supporting its sentencing choice. (people v. belmontes (1983) 34 cal.3d 335, 346-348.) the court in this case did neither, expressly addressing the requirements of section 654, and not mentioning section 667.6, subdivision (c). accordingly, tsuggestion that we may affirm sentence as an implied exercise of the discretion conferred by section 667.6, subdivision (c), is without merit. 10 2. substantial evidence does not suppfinding cordero had time to reflect between the digital penetration and the assault with intent to commit rape there certainly was evidence, as the trial court found, that s interrupted the sexual assault, giving cordero time to reflect before he concluded the attack. although mayra testified at trial that the cell phone rang after cordero had touched her underneath her girdle and she had heard the sound of a zipper and suggested that he rushed out of the bedroom shortly after answering the call, she told detective burke that cordero had continued to attack her, including unzipping, after he had answered the call. the court was entitled to rely on the more contemporaneous account, which mayra confirmed was given when she had a far clearer memory of the sequence of events. (see people v. white (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 305, 319, fn. 14 [testimony of a single witness constitutes incoin re frederick g. (1979) 96 cal.app.3d 353, 366 [same].) however, in each penetration and the assault with aggravated intent, evidenced by the sound of the zipper, occurred in rapid sequence, either both before or both after cordero answered his cell phone and said to the caller, thus, while speaking on his cell phone may have provided cordero time to reflect and decide whether to renew his attack, as the court found, there is no evidence, let alone substantial evidence, the two offenses for which he was sentenced were temporally separated by that pause or by any other interruption giving cordero time to reflect between 11 committing the two offenses. (cf. people v. pena (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 1294, 1316 [analyzing similar time-to-reflect requirement under  667.6, positions between different sexual acts was insufficient by itself to provide him with a reasonable opportunity to reflect upon his people v. corona (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 13, 18.) decision to sentence cordero separately on counts 1 and 3 was likely influenced by defense position (as set forth in her sentencing memorandum) that section 654 applied to the conviction for sexual battery by restraint but not the conviction for assault with intent to commit on, advanced during the sentencing hearing, that the evidence at trial indicated the call came between the digital penetration and the sound of cordero unzipping his pants. whatever the reason, the execution of the sentence imposed on count 3 pursuant to section 654 was error. 12 disposition resentencing. on resentencing the court shall stay execution of the sentence imposed on count 3 (assault with intent to commit rape). in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. menetrez, j.* * judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 