 filed 4/30/18 p. v. rocha ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people of the state of california, plaintiff and respondent, v. julio cesar rocha, defendant and appellant. b279256 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa082591) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, hilleri g. merritt, judge. affirmed. eric e. reynolds, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 introduction defendant julio cesar rocha appeals his convictions for two counts of resisting arrest and one count of assault. defendant argues that the trial court erred when it failed pursuant to penal code section 654 to stay the sentence for one of the resisting arrest convictions.1 we affirm because defendant had different intents when resisting arrest and committing the ahave independently reviewed the pitchess hearing and find no error. facts and procedural background 1. defendant resisted arrest at around 7:00 p.m. on december 3, 2014, los angeles police department officers herrera and ornelas were in a marked patrol vehicle in a residential area of panorama city. the officers saw defendant seated on a bicycle in front of an apartment complex. because officer herrera was familiar with defendant and knew there was an outstanding warrant for him, she exited the patrol vehicle and called to defendant. defendant took off on the bicycle. the officers pursued him in their patrol vehicle. at some point during the chase, they activated their lights and sirens. officers paredes and mclaren joined the pursuit in their patrol car to assist officers ornelas and herrera. as defendant made a sharp right turn, officer mclaren pulled his vehicle in front of defendant, causing him to crash into the rear quarter panel of the patrol car. defendant landed on the ground. the four officers attempted to subdue and handcuff defendant. defendant prevented the officers from grabbing his arms and tried to push the officers off him. when officer herrera , defendant kicked her. 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 officer abdomen to keep defendant on the ground. defendant fought back, and officer mclaren lost his balance, causing one of officer hands est to the ground defendant then turned his head toward officer mclaren hand and bit his pinky finger. officer mclaren hit his knee intried to get his finger out of defendants mouth. defendant continued to bite officer mclaren until officer mclaren hit defendant multiple times with his knee and forcefully pulled his finger out of defendants mouth. officer mclaren saw that his officer mclaren sustained injuries that included a centimeter laceration and numbness in his finger for the next eight months. no stitches were required. the four officers eventually handcuffed and arrested defendant. when interviewed while in custody, defendant told officer conner that he was trying to get away from the officers because he did not want to go back to jail. defendant also stated that he wrists. when officer conner asked defendant if he wanted to 2. trial defendant was charged with one count of mayhem, four counts of resisting an executive officer (one for each of the four police officers who tried to subdue defendant), and one count of assault on a peace officer. prior to trial, defendant filed a motion for pretrial discovery seeking personnel information regarding officers herrera, ornelas, paredes, and mclaren, pursuant to brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, and pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. the people opposed the motion. an 4 in-camera hearing was held on the motion on march 24, 2015. four documents were produced. the jury trial commenced in september 2016. officers herrera, paredes, ornelas, mclaren, and conner testified. the jury found defendant guilty of resisting officers mclaren and herrera and assaulting officer mclaren. the jury acquitted defendant of mayhem and was unable to reach a verdict on resisting officers ornelas and paredes. the court sentenced defendant to 16 years and 8 months in state prison. this sentence included an 8-year term for assaulting officer mclaren and a consecutive 16-month term for resisting officer mclaren. discussion 1. section 654 did not bar multiple punishments for assault and resisting arrest defendant argues that his consecutive sentences for resisting and assaulting officer mclaren must be stayed pursuant to section 654 because indivisible course of conduct with the single objective of avoiding punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or well settled that section 654 applies not only where there was but one act in the ordinary sense, but also where there was a course of conduct which violated more than one statute but nevertheless (people v. perez (1979) 23 cal.3d 545, 551 (perez).) the trial court is tasked with determining whether the charges involve an indivisible course of conduct. we s explicit or implicit factual (people v. mccoy (2012) 5 208 cal.app.4th 1333, 1338; people v. hutchins (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1308, 1312-1313.) a divisible transaction which could be punished under more than one statute within the meaning of section 654 depends on the (people v. saffle (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 434, 438.) tesperez, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any id. at p. 551). defendant argues that the assault on officer mclaren was indivisible from the resisting arrest. he asserts that his objectives in assaulting and resisting officer mclaren were the sameto avoid being arrested. we disagree. on this record, there was substantial evidence that although defendant intended to escape the officers and avoid returning to jail, he also wanted to inflict pain on officer mclaren when he bit him. (see people v. ibarra (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1145, 1153 [consecutive sentences for conviction for infliction of corporal punishment on a spouse and attempted murder did not violate section 654 where defendant sought not just to kill victim, but also humiliate and torture her].) defendant admitted to the interviewing officer that he resisted arrest because he did not want to go back to jail. defendant also expressly stated that he bit officer mclaren because the officer was hurting dts. defendant disclosed that he would have severed opportunity. that defendant had two different intents when committing the crimes: avoiding jail on the one hand and inflicting pain on or maiming officer mclaren on the other, in order to stop officer 6 mclaren from hurting defendant. consecutive sentences for the assault and resisting arrest did not violate section 654. 2. pitchess motion defendant filed a motion seeking discovery of the law enforcement personnel records of officers herrera, ornelas, paredes, and mclaren. (see pitchess v. superior court, supra, 11 cal.3d 531.) the trial court conducted an in-camera on appeal, defendant asks this court to conduct an hearing on his pitchess motion. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1228-1229; people v. rodriguez (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 360, 366.) the people do not oppose the request. we will not disturb pitchess motion absent an abuse of discretion. (alford v. superior court (2003) 29 cal.4th 1033, 1039.) having reviewed the pitchess record, we find no procedural in its ruling. (see people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1208-1209.). disposition we affirm the judgment on all grounds. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rogan, j.* * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 