filed 5/15/18 p. v. hurth ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan bernard hurth, defendant and appellant. b279625 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya051658) appeal from a postconviction order of the superior court for los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed. elizabeth k. horowitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant jonathan bernard hurth appeals from an order denying his petition for a recall of sentence under the three strikes challenges the trial cunreasonable risk of danger to the public and was therefore not eligible for resentencing under proposition 36. finding no abuse of discretion, we affirm. factual and procedural summary defendant is serving a three strikes sentence of 25 years to life following his 2002 conviction by jury for second degree burglary (pen. code,  4591), receiving stolen property ( 496, subd. (a)), and having suffered two prior serious or violent felony convictions ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)).) with regard to the third strike conviction, an eyewitness identified defendant as one of several men he saw loading items into a van from an uninhabited house from which the tenants had been evicted and locked out two dayproperty had been left behind in the house, into which there was a forced entry. (see people v. hurth (aug. 22, 2003, b162085 [nonpub. opn.].) in november 2012, voters enacted proposition 36, codified at section 1170.126. (people v. valencia (2017) 3 cal.5th 347, 354 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 (valencia).) as relevant here, proposition 36 created a procedure for inmates sentenced under the three strikes law for a nonserious, nonviolent felony to petition the trial court for resentencing. ( 1170.126, subds. (e), (f); valencia, at p. 354.) an inmate who is serving a third strike sentence that would have yielded a second court, in its discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an [citation.]valencia, at p. 354; see  1170.126, subd. (e).) 1. the petition and suitability hearing on december 14, 2012, after passage of proposition 36, defendant petitioned the trial court for recall of sentence and a new sentence pursuant to section 1170.126. the district attorney opposed the petition, conceding that, although defendant was eligible for resentencing, he was unsuitable for resentencing because he posed a current risk of danger to public safety. the parties filed voluminous exhibits. a suitability hearing was conducted on september 1, 2016, at which the court received the exhibits into evidence, and heard testimony from defendant and his expert witness, richard subia, a former warden with the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. 4 2. on november 21, 2016, the court issued a 21page memorandum of decision focused on whether defendant posed a current risk to public safety. the court found that defendant had a viable post-release plan that supported his release. that plan, however, was heavily outweighed by disciplinary record, csra score, and gang membership. the court concluded that the statutory factors, demonstrate[d] that resentencing [defendant] would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to puthe court set forth its reasoning and the evidence in support of its conclusion. a. the court acknowledgcriminal history was an immutable factor, it was relevant to assessment whether defendant posed a current risk of danger to public safety. ( 1170.126, subd. (g)(1).) responsibility for a crime is probative of current dangerousness, because it reflects a lack of insight which, in turn, indicates that an inmate remains dangerous. (see in re ryner (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 533, 548549 (ryner); in re shaputis (2011) 53 cal.4th 192, 219 [criminal history and current attitude re: that criminal conduct may botparole is granted].) 5 the court observed that defendant criminal history reflected a 13year string of violent property crimes, dating back to 1986 when he was 14 years old. two juvenile petitions were sustained against him for robbery. purse, knocked her to the ground and dragged her by the hair. when defendant was 15 years old, a juvenile petition was sustained against him for attempted robbery and assault with a firearm. he and a companion ordered a pizza, intending to rob the delivery boy. during the attempted robbery, defendant shot the victim in the stomach. defendant denied he had intended to shoot the victim, and claimed the gun had accidentally discharged. he was committed to a camp community placement for nine months. at age 17, defendant was convicted of attempted robbery with personal use of a firearm. he accosted two people on the street, yelling, a patrol car pulled up and he was arrested. defendant was deemed unfit for juvenile proceedings, tried as an adult and sentenced to 40 months in prison in october 1989. he was paroled in july 1991. in october 1993, defendant was convicted of possession of a controlled substance and sentenced to three probation and one year in county jail. in march 1995, defendant was sentenced to six years in prison for first degree robbery. he had grabbed money from a woman on the sidewalk and, when her boyfriend approached, struck the boyfriend in the head with a brick. defendant was charged with assault with a 6 deadly weapon and robbery, but convicted only of robbery. defendant denied having hit the man with a brick. defendant was returned to custody four times between july 1998 and march 2001: (1) in july 1998, he suffered a parole violation, following an arrest for assault with a deadly weapon; (2) in june 1999, he was returned after an arrest for robbery; (3) in november 1999, he was returned to custody for receiving stolen property; and (4) in march 2001, he was returned after a parole violation following another arrest for robbery. current life commitment offense was committed in 2002. defendant denied any involvement in the burglary that led to his current commitment, and claimed that no witness identified him as a perpetrator, a claim the court found contradicted by the probation report. b. disciplinary record during incarceration the court reviewed in detail during the recent period of incarceration. defendant had six of which involved fighting during the three years preceding the suitability hearing. all six fighting incidents reflect that defendant ignored orders to stop fighting, and guards were forced to employ 7 pepper spray or grenades to stop the violence.2 during his testimony, defendant acknowledged he had sometimes kept fighting after being 2 march 14, 2003: delaying a peace officer. defendant participated in a protest by african-american inmates who felt oppressed by guards who kept them on lockdown and kept them from visiting the canteen. protestors refused to relinquish food trays and covered their cell windows with paper. june 24, 2005: possession of inmate manufactured weapon. a plastic weapon made from a toothbrush was foupreviously inventoried and stored in a locker after he had been moved to segregated housing. the court gave little weight to this incident because evidence showed defendant had not possessed the weapon, which was placed by another in his belongings. june 1, 2007: battery of another inmate resulting in no serious injury. several inmates were fighting on a basketball court. defendant was not a participant at first, but then he ran toward an inmate who belonged to the bloods gang (who had been sitting on the court) and struck him in the face. defendant refused to follow orders to stop fighting, and had to be subdued by guards. he was found guilty of battery on an inmate without serious injury. august 13, 2008: conduct which could lead to violence. a guard saw march 10, 2103: fighting. defendant and another inmate used their fists to strike one another in the chest and upper arms, ignoring orders to stop fighting, until they were subdued by blasts of pepper spray. july 19, 2013: fighting. defendant and another inmate fought in the prison yard. both men ignored an activated alarm and continued to fight until grenades were detonated. april 30, 2014: fighting. defendant fought with another inmate in a housing unit, and other inmates tried to join the fight. a guard ordered the inmates to stop, but defendant and two others kept fighting until the guard fired a sponge round. may 8, 2014: fighting. defendant and another inmate struck one another with their fists in the face and torso until a guard blasted them with pepper spray. november 7, 2014attacked him. three rounds of pepper spray were required to stop the fight. 8 ordered to stop. he explained that he did so because an inmate remains exposed if he stops fighting and another inmate has a weapon. he also said it was not unusual to be pepper sprayed, because the guards sprayed everyone during fights, even the victim. defendant denied having attacked other inmates. defendant testified that most of his fights were with members of his former gang, otherwise. the court concluded that only one rvr (from november 2014) contained evidence that defendant was attacked first, after another inmate rushed into his cell to start a fight. defendant also claimed that a couple he received for fighting related to had been . the during any had been targeted by other inmates after the was affixed to his record in 2003.3 subia, noted january 19, 2015: fighting. defendant fought with another inmate on the yard, and failed to stop after an alarm was activated and two guards ordered them to stop. guards deployed grenades to stop the fight. march 31, 2015: conduct conducive to violence. defendant and another inmate were trying to strike one another, when a guard ordered the entire prison yard down, and they assumed a prone position. 3 igned to an inmate arrested for or convicted of a sex offense. defendant received the designation after being accused of sodomizing another inmate in 1990 in youth authority (ya). 9 are easily able to determine which inmates are sexual offenders. the court observed that defincreased in frequency in 2013, 10 years after the suffix was placed back on his record. that inmates had ready access to information sexual offenderhe was attacked on that basis, but not until 2013, did not ring true. c. rehabilitation and work record defendant obtained his ged while incarcerated. from 2002-2012, while housed at new folsom, defendant consistently attended and helped arrange weekly worship services, bible studies, and choir rehearsal, and helped to facilitate the choir rehearsal and group bible desire to grow spiritually had a positive effect on his life and those of his peers. defendant acknowledged that, although he had limited access to work and programs at new folsom, he could have participated in mail-order correspondence courses. instead, he had chosen to spend his time in church and writing. he tried to take a vocational course, but the funding was cut. the suffix was removed from his records upon his discharge from ya, but re-applied in 2003. eventually, defendant was placed in segregated housing, interim, he remained in shared cells where issues of assaultive behavior were raised against him. 10 defendant began participating in self-help programming in earnest after filing his petition for resentencing. in 2014, he participated in a mental health life skills group, and was commended for his willingness to share his knowledge and insight with others. in 2015 defendant completed a number of self-study courses, and received a certificate of achievement for completing a program on crisis management. in 2016, he attended meetings for a gang prevention program, attended 10 aa/na meetings, and completed 15 hours of substance abuse training. defendant worked on a recycling crew from august 2011 through march 2012, and as a porter from may 2012 through may 2014. in october 2015, he asked to be placed on a wait list for a job in laundry services. d. classification and static risk assessment scores the cdcr assigns every inmate . the lower the score, the lower the perceived security risk. the lowest score a life inmate may have is 19. at the time of the suitability hearing, most recent (october 2012) available score was 63. the to other inmates seeking resentencing . . . who have successfully given the fact that defendant had acquired the vast majority of which involved fighting, the court noted that 11 current classification score had likely well above 63 the cdcr uses the static risk assessment (sra), an actuarial tool that uses demographic and criminal history data to predict the risk of recidivism for an inmate after release. the score range is: one (low); two (moderate); three (high; drug); four (high; property); and five (high; violence). most inmates with successful petitions for resentencing have an presented a moderate risk of incurring a felony arrest within three years of release. the court observed that, as a factor of age, recidivism rates for lifeterm inmates is much lower than for other prisoners. (in re stoneroad (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 596, 634.) at the time of his suitability hearing defendant was 44 years old. however, the court found that disciplinary record reflected that he was not ; thus tigate any risk of danger to e. post-release plan defendant had been offered housing and a volunteer clerk position through the partnership for reentry program (prep) program. as a clerk, defendant would gain work experience filing, writing letters, making phone calls and working with computers, at the same time he received help adjusting to life in the community. prep guaranteed defendant an interview with a job developer, and offered to support him 12 until he had a job and had reacclimated to society. in addition, homeboy industries had offered mentoring and counseling services, and had also offered to his lifelong friend and a reverend had each professed their willingness to provide emotional and financial support, including clothing, necessities and transportation. -release plan was realistic and supported his suitability for resentencing. f. expert witness evidence richard subia, a former warden of the california department of corrections and rehabilitation (cdcr), testified and submitted a report 4 subia interviewed defendant, examined his criminal history, and reviewed his custodial records of discipline, offenses and rehabilitation. with respect to prison disciplinary processes, and classification systems, subia explained that the in programming for up to 10 years. defendant told subia that he began using marijuana at the age of 13, and cocaine at age 15. defendant was using and selling crack cocaine at age 21, and had become an addict by age 22. at age 15, g. he became a 4 and prison gangs (e.g., gang investigations and debriefing of gang drop-outs), and assessing inmates for release. 13 gang member by age 17. sacramento prison officials had validated defendant told subia he had disassociated from his former gang. subia reported arged with any violations related to . . . subia accepted xplanation that he was involved in numerous fights after being targeted for backing away from his gang, after mistakenly being identified as a sex offender, and for being caught up in race riots necessitating his participation. subia opined that, althouconducive to violence, fighting and mutual combat, close review showed that none of the incidents resulted in significant injuries. subia explained that, after a fight, it is necessary to determine whether segregation is in order. if the combatants agree there will be no case, the only times an enemies list had been necessary was when defendant was the victim. as for bia believed his commitment offense was consistent with the prior crimes of robbery and theft to facilitate his drug use. subia testified that prison gangs differ from street gangs. defendant had belonged to the crips on the streets, but there was no indication he belonged to a gang in prison. when defendant first entered prison, he hung out with crips. later, defendant and a group 14 of other inmates turned their backs on the crips, and informed prison staff they were not associated with the gang. defendant was charged with battery after participating in a gang-related action in 2007. there was a major incident in the yard between the crips and bloods. because defendant was african american and came into prison as a react in a certain way if an issue arose involving people from his neighborhood or race. if he failed to do so, other inmates might retaliate against him. gang. he was assaulted several times by gang members, then charged with fighting. subia did not believe that in context, the frequency of current danger to public safety. in the outside community, one can walk away from a fight and not see that person again. in prison, walking away brands the inmate as a coward and causes him to be preyed upon. inmates may get work assignments after a committee assigns a classification score and custody level. based on that score and custody level, the inmate is placed on a waiting list, or in a job assignment or was limited by his level 4 close custody status and the fact that he was housed at new folsom, where programming is more difficult to obtain. after defendant was moved to lancaster in 2012, more programming opportunities were available to him. shortly after being transferred there, defendant began programming and sent a letter to his supervisor in an effort to 15 obtain work. after propositions 36 and 47 were passed, defendant participated in several self-help programs. prior to passage of the propositions, he had done some mail-order programs, and performed some (primarily janitorial) work. he learned manual labor and entry level type work in prison. defendant had a transitional plan. he had been accepted and was working with prep, and had a position in its restorative justice program. homeboy industries also had offered him job training, substance abuse treatment and mental health assistance, if necessary. history, subia opined that defendant posed no current unreasonable risk of danger. discussion defendant maintains the trial court abused its discretion by arbitrarily rejecting the opinion of his expert witness that defendant did not pose an unreasonable risk of danger. he also contends there is defendant failed to demonstrate he had disassociated from his gang, or that his rehabilitation was insufficient to support release. finally, defendant argues that the court erred in relying on an unproven incident alleged in a probation report as evidence that he lacked insight regarding his past conduct. we disagree with these contentions. 16 1. proposition 36 and the standard of review an eligible defendant may still be ts discretion, determines that resentencing the petitioner would pose an  1170.126, subd. (e); valencia, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 354.) in determining whether a petitioner poses an to public safety,the criteria a court may consider, include: (1) [t]he committed, the extent of injury to victims, the length of prior prison commitmendisciplinary record and record of rehabilitation while incarcerated; and [] (3) [a]ny other evidence the court, within its discretion, determines to be relevant in deciding whether a new sentence would result in an ( 1170.126, subd. (g).) . . . in the trial court, its except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 270271;  1170.126, subd. (g).) 2. rejection of expert opinion rejection of subiaopinion that defendant did not pose an unreasonable 17 risk of danger to the public at the time of the suitability hearing. defendant the arbitrary and is contradicted by the factual record. of course, the trial court is not required to accept the opinion of an expert witness. (people v. mccoy court is not obligated to accept even unanimous or uncontradicted material upon which the opinion is based and the reasoning used to ibidy reject completely the testimony of an expert witness, as long as its decision to do so is not ibid.) the fact finder determines the facts, not the expert, and the fact finder may (in re scott (2003) 29 cal.4th 783, 823 (scott).) to hold otherwise would be in effect to substitute a trial by experts . . . (ibid.) this rule is especially important where, as here, the witness is not neutral courtappointed expert[] but [an] expert[] hired by a party scott, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 823.) defendant insists the record supports opinion that it was primarily effort to disassociate from gang life that led to his fights. however, the court concluded . instead, the court found there was only a single instance in which corroborating evidence showed defendant was attacked first (in november 2014, when he was attacked in his cell by another inmate), a finding defendant does not dispute. further, the 18 self-serving accountwas not directly contradicted did not compel the court to credit his opinion. (cf., people v. mcnally (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1419, 1433-1434 testimony was not improbable and was uncontradicted by direct testimony, did not compel the jury to believe it, where the circumstances were such as to reasonably justify an inference of guilt,because . . . be convicted if their explanations were always had the responsibility to resolve factual disputes and make credibility determinations, and we defer to its determination. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) his assertion (), that some altercations involved in which he was forced to become involved and to the trial court rejected explicitly include the word riot. the 2005 rvr re after it was determined he was attacked by other inmates. in a june 2007 rvr, although d, the court [n]othing in the rvr . . . mention[ed] any rioting activitydefendantfight with other inmates. with regard to the june 2007 incident on the basketball court, the court rejected opinion fight was 19 mitigated by evidence the o the contrary, t. . . [gang] riot . . . on the yard. furthermore, [defendant] was not involved in the melee . . . he was in another part of the yard and then ran toward the melee . . . and attacked a rival gang member . . . sitting away from the had been targeted as a sexual offender because are easily able to inmate has a history of sexually based offenses. accordingly, the court found no twhich increased in frequency in 2013and placement of the 10 years earlier. rather, tclaim that he had been attacked after being labeled a sexual predator another empty extestimony that such information was readily accessible to inmates. finally, defendant faults the trial court for rejecting testimony that the increase in fighting after 2013 was attributable to transfer from new folsom. again, the court was free to find this testimony not credible, particularly in light of evidence that in all six rvrdefendant consistently ignored orders to stop, forcing guards to use pepper spray or other methods to stop the 20 s to show an abuse of discretion. 3. substantial evidence supports the cconclusion that defendant had not disassociated from his gang according to subia, defendant admitted to prison officials at new folsom that he had belonged to the crips or purportedly made this admission to notify prison staff he was no longer associated with the gang and did not support its activities. but, defendant chose not to formally sever ties with the debrief because he would have had to reveal certain information. had he done so, he would have been labeled and he and his family would have been in danger. instead, defendant chose to mind his own business, keep his head low and stand his ground until he was released. the trial court agreed that defendant had not engaged in gang-related activity since 2007. but it rejected his contention that he had disassociated from his gangecause [defendant] chose not to he considered a member of a violent criminal enterprishis ongoing militated against release. defendant maintains that the absence of any gang-related rules violations since 2007, coupled with evidence that he was set up for possession of a weapon and also attacked in his cell, demonstrates his disassociation from the gang. while the record might support that conclusion, it also supports the findings. absent a 21 miscarriage of justiceand there is none hereit is not our role to second-guess factual findings made by the trial court or to reweigh the evidence. (in re robert l. (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 1057, 1067; people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 [appellate court does not reweigh evidence or resolve evidentiary conflicts].) the trial court found defendandebrief with prison officials to be persuasive evidence that he had chosen to maintain his gang affiliation. we cannot find that conclusion was an abuse of discretion, nor does it lack sufficient evidentiary support. 4. rehabilitation efforts efforts at rehabilitation, while laudable, were not significantly supportive of his release because those efforts did [] . . . light of the fact that they were not undertaken until after he filed the resentencing petition. again, the record supports thconclusion. it is undisputed that defendant received his high school equivalency certificate, and consistently participated in church activities while incarcerated in sacramento from 2002 through 2012. however, it is also undisputed that defendant began engaging in self-help activities and programs in earnest only after filing his resentencing petition in december 2012. the details of those activities, set forth above, need not be repeated. what is ps at rehabilitation undermined 22 addictionpointing to defendant . . . crack cocaine addictionhis only motivation to address the issues that led to his criminal behavior [was] the opportunity for release, the court ha[d] little confidence that [he] would participate in re-entry programs to reduce his chances of reasonable for the court to focus -help programs, particularly those related to substance abuse, given his long-standing addiction. as trier of fact, the court reasonably concluded that [did] not reflect[] . . . they had not been undertaken in earnest until after he sought resentencing. (people v. gibson (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 315, 329.) 5. his involvement in past crimes resentenced . . . unless the court, in its discretion, determines that [his] resentencing . . . would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public ( 1170.126, subd. (f).) examples of evidence the court may ry of criminal convictions, including the types of crimes committed and the extent of injury to victims, the remoteness of those crimes, and any other evidence the court deems relevant to the question whether a new sentence would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. 23 ( 1170.126, subd. (g); people v. garcia (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 763, 769.) defendant argues the court improperly relied on double hearsay in a probation report that states he struck a man with a brick. defendant failed to raise this objection at the suitability hearing. accordingly, the assertion is forfeited. (see evid. code,  353; see also people v. brimmer (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 782, 800 [finding forfeiture in proposition 36 at probation report was an improper source of evidence of factual circumstances of crime].) even if the argument had not been forfeited, that the court relied solely or primarily on inadmissible hearsay in the probation report to conclude that he continues to pose an unreasonable risk to public safety is mistaken. as discussed above, the court exhaustively reviewed evidence of -year string of violent property crimes, beginning at age 14. the court noted defendant had suffered numerous parole violations and has been returned to custody at least four times for engaging in violent behavior similar to that for which he was previously incarcerated. the incarcerations had been insufficto deter [] determining whether granting his resentencing petition would present an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. ( 1170.126, subd. (g)(1).) 24 moreover, defendant is still minimizing (or outright denying) his involvement in prior crimes. at the hearing he claimed, among other tried to rob, and that he was never identified as a perpetrator in the burglary leading to his current incarceration, despite evidence to the contrary. the court was free tminimize or deny his involvement in crimes of which he has been convictedinvolvement in criminal activity reflects a lack of insight which . . . tends to show that an inmate remains dangerous. evidence of lack of insight indicates current dangerousnmaterial [(ryner, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at pp. 548549.)] aresponsibility for his conduct . . . is probative of current dangerousness. [(in re shaputis (2008) 44 cal.4th 1241,] 1260, fn. 18; in re tapia (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 1104, 1112.) an absence of insight may support a finding that an inmate presents an unreasonable risk of danger to significant predictor of [his] future behavior should parole be granted. (in re shaputis[, supra,] 53 cal.4th [at p.] 219; [in re lawrence (2008) 44 cal.4th 1181,] 1213.) dtendency to contradict the inherently violent nature of the crimes and minimize his own violent tendencies was reflected in 25 his claim tshot the pizza delivery man, and that he had not committed the burglary that led to his current commitmentdemonstrate a lack of insight and a as to his assumption of responsibility for his crimes. (ryner, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at pp. 548-549.) thus, the court reasonably concluded that, while considered in conjunction with his misconduct in prison, csra score and continued gang t dangerousness in light of [his] flagrant denial and minimization of his past criminal activity. -reasoned memorandum of decision reflects a proper application of the proposition 36 criteria, and a careful evaluation of evidence presentedhistory, disciplinary record, record of rehabilitation, classification and risk scores, age, postrelease plans, and expert witness testimony. after weighing this evidence, the court reasonably concluded that defendant currently poses an unreasonable risk of danger to public safety. the record supports that conclusion. 26 disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 