filed 3/26/19 p. v. clark ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. markese dewon clark, defendant and appellant. b279396 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma058334) in re markese dewon clark on habeas corpus. b291549 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma058334) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed. original proceedings; petition for writ of habeas corpus, frank m. tavelman, judge. petition denied. 2 james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant, appellant and petitioner. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, ryan m. smith and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. two-year-old king j.1 died from blunt force head trauma inflicted while in markese devon at his trial, clark contended that king, unbeknownst to clark, had a prior, unrelated head injury that left his head susceptible to reinjury. thus, even a minor event, such as playfully tossing schoopunishment of hitting the baby on his head, could have caused court should have instructed the jury on assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury as a lesser included offense to assault on a child causing homicide, on which the jury was instructed and of which clark was found guilty. we conclude there was insufficient evidence to instruct the jury on the lesser concerning, for example, sanchez2 error, and deny his related petition for writ of habeas corpus. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. 1 to avoid confusion, we identify individuals who share the same surname by their first names. no disrespect is intended. 2 people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez). 3 background i. king ericka and donald had three children, two daughters and king. in the summer of 2012, the girls were eight years old (joy) and five years old. king, who was born on december 29, 2010, was almost two years old. with respect to king, ericka had a normal pregnancy and delivery, and his checkups, the last of which was in july 2012, were normal. however, in july 2012, king fell down 15 or 16 concrete or tiled stairs, resulting in a bump to his head, although he did not lose consciousness. emergency room doctors examined and released him that same day. although ericka remembered the one fall, joy remembered king falling down stairs a second time, which also prompted a trip to the emergency room. ericka, however, said that while king got other bumps on his forehead from falling or running into something, this all happened before july 2012. around august 2012, ericka and donald separated. soon thereafter, in september 2012, ericka resumed a relationship with clark, whom she had dated in the past. clark and his two childrenthree and one-year old girlsmoved into a two-bedroom apartment in long beach with ericka and her three children. ericka worked as a personal banker for wells fargo, while clark cared for the children and worked on his music at home. caring for five children at times frustrated and overwhelmed clark. once, a neighbor heard king say she knew how to quiet king. 4 kids were crying, he went back inside. as to discipline, ericka and clark agreed he would not spank ericka, to avoid problems with donald. ericka never saw clark hit her children, and he never told her he had done so. even so, clark complained that ericka and donald babied king, who clark called a crybaby. when king cried, clark would tell clark fantasized that he and ericka would have a son who clark would teach to tough and to really be a boy. a boy included telling king not to play with toys. king thus never warmed to clark. and, after donald left, ericka attributed this to king missing his father, to whom he was close, and she considered taking king to a psychologist. in mid-october 2012, ericka and clark moved to a four-bedroom house in lancaster, where ericka continued to work for wells fargo and clark continued to stay at home caring for the children, although were in school during the day. ii. the events leading to on christmas eve 2012, the family celebrated, king perhaps too much, for he ate a lot of sweets. the next day, he threw up and was weak, altho. over the next few days, he seemed better, although he was mopey and not himself. on the day of his second birthday, december 29, he uncharacteristically ate his cake slowly and moved slowly. concerned, ericka considered taking him to the doctor. on january 2, 2013, ericka worked all day, and clark did not say anything was wrong with king. when ericka got home 5 that night at 8:45 p.m., king was already asleep. thinking it was too early for king to go to bed, ericka woke him. when she put although king ate slowly, seemed fine. the next morning, january 3, 2013, ericka went to work and all the children remained at home with clark. at 11:00 a.m., clark called ericka and said that king had fallen and was being rushed to the hospital. when a responding paramedic arrived, king was not breathing and his heart was not beating. king was damp. the paramedics took king to antelope valley hospital, but he was later transported to kaiser. doctors drilled burr holes into his head to drain fluid that had accumulated on his brain. was removed from life support on january 17. two days later, he died. at the time of his death, king weighed 25 pounds and was 39 inches tall. iii. soon after king died, eight-year-old joy gave a recorded statement on january 21, 2013 about what happened to her baby brother. she said that clark had been throwing king in the air and pulling him down and they fell back, and then he picked him few minutes later, clark said king hit his head in the bathtub. when clark later said king fell down the stairs, joy tried to say but clark shushed her. joy also reported that clark [ ]king upstairs when he got mad at king 6 at trial, joy, who was now 11 years old, testified she never saw clark spank king on the day king went to the hospital, clark was playing with the kids in the carpeted living room. when clark threw king into the air, king vomited clark took king upstairs to bathe him. clark came back downstairs, crying and saying, iv. medical testimony two experts testified for the prosecution: dr. jason tovar and dr. carol berkowitz. a. dr. tovar deputy medical examiner jason tovar autopsied king. he report, a postautopsy ophthalmologist report, and a postautopsy neuropathology report. contusions on the undersurface in the frontal regions toward the forehead and across the top of the head and hemorrhage on the back of the head on the bone. more specifically, king had hemorrhages in the subcutaneous, subgaleal, and subdural regions of his brain. the subcutaneous hemorrhage was diffuse (spread out) and located to the left side of his head just above the ear and into the back, indicating unnatural trauma. king also had diffuse subgaleal hemorrhage to the back of his head, on the left side of his scalp over a fairly large area. because the subgaleal region is below the skin and 7 subcutaneous regions, hemorrhage to the subgaleal area suggested application of ,force. the presence of hemorrhaging to the back, top, head indicated multiple applications of force. a hand striking the head or the head hitting a hard, flat surface could cause the subcutaneous and subgaleal hemorrhages. in addition to the subcutaneous and subgaleal hemorrhages, king had a subdural hemorrhage on his right posterior parietal region. disruption of the small veins running 3 caused the hemorrhage. such acceleration, deceleration, or stretching or sheering effects. acceleration and deceleration can cause bleeding into the retinas. dr. tovar therefore to an ophthalmologist, who found retinal hemorrhages. dr. tovar also sent kin dr. tovar relied on these reports to form his opinion about cause of death. in addition to the he had an older (weeks or longer) hemorrhage and calcification to the mesentery, suggesting prior injuries to that areasome form of blunt force trauma. notwithstanding his internal injuries, king had no external bruising. however, a child struck hard enough on the head to cause internal damage might not exhibit external signs of the injury. 3 the dura is the layer of fibrous tissue on the inside of the skull. 8 dr. tovar could not ascribe the blunt force injuries to anything natural, and nothing else in the known circumstances corroborate[d] multiple injuries in different sites. however, sbathtub could cause the hemorrhaging, including the retinal hemorrhaging king suffered. striking a baby with an open hand could also cause those injuries. but, falling back onto a carpeted surface could not cause them. dr. tovar therefore determined h and that the mode of death was homicide. on cross-examination, dr. tovar agreed that veins on the brain that had once bled and then healed could [p]be about, what time intervableeding veins on the brain could cause sudden severe headache, seizures, nausea or vomiting, and loss of coordination and balance. tossing a child into the air a couple of times and then putting him on carpeted floor onto which the child falls back and hits it head would not be enough force to cause the veins to bleed. but, falling down stairs could cause that type of injury. if a child fell down stairs, causing the veins on his brain to bleed, that location could be more susceptible to reinjury.4 and, if five vein to start bleeding again. 4 cause of death. prior to january 3, 2013. 9 prior injury. none of the hemorrhages could have resulted from an injury occurring five months before january 3, 2013that is, the fall down the stairs. also, there was no evidence of any prior injury that could have caused or contributed to the subdural hemorrhage. b. dr. berkowitz dr. carol berkowitz is board-certified in pediatric emergency medicine and in child abuse pediatrics. she reviewed hospitals, paramedic reports, his well-child visits, and the ophthalmology report. fixed and dilated pupils, lack of a pulse, and cold to the touchsuggested his low rectal temperature, which was taken at antelope valley, also suggested inability to maintain body temperature had been ongoing for a while. although a ct scan taken when he was admitted showed no abnormalities such as subdural bleeding, that could be because his heart had stopped circulating blood to the site of the bleed. thus, when doctors were able to get rrhages. also, when king was admitted, he had petechiaetiny hemorrhages present in the back of the eye. later, an ophthalmologist examined king and confirmed he had multiple retinal hemorrhages in all four eye quadrants, indicating a shaking or an acceleration and deceleration. shaken baby 10 causing edema or an inability to regulate breathing. retinal hemorrhages are also associated with shaken baby syndrome. head trauma occurring around the time he became symptomatic, meaning when he stopped breathing and his heart stopped beating. the catastrophic event that caused king to stop breathing could not have occurred several days before january 3, 2013, because the ct scan at antelope valley where king was first admitted would have shown the presence of blood. she agreed with dr. tovar that hitting a child does not necessarily leave external bruising or swelling. on cross-examination, dr. berkowitz admitted she had only earlier fall down stairs. however, it was her understanding that the emergency department did not order imaging studies, which indicated there was no evidence of intracranial injury. if king had such an injury, he would not have been in such great health until the time of the event on january 3, 2013. still, dr. berkowitz generally agreed that if a child hit his head causing veins to bleed, that area would be susceptible to but, if king had such rebleeding, then a ct scan five months after the event would not have been normal and instead would have shown hygroma, which is the fluid that persists after a prior bleed. king had no hygroma. stated otherwise, if king had a bleeding caused by his fall down stairs and if some minor trauma occurred five months later on january 3, 2013 that caused a rebleed, then he would not have had a normal ct scan on january 3. stairs did not affect her opinion that king suffered nonaccidental head trauma on or about january 3. 11 v. and trial testimony clark gave a recorded statement to detective scott mitchell on january 3, 2013, after king had been taken to the hospital. clark denied hitting or shaking king that day; all he did was pick up king and toss him in the air. but, he had, prior to january 3, times. on a one to 10 scale, with 10 being the hardest he could little [his] . . . at a nine or 10. still, clark never knocked king out; king would just fall to the ground and cry. around the holidays, clark did 5 clark testified at trial and continued to deny hitting or shaking king on january 3, 2013. he also tried to minimize his prior statements to detective mitchell, saying they were inaccurate, prompted by fear and the hope that if he just said he could get back to his kids faster. thus, he denied spanking or, as he called it, p[ping],they lived in long beach. however, clark, who weighed 245 admitted he did hit king on the head with an open hand when they moved to lancaster. this happened . when he did even so, clark admitted he did 5 he later indicated he might have hit king after christmas. 12 king would cry for a few minutes, but clark never knocked king off balance and he never saw any resulting bruises or swelling. the last time he could recall hitting king was before christmas. on new ound king on the floor, crying and grunting and seeming not to have control of his body. he told ericka they should take king to the emergency room, but she incur the cost of an ambulance. the next morning, january 1, king was much better. two days later, on january 3, 2013, clark was playing with the kids in the living room. he tossed king into the air three times, catching him as he came down. the last time, king fell back when clark put him down and landed straight on his back and on his head. clark picked him up, and king threw up, clark took king to the bathroom, where he stripped him, put him into the tub, and washed him with cold water. clark did not see king hit his head in the tub. after washing king, clark took him upstairs and dressed him. that was when clark noticed king was unresponsive. he ran downstairs with king and called 911, telling . vi. trial and sentencing an information charged clark with assault on a child causing death, which is commonly known as child assault homicide6 (pen. code,  273ab, subd. (a); count 1)7 and with 6 people v. wyatt (2012) 55 cal.4th 694, 697, footnote 2 (wyatt ii). 7 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 13 murder ( 187, subd. (a); count 2). a jury found clark guilty of count 1 and found true a great bodily injury enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (d)). the jury found clark not guilty of murder but guilty of the lesser offense of involuntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (b); count 2). on october 21, 2016, the trial court sentenced clark to 25 years to life on count 1. the trial court imposed but stayed a three-year sentence on count 2 and struck the enhancement. contentions clark raises the following issues: (1) the trial court should have instructed the jury on assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury as a lesser included offense to count 1; (2) expert witness doctors relied on impermissible hearsay in violation of sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665; (3) admistatement to the detective violated miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda); (4) the trial court should have given a unanimity instruction; (5) prosecutorial misconduct; (6) cumulative error; and (7) ineffective assistance of trial counsel. discussion i. failure to instruct on a lesser included offense by failing to instruct the jury on assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury as a lesser included offense to child assault homicide.8 we disagree. 8 support that, and, in fact, if [clark] had been convicted of 875 [assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury] because 14 a. the duty to instruct on lesser included offenses even in the absence of a request, a trial court must instruct on the general principles of law, including lesser included offenses, relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. (people v. smith (2013) 57 cal.4th 232, 239; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) instruction on a lesser included offense is required when there is evidence the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense, but not the greater. (people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 68.) substantial evidence is evidence a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1263.) the testimony of a single witness, including . . .[the] defendant, may suffice. (wyatt ii, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 698.) in determining whether substantial evidence existed, we do not evaluate the credibility of the witnesses, a task for the jury. (ibid.) however, the existence of any evidence, no matter how weak, will not justify an instruction. (whalen, at p. 68.) instruct on a lesser included offense does not arise when there is no evidence that the offense wyatt ii, at p. 702.) a primary reason for requiring instructions on lesser included offenses is to eliminate the distortion of the factfinding process that is created when the jury is forced into an all-or-nothing choice between [guilt] that is, to . . . simply to avoid (people v. majors (1998) 18 cal.4th 385, 410.) 15 we independently review whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense. (people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 538; people v. trujeque (2015) 61 cal.4th 227, 271.) reversal is not warranted unless it appears favorable result had the error not occurred. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 149.) b. assault as a general matter, assault crimes are ones of general intent that do not require a specific intent to cause injury. (people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 782, 788; see people v. albritton (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 647, 658 [child assault homicide is a general intent crime].) to be guilty of assault, a defendant must be aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that a certain consequence would directly, naturally and probably result from his or her actions. (williams, at p. 788.) however, a defendant may not be convicted based on facts he did not know but should have known. (ibid.) as to child assault homicide specifically, its elements are: (1) a person, having the care or custody of a child under the age of eight; (2) assaults the child; (3) by means of force that to a reasonable person would be likely to produce great bodily injury; 9 (people v. wyatt (2010) 48 9 the trial court instructed the jury that child assault homicide required the prosecution to prove: was under the age of 8; directly and probably result in the application of force to the child; 16 cal.4th 776, 780781; wyatt ii, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 702.) the jury here was accordingly instructed as to the third element regarding mens rea that the prosecution had to prove that when person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in great bodily injury (italics added.) in contrast to child assault homicide, assault with force likely to cause great bodily injury, with which the jury was not instructed, requires proof that when defendant that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force 10 the defendant did that act willfully; the force used was likely to produce great bodily injury; when the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in great bodily injury to the child; when the defendant acted, he had the present ability to apply force likely to produce great bodily injury to the child; d [] . . . [] great bodily injury means significant or substantial physical injury. it is an injury that is greater than minor or (italics omitted.) 10 assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury requires the people to prove: (1) the defendant did an act that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person; (2) the defendant did that act willfully; (3) the force used was likely to produce great bodily injury; (4) when the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would 17 the difference between the two crimes is thus one of three words about what defendant knew his act would directly and probably result in: either homicide) or the application of forceproduce great bodily injury). or substantial physical injury. it is an injury that is greater than minor , italics omitted.) terms application of force and apply force mean to touch in a harmful or offensive manner. the slightest touching can be enough if it is done in a rude or angry way. making contact with another person, including through his or her clothing is enough. the touching does not have to cause pain or injury of any kind. [] the touching can be done indirectly by causing an object . . . to touch the other person.(calcrim no. 875, brackets omitted.) thus, arguably the difference between child assault homicide and assault with force likely to produce battery. directly and probably result in the application of force to someone; and (5) when the defendant acted, he had the present ability to apply force likely to produce great bodily injury to a person. the terms application of force and apply force mean to touch in a harmful or offensive manner. the slightest touching can be enough if it is done in a rude or angry way. making contact with another person, including through his or her clothing is enough. the touching does not have to cause pain or injury of any kind. the touching can be done indirectly by causing an object to touch the person. great bodily injury means significant or substantial physical injury. it is an injury that is greater than minor or moderate harm. (see, e.g., calcrim no. 875.) 18 clark thus argues that contradictory evidence regarding multiple assaultive acts that could have caused the fatal injury and the quantum of force that made him more susceptible to a traumatic brain injury, there could be a reasonable doubt that [clark] would objectively head . . . or his tossing king up into the air and catching him . as we therefore understand the argument, prior falls down stairs, clark did not realize that hitting king on the back of the head or tossing him into the air could result in great bodily injury. hence, the trial court should have instructed the jury on the lesser included offense of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury. this argument rests on the notion that a fall or falls down stairs left brain so susceptible to reinjury that a minor event, such as being playfully tossed into the air or falling back onto carpet, caused multiple, diffuse hemorrhages to the subcutaneous, subgaleal, and subdural regions of his head. however, what, specifically, was the evidence that king suffered a subdural bleed in or about july 2012? the evidence relevant to this notion was limited to the following. in july 2012, king fell down 15 or 16 concrete or tiled stairs, resulting in a bump to his head. emergency room doctors examined and released him without ordering a ct scan. eight-year-old joy recalled a second fall down stairs and trip to the emergency room. five months later, around christmas, king was ill and not himself. the agreed with the general ideas that a fall down stairs could cause veins on brain to bleed, and 19 susceptible to reinjury. and, according to dr. tovar, if months might be enough to cause the veins to bleed again or, as dr. berkowitz said, a nonfatal rebleed. to be sure, this was substantial evidence king fell down stairs and had a bump to the head. it is not substantial evidence resulted in bleeding in the veins on his brain.11 rather, substantial evidence requires evidence and not mere speculation. in any given case, one speculate about any number of sa reasonable inference may not be based on suspicion alone, or on imagination, speculation, supposition, surmise, conjecture, or guess work. . . . a finding of fact must be an inference drawn from evidence rather than . . . a mere speculation as to people v. morris (1988) 46 cal.3d 1, 21; see people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 835 [speculation is not substantial evidence].) it is speculative to extensive that a minor event such as tossing king in the air or hitting his head on carpet could cause his death. battery, we disagree. king was only about 19 months old when clark began caring for him and two years old when he died. 11 this point leads to the wcounsel for failing to call a defense expert witness to testify that rendered his brain susceptible to reinjury. we discuss that issue post. 20 clark admitted he hit king on the back of his head at least eight times. although clark contends there was ambiguity about the level of force he used, citing, for example, that he left no external marks on the child, he unambiguously said in his interview with detective mitchell and at trial that he sometimes hit king at a on a scale of one to 10, with a 10 being the hardest he could hit. at trial, he admitted he exceeded his power, albeit just a reasonable person would have appreciated that hitting a baby on the back of the head would result in great bodily injury. stated otherwise, the trial court should have instructed the jury on the lesser which included sometimes hitting a baby on the head at a power level of seven, clark, if guilty at all, was guilty of the greater offense. (see wyatt ii, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 702 704 [forceful play-wrestling with 14 month old not simple assault].) ii. sanchez error clark next contends that drs. tovar and berkowitzreliance on the ophthalmologist and neuropathologist reports violated sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665.12 as we now explain, we reject his contention that any prejudicial error occurred. sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665 addressed the manner in which expert witnessesspecifically in that case a gang expertmay refer to hearsay they relied on to support their opinion. the 12 clark cursorily arg-child visits was also sanchez error, but the thrust of his argument concerns the ophthalmologist and 21 court thus considered the extent to which the confrontation clause and our state hearsay rules preclude expert witnesses from relating case-specific hearsay in explaining the basis for an opinion. case-specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants in the case being tried. (id. at p. 676.) their theory of the case depends by calling witnesses with personal knowledge of those case-specific facts. an expert may then testify about more generalized information to help jurors understand the significance of those case-specific facts. an expert is . . . allowed to give an opinion about what those facts ibid.) when an expert relates case-specific facts and treats the content of those statements as true and accurate to support the experts opinion, the statements are hearsay. and, if the prosecution expert seeks to relate testimonial hearsay,[13] there is a confrontation clause violation unless (1) there is a showing of unavailability and (2) the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination, or forfeited that right by wrongdoing. (id. at p. 686.) we have no occasion here to consider whether the expert doctor witnesses violated sanchez by relying on inadmissible hearsay, namely, the ophthalmologist and neuropathologist reports. even if the information in those reportsthat king had retinal hemorrhages and that he did not die of natural causeswere case-specific facts requiring the ophthalmologist and 13 testimonial statements are ones made with some degree of formality or solemnity and having the primary purpose of establishing or proving past events relevant in a later criminal prosecution. (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 705.) 22 neuropathologist to testify as them, no prejudice accrued to clark. first, otherwise established he had retinal hemorrhaging.14 dr. tovar reports of retinal hemorwhich prompted him to send to an external consultant. dr. tovar then referred to a medical records. those records, and in particular the ones from antelope valley hospital, the eye . . . . i think the comment was that they were petechiae eye, little tiny hemorrhages that were present in the back of the . by this, it is reasonably clear that the medical records were made treating physicians. therefore, to the extent the conclusions that king was violently shaken or suffered blunt force head trauma relied on the presence of retinal hemorrhaging, the medical records established that fact. however, the admissibility of those medical records is not before us. clark concedes, properly, they are not testimonial and their admission did not violate his confrontation rights. therefore, if the medical records are hearsay, they are nontestimonial hearsay. experts may . . . rely on nontestimonial 14 reflecting treatment before death factored into his ultimate hospital for an extended amount of time, such as this case here, we would use some of that medical information to go back to identify what was happening immediately at the time of presentation to assess those findings, because some of the 23 hearsay properly admitted under a statutory hearsay exception. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 685.) clark did not object to medical records. and, he does not argue on appeal that they were inadmissible under state evidentiary rules. any issue as to admissibility under state law is therefore forfeited. as to the neuropathologist report, dr. it was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see generally sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 698.) the report merely natural causes. that cardiovascular or respiratory abnormalities. similarly showed no abnormalities. the case-specific fact that king had no disease or natural condition that could explain his 15 the neuropathologist similarly ruled out, at a gross and microscopic level, any natural process that might have caused hemorrhages. report merely confirmed and buttressed dr. . moreover, that findingthat a two-year-old child did not die from natural causeswas hardly a controversial one. the defense did not contend king died of natural causes. rather, the defense theory was king died because some minor event on january 3, 2013 exacerbated a prior head injury. 15 dr. berkowitz similarly could think of no natural event in a healthy two year old that could account for the hemorrhaging in the brain, the retinal hemorrhaging, and the cardiac arrest. 24 iii. miranda before trial, clark moved, under miranda to exclude his statements to detective mitchell. after setting forth additional facts regarding those statements, we conclude clark was not in custody and therefore miranda warnings were not required. a. additional facts trial court held a hearing at which four law enforcement officers and clark testified. leave for the hospital. a deputy put him in the back of a patrol car and another deputy stood watch nearby. when detective laura bruner arrived, she asked clark if he was willing to take a polygraph test. clark said he would, so the officers moved clark from the patrol car to an unmarked vehicle which had no internal cage. a deputy sat next to clark in the backseat en route to the station. at the station, clark was taken to an interview room where he signed a consent to take a polygraph. detective held you do it, okay? we keep it on a very professional level, very low although clark and the detective talked, clark was never given a polygraph test. three of the officers testified that clark was not handcuffed, and the fourth could not remember. all officers said that clark did not ask for an attorney. none of the officers gave clark his miranda rights. 25 clark, however, said he was handcuffed on the way to the patrol car, although he sat without handcuffs in the car, and he immediately asked for an attorney. although he was told he was not under arrest, he never felt free to leave. he sat in the patrol car for about an hour before being moved to the unmarked vehicle. in issuing its ruling, the trial court expressly resolved discrepancies between testimony in the favor, particularly whether clark was handcuffed. the trial court found that if clark was in custody when he was put in the back of the patrol car for an hour, that custody or detention when he was taken out of the car. also, if clark was statement at the interview that clark was free to leave. based on the totality of the circumstances, the trial court found that clark was not in custody, and therefore his statements were admissible. b. clark was not in custody miranda, supra, 384 u.s. 436 requires a suspect to a custodial interrogation to be advised of certain rights. (people v. mickey (1991) 54 cal.3d 612, 648.) the test for whether a suspect is in custody is objective; the question is whether there was a formal arrest or a restraint on the freedom of the suspects movement to the degree associated with a formal arrest. (people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1400; people v. kopatz (2015) 61 cal.4th 62, 80 (kopatz).) stated otherwise, would a reasonable person have felt at liberty to end the interrogation and to leave? (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 401402.) whether a suspect is in custody depends on the totality of the circumstances. (people v. pilster (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 26 1395, 1403.) although no single factor is controlling, we consider [w]hether the suspect has been formally arrested; (2) absent formal arrest, the length of the detention; (3) the location; (4) the ratio of officers to suspects; and (5) the demeanor of the officer, [citation.] additional factors are whether the suspect agreed to the interview and was informed he or she could terminate the questioning, whether police informed the person he or she was considered a witness or suspect, whether there were restrictions on the suspects freedom of movement during the interview, and whether police officers the suspect, and whether the suspect was arrested at the conclusion of the interview. (id. at pp. 14031404.) whether a [suspect] was in custody for miranda purposes is a mixed question of law and fact. (kopatz, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 80.) we apply a substantial evidence standard to the trial s factual findings regarding the circumstances surrounding the interrogation, but we independently decide whether, given those circumstances, a reasonable person in s position would have felt free to end the questioning and to leave. (ibid.) here, clark argues he was in custody beginning when officers put him in the patrol car, where he sat for about an hour. other than that, there is no indicia of custody. clark was not searched, handcuffed or arrested. notwithstanding that he sat in a patrol car for about an hour or more, there is no evidence he could not have left the car had he asked. (see people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 386, 395396 [defendant who agreed to talk to deputy in patrol car was not in custody].) moreover, once 27 detective bruner arrived, she asked clark whether he would be willing to take a polygraph test. clark confirmed that the asked [him] would [he] take a polygraph test, and the first thing [he] asked, [he would] like to speak to an attorney. [detective bruner] told [him] [he was] not under arrest, . . . [w]e just want to talk to you, to take the poly to clear your name, and we will get you back to your kids. and [he] said, okay, because [he] wanted to get back to [his] (italics added.) then, at the station, detective mitchell told you stay or force you to stay or trick you to stay or anything like further, clark signed a consent-waiver for polygraph examination form stating voluntarilyto the examination and understood he was free to terminate it any time. signing such a form strongly supports the voluntariness of an interview. (people v. ochoa, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 402.) under such a circumstance, a reasonable individual would know that he or she can end a voluntary association with other individuals at will. this is so despite the s questioning: the fact that he was qs polygraph examination room does not necessarily require a finding of custody, even if the room (id. at p. 403.) interview shows that he was in custody. he waited in the patrol car for only about an hour before detective bruner asked if would take a polygraph test. the record also suggests that law enforcement officers drove clark to the station as a matter of convenience, because he did not have car. (see kopatz, supra, 61 28 cal.4th at p. 81 [inference was defendant needed a ride to station].) there is no evidence that detective mitchell or any other law enforcement officer behaved aggressively toward clark. interview indicates that detective mitchell behaved in a congenial, nonaggressive, and respectful manner. the totality of the circumstances thus show that clark was not in custody. iv. unanimity instruction clark argues that the trial court should have given a unanimity instruction because the prosecution presented the following three discrete factual theories regarding the assault the bathtub, and (3) clark violently shook king. as a preliminary matter, the prosecution did not present three dihistory of hitting kingor, -was relevant to show that clark, in keeping with his practice, hit king on january 3, 2013 as well.16 but, it was not aults killed king on january 3. did somethinghit king on the head and/or shook him violently 16 it also could have been relevant to rebut any argument to injury was due to some prior eventthat event was not the fall down the stairs: it was at a nine or 10. 29 perhaps causing king to hit his head on the bathtubon january 3 17 this leads us to the next that a unanimity instruction was required. such an instruction is necessary if there is evidence more than one crime occurred, each of which could provide the basis for conviction under a people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 727), because the jury must agree on the same criminal act (people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132). however, there are exceptions to this general rule. one is the continuous-course-of conduct exception, which applies when the acts are so closely connected in time as to form part of one transaction. (people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 679.)18 this exception also applies w]here . . . the evidence establishes a pattern of physical trauma inflicted [on] a child [over] a relatively short period of time [and] a single course of conduct is involved. (people v. napoles (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 108, 116, italics omitted.) where, for example, the cumulative result or effect of the conduct is great bodily injury, a unanimity instruction is not required. (jennings, at p. 680.) the exception applies here. the prosecution theory was something catastrophic happened to king on january 3, 2013 over a short period of time. the prosecutor did not argue, nor separate, discrete acts. the prosecutor therefore repeatedly 17 it also was not his head on the carpet caused the subdural hemorrhage. 18 another exception is when the defendant offers the same defense or defenses to the various acts constituting the charged crime. (people v. jennings, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 680.) 30 argued in closing that cted on january and die from, it all happened on january [clark] inflicted the and clark took king to the bathroom and gave him a couple blows to the head . . . [a]nd and the rotation, the acceleration, deceleration, and the blows to the head from the head going forward and back and hitting the tub, the retinal hemorrhaging. however, even if the jury could months-long history of hitting king, culminating in the fatal event on january 3, 2013, heart to stop beating, that abuse could only have happened over a brief period of time, given that clark and ericka began living together in september 2012 and king stopped breathing on january 3, 2013.19 (see, e.g., people v. ewing (1977) 72 cal.app.3d 714, 717 [unanimity instruction not required where physical abuse occurred over period of time].) thus, where, as here, the evidence is that trauma was inflicted on a child within a relatively short period of time, the continuous course of conduct exception applies. (people v. napoles, supra, 104 cal.app.4th at pp. 115116.) no unanimity instruction was required. 19 hitting king until the family moved to lancaster, in october 2012. 31 v. prosecutorial misconduct 20 prosecutorial misconduct are well established. prosecutors . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal constitthat it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the convicti [citations.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it [citation.] . . . [citation.] additionally, when the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841.) here, the alleged pattern of misconduct consisted of, first, objecting during -examination of dr. berkowitz 20 the attorney general fails to respond meaningfully to cut and pasted from another case. that is, the attorney general argues the issue has been forfeited, but defense counsel did object brief refers to firearms possession, but firearms possession is not at issue. 32 and found that counsel was not yelling at the doctor but was into the question. the trial court, however, cautioned the prosecutor want to see is, for any strategic reasons-examination absent it just being obviously berating the witness or being the trial court found that the objection, while overruled, was not it did not want to see interruption of cross-examination purely for occurred. no misconduct occurred. second, clark contends that the prosecutor impugned his about how clark and his counsel discussed that trial would be about emotion overriding defense counsel objected, and the trial court warned the prosecutor he want some of it to come in, but what i cannot and will not allow is for this to be manipulated in some way impugning the integrity of the defense. is misconduct or to suggest defense counsel fabricated a defense. (people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 732.) even so, it was a warning. as the trial court acknowledged, the prosecutor had not yet crossed the line. no misconduct occurred. next, during his closing argument, the prosecutor returned to this theme and said 33 jury to forget about the evidence and just look at the emotion, feel sorry for him [citation.] . . . [citation.] . . . and find him not guilty. the trial court overruled the defense objection. although, as we have said, a prosecutor may not cast aspersions on defense counsel (people v hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 832), a prosecutor may vigorously attack the defense case and focus on people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 735; see, e.g., people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 759.) this was nothing more than a vigorous comment on defense tactics. finally, the prosecutor analogized conscious disregard for life to driving under the influence, where drink defense counsel watson murder d.u.i. 21 the trial court sustained an objection, finding that the prosecutor oversimplified the law and, in doing so, misstated it. however, the trial court told the prosecutor that the analogy was relevant and, if he intended to continue with it, to state the full elements of malice. , telling the jury that a watson son is advised of the dangers of driving through the courts, through the knows about that, but yet still exercises complete disregard and does what they do . . . . so the implied malice is noforeign here. misconduct, reversal is not warranted because the prosecutor 21 in short, a watson murder is one based on implied malice. (people v. watson (1981) 30 cal.3d 290.) 34 corrected his misstatement of law. that correction mitigated any prejudice. (see, e.g., people v. redd, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 752 [no prejudice when prosecutor corrects his misstatement of fact].) vi. cumulative error as w]e have . . . found any assumed errors to be nonprejudicial[,] [w]e reach the same conclusion with respect to the cumulative effect of any [purported] errors. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 12351236; people v. butler (2009) 46 cal.4th 847, 885.) vii. petition for writ of habeas corpus in his writ petition, clark contends his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to consult with and to present a medical expert to support the defense theory that a a. additional background to support his writ petition, clark submitted the declaration of dr. marvin pietruszka, a forensic pathologist. dr. medical records in connection with a dependency matter . in a letter to counsel in that matter, the doctor noted that, based on retinal hemorrhage, and that he was in full arrest but was resuscitated, an argument can be made that throwing a child up in the air can cause retinal hemorrhages and that falling onto the head can cause subdural hematomas. the absence of a skull or cervical spine fracture suggests that there was no trauma with an object and that the fall could be accidental. however, other 35 factors must be considered as well and these include the hand to review additional records concerning king, including the trial testimony of drs. tovar and berkowitz. in view, forensic evidence showed that king had an earlier traumatic brain injury. specifically, the january 3, 2013 ct scan brain found mild atrophy, and the neuropathologist confirmed this finding. because atrophy takes months or longer to occur, dr. pietruszka reasoned that fall down stairs may have caused it. however, the doctor also noted that slapping or tapping of king[] . . . head, with only minor or moderate force as described by . . . clark, could certainly contribute to a worsening of the prior injury and may reasonably have contributed to the catastrophic event that led to king[] . . . death. likewise, tossing king in the air and/or hitting his head on the carpet could structure weakness and triggered the catastrophic possibly from the repeated popp combination of both. death may have been the result of the application of a less than normally expected lethal application of force, such as tossing him into the air and catching him, which aggravated an earlier injury. t]he fall down the stairs likely caused the most serious underl[y]by . . . 36 of cerebral atrophy increases the risk of brain hemorrhage with even minor call a medical expert law enforcement, counsel instead chose to cross-examine the b. counsel made a reasonable tactical decision to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must show that (1) counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing [professional] norms[;] and (2) counsels deficient performance was prejudicial. (people v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1211; strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687.) prejudice is shown when there is a reasonable probability that but for different. a reasonable probability is [one] . . . sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (scott, at pp. 12111212.) decisions and indulge the s conduct falls within the wide range of . . . professional assistance. (people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 925.) -guess reasonable, if difficult, tactical people v. scott, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1212.) eemed s decisionmaking must be evaluated in people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 333.) there are countless ways to assist a defendant effectively, and we must be mindful that even the best criminal 37 defense attorneys would not defend the same client the same way. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689.) here, clark concedes his trial counsel made a tactical decision not to call dr. pietruszka as an expert. he just contends it was an unreasonable one. the record, however, shows it was more than reasonable. the doctor certainly could have opinedas did drs. tovar and berkowitzthat a fall down stairs can cause brain injury and that the brain might be susceptible to reinjury. what dr. pietruszka could not have done was rule out that clarkrather than the fall down stairscaused any prior brain injury by repeatedly hitting king at a level of seven and sometimes a nine or 10. in fact, dr. pietruszka opined that king down the stairs, or possibly from the repeated popping of his head by . . . clark, or a combination of both. (italics added.) thus, trial counsel had to weigh the value of having his own expert concede in front of the jury that clark could have caused any mild brain atrophy by hitting king on multiple occasions, thereby highlighting one of the more devastating facts to the defense case. it is understandable that counsel might have decided he did not like those optics. instead, defense counsel made the reasonable, tactical decision to elicit the reinjury theory via the -examined drs. tovar and berkowitz on the theory king had been injured in the fall down stairs, rendering his brain susceptible to reinjury or to a rebleed. that trithe defense theory was therefore fully and effectively presented to the jury. 38 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the petition for writ of habeas corpus is denied. not to be published. dhanidina, j. i concur: egerton, j.lavin, j., dissenting: jason tovar and carol berkowitz, based their opinions on case-specific hearsay. because their testimony was improperly admitted under people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez), and that testimony was central to conviction for assault on a child causing death in violation of penal code section 273ab, i would reverse count 1 and remand for retrial of that count. therefore, i respectfully dissent. 1. the issue is not forfeited. i begin by addressingand rejectingthe contention that defendant forfeited his sanchez claim on appeal. supreme court issued sanchez, which significantly changed the rules governing testimony by expert witnesses about the hearsay upon which they relied in forming their opinions. (see people v. flint (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 983, 996; see also people v. jeffrey g. forfeit this legal claim by failing to object to the prosecution testimony on this ground at the hearing. there is little doubt that was unobjectionable under the law prevailing at the time of the hearing, any objection would presumably have been in any event, when the prosecutor attempted to ask tovar at sidebar, the trial court overruled the objection, explaining that 2 once the court overruled the objection, it would have been pointless for defense counsel to lodge similar hearsay objections. the sanchez error was not forfeited on appeal. 2. the experts related case-specific hearsay to the jury. i now address the merits osanchez claim. expert relate as true the case-specific content of documents which were neither admitted into evidence nor shown to be covered by a people v. yates (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 474, examiner, and berkowitz, an expert in child abuse pediatrics, testified about the case-specific content of documents that were not admitted into evidence, including reports prepared by an ophthalmologist and neuropathologist.1 in my view, this was error. (see sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 677 [citing hemorrhaging in the eyes of a murder victim noted during autopsy as a case-specific fact that would need to be established by the autopsy surgeon]; people v. burroughs (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 378, 404 [trial court improperly admitted expert testimony relating to documents, such as police reports, probation reports, and hospital, that which formed the basis of their opinions].) for example, in reaching his conclusion that king j. died from blunt-force trauma (as opposed to a natural cause or some 1 sanchez particular events and participants alleged to have been involved in the sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676.) 3 underlying condition), tovar testified that based on a drug screen f any drugs in his system. and bany natural disease process; the retinal hemorrhaging was testified analysis by the neuropathologist. importantly, based on the tovar opined there was no evidence the child had any prior injury that would have caused or contributed to the subdural hemorrhaging. for her part, berkowitz testified at length about certain ere and low body and rectal temperatures). notably, she also testified that based on observations by hospital ck of the eye, from kaiser medical centerwhich was done after the normal ct scan at antelope valley hospital examination, and after reviewing those reports, berkowitz opined king - in sum, the prosecution neither presented nor did the trial court admit into evidence the records or other documents that were the sources of the case-specific hearsay the experts related to the jury. 4 3. the error was prejudicial. we review the erroneous admission of expert testimony under the state standard of prejudice. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. stamps (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 988, 997.) under that standard, it is reasonably probable defendant would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the error not occurred. first, previous head trauma made him more susceptible to serious injury from relatively minor applications of force. (see people v. neidinger (2006) 40 cal.4th 67, 79.) for example, in his opening statement, counsel emphasized that there was no sign king had been beaten and none of the bruising one would expect to see on exclusively on whether minor force could have killed kings to tovar; the possible medical consequences ; how any trauma from those falls could have dovetailed with later, minor applications of force; and whether the lack of external, visible injuries provided evidence of that minor force. counsel focused on these same issues in closing argument. and the jury agreed with that defenseat least in part. jurors acquitted defendant of murder but convicted him of the lesser-included offense of involuntary manslaughter based on simple battery. second, the jury plainly struggled with count 1. for example: the jury deliberated for three days. (see people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897, 907 [six hours of deliberations is evidence of a close case].) 5 the jury asked several questionsincluding one seeking clarification of the reasonable-person element of count 1. (see people v. hernandez (1988) 47 cal.3d 315, 352[s] to the court for further instructions or the rereading of disagreement].) the jury requested readback of testimony given by tovar, the medical examinerparticularly his king falling down stairs on two occasions and if it people v. pearch (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 1282, testimony reread are indications the deliberations the jury requested readback of testimony given by the paramedic. testimony. the jury asked for a dvd player and monitor to view interview testimony. the jury notified the court that it could not reach a verdict for count 1. (see people v. soojian (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 491, 520521 [hung jury is a more favorable result than a guilty verdict for watson purposes].) 6 hardship and asked if that juror could be replaced with an alternate, indicating a desire to continue deliberating.2 experts improperly related as true case-specific facts contained in hearsay statements, and that testimony was prejudicial. because i would reverse the conviction for count 1 under sanchez, i do not address lavin, acting p. j. 2 the jurors reached a verdict shortly after the court responded that juror no. 5 could not be replaced with an alternate. 