filed 8/13/18 p. v. cruz ca2/7 received for posting 8/14/18 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. heriberto cruz, defendant and appellant. b279345 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba423824) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall. affirmed. jean ballantine, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, colleen m. tiedemann and pamela c. 2 hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. the jury convicted heriberto cruz of the first degree murder of his son matteo. at the moment of death matteo was 18 months old and alone with cruz in an apartment. the jury heard two versions of this death. cruz testified he put matteo in a bath, left, and returned to find matteo drowned. the prosecution argued cruz intentionally killed matteo as revenge left cruz for another man. by this account, cruz paid her back argument on appeal is there was too little evidence of premeditation to support the first degree murder conviction. we affirm. i. evidence of deliberation and premeditation was ample cruz first argues there was insufficient evidence to sustain a conviction for first degree murder on count one. (there were two counts charged. we discuss count two below.) we review the record in a light favorable to the prosecution to see if it contains reasonable evidence from which a rational jury could find cruz guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 345.) murder in the first degree requires a killing that is willful, deliberate, and premeditated. (pen. code,  189.) (all statutory references are to the penal code.) a killing is deliberate if the killer carefully weighs considerations in forming a course of action. a killing is premeditated if the killer thinks it over in advance. (people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal. 5th 1, 58.) requiring both deliberation and premeditation excludes merely unconsidered or rash homicides from murder of the first degree. (ibid.) 3 reviewing courts examine the trial record for evidence a defendant acted deliberately and according to a preconceived design rather than from a rash impulse. (id. p. 59.) proof of a long-standing motive is pertinent, as is evidence of a deliberate manner of killing. (id. p. 59-60.) here the evidence of premeditation and deliberation was ample. cruz indeed was angry his wife, christina guevara, was ending their relationship. cruz so testified. a 1-in-was spurning him. a rational jury could conclude the timing was no coincidence. cruz fortified this no-coincidence conclusion by sending inculpatory messages to guevara. cruz testified matteo died before noon s birthday. that same day, guevara the following messages: for you in your life. never forget -- and that -- deserve this -- cruz sent the last of these texts at 5:50 p.m. that day. 4 these messages are consistent with a jealous lover bent on retribution. the messages are inconsistent with a father grieving cruz, deliberately and with premeditation, killed matteo to hurt the woman who had hurt him. autopsy evidence also fit deliberate murder. according to the medical examiner, matteo died from suffocation and not drowning. the basis for this opinion included the lack of water in ace that on the right cheek is right next to the mouth which to me strongly suggests somehow there was an attack on the area of a reasonable jury, moreover, could have story as incredible. cruz did not suggest the child matteo unconsidered or rash response. rather, cruz testified to a calm bath time routine: cruz placed matteo in the bath, left the bathroom, watched television, and returned 10 minutes later to find matteo dead. yet the medical evidence was that matteo was a healthy and big boy who was perfectly capable of simply sitting up out of the water and getting out of the tub. the jury saw a video of matteo standing in his bathtub without assistance eight months before his death. cruz reported no sounds of slipping, splashing, or commotion. neither did cruz afterwards try to help matteo, call 911, or seek aid. rather, cruz fled. when arrested, cruz gave police a false name and date of birth. a rational jury explanation was that cruz acted deliberately and with premeditation to destroy what was precious to the woman who had rejected him. 5 in his reply brief, cruz does not try to rebut or explain this evidence. he states only that he concedes nothing and that him. cruz testified at trial that matteo had drowned accidently during a bath, when cruz left to watch television. cruz said that, when he discovered his son had drowned, cruz did not touch matteo or call 911 because he panicked and was overcome with shock and despair. cruz did not try to revive matteo because he did not know how. instead, cruz immediately tried to commit suicide, first by hanging, then by cutting his wrists, and finally by drinking rat poison. when these efforts failed, cruz left the apartment without his money or identification documents. cruz testified he loved matteo and would have done anything for him. cruz also called dr. harry bonnell, a pathologist who testified that matteo died by drowning and that no evidence supported a diagnosis of death by smothering or suffocation. if the jury had believed the defense evidence, it could have reached a different conclusion. this possibility, however, does not diminish the subverdict. -serving account premeditated revenge killing. the jury was entitled to accept the s account. ii. prosecutorial misconduct could not have prejudiced cruz the prosecutor grossly misstated the law of premeditation and 6 deliberation by referring to the decision to proceed through an intersection as an example. murder. these terms are defined. willful means you intended to kill. the text messages are replete with this, okay? so these are not words of panic. those are words of communication. yes, they come after, but they are the words of a man who had committed to do something, to punish his wife by depriving her of her son. sometimes get hung up on this. now, the law does not require someone to sit in a cave or an apartment somewhere and scheme heard that a cold, calculated decision to kill can be reached quickly. you have to weigh the consequences which he surely did, right? you do this all the time. when you come to a stop sign or stop light or ing in front of you to see is it safe to go? and then you step on the gas and you go. and that split-second decision, the one you make every day, involves some amount of deliberation and premeditationno different really even when the consequences are the most grave. so there it is. ample, if not overwhelming, evidence of show cruz concedes his trial counsel did not object to the not ask the trial court to admonish the jury, thus forfeiting his prosecutorial misconduct claim on appeal. (people v. jackson, supra, 1 cal.5th 269,349.) we consider the merits of the claim, bject 7 and request an admonition constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. the burden of sustaining a charge of ineffective assistance of counsel is upon cruz. the proof must not be speculative. there is a presumption the challenged action might be considered sound trial strategy. on a direct appeal a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance of counsel only when the record demonstrates there could have been no rational tactical purpose s challenged act or omission. (people v. mesa (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1000, 1007-1008.) one rational tactical purpose for not objecting is that an objection and ruling would make no the trial with unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves deceptive or reprehensible methods. (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1331-1332.) bad prosecutorial misconduct under state law. (people v. hill (1998) something of a misnomer because it suggests a prosecutor must act with a culpable state of mind. a better term would be prosecutorial error. (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 666-667.) assuming without deciding this prosecutorial argument about the stop sign wathere was error, it was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the stop sign illustration was but a fleeting portion of a lengthy and proper argument. the prosecutor went on to describe in detail how the evidence supported the conclusion cruz 8 had premeditated and deliberated as required for first degree murder. the left the child in blue tub for guevara to find. is evidence. (people v. covarrubias, supra, assertedly improper remarks in the context of the argument as a moreover, both the trial court and the prosecutor repeatedly reminded the jury to apply the specific definitions of premeditation and deliberation in calcrim no. 521. further, the trial court directed the jury to follow these instructions and attorneys say is evidence[; i]n their opening and closing arguments, the attorneys discuss the case, but their remarks are no the jury had copies of all of the instructions to use in the jury room. (calcrim no. 200.) we presume the jury instructions, including the instruction that the jury must be guided by what the court said, not what counsel said. (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1336 to the contrary, we assume a jury will defendant is guilty of first degree murder if the people have proved that he acted willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. the defendant acted willfully if he intended to kill. the defendant acted deliberately if he carefully weighed the 9 considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. the defendant acted with premeditation if he decided to kill before completing the act or acts that caused death. to kill does not alone determine whether the killing is deliberate or premeditated. the amount of time required for deliberation and premeditation may vary from person to person and according to the circumstances. a decision to kill made rashly, impulsively, or without careful consideration is not deliberate and premeditated. on the other hand, a cold, calculated decision to kill can be reached quickly. the test is the extent of the reflection, not the length of time. . . a more common experience must not imply that the task is less rigorous than the law requires. (people v. centeno, supra, 60 here, however, the ally referred the jury to the language of this instruction, the prosecutor emphasized, as quickly. you have to weigh the consequences which [cruz] surely in the context of the whole argument and the instructions given, there is no reasonable likelihood the jury misunderstood or of first degree murder. the failure to object was not ineffective assistance of counsel. 10 argument created a substantial likelihood the jury found premeditation and deliberation based on an incorrect standard and speculation. cruz argues there was no evidence to show that, even if cruz deliberately smothered, suffocated, or drowned matteo, that act was done with the necessary premeditation and deliberation, which is far more than the thought process which goes into deciding to step on the gas and go through an intersection. ignores the record, as we have explained. iii. no error in jury instructions harmed cruz the jury convicted cruz on two counts. count one was first degree murder under penal code section 187. count two was penal code section 273ab, which outlaws assault causing death of a child under eight. on count two, relying on stringfield v. superior court (s.d.cal. 2016) 166 f.supp.3d 1144, 1154, cruz argues the trial court should have instructed the jury on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense. having the care or custody of a child who is under eight years of age, who assaults the child by means of force that to a reasonable person would be likely to produce great bodily injury, resulting in s death, shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for 25 ye we assume without deciding cruz is right that involuntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense for section 273ab. (contra orlina v. superior court (1999) 73 cal.app.4th 258, 261-262, people v. stewart (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 785, 796, and people v. malfavon (2002) 102 cal.app.4th 727, 744.) omitting this involuntary manslaughter instruction was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the jury, in response to 11 other and properly given instructions, necessarily resolved the factual question thiresolution was adverse to cruz. (people v. lujano (2017) 15 cal.app.5th 187, 195-196; accord, people v. wright (2006) 40 cal.4th 81, 98.) in such a case the issue has not been removed . rather the jury resolved the issue in another context. there can be no prejudice to cruz because the jury rejected the evidence that would support a finding favorable to him. (people v. gana (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 598, 610; accord, people v. wright, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 98.) omitting an instruction about involuntary manslaughter on count two could not have harmed cruz because the court gave an involuntary manslaughter instruction on count one. on that countof an accidental drowning but also rejected potential verdicts of involuntary manslaughter and second degree murder. the jury instead found f premeditation and deliberation on count one mooted the issue of involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense of count two. counsel acknowledged cruz was guilty of assault as charged in count two if cruz was guilty of murder as charged in count one. put it on his mouth. [] it will be nonsense to find murder and not assault causing death or the alternative. either you believe the prosecutor that beyond a reasonable doubt hego either onedrowned forcibly or took his hand and smothered the child. if you believe that[,] . [] the guy held the kid underwater until he was dead. he meant to kill him. 12 if he put his hand on his mouth and suffocated the life out of added.) s point about a lesser included being, at most, harmless error. response to this harmless error argument. disposition the judgment is affirmed. wiley, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 