 filed 5/1/19 p. v. morris ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ulis morris et al., defendants and appellants. b279221 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba444404) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, dennis j. landin, judge. affirmed. patricia j. ulibarri, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant ulis morris. mark yanis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant raylonzo roberts. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendant ulis morris guilty of human trafficking minor kayla c., and further found both morris and his trafficking minor adrianna s. appellate arguments, contend that their trials should have been severed. they further contend that the court erred in finding kayla unavailable and admitting her preliminary hearing testimony, excluding their human trafficking expert, and failing to instruct the jury that pimping, pandering, and contributing to the delinquency of a minor are lesser included offenses of human trafficking of a minor. defendants also argue that the evidence was insufficient to support their convictions involving adrianna. we affirm the convictions. procedural history the los angeles county district attorney filed a six-count amended information against defendants and a former codefendant, antoinette anderson. anderson was not a party to the trial and is not a party to this appeal. count one of the amended information alleged that both defendants engaged in the human trafficking of a minor, khariana h., for a commercial sex act with the intent to pander (pen. code,  236.1, subd. (c)(1), 266i).1 counts two and six alleged that both defendants engaged in the human trafficking of a minor, adrianna s., for a commercial sex act with the intent to pimp (count two) and pander (count six) ( 236.1, subd. (c)(1), 266h, 266i). count three alleged that morris engaged in the human trafficking of a minor, kayla c., for a commercial sex act 1all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 with the intent to pimp ( 236.1, subd. (c)(1), 266h), and count four alleged that he illegally possessed a firearm ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)).2 the amended information alleged that all of the human trafficking counts were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a)), and that defendants had suffered strike priors ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12). the court prior conviction allegations from trial of the substantive offenses. o sever trial of his firearm charge from trial of the human trafficking charges, but denied defendants proceeded to a joint jury trial on the human trafficking charges. morris represented himself in propria persona. the jury found both defendants guilty of both human trafficking offenses involving adrianna (counts two and six) and found morris guilty of the human trafficking count involving kayla (count three). the jury deadlocked on the human trafficking count involving khariana (count 1). the trial court declared a mistrial as to that count, and later granted the the jury found the gang allegations not true after a subsequent trial. defendants waived their right to a jury trial on the strike prior allegations, which the court found true after a bench trial. the the court sentenced roberts to the midterm of eight years 2 count four also named anderson, and count five, another firearm possession count, named only anderson. 4 strike. the court imposed the same sentence on count six, but stayed it pursuant to section 654. 16 years. the court also sentenced morris to the midterm of eight strike. as with roberts, the court imposed and stayed an identical sentence on count 6. the court sentenced morris to an additional 5 years, four months (one-third the midterm, doubled) on count three, for a total sentence of 21 years, four months. both defendants timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution evidence a. long beach police department (lbpd) detective satwan johnson testified as a human trafficking expert. in that capacity, the who typically work for pimps. the average commercial sex self-is common for such workers to lie about their age. the typical pimp is an adult male who seeks to earn money from the labor of commercial sex workers; johnson characterized a pimp as pimps recruit and control commercial sex workers in their physical force, or some combination of the two. they typically impose strict orders on their commercial sex workers, such as 5 s orders are by giving them the money they earn. according to johnson and lbpd detective raymond arcala, pimps use some of the funds to provide the workers with basic necessities, such as food, clothing, and shelter. they keep the remainder of the money for themselves. los angeles police department (lapd) officer vanessa rios testified that a pimp who is fully financially supported by his commerc arcala testified that commercial sex workers often refer to according to rios, pimps refer to johnson testified that it is common for pimps to work together as he explained that pimp partners can help each other supervise their sex workers, and can use strength in numbers to intimidate their workers or gain their compliance. johnson testified that some commercial sex workers, about 15 to 20 percent, do not have pimps. such workers are precluded -rios testified that tangeles are pimp- she identified several other lankershim, sepulveda, and long beach. b. kayla kayla was 17 years old at the time of the preliminary 6 hearing.3 at that hearing, she testified that she met both defendants, whom she knew as c-extra (morris) and major (roberts) in 2015, when she was 16. she was already working as a prostitute at that time. kayla and her friend wisdom were walking on vernon avenue in 2015 when defendants approached in separate cars. morris exchanged phone numbers. kayla and morris he they did not have an explicit conversation about the work him. kayla denied that she was working for morris at that time: as to who i was giving the money to for what i was doing. so i - kayla only had one customer that day before she was arrested and ultimately placed in juvenile hall. around may 9, 2015. a few weeks after that, she and her friend adrianna ran into morris around figueroa and imperial. she acknowledged that she told rios during an interview that she saw roberts drive by about five to ten minutes before she encountered morris. kayla and adrianna from there, they 3 as we discuss more fully below, the court found kayla unavailable to testify at trial, and her preliminary hearing testimony was read to the jury. 7 went to burger king, where they met up with roberts. kayla testified that she left burger king with morris, and adrianna left with roberts. kayla and morris went to a los angeles motel, kayla worked as a prostitute on figueroa on one of those days, even though that she got arrested again and was returned to juvenile hall. kayla was released from juvenile hall to a placement in july 2015. he picked her up a few days later. kayla -extra as a pimp because of the type of relationship kayla worked with a different person, paid, for a while, but kayla was arrested in an october 2015 sting operation at a motel in long beach, where she had been staying with morris. detective arcala participated in the sting operation and detention of kayla. 4 messages, in which she asked him to buy her food, clothes, shoes, and drugs. arcala testified that it is common for a commercial sex worker to 4 - there is no dispute that all of those nicknames are associated with morris. 8 arcala testified that an adult woman, mariah lea, was found in the motel room with kayla. arcala ultimately determined that lea lea, who was 20 at the time of trial, testified that lea, who had since the age of 18 and knew kayla and morris, agreed to go to the motel. surveillance video footage played for the jury showed kayla, lea, and morris walking around the motel together. at some point, a man came to the motel in response to an ad kayla the man, actually an undercover police officer, arrested lea and kayla. while lea was in custody, the police took and searched her phone, which contained numerous late-night phone contacts between lea and morris in the days prior to her arrest at the motel. khariana h. testified that she met kayla in juvenile hall in 2015.5 khariana called morris and expressed interest in working for him. morris and roberts came to the door because she was scared. morris and roberts eventually left her house together. c. adrianna adrianna, who was 18 at the time of trial, entered she met kayla in a juvenile placement, adrianna met extra for the first time when she was with kayla. 5 because the court declared a mistrial on the counts involving khariana, we include only her testimony relevant to the counts that were sustained. 9 adrianna identified extra in court as morris. morris told adrianna she was beautiful, and they exchanged phone numbers. they got food and smoked marijuana. morris then drove them to burger king, where they met major; adrianna identified major in court as roberts. morris and roberts talked to one another, and then roberts joined the others in smoking marijuana. when they finished smoking, adrianna left with roberts in his car, and kayla left with morris. the four of them arrived at another location, at which adrianna and kayla used ecstasy. eventually, the foursome went to a motel, where morris and roberts got two rooms. in an interview with lapd officer vanessa rios that was adrianna [gave] whatever these men - - like we were still in the mindset like we she also told rios that morris or kayla continued to refuse. later that night, however, they agreed sic] convinced kayla to finally get down fig. this was the daytime. and she 10 finally got down, and major w adrianna responded that e me no money. at trial, adrianna claimed she had been lying during the prostitute for morwas with them. she described roberts, with whom she stayed for that morris adrianna denied that morris and roberts provided her and kayla with pillsbut admitted that defendants furnished marijuana. ing the interview. detective johnson testified that it is not uncommon for sex workers who testify in d. additional evidence 1. jail call in addition tprosecution played for the jury part of a recorded phone call roberts made to morris from jail on september 14, 2015.6 in that roberts 6 custodial facility continuously from august 31, 2015, to the present da 11 e money situation, right, from the p morris adrianna joined the call partway through and s she later said she loved and missed roberts, after adrianna left the call, when morris mentioned that he was going to pick adrianna up soon, he then directed morris to get adrianna back on the line; when morris did, roberts told adrianna that he was mad at her he then [sic he then ended the somet referring to morris apologized and said, sicpimp, remember? roberts responded, heyhey now. we 12 al. the excerpt of the call concluded with roberts warning morris to be careful. 2. morris was arrested in the company of former codefendant anderson on february 23, 2016. anderson consented to a search of her cell phone, which contained a video of morris rapping. on the video, which was played for the jury and admitted into it for the bitches. 7 lapd officer michael munjekovich testified that he vehicle incident to the arrest and found a key for a room at the rio palace motor inn. investigation revealed that morris had rented a room at the rio palace motor inn; munjekovich used the key found in the car to open the room. in the single-bed room, he stomach. 3. lysheawn lysheawn g., who was 17 at the time of trial, testified that sh she met major, whom she identified in court as roberts, while she was working as a he became her pimp that him and gave him all of the money she earned. while she was 7the court instructed the jury that the rap video was admitted against morris only. 13 her arm. ii. defense evidence roberts called lapd detective gabriel ruiz as a witness. he testified that on december 10, 2015, he found adrianna in the company of a different suspected human trafficker he was investigating. he found items related to pimping and pandering in the trunk of the car they were driving, namely condoms, clot both defendants called rios as a witness. she testified that khariana told her that she met roberts through morris, who tried to recruit her. khariana also told rios that roberts did not get out of the car on the day he and morris went to her house. khariana was not able to identify roberts in a six-pack, and thought she was identifying roberts when she was shown a six- rios never asked khariana to describe roberts or morris. discussion i. severance defendants contend that the trial court abused its discretion by denying their motions to sever their trials. we disagree. a. background prior to trial, defendants filed separate motions to sever their trials. roberts contended that his case would be prejudiced stronger evidence, some of which was admissible only as to him. roberts also argued that his confrontation clause rights could be -of-court statements were admitted, and 14 that he and morris planned to present antagonistic defenses. morris made similar arguments. at the hearing on the motions, the prosecutor indicated -of-court statements, obviating any confrontation clause concerns. roberts argued that severance was still warranted because the prosecution was attempting to bolster a weak case against him with a strong case against morris. morris contended that the evidence gave rise to conflicting defenses and would give against him. the trial court denied the motions, citing the lack of confrontation clause issues as the basis for its decision. b. analysis two or more defendants are jointly charged with any public offense, whether felony or misdemeanor, they must be tried jointly, unless the court order[s] separate trials. . . . rve the interests of justice by people v. coffman (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 40 (coffman).) the court has discretion to order separate trials. ( 1098.) confession, prejudicial association with codefendants, likely confusion resulting from evidence on multiple counts, conflicting defenses, or the possibility that at a separate trial a codefendant would give exonerating tcoffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 40; see also people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 379.) that a joint trial would compromise a specific trial right of one of 15 the defendants, or prevent the jury from making a reliable coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 40.) the key question for the trial court is whether joint trials pose an unacceptable risk of prejudice, the chief source of which ordinarily is evidence that is admissible to one defendant or charge but not others. (people v. earle (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 372, 387.) abuse of discretion, in light of the facts as they appeared at the time of the ruling. (coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 41.) we reverse only if the defendant demonstrates that the joinder amounted to a denial of due process. (people v. bryant, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 379.) we find no abuse of discretion here. defendants were jointly charged with trafficking victims (coffman, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 40.) defendantsprimarily robertscontend severance nevertheless was appropriate, because only morris was charged with trafficking kayla and the evidence pertaining to that charge was admissible only as to morris and thus prejudiced roberts. they contend that we reject these contentions. testimony about her introduction to morris and roberts and defendants further argue that other evidence, namely 16 propensity evidence against roberts. again, we are not persuaded. the court expressly instructed the jury that the rap video was admitted against morris only, and it is unclear how a argues that the jury may have concluded from this evidence that -any such risk was minimal given the other evidence, and did not compel the trial court to sever defendfirearms charge. ii. admission of preliminary hearing testimony defendants contend that the trial court improperly found kayla unavailable for trial and admitted her preliminary hearing testimony. they argue that the prosecution failed to prove that it they also argue that her preliminary hearing testimony was not reliable, because they did not have the opportunity to cross-examine her at that proceeding with the same interest and motive that they had at trial, and that its introduction violated their right to confrontation and prejudiced them. we conclude the court properly admitted the testimony. a. background kayla testified at the preliminary hearing on june 24 and 27, 2016. she was in juvenile placement at maryville at the time, and the probation department transported her to and from court. jury selection in this case began on thursday, september 8, 2016, and a panel was sworn in on tuesday, september 13, 2016. the prosecutor made his opening statement on september 14, 2016. 17 on monday, september 12, 2016, during jury selection, the prosecutor notified the court that his investigators had been unable to locate kayla. he requested a due diligence hearing, which commenced on september 13, 2016, before the jury was sworn in. at the hearing, lapd officer rios testified that she spoke to kayla in person at her juvenile placement one week after the preliminary hearing, in early july 2016. at that time, kayla told her and told her she needed to stop snitching. rios got the impression that kayla was scared to testify. rios did not tell kayla at that time that she would need to testify because she feared kayla would run away if she knew. sometime later in july, rios leaplacement. a couple weeks later, around the end of july, kayla called rios. kayla told rios that she was in las vegas, but did not provide any other information about her whereabouts. after that call and prior to trial, rios tried to reach kayla by contacting her advocate. the advocate gave rios a different phone number for kayla, but rios got no answer when she called, and her messages were not returned. rios estimated that she obtain subscriber information from the cell phone service provider. rios told the advocate that kayla needed come to court, but did not direct the advocate to relay the message to kayla. las vegas. rios contacted a las vegas-based human trafficking unit to see if it had any information about kayla; she asked her las vegas counterparts to check the local jails, hotels, and 18 internet postings. about once a week, rios drove through some ee if kayla had returned to los angeles and was working there. she contacted the last motel address they had on file with the los angeles department of children and family services in late july, but the family no longer lived there. rios did not intensify her search for kayla until about two work on. during those two weekslook for kayla three times, and sent other members of her team to do so on additional occasions. on the weekend beginning 77th street vice unit so that unit could look for kayla. supervisor also sent out a countywide e-mail or fax alert around that time. on the next weekend, after jury selection already had unit. rios did not reach out to 77th street vice that weekend. over the immediately preceding weekendseptember 10-11 rios consulted the websites and saw postings for long beach, anaheim, and san leagues made contact a few hours later, however, rios received a text message and phone call from adrianna. adrianna told rios that she and kayla were together and had 19 heard rios was looking for them. she also told rios that they were out of town and were not going to come to court. kayla not happen. rios did not speak to kayla. on monday, september 12, rios and her team separately d orange county prostitution their unsuccessful search lasted from 7:00 p.m. until 2:00 a.m. the following morning, the day of the due diligence hearing. the prosecutor also called lbpd detective johnson. johnson testified that the prosecutor first asked him to look for kayla on september 1, 2016. johnson looked for kayla for three hours on september 1, 2016; for about eight-and-a-half hours on september 4; for about four hours on september 7; for about eight hours on september 10; and for about five hours on september 12. he also looked for kayla on september 6. during those times, he checked social media, prostitution websites, and police records, but did not contact the phone company to get information on the subscriber(s) to the phone numbers associated with kayla. he thought he saw kayla on figueroa on september 10, but she ran away when he tried to approach her. on september 12, 2016, the day before the hearing, included the broadway street track, figueroa street track and highway track and manchester blvd. track before going back to long beach and checking pacific coast highway and anaheim 20 the tracks on harbor and beach boulevards. johnson testified hat we would probably be able to locate her either on prostitution tracks or via the internet and some of the after the testimony concluded, morris argued that the prosecution failed to demonstrate due diligence in attempting to locate kayla. citing a police report that is not in the record, he contended that rios did not begin looking for kayla until september 12, 2016, two days after trial was scheduled to begin. morris further argued that the cross-examination his former counsel conducted at the preliminary hearing was not sufficiently aligned to his current interest and motives. roberts did not make any arguments at the time. it would expect the prosecution to continue searching for a counsel had the same interest and motive when examining kayla at the preliminary hearing as morris had at trial, namely y. the court found that kayla was preliminary hearing testimony, roberts argued that the two weeks of morris joined the objection and asserted that he had case law to support his position. the trial court stated that it had already ling remains the b. analysis the state and federal constitutions afford a criminal 21 (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. 1,  15.) that right is not absolute, however; under certain circumstances, the prosecution -of-court statements at trial. (people v. herrera (2010) 49 cal.4th 613, 621 (herrera).) evidence code section 1291 sets forth the requisite circumstances. (see people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 67; evid. code,  1291.) testimony is not rendered inadmissible by the hearsay rule if (1) against whom the former testimony is offered was a party to the action or proceeding in which the testimony was given and had the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an (evid. code,  1291, subd. (a)(2).) 1. unavailability and due diligence the hearing and the proponent of his or her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure his (evid. code,  240, subd. (a)(5); see also people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 291- to establish the exercise of reasonable or due ion must show that its efforts to locate and produce a witness for trial were reasonable (herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 623.) g application, untiring efforts in (people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 904 (cromer 22 search, the importance of the proffered testimony, and whether leaherrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 622.) facts of what the prosecution did to locate reasonable diligence sufficient to sustain a finding of (people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 503.) applying this mixed standard of review, we conclude that the prosecution exercised reasonable diligence to locate and produce kayla. its intensive two-week search for her involved coordinated efforts by multiple law enforcement agencies, including specialized units of the lapd, the lbpd, and an agency in las vegas. officers attempted to contact kayla directly, as well as through her advocate, her parents, her social media, and her online prostitution ads. rios and johnson testified that they searched for kayla in police records and on several prostitution tracks, and that one of their colleagues rios additionally testified that she feared kayla would abscond if she knew she had to testify, and that her workload precluded her from intensifying her efforts until approximately two weeks before the jury was empaneled. johnson was recruited to begin searching on september 1, 2016, at which point he devoted upwards of 28 hours to the search. other officers and agencies also devoted time and resources to finding kayla. ramping up intensive search efforts two weeks prior to trial was reasonable under the circumstances. (cf. people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 341 [due diligence found where detective spent two days searching for 23 witness].) defendants contend these efforts were insufficiently diligent because they did not begin until shortly before trial. they argue that the prosecution should have started looking for kayla in july, when rios learned she had left her placement, or when she called from las vegas. they contend that cromer, supraprosecution unreasonably delayed in trying to contact kayla, and thereafter made inadequate attempts to arrange for her to in cromer, the alleged victim of dculpepper, identified him in a photo lineup and testified at his preliminary hearing. she failed to appear at trial, however. (cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 893.) at the due diligence hearing, evidence showed that culpepper testified under subpoena at the june 13, 1997 preliminary hearing and appeared to be a cooperative witness. (id. at p. 903.) about two weeks later, officers patrolling her neighborhood noticed that she was not there and reported that information to the prosecution. trial was scheduled for september 9, 1997, and was then rescheduled to november 20, 1997, december 11, 1997, and january 12, 1998. subpoenas issued for september 9 and december 11, but the prosecution made no effort to serve them on culpepper. (ibid.) trial date looming ahead, that the prosecution made any serious residence five or six times, only to be informed by a woman at ibid.) final permissible date on which to bring him to trial. (cromer, 24 supra, 24 cal. at p. 903.) former residence told prosecution investigators that she was living with her mother in san bernardino. (ibid.) the prosecution did not follow up on this information until the day of trial, when an investigator searched dmv records, obtained the san bernardino address, and drove to san bernardino. (id. at pp. 903-904.) was out and that culpepper did not live there. the investigator left a subpoena for culpepper but did not return to san bernardino or make other efforts to locate culpepper or her mother. (id. but made no other efforts to locate culpepper. (ibid.) the trial court ruled that the prosecution demonstrated reasonable diligence, but the court of appeal reversed. the undisputed facts do not demonstrate that the prosecution attendance culpepper after the preliminary hearing, and within two weeks had received a report of her disappearance, and although trial was originally scheduled for september 1997, the prosecution made no serious effort to locate her until december 1997. after the case was called for trial on january 20, 1998, the prosecution obtained promising information that culpepper was living with her mother in san bernardino, but prosecution investigators waited two days to check out this information. with jury mother would return the next day, yet the investigator never 25 bothered to retumost likely to know where culpepper . . . was. thus, serious efforts to locate culpepper were unreasonably delayed, and investigation of promising information was unreasonably cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 904.) cromer is distinguishable. there, the prosecution waited until the eleventh hour to initiate and conduct a half-hearted d for her parents, reached out to colleagues in las vegas and local specialized police units, and searched databases and online sources for kayla. they began these efforts shortly after kayla left her placement and intensified them weeks before trial, not months after its originally scheduled start date. unlike cromer, the investigators in this case devoted significant time and resources to locating the witness and pursuing and following leads, even across county and state lines. moreover, kayla, unlike culpepper, was actively trying to evade detection and refused to cooperate once she realized the prosecution was looking for her. defendants also contend that the prosecution should have done more, both to prevent kayla from leaving and to find her once she did, because she was a known flight risk. they assert that the prosecution could have outfitted kayla with an ankle monitor or undertaken other unspecified efforts to prevent her from leaving, or retrieved her phone records to locate her once she did. it is true that the prosecution could have taken those or simply because the defendant can conceive of some further step 26 or avenue left unexplored by the prosecution. where the record reveals, . . . that sustained and substantial good faith efforts were (usually, as here, with the benefit of hindsight) does not [citations.] the law requires only reasonable efforts, not people v. diaz (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 695, 706.) the prosecution generally is not required to keep periodic tabs on every material witness. (people v. friend, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 68; see also people v. wilson, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 342.) defendants argue that the general rule should not apply substantial risk that people v. wilson, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 342.) it is unclear what sort of preventative measures would have been adequate in this case. at the time she disappeared, kayla already was in custody, at a juvenile placement. placing her in a more restrictive setting, even if practicable, was not necessary to demonstrate diligwho has committed no crime taken into custody, for the sole people v. cogswell (2010) 48 cal.4th 467, 477.) moreindependent evidence such as video and audio tapes. it was not was material, but not so vital that extreme efforts to restrict 27 2. motive to cross-examine in addition to demonstrating that kayla was unavailable, the prosecution also had to establish that defendants had a previous opportunity to cross-examine her, with an interest and motive similar to their interests and motives at trial, before it could introduce her preliminary hearing testimony. (evid. code,  1291, subd. (a)(2); herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 621.) the trial court concluded the prosecution met its burden, finding that witness at that time clea morris contended then, and reiterates now, that his interest and motives were not the same at the preliminary hearing as they were at trial. we disagree. an opportunity to cross-examine a witness at the time of his or her prior testimony, that testimony is deemed sufficiently reliable to satisfy the confrontation requirement [citation], regardless whether subsequent circumstances bring into question the accuracy or the completeness of the earlwilson, supra-counsel cross-counsel. their motives and interests, both then and now, were to e that the prosecution could not prove its case. even if the motives may have shifted somewhat, they need not be identical, only similar. (people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 333.) 28 defendants point to people v. louis (1986) 42 cal.3d 969, 990, to support the proposition that the motives and interests at this is an over-reading of louis, which contained dicta observing that, in that casehave cross-examined [the witness] with an interest and motive peculiar to that early stage in the proceedings viz., to attempt to tie [the witness] down, in the interests of pretrial discovery, to one of at least three different stories he had told the police and louis, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 990.) moreover, in louis-examination by imposing ibid.) the record of the preliminary hearing in this case reveals neither issue. louis thus is inapposite. 3. harmless error even if the court erred in finding kayla unavailable and admitting her testimony, any error would be harmless. (see people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 625.) nce video showing her with morris and lea before the sting operation, and heard leatrafftattoo, and testimony from lysheawn and khariana. preliminary hearing testimony merely added to and corroborated 29 this strong body of evidence. iii. exclusion of expert defendants contend that the trial court deprived them of the ability to present a defense by excluding the testimony of their proffered human trafficking expert, robert royce. they expand[ed] on the characteristics of human trafficking from that helped the jury differentiate human trafficking from pimping and pandering, and clarified pimp partnerships and pimp-prostitute relationships. the court did not err in excluding the testimony. a. background the prosecution offered lbpd detective johnson as its human trafficking expert. as summarized above, johnson did not testify specifically about the case or the victims. he also did not use any hypotheticals. advised the court that the defense planned to call royce to testify counsel represented that royce would not necessarily disagree with johnson but would when the court responded that such testimony may not be different information and perhaps opposite information of what the 30 court reserved ruling. minors whwhether the defendants caused, persuaded, or induced them to engage in commercial sex work. counsel stated that such going to ask mr. royce would have been the same kinds of testimony that all minor prostitutes are human trafficking victims.8 testimony would not be relevant. when defense counsel objected, mony was said. and if you were asking him to summarize information in 8 it appears that the testimony to which the court referred -examination of arcala. e circumstances he would need to consider when determining whether a minor was the when morris asked for clarification, ir circumstances when to determine right and wrong and to make the decisions whether that testimony at the time. 31 counsel conceded that some aspect guys caused them to do this act or they caused themselves to do this act because they counsel further contended that he wanted to . . . around those issues of their intent but not talking about their counsel also reiterated that he wanted royce t the court ruled that the proffered rebuttal testimony would jurors they are to ignore that completely and not consider it because i will tell them the definition of human trafficking. they will decide for themselves whether or not the young women who testified during the course of the trial are indeed victims. so that will be the ruling. . . . jury and instructed the jury not to consider it. b. analysis the trial court is vested with broad discretion to admit or exclude expert testimony. the court properly may exclude expert testimony if it is cumulative or will confuse the jury. (people v. stoll (1989) 49 cal.3d 1136, 1159, fn. 20, citing evid. code,  352.) we review its decision as to whether expert testimony is 32 admissible for abuse of discretion. (people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 101.) ruling rather than the rationale for it (people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1295, fn. 12). here, the defense sought to call rlot of what i was going to ask mr. royce would have been the the trial court did not abuse its discretion in reaching the same conclusion. the court reasonably concluded that any minimal probative value of duplicative testimony would have been outweighed by the undue consumption of time it would have taken defendants to present it. (see evid. code,  352, subd. (a).) we are not persuaded otherwise by the cases defendants cite, people v. carter (1957) 48 cal.2d 737 and people v. filson (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1841, disapproved on other grounds by people v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 452. this purpose became moot, however, although defendants asserted that the testimony was prejudicial, the court explicitly directed the jury not to consider it. we presume the regard the stricken statement. (people v. buenrostro (2018) 6 cal.5th 367, 431.) defendants contend that the court should have allowed sic] background that distinguished the case from human traffick 33 because such evidence would have shown that defendants did not prostitution. ( 236.1, subd. (c).) the problems with this argument are twofold. first, the human trafficking statute did not require the were minors. the prosecution was only required to prove that the defendants attempted to cause, induce, or persuade the victims to engage in prostitution, because they were minors. (see  236.1, subd. (c).) whether the victims already were engaged in prostitution by their own volition, or continued to do so without the influence of defendants thus was not relevant to whether the defendants engaged in human trafficking. (see people v. zambia (2011) 51 cal.4th 965, 981.) moreover, section 236.1, subdivision (e) provides that consent by a minor is not a defense to charges of human trafficking.9 thus, any evidence that the minors acted of testimony on this basis. 9this bar distinguishes the instant case from in re m.d. (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 993, in which a minor sought to defend against charges she loitered with intent to commit prostitution by claiming that she was a victim of human trafficking. (see evid. code,  1161, subd. (a).) the court in in re m.d. found insufficient evidence that she was a human trafficking victim because her alleged victimizer merely purchased her a public transit ticket and remarked that she could make more money as a prostitute than she could at a traditional job. defendants here did much more than that: they provided the minors with food, shelter, and drugs, and actively encouraged them to work on the 34 second, and more importantly, the defendants sought to have royce testify such testimony would not have been admissible under people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665. not permitted . . . to supply case-specific facts about which he has id. at p. 676.) -specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants alleged to ibid.) information about th-royce had personal knowledge of it. such testimony therefore was inadmissible hearsay, and the court did not abuse its discretion in excluding it. iv. lesser included offenses defendants contend that the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury that pimping, pandering, and contributing to the delinquency of a minor are lesser included offenses of human trafficking. we disagree. a. legal principles offense necessarily included in the charged offense if there is [citation.] substantial evidence in this context is evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that the defendant committed the lesser, but not the greater, offense. [citation] . . . to assure, in the interest of justice, the most accurate possible verdict encompassed by the charge and the court need instruct the jury on a lesser included offense only 35 charged offense is missing, but that tpeople v. shockley (2013) 58 cal.4th 400, 403-404.) the supreme court has articulated two tests to determine whether an uncharged offense is necessarily included within a pleaelements of the greater offense include all of the statutory elements of the lesser offense, the latter is necessarily included in the former. under the accusatory pleading test, if the facts actually alleged in the accusatory pleading include all of the elements of the lesser offense, the latter is necessarily included in people v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224, 1227-1228.) we review de novo whether the trial court committed legal error by failing to instruct on an assertedly lesser included offense. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1218.) b. pimping and pandering defendants contend that pimping and panderingand attempted pimping and panderingare lesser included offenses of human trafficking under the accusatory pleading test. both defendants were charged with human trafficking with the intent to pimp and pander adrianna (counts 2 and 6), and morris was charged with human trafficking with the intent to pimp kayla guilty of human trafficking unless the jury also found true that [they] trafficked with the intent to commit the lesser offenses of their argument as stated is truethe jury could not convict them of human trafficking without finding that they intended to pimp or pander. however, the requirement 36 that the prosecution prove intent to commit pimping or pandering is not sufficient to render either crime a lesser included offense of human trafficking as pled here. maintenance in whole or in part from the earnings or proceeds of charged against that person by any keeper or manager or inmate of a house or other place where prostitution is practiced or allowed, or . . . solicit[ ] or receive[ ] compensation for soliciting as relevant here, pandering requires a defendant to promise, threaten, or use violence or a scheme to cause, persuade, or encourage another person to become a prostitute. ( 266i, subd. (a)(2).) to commit human trafficking with intent to pimp or pander, a defendant need not complete either of these crimes. instead, he or she must only intend to do so. thus, to complete the crime of human trafficking as alleged in the information, defendants did not need to complete all of the elements of either pimping or pandering. neither pimping nor pandering was a lesser included offense of human trafficking. (see people v. hicks (2017) 17 cal.app.5th 496, 508.) evidence from which a reasonable juror could infer that pimping and pandering occurred, but insufficient evidence that [defendants] caused, induced, or persuaded either minor to engage in a commercial sex act for purposes of the human kayla were prostitutes before they met [defendants] including this argument also fails. 37 encouragement of som(people v. zambia, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 981.) c. contributing to the delinquency of a minor defendants also contend that contributing to the delinquency of a minor ( 272) is a lesser-included offense of human trafficking under the accusatory pleading test. this contention also fails. a defendant contributes to the delinquency of a minor if he or encourage any person under the age of 18 years to come within the provisions of section 300, 601, or 602 of the welfare and to the delinquency of a minor by bringing a minor within the reach of section 300, 601, or 602 of the welfare and institutions people v. vincze (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1159, 1163.) section 601 of the welfare and institutions code pertains to minors who are truant or habitually disobey their parents; it is not relevant here. (see welf. & inst.,  601.) section 602 of the welfare and institutions code confers juvenile court jurisdiction over minors who commit crimes, and engaging in an act of prostitution ordinarily is a crime under section 647, subdivision does not apply to a child under 18 years of age who is alleged to have engaged in conduct to receive money or other consideration that would, if (b)(5).) child under this paragraph may be adjudged a dependent child of the court pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (b) of section 300 of the ibid.) section 300, subdivision 38 (b)(2) of the welfare and institutions code desis sexually trafficked, as described in section 236.1 of the penal section 236.1 does not include an element that a parent or guardian has failed to protect the child. nor does the accusatory pleading here allege such facts. thus, defendants have not shown that human trafficking cannot be committed without also committing the lesser included offense of contributing to the delinquency of a minor; the latter is not necessarily included in the former. moreover, even if we assume that contributing to the delinquency of a minor is a lesser included offense of human trafficking, a trial court is only obliged to instruct on a lesser included offense where there is substantial evidence from which a rational jury could conclude that the defendant committed only the lesser offense. (people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 50.) we independently review the record to determine whether there is substantial evidence to support an instruction on a lesser included offense. (people v. trujeque (2015) 61 cal.4th 227, 271.) substantial evidence is evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244,1263.) jury could not have found either of them guilty only of contributing to the delinquency of a minor. was adriannaand supplied her with a hotel room, (2) adrianna prostituted herself in the hotel room, possibly without a pimp at the time, 39 under this set of facts, he argues, he could have without the specific intent to pimp or pander her and therefore would not be guilty of human trafficking. we are not persuaded. even if the jury found the above facts to be true, the lack of earnings does not mean that roberts lacked the intent to obtain earnings (i.e., to pimp) or to encourage adrianna to engage in prostitution. as discussed more fully below, ample evidence hat roberts trafficked adrianna. where the evidence points only to one conclusion, the court need not instruct on a lesser included offense. morris contends that the jury could have found that he introduced adrianna to roberts, directed her to leave the burger king with roberts, and put her in touch with roberts during the jail call. inferred that while there was no evidence to of any specific intent on [his part] to pimp or pander adrianna and/or aid and abet roberts in human trafficking, the evidence was sufficient to support an inference that he caused, encouraged, or contributed no reasonable jury would conclude from this evidence that morris, putting two individuals in touch and thereby inadvertently that morris aided and abetted roberts in the trafficking of adrianna. v. sufficiency of the evidence defendants both contend that the evidence was insufficient to support their convictions involving adrianna. roberts contends that his conviction for trafficking adrianna with the 40 notably, roberts does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conviction for trafficking adrianna with the intent to pander. morris, by contrast, challenges the sufficiency of both of his convictions involving adrianna. he argues that the prosecution failed to prove that he directly trafficked adrianna or aided or abetted roberts in doing so. we review claims challenging the sufficiency of the evidence to uphold a judgment for substantial evidence. under favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational trier of fact could find [the elements of the people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 553, quoting people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 1128.findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also be reasonably reconciled with a (people v. bean (1988) 46 cal.3d 919, 933, quoting people v. hillery (1965) 62 cal.2d 692, 702.) a. roberts roberts contends that the record fails to support an inference that he received, and thereby derived support from, the earnings of adrianna. under the heading seeking reversal of his roberts was not charged with or convicted of pimping adrianna. he was charged with trafficking her with the intent to 41 pimp her. section 236.1, subdivision (c), the statute under which roberts was charged, sets forth a crime in which a defendant causes, induces, or persuades, or attempts to cause, induce, or persuade, a person who is a minor at the time of commission of the offense to engage in a commercial sex act, with the intent to section 266h (pimping). as we discussed above, the prosecution did not have to prove that either defendant completed the act of pimping; it needed to prove only that he intended to do so. the evidence here amply supports that conclusion. corded interview her and kayla to work on figueroa, a pimp-controlled prostitution track, and that he and morris plied them with drugs to keep them high. adrianna also told rios that she refused to go in addition, adrianna told rios that roberts flicked her in the face and told her to go get him some money. the jury could readily infer from this evidence that roberts intended to pimp adrianna and therefore was guilty of human trafficking her. b. morris [n]o credible evidence established that he therefore contends that both of his convictions involving adrianna must be reversed. morris acknowledges that the prosecution argued that he 42 evidence the jury heard about this term was when robinson [sic] testified that sometimes pimp partners will work together by supervising the prostitutes and using intimidation through this is an understatement of the record, which was rife with evidence that defendants worked together; the jury could conclude from this evidence that morris during the jail call, roberts told morris that he needed s going to pick up testified that morris and roberts acted in concert. khariana testified that morris and roberts came to her house together. kayla testified that she saw roberts drive down a known track shortly before morris picked her up, and that she and adrianna met up with morris and roberts at the burger king. adrianna testified that morris and roberts stayed together with her and that defendants jointly encouraged her and kayla to use drugs roberts tried to persuade her to work on figueroa by invoking mobetween the two men. it was reasonable for the jury to conclude vi. cumulative error defendants argue that the cumulative effect of the errors they alleged rendered their trial unfair. we disagree. lengthy criminal trials are rarely perfect, and this court will not reverse a judgment absent a clear showing of a miscarriage of justice. [citations.] nevertheless, a series of trial 43 errors, though independently harmless, may in some circumstances rise by accretion to the level of reversible and people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 844.) here, however, we found no error with respect to any of their claims of cumulative error accordingly fail. disposition the judgments of the trial court are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. currey, j. 