 filed 11/15/17 p. v. mcgruder ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. trayshawn mcgruder, defendant and appellant. b279005 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta140583) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john j. lonergan, jr., judge. affirmed. alex coolman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant trayshawn mcgruder appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury for burglary. he contends the trial court abused its discretion when it revoked his right to represent himself at trial. we affirm. factual and procedural history i. procedural background the los angeles county district attorney (the people) filed an information on july 29, 2016 charging defendant with one count of burglary (pen. code,  459).1 the information further alleged that defendant suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and was previously incarcerated and failed to remain free of custody for five years following release ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the jury found defendant guilty as charged and found the special allegations true. strike his prior conviction pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 and sentenced defendant to five years in prison. defendant timely appealed. ii. -representation2 2016. defendant was represented by a public defender. informed the court that defendant was refusing to come to court. accordingly, the court trailed the matter to august 1, 2016 and 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 propria persona status; thus, we omit the factual circumstances of his burglary conviction. 3 defendant appeared at his arraignment on august 1, 2016 and requested to proceed in propria persona pursuant to faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). he later withdrew the request. defendant responded that he the court warned defendant that if he was representing himself and failed to come to court, the prosecution could proceed without him. at the next hearing on september 1, 2016, defendant renewed his request to proceed in propria persona. after finding that defendant understood and waived his rights pursuant to farettahimself. the case was called for trial on october 13, 2016 before judge john lonergan. prior to voir dire, the court noted defendant failed to appear in the morning court line for transportation to court. the court also explained that standby follow the rules and if at any time i have to revoke your pro per delays. okay. that is the policy that we have in all pro per cases to prevent any distractions or delays by defendants that are in there are any problems. and other than your refusal at one time, 4 on the next court day, october 18, 2016, the court went on the record at 10:40 a.m. and noted that defendant was present in the courthouse, but the jury had been released at 10:00 a.m. to return at 11:30 a.m. in addition, the bailiff reported unknown liquidslocation. to other inmates speaking to their attorneys. he is giving them defendant was then brought into the courtroom. the court then panel until 11:30. and [ away his pro per status and i gave him examples of behavior that might cause that. so i just told him . . . that if he wants to keep his pro per status, he needs to do certain things that are consistent with [what] the court has described to him this the incidents that are alleged against him the court told 5 disrupt both courtrooms on this floor . . . by your conduct in lockup because that goes through the walls. the court asked defendant if he wished to proceed without an attorney, noting he defendant replied that he did not know. the court stated it g himself after lunch, the rest of the afternoon and the following day proceeded without incident. the parties completed voir dire, presented opening statements, and the people began presenting witnesses. at the end of the day, the court told the jury that due to scheduling issues in the morning, trial would begin at 1:30 p.m. the following day. reminded def the following day, october 20, the court went on the record e jury had been waiting since 1:30 p.m. the defendant protested that he was told to come at 1:30 p.m. the court responded: excuse was because we start the trial at 1:30. that has absolutely nothing to do with the transportation of the inmates to and from their court appearances as he is aware and, therefore, he was a refusal again. this is the third -- at least the third time he has been a refusal. in fact the court has had a standing extraction order because of his refusals to come in the past and i spent an extensive time which is very clear on the record talking 6 to him about his conduct and his refusal to come to court. . . . and then now h the court inquired why defendant was not for the record i . . . indicating that his pro per privileges were suspended based on the court revoked later, based on his refusal to cooperate with court orders and an outburst in front of the jurors, defendant was removed from the proceedings entirely. the following day, the court indicated it wanted to put on immediately preceding the revocation of his in propria persona status: bring him out when he was still in pro per status . . . prior to him even getting upstairs, he was agitated. he was causing a problem. he refused to dress. . . . there was such an outburst in the lockup attempting to get him brought out that the court actually opened the door and noticed that mr. mcgruder was on the ground. the deputy was over him holding him down, stomach down on the ground while mr. mcgruder was yelling 7 later that day, as the jury deliberated on the prior convictions portion of the trial, the court indicated it wished to faretta rights. the court detailed and the court record indicated that defendant was a refusal for the first time on july 29, 2016 at his arraignment. the court only a refusal ordered initially to get in court line and come, but we got an indication that he was gassing [throwing bodily fluids at] the sherif. . . . [t]hat was the reason i was given the court also noted how he coul they were able to initiate the extraction and ultimately talk him into getting on the bus, so he was a late arrival but it did not faretta however, at 1:30 p.m., the his arms and legs [and] yelling numerous things. . . . and he even get him to come out to the ordered standby counsel to step in. 8 faretta carson 3 the court continued: interest in acting as his own lawyer, and a pro per status after defendant who [sic] engages in deliberate dilatory or obstructive behavior that threatens to subvert the core concept of the trial or on. [] . . . . the termination of a right to self-representation is a severe sanction the court reviewed its analysis under the factors set forth in carsony discussion defendant claims the trial court erroneously revoked his right of self-representation. we disagree. i. governing principles a criminal defendant has a constitutional right to forgo the assistance of counsel and to represent himself at trial. (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at pp. 807, 819.) limits, however. [citation] in ensuring the integrity and efficiency of the trial at times (people v. becerra (2016) 63 cal.4th 511, 518 (becerraterminate the pro per status of a defendant who engages in threatens to 3 people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1 (carson). 9 carson, supra, 35 [t]ermination of the right of self-representation is a severe sanction and must not be imposed id. at p. 7). (becerra, supra, 63 cal. 4th at p. 518.) when determining whether termination is necessary and appropriate, the trial court should consider several factors in addition to the nature of the misconduct and its impact on the trial proceedings, including: (1) the availability and suitability of alternative sanctions; (2) whether the defendant has been warned that particular misconduct will result in termination of in propria persona status; and (3) whether the defendant has (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 10.) misconduct warranting termination of faretta rights may occur in or out of the courtroom. (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 9.) its impact on the core integrity of the trial will determine whether termination is warranted (ibid.) however, as the court in carson recognized, out-of-court misconduct may require (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 11.) as such, with out-of-court misconduct, the -representation with some evidence reasonably supporting a threatens the core integrity of the trial. unsubstantiated representations, even by the prosecutor, much less rumor, speculation, or innuendo, will not suffice. (cf. people v. duran (1976) 16 cal.3d 282, 291; people v. murphy (2003) 107 10 cal.app.4th 1150, 1158.) to this end, the court may need to hold with written points and authorities and any evidentiary support on which they may seek to rely. because circumstances will vary with the facts of each case, we leave to the trial cthe ultimate decision as to how best to proceed in making an (id. at p. 1158.) persona status for abuse of discretion. (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 12; people v. doss (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 46, 54.) we context of his misconduct and its impact on the integrity of the trial in determining whether termination of faretta rights is (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 12; people v. doss, supra, at p. 54.) ii. analysis faretta rights in two respects: (1) he contends that much of the conduct cited by the trial court occurred outside of the courtroom and did not have evidentiary support in the record, in violation of the requirements set forth in carson, supra, 35 cal.4th. at p. 11; and (2) even if there was evidence supporting his alleged misconduct, he argues that it was an abuse of discretion for the trial court to conclude that this misconduct had a deleterious impact on the trial proceedings. we disagree on both points. we note that the trial court set out on the record in great detail the bases for its revocation decision, both during each incident and with fuller explanations afterward. 11 supported by evidence in the record, including observations from the court itself and direct statements from court and law enforcement personnel. specifically, dhis arraignment, which is documented in the minute order and was not disputed by defendant at the time, caused the court to issue a standing extraction order. despite this precaution and clear, repeated warnings regarding the effect of any further refusals, defendant was late to court a second time on october 18, 2016. the court stated on the record that defendant refused to come to court that morning. defendant did not directly dispute this finding and offered no other explanation for his late arrival. judge lonergan indicated he had personally heard a urtroom bailiff reported that defendant was causing a disruption. continued disruption once at the courthouse delayed the start of voir dire with the jury panel until 11:30 that morning.4 the court admonished defendant that his loud misconduct in the persona status, both the court and standby counsel warned defendant that further disruption would result in revocation. 4 we put aside the contention that defendant was throwing of that misconduct is tenuous and, even if true, would be insufficient by itself as a basis to revoke his faretta rights, as it had no effect on trial proceedings. (see people v. kirvin (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 1507, showering jail officials with his excrement are not, without more, a proper ground for denying his request for self- 12 the court again reminded defendant at the end of the day on october 19 to be sure to be on time. despite these warnings, the following morning defendant was not present in the line for transportation to court, requiring the initiation of an extraction. defendant did not dispute this fact, but gave the excuse that trial did not start that day until 1:30 p.m. in response, the court noted nothing to do with transportation of the inmates to and from in addition, the court observed that while defendant was present in the courthouse in time for the start of trial, he was refusing to get dressed or to come into the courtroom and was again causing a disruption so loud it could be defendant asserted tengaged in excessive force against him. again delayed the start of trial that afternoon. at that point, the court revoked his faretta status. we conclude that the trial court was within its discretion to -representation under these ready for court delayed the start of trial on two occasions and kept both the court and the jury waiting. in addition, defendant repeatedly engaged in loud altercations in the courthouse, disrupting multiple courtrooms each time. this conduct directly and repeatedly impacted the trial proceedings. and while impulse,the trial court repeatedly warned defendant regarding his 13 behavior, and revoked his rights only after defendant refused to dress or cooperate following a second late arrival. the court also expressly found that defendant was deliberately attempting to disrupt the trial. as suchmisconduct and the additional factors set forth under carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 10. ue deference to the trial s motives and sincerity as well as the nature and context of his misconduct and its impact on the integrity of the trial in determining whether termination of faretta rights is necessary to maintain the fairness of the (id. at p. 12; people v. doss, supra, at p. 54.) given this deference, we find no abuse of discretion in determination that defendantto do so. (carson, supracourtroom is a basis for denying the right to self-representation (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp.10-11), th (people v. kirvin, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 1516.) defendant argues that the trial court relied on carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 11 and becerra, supra, 63 cal.4th 511. we are not persuaded. the relevant language in carson . . . with some evidence reasonably supporting a finding that the s obstructive behavior seriously threatens the core integrity of the trial.carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 11.) by nsubstantiated representations, even by the 14 prosecutor, much less rumor, speculation, or innuendo, will not suffice. [citations.] (ibid.) the carson court expressly left to would be best to make such a recordthere is no requirement to hold a hearing or take sworn testimony (ibid.), nor does defendant cite to any case so holding. as detailed above, the trial based on its own observations and bolstered by statements on the record by the law enforcement personnel with whom defendant had engaged. this evidence reasonably supported the trial moreover, the circumstances in becerra were very different than those in this case. there, the defendant, who was representing himself, made extensive discovery requests over the course of several months. (becerra, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 515-516.) the prosecution did not object to these requests, and in some instances acknowledged that some documents remained outstanding. (id. at p. 515.) at the next hearing, the trial court terminated the defendant's self-representation without prior (id. at p. 516.) the supreme court reversed the defendant's conviction on the ground that the trial court had erred by revoking his self-representation. (id. at pp. 520-521.) the court held court said defendant had been dilatory, the record does not (id. at p. 519.) in s self-representation status should be considered a last resort, not a (id. at p. 520.) 15 here, by contrast, the court repeatedly warned defendant and then thoroughly documented its bases for revoking -representation status. moreover, there was no evidence in becerra in any way. defendant here did so repeatedly. we conclude that the trial court made an appropriate record supported by evidence the precise misconduct on which the trial court based the decision to terminate (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p.11.) disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 