filed 1/31/18 p. v. brownlee ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. darryl glenn brownlee, defendant and appellant. b279398 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na103837) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark c. kim, judge. affirmed. jeffrey j. douglas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, , deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant darryl glenn brownlee, an african-american, of one count of making criminal threats under penal code1 section 422, but found untrue the weapon allegationuse of a knifeunder section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his batson/wheeler2 motion. defendant also contends that there was insufficient evidence to support his criminal threats conviction in light of the untrue finding on the wsustained and unequivocal. because we conclude there was sufficient evidence to support the criminal threats conviction and the denial of the batson/wheeler motion was proper under the three-step analysis in people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1158 (gutierrez), we affirm. factual and procedural summary at around 12:24 a.m. on march 19, 2016, defendant left the reginald isaiah, jerry afandor and lorenzo noria were working as security guards outside the emergency room exit. at that time, they were trying to prevent a transient from entering the 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 89; people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 276-277 (batson/wheeler). a batson/wheeler motion asserts that trial counsel exercised a peremptory challenge basis. 3 emergency room. defendant was exiting the emergency room and according to the guards, defendant was cursing, yelling, and stating that someone should shut down the emergency room. according to the guards, defendant mistakenly believed the guards had told defendantas opposed to the transientto leave, which upset defendant. defendant then threw down his backpack, took off his glasses and jacket and raised his hands as though he wanted to box. defendant yellyou guys up. i will fuck all three of you guys up. i am an old man, commonly seen in hospitals. as the guards moved closer to defendant, defendant took out an object which isaiah described as a red-handled, silver-bladed knife, although he did not know how large the blade was. he blade comes out, when you switch it, the blade come out like a afandor saw only the blade of a knife, not the handle. noria testified that he heard a click as though the knife were a switchblade and saw a reflection and shape like a knife in 4 baton. noria believed defendant was going to use the knife to stab one of the guards. according to isaiah, defendant took a step toward the guards get . . . be a threat and he was scared. the prosecutor asked isaiah whether t to leave to no avail. isaiah testified that defendant held the knife in his fist, with the blade pointing up and not toward the guards. according to isaiah, defendant did not thrust the knife toward the guards or make slashing motions with the knife. defendant did not make any verbal reference to the knife. noria estimated defendant remained in the parking lot and afandor had called them to deal with the transient and isaiah had called regarding defendant. defendant left the parking lot shortly before the police arrived. when long beach police officer james connell arrived, the departure. officer connell found defendant about two blocks away and arrested him. he searched defendant and found a stick of deodorant, some cards, and a medical rubber glove on the sidewalk. the surrounding area. when defendant was booked in jail, his 5 personal property included a belt, laces, beanie, two sweatshirts, basketball shorts, pen, and an ankle bracelet that required removal. at trial, all three security guards testified about their mental state during their encounter with defendant. as noted above, isaiah testified he was scared and believed defendant was going to stab him. afandor testified he was fearful for his life and had taken out his baton for self-defense. noria testified he believed defendant was going to stab one of them. defendant testified at trial. he stated he went to the hospital with breathing difficulties and did not have a backpack or knife, but had gloves for his work, a paper identification card, bus pass, deodorant, beanie, and pen. defendant left the hospital when he was offered only one of two medications he thought he needed for his breathing problems. because he was not familiar with the area, he called 911 twice and was instructed each time to talk to the emergency room nurse. he was angry with himself for not going to a public hospital, and went you know, this see this is what you get, dumb ass. like you should have known better to come to a private hospital, you should have still having trouble breathing, defendant collapsed in the parking lot onto his knee, removed his sweater, took off his glasses, we aronly see the shape of four people, who did not identify themselves and who were putting on blue gloves. defendant further testified he threw all the items in his pockets to the ground and was looking for his gloves. the people started laughing and one of them said, 6 because he was still having trouble breathing, defendant bent over. when he realized the people were not moving toward him, he reached down and put on his glasses. defendant then realized the people were security guards. he continued to pick up his belongings from the ground. the last item he picked up was the pen. he clicked it closed. one of the guards then took out his baton and slapped it against his thigh. defendant testified he then left the hospital and was disoriented. as he walked away, the police arrived and handcuffed him. he was told that the security guard claimed defendant had a knife, which defendant denied. defendant stated he watched the officers search the area with flashlights. on march 22, 2016, defendant, who was self-represented at the time, requested that long beach police detective david ternullo provide a surveillance video of the incident; there was none. defendant shared with detective ternullo that he was frustrated on the morning of the incident because the doctor would not prescribe the medicine defendant wanted. officer william bordeaux testified in rebuttal. he was the communication center supervisor for the long beach police department and had received a request from detective ternullo to investigate 911 records for conversations with defendant at the time of the incident. officer bordeaux did not find any calls that might have come from defendant. afandor and isaiah also testified on rebuttal to hearing a clicking sound when defendant pulled out a knife, but that sound was not from a pen. they denied insulting defendant during the incident. defendant was charged with three counts of making a criminal threat ( 422, subd. (a)counts 1-3), and three counts of 7 assault with a deadly weapon ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)counts 4-6). as to all counts, the prosecutor sought a sentencing enhancement under section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) for personally using a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of a felony, and alleged as to counts 1 through 3 that defendant had previously served a prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the jury convicted defendant on count 1criminal threats regarding isaiahand acquitted him on the remaining counts, including all counts regarding afandor and noria. the jury found the weapon allegation not true; defendant admitted the prior offense allegations. ( 667.5, subd. (b)(2).) the trial court sentenced defendant to the two-year middle term, plus one year ( 667.5, subd. (b)). it imposed a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373), a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $300 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), and imposed and stayed a $300 parole revocation fine ( 1202.45). defendant was awarded 510 days of presentence custody credit: 255 days of actual custody and 255 local conduct credits. defendant filed a timely appeal. discussion a. the evidence was sufficient given possession of a knife even if the jury found defendant did not personally display the knife in a menacing matter while making the verbal threats. defendant contends unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to 8 the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prosp people v. fruits (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 188, 203, n. 8.) defendant further claims there is that such a sustained, unequivocal threatening statement is required by section 422, the evidence adduced at trial was allegation was not true is fatal to his conviction of a criminal threat: criminal threat. therefore there was, as a matter of law, accordingly, defendant argues his conviction violated his constitutional right to due process. 1. the applicable law regarding criminal threats section 422 was not enacted to punish emotional outbursts, it targets only those who try to instill fear in others. [citation.] one may, in private, curse ones enemies, pummel pillows, and shout revenge for real or imagined wrongssafe from section 422 sanction. people v. felix (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 905, 913.) prove a violation of section 422, the prosecution must establish all of the following: threaten[ed] to commit a crime which will result in death or great . . . is to be taken (3) that the threatwhich 9 was under the circumstances in which it [was] made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of n sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or her immediate familythreatened personcircumstances. (people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227-228.) the threats should be considered together with the surrounding circumstances to determine the true meaning of the words in the threat. (people v. hamlin (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 1412, 1433; people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 753.) these circumstances include the defendand actions involved in making the threat as well as subsequent people v. solis (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1002, 1013.) although nonverbal conduct alone is insufficient, a combination of words and gestures may constitute a criminal threat. (people v. franz (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 1426, 1442-1446.) there is no minimum amount of time a person must be in fear for that fear to qualify as sustained. even one minute of fear can be if a person believes he is about to die. (people v. fierro believe that the minute during which [the victim] heard the threat and saw s weapon qualifies as sustained under the statute. when one believes he is about to die, a minute is longer than momentary, fleeting, or transitory. regarding the weapon allegations, section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) provides: a person who personally uses a deadly or 10 dangerous weapon in the commission of a felony or attempted felony shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for one year, unless use of a 2. sufficiency of the evidence standard of review evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a standard applies whether direct or circumstantial evidence is people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 701.) review for a sufficiency claim, we defer to thevaluation of credibility. [citation.] moreover, the testimony of a (people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1030-1031.) 3. analysis the jury found not true the allegation that defendant personally used a deadly weapon within the meaning of section 11 defendant must have intentionally displayed a weapon in a menacing manner or intentionally fired it or not argue this instruction was erroneous. true did not have a knife but merely a pen at the time of the incident in the hospital parking lot, and that his words alone were insufficient for a criminal threats conviction. at oral argument, however, defendant appears also to argue that even if the jury found sustained to support a criminal threats conviction. the substantial evidence rule requires us to consider the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment. viewing the testimony through this prism, the jury could have disbelieved he saw pugilistic stance while lunging at isaiah, even if the jury did not find true that defendant was wielding the knife in a menacing way at the time he uttered his threats. the other security guards confirmed hearing a clicking reminiscent of a switchblade and not a pen. defendantnife. the prosecutor asked, defendant was going to stab 12 statements. isaiah did not claim that defendant displayed the knife in a menacing manner. rather, he testified that defendant held the knife to his side in his fist and that the blade was not really toward isaiah. 3 to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of known to be in possession of a knife, had physically prepared for a confrontation by removing his jacket and glasses, moved towards isaiah, and did not comply with repeated requests to leave. these facts support a reasonable inference that isaiah was afraid during his encounter with defendant. as for defendantsustained fear, isaiah testified that he was scared throughout the defendantdefendant 15 minutes after the guards called police. this puts the encounter between defendant and the guards at a minimum of 15 minutes, purposes of section 422. (people v. wilson (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 193, 201.) a rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime proven beyond a reasonable doubt, the due process clause of the united states 3 people v. toledo, supra, 26 cal. 4th at p. 228. 13 constitution is satisfied [citation] as is the due process clause of (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 690.) b. based on the record of the voir dire, the peremptory challenge was not improperly motivated and the trial court properly denied batson/wheeler motion. defendant made a batson/wheeler motion after the prosecution had exercised a peremptory challenge first to prospective juror no. 15 and then to prospective juror no. 1. both prospective jurors were african-american. initially, defendant argued that both peremptory challenges violated batson/wheeler. peremptory challenge to remove prospective juror no. 1 was justified; the prospective juror had a niece who had been executed recently by the state of texas. thus, we evaluate the batson/wheeler motion as to prospective juror no. 15 only. defendant prospective juror no. 15 because that prospective juror would not , and therefore, under gutierrez, supra, the trial court erred in not inquiring further to discrimination. when defense counsel made his batson/wheeler motion, he noted defendant was african-american and the prosecutor] has kicked one african-american juror already [prospective juror no. 15], and she is kicking another [prospective juror no. 1]. he argued further [t]here [are] very few on the panel. 14 ould lead to a peremptory 4 look at the makeup of the 12, we have three african-american prospective jurors and . . . [the] bulk of the prospective jurors are minorities, but out of [an] abundance of caution, i am going to ask you to state your record why you are exercising challenge as to prospective juror [no. 1] and [prospective] juror [no. the prosecutor explained she excused prospective juror no. 1 prospective juror no. answer to the box in that hypothetical that defense counsel asked had said the mouse escaped. i felt that she would not the prosecutor was referring to a hypothetical question that defense counsel posed to prospective juror no. 15 and two other prospective jurors. this was the third in a series of hypothetical questions that defense counsel posed to prospective jurors in sets of three. in each hypothetical, a cat and mouse are put in a box, but when the box is opened, the mouse is missing. defense counsel added facts as the series progressed. in the third hypothetical, when the box is opened, the mouse is missing, and a small hole and an unidentified dark stain are visible. two prospective jurors stated that they had an abiding conviction that the cat ate the 4 defendant made his motion after the prosecutor had just excused the second african-american prospective jurorprospective juror no. 1who was male. prospective juror no. 15 was a female. is therefore ambiguous. 15 mouse. prospective juror no. 15 stated that she thought the mouse had escaped, but that she did not have an abiding conviction as to that conclusion. neither the prosecutor nor the trial court inquired further. the trial carepresentation that removal was based on . . . non-racial factors. 1. applicable law in a batson/wheeler (people v. avila single s right to a representative jury. (ibid.) improperly discriminated in the exercise of peremptory challenges, the court and counsel must follow a three-step process. first, the batson/wheeler movant must demonstrate a prima facie case by showing that the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an (gutierrez, supra, at p. 1158.) second, if the moving party has demonstrated a prima facie (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th discriminatory intent is inherent in the prosecutor the reason will be deemed neutral. (purkett v. elem (1995) 514 u.s. gutierrez, supra, at p. 1158.) third, if the opponent offers a neutral explanation, the trial court must determine if the moving party has proven purposeful discrimination. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) 16 to prevail, the [moving party] must show it was more likely (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1059; see rice v. collins (2006) 546 u.s. 333, 338 [moving party has burden of proof].) the (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) during this third step, the trial court assesses the credibility gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. [t] prosecutors demeanor; . . . how reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and . . . whether the proffered rationale has some ibid.) the trial prosecutors justification, with consideration of the circumstances of the case known at that time, her knowledge of trial techniques, and her observations of the prosecutors examination of panelists and exercise of for-cause and peremptory challenges. [citation.] justifica . . . may (and (id. at p. 1159.) reviewing court addresses the trial courts ruling on a batson/wheeler motion, it ordinarily reviews the issue for substantial evidence. [citation.] a trial courts conclusions are reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications [citation.] what courts should not do is substitute their own reasoning for the rationale given by the prosecutor, even if they can imagine a valid reason that would not be shown to be pretextual. 17 best he can and stand or fall on the plausibility of the reasons he gives. . . . if the stated reason does not hold up, its pretextual significance does not fade because a trial judge, or an appeals court, [citgutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159.) 2. the p stated reason for exercising the peremptory challenge was facially and subjectively neutral. batson/wheeler motion, the supreme court issued its opinion in gutierrez. as justice cuellar explained in gutierrez, that case provided the required duties of california lawyers, trial judges, and appellate judges when a party has raised a claim of discriminatory bias in gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1154.) as noted above, of particular concern to the supreme court was the batson/wheeler motion. we apply the three-step process in batson/wheeler and conclude that the record below was adequate to support the trial a. first step: did defendant establish a prima facie case of discriminatory exercise of a peremptory challenge? as set forth above, ie trial of the 12, we have three african-american prospective jurors and . . . the bulk of the prospective jurors are minorities, but out of [an] abundance of caution, i am going to ask you to state your 18 record why you are exercising challenge as to prospective juror [no. 1] and [prospective] juror [no. gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158). the trial court did not explicitly rule on whether defendant had established a prima facie case. neither party sought clarification when the trial court debatson/wheeler motion. on appeal, respondent does not contend that defendant did not satisfy the first step of the batson/wheeler analysis, to wit, establishing a prima facie case of discriminatory exercise of a peremptory challenge. we of argument on this issue as a concession that defendant established a prima facie case of discriminatory intent. b. second step: wstated reason for the peremptory challenge facially race-neutral? the second step of the batson/wheeler analysis requires the trial court to determine whether the prosecutor has provided a race-neutral reason for its challenges. this step an explanation that is persuasive or even plausible. . . . [t]he issue is purkett [v. elem], supra, gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1168.) the prosecutor stated that she had excused prospective juror no. 15 because that prospective juror would not listen to the evidence. the duty to listen carefully during the presentation of evidence at trial is among the most elementary of a jurors hasson v. ford motor co. (1982) 32 cal.3d 388, 411.) thus, a failure to listen to the evidence is a facially valid, race-neutral reason for exercise of a peremptory challenge. 19 c. stated reason for exercising the peremptory challenge subjectively genuine? defendant contends prospective juror no. defendant contends far from demonstrating prospective juror no. 15 did not listen to the evidence, the voir dire demonstrated that prospective juror no. 15 in fact did so. under gutierrez, the trial court thus had an obligation to inquire further to ensure the peremptory challenge was not exercised for a discriminatory reason. the record shows two of the prospective jurors did not agree with the inference advocated by defendant, to wit, that the mouse escaped. indeed, these prospective jurors had an abiding conviction of the more obvious conclusion that the cat ate the mouse.5 because two prospective jurors found the hypothetical evidence so compelling they were convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the cat ate the mouse, it was reasonable for the prosecutor to infer that prospinability to process the evidence logicallyin other words, an inability to listen to the evidence. prospective juror no. 15 about her answer to the hypothetical factual circumstances, s failure to engage in any 5 yond 20 meaningful voir dire examination on a subject the state alleges it is concerned about is evidence suggesting that the explanation is a sham and a pretext for discrimination. miller-el v. dretke (2005) 545 u.s. 231, 246.) there is nothing in the record to support a finding that the not like her answer to the box in that hypothetical that defense the more obvious conclusion without equivocation that the cat had explanation that the prospective juror would not listen to the evidence, albeit stated somewhat inartfully, was merely shorthand for saying she did not want a juror who rejected an obvious conclusion from the hypothesized evidence. she did not have a duty to inquire further. for all these reasons, we conclude there was substantial challenge was race-neutral, and the trial court had no duty to inquire further. the trial cou 21 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j.* we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 