filed 1/12/18 p. v. chandler ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kaylen chandler, defendant and appellant. b279421 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma067873) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, christopher g. estes, judge. affirmed. cynthia grimm, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, nicholas j. webster, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in convicting defendant and appellant kaylen chandler (defendant) for transporting methamphetamine and possessing methamphetamine for sale, the jury heard evidence defendant told a los department deputy she possessed the drugs and planned to sell them. at an earlier pre-trial hearing, the trial court refused to exclude testimony about her admissions to the deputy based on the defense contention that should have uncertainty about whether the [miranda1] admonition was properly given and at the proper time . . . we consider whether reversed because, as defendant now asserts, (1) the miranda advisement failed to inform her she had a right to an attorney before any questioning, and (2) the deputy deliberately elicited incriminating statements in a two-step interrogation prohibited by missouri v. seibert (2004) 542 u.s. 600 (seibert). i. background a. the suppression hearing the day before trial began, the court conferred with the a miranda issue and requested a 402 [i.e., an evidentiary hearing], on the issue of miranda, any statements that may have been made [by defendant] . . . the court scheduled the evidentiary hearing to take place the morning of trial. the law enforcement officer who arrested defendant, los department deputy estevan perez, was 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 3 the only witness.2 he testified he had been a deputy sheriff for over seven-and-a-half years and encountered defendant when he effected a traffic stop of her vehicle in january 2016. during that traffic stop, deputy perez detained defendant and advised her of her miranda rights. deputy perez testified he explaining he read the to what rights shthe prosecutor asked deputy perez if he had the shad 477 card with him, and when the deputy replied he did not, the prosecutor asked him to describe the rights advisement on the understand? you have the right to an attorney. if you cannot afford one, one will be appointed to you. anything you say can or may be used in court. that being said, would you like to talk ab deputy perez testified mirandaspoke to him after he read the rights of the shad 477 card. she told him she had methamphetamine inside her vehicle and she initially claimed the drugs were for personal use. later in her conversation with deputy perez, however, defendant admitted she was going to sell the methamphetamine for profit. during his suppression hearing testimony, deputy perez was unable to recall certain details of his interaction with 2 deputy perez arrived an hour late for the suppression hearing. the prosecutor explained the deputy had worked a double shift the night before. 4 defendantat least absent the ability to refresh his memory with his report of the incident. deputy perez knew defendant was in hhe did not independently recall (meaning, without having his recollection refreshed with his report) the specifics of what defendant said after he read the miranda advisement to her off the shad 477 card. he also did not recall whether he drew his weapon during the encounter with defendant. when asked on cross-examination whether defendant made the statement about having methamphetamine after she had been mirandized, deputy perez replied he would have to refer to his report to refresh his recollection (but he was not asked to do so). deputy perez did testify, without reference to his report, that defendant was definitely in the back of his patrol car when he mirandized her. in arguing for suppression after deputy perez completed his testimony, defense counsel emphasidifficulty recalling the chronology of when certain things whether the admonition was properly given and at the proper time . . . the prosecution argued deputy perez was consistent in testifying both that he read defendant her miranda rights via the shad 477 card and that defendant made the incriminating admissions after she was mirandized. the trial court invited defense counsel to raise any other asserted defects in the miranda of lack of recall as to certain aspects of the selack of recall regarding the reading of [the] shad 477 card, which i think we all know is the-issued mechanism 5 or card for purposes of addressing miranda. the deputy testified he read those rights, and summarized thdefense counsel then complained of a prolonged detention of his client (which the trial court dismissed as a separate issue not presented when objecting on miranda grounds), but counsel did not otherwise identify any other specific problems with the miranda advisement. the trial court denied the defense motion to suppress. the court miranda was properly given, it was sufficient, . . . and . . . defendant, by making her statement, voluntarily waived and gave up her rights . . . the court of circumstances, the nature of the admonition, the deputy testified clearly that he read off the shad 477 card, which includes the advisement of the right to remain silent, and that anything that may be said could be used against the individual, and that they have a right to a[n] attorney during questioning, and if they cannot afford an attorney, one can be appointed for them. the deputy summarized those today, indicated that he, as i said, read off the shad 477 card directly, and that it would appear the defendant was either detained or in custody at the time. so, obviously, miranda would have been necessary for any statement. she was then interrogated, and made certain sta 6 b. trial deputy perez was the only witness to testify at trial.3 toward the beginning of his testimony, the prosecutor asked deputy perez whether he reviewed his incident report prior to the hallway is when i thoroughly went ththe deputy explained he had not reviewed the report before his [the prosecutor] and [defense] counsel earlier this morning [i.e., the suppression direct and cross-examination are as follows. 1. direct examination deputy perez encountered defendant when he was pulling his patrol car into the parking lot of the sands motel. she was driving alone in the opposite direction and deputy perez noticed a large crack in the windshield of her car. take-fect a traffic stop. deputy perez exited his car, and as he approached within the floorboahe ordered defendant to keep her hands where he could see them, but she did not comply and continued shuffling. deputy perez drew his gun and pointed it at defendant because he feared she might be arming herself. that prompted defendant to comply with his command 3 the parties stipulated that if called to testify, a criminalist car was methamphetamine and that it weighed approximately one ounce. the defense did not call any witnesses. 7 to show her hands, and deputy perez re-holstered his gun, asked defendant what she was doing. defendant responded she was looking for her registration, or something to that effect. while deputy perez was speaking to defendant, he saw an orange pill bottle in plain view on the front seat of the car. the pill bottle, which deputy perez knew from his training and experience was used by drug dealers or users to carry narcotics, some type of cryat that point, deputy perez detained defendant by ordering her out of her car and walking her to the rear of his patrol car where he placed her inside. deputy perez still did not recall whether defendant was in handcuffs at that point, but he did acknowledge he placed her in handcuffs at some point. when asked by the prosecutor whether he spoke to defendant once she was inside the patrol car, deputy perez agreed he did. with her, did ymiranda advisement card he carried in his police uniform. the prosecutor there was methamphetamine on the floornside the according to deputy perez, defendant told him she had approximately one ounce of methamphetamine inside the car and she initially claimed it was for personal use. deputy perez was incredulous and told defendant that an ounce of methamphetamine would be over one thousand doses of the drug (which the deputy knew from his training and experience.02 8 grams of methamphetamine being a usable quantity of the drug). and she was going to sell it to gain some profit off of it. when deputy perez spoke with defendant, she did not appear to be under the influence of any controlled substance. in (he took pictures of the phones but did not book them into evidence). deputy perez did not find any of several common means for ingesting methamphetamine (e.g., a syringe or a pipe) in deputy perez was asked, based on his training and experience, to offer an opinion on whether defendant possessed the ounce of methamphetamine for sale. in his opinion, she did. in forming that opinion, deputy perez relied on (1) the relatively large quantity of methamphetamine recovered (over 28 grams), which would take even a heavy user almost a month to consume; a heavy methamphetamine user; (3) defendpossessing the methamphetamine for purposes of selling it to common means of ingesting methamphetamine. 2. cross-examination deputy perez focused on eliciting testimony that could be used to undermine his opinion that defendant possessed and transported the methamphetamine with intent to sell it. defense questioning, for instance, established deputy perez did not find baggies, a scale, or certain other accoutrements of drug dealing when searching defendant and her vehicle. more pertinent for our purposes, the defense 9 cross-examination of deputy perez also touched on where (and, to a certain extent, when) he advised defendant of her miranda rights answers varied to a degree from his suppression hearing testimony. revisited the chronology of events and initially secured deputy perezversation between the two, deputy perez ordered her out of her vehicle, deputy perez placed defendant in the back of his patrol car, and deputy perez . . . said she was going to generate a profit off [the metham4 then defense counsel asked a series of questions concerning the miranda advisement: q [y]ou asked her what was inside that orange pill bottle, correct? a correct. q a yes. q at that point, you ordered her out of the vehicle, and you gave her her miranda rights, pursuant to shad 477, correct? a at some point, yes. q well, based on your reportand, as you said, you do write it in the order that the events 4 deputy perez testified he spoke to defendant through the the drive his car. 10 s reflected in your report. do you agree? a yes. q okay. and after giving of the shad 477, she agreed to speak to you, without an attorney, correct? a correct. following this exchange, deputy perez testified defendant thereafter told him she had an ounce of methamphetamine in a cigarette box, she initially claimed the drugs were for personal use, and she later admitted she was going to try to make a profit by selling the drugs. defense counsel then confronted deputy perez with his incident report, which indicated he placed went over, about the methamphetamine, the cigarette box, the profit . . . conversation with her outside of the patrol vehicle, and once that conversation was over, [he] placed her in the back seat of [his] the following exchange between deputy perez and counsel then ensued: q now, in relation to what you told us a few minutes ago, that you had that conversation with her while she was seated in the patrol vehicle, are you saying that that is accurate or is that not accurate? a had a lengthy conversation with [defendant] while she was outside of my patrol vehicle, while she was in the back seat of my patrol vehicle, while i was standing outside of my patrol vehicle talking to her, and, as well, when 11 while i was sitting in the front seat of my patrol vehicle and she was in the back seat of my patrol vehicle. what i write is just a summary of theof q okay. but do you agree, though, that at least in terms of the report you took in connection with this matter, you indicated that you placed [defendant] in the back seat of your patrol vehicle methamphetamine, the amount of it[,] and trying to turn a profit on it? [] . . . [] a yes. ii. discussion miranda and its progeny provide no basis for reversing although deputy perez omitted three significant wordsthe right to an appointed attorney before any questioningwhen he described the shad 477 card from memory during the suppression hearing, he testified he read defendant her rights verbatim off that card as per his common practice. that testimony, i.e., that he read the rights off the card verbatim, is substantial evidence supporting finding that deputy perez gave defendant an adequate miranda warning. ahave us unreasonably hold a card generated for deputies to use in complying with miranda actually fails to comply with mirandarequirements. basis for reversal, that deputy perez deliberately engaged in a two-step interrogation to 12 evade mirandaboth forfeited and meritless in any event. defendant did not raise a seibert issue in the trial court, which leaves us with an undeveloped record and warrants application of the forfeiture doctrine. defendant maintains the forfeiture constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel, but even on the record as it stands (i.e., without the clarification deputy perez could have provided if the issue had been properly raised), we see no basis to conclude deputy perez deliberately obtained incriminating statements without a miranda warning only to turn around minutes later and have defendant repeat her admissions post-miranda. at most, the record establishes deputy perez testified inconsistently about where the miranda advisement occurred, but there is no material inconsistency regarding when key admission that she possessed the methamphetamine to sell it for profit. a. miranda and the standard of review [n]o person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against (u.s. const., 5th amend.; see malloy v. hogan, 378 u.s. 1, 6[ ].) to safeguard a sagainst self-miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at p. 467), the high court adopted a set of prophylactic measures requiring law enforcement officers to advise an accused of his right to remain silent and to have counsel present prior to any custodial interrogation (id. at pp. 444-445). . . . bears the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that [a miranda ] waiver was knowing, intelligent, and voluntary under the totality of the circumstances of the 13 [citation.]people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 338-339.) miranda rights may not be admitted to establish guilt in a criminal case.id. at p. 339.) suppression hearing testimony and his later testimony at trial to argue the trial court erred in denying his suppression motion. but that is not the manner in which our review must proceed. instead, wmotion, we consider only the testimony that was before the trial during the pre-trial suppression hearing. (in re arturo d. (2002) 27 cal.4th 60, 77, fn. suppression hearing (the ensuing ruling of which we review here), arturo testified at the jurisdictional hearing that he in fact gave the registration document to the officer. this testimony was not before the trial court at the time of the suppression hearing, and it is irrelevant ruling, we consider only the evidence that was presented to the trial court ; see also people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1007, fn. 23.) resolution of disputed facts and inferences, and its evaluations of credibility, if supported by substantial evidence. we independently determine from the undisputed facts and the facts properly found by the trial court whether the challenged 14 statement was illegally obtained.5 (people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 551.) b. finding that the miranda advisement was adequate although the miranda objection defendant raised in the trial court was not as precise as it should have been, it did suffice to alert the trial court of the need to consider the adequacy of the specific advisement defendant received. under the circumstances, in which she was advised of her right to counsel on the merits, without holding it was forfeited. (people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 966 [citing people v. scott (1978) 21 cal.3d 284 for the proposition that deemed preserved if, despite inadequate phrasing, the record ; people v. dell (1991) 232 cal.app.3d 24was phrased improperly, we deem it sufficient to reach the merits of the issue . . . miranda prescribed the following four now-familiar ] must be warned prior to any questioning [1] that he has the right to remain silent, [2] that anything he says can be used against him in a court of law, [3] that he has the right to the presence of an attorney, and [4] that if he cannot afford an attorney one will be appointed for him prior to any questmiranda, supra, 384 u.s. at 5 an asserted violation of seibert, supra, 542 u.s. 600, is also reviewed on appeal for substantial evidence. (people v. camino (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1359, 1372 (camino).) 15 florida v. powell (2010) 559 u.s. 50, 59-60; accord people v. kelly (1990) 51 cal.3d 931, 948-949 [a defendant must be informed of the right to consult with an attorney before being questioned].) the trial court found miranda advisement and substantial evidence supports that determination as to the only element of the advisement defendant challenges, namely, the requirement to advise a suspect he has a right to an appointed attorney before any questioning. card from memory during the preliminary hearing included only a statement about the right to an appointed attorney, not an appointed attorney before any questioning. but deputy perez testified he read defendant her rights verbatim off the shad 477 card, and the trial court credited that testimony. we see no reason to , and deputy perez read defendant her rights verbatim off miranda advisement was adequate. after all, using a miranda advice of rights card (as opposed to reciting miranda rights from memory) is designed to ensure an advisement is precise and correct, and (once we accept the miranda advisement was read verbatim off the shad 477 card) would require us to hold deputies using the shad 477 card routinely misadvise defendants of their constitutional rights. such a holding would be unreasonable, and we instead uphold the 16 an advisement of her miranda rights.6 c. seibert claim is forfeited and lacks merit regardless after the suppression hearingno further miranda-based objection during trial to the admission methamphetamine. defendant now contends, however, that deputy peredeliberately interrogated defendant twicefirst without a miranda warning and then a second time after a miranda warning oregon v. elstad (1985) 470 u.s. 298, 304 (elstad)). defendant asserts this two-step procedure was unconstitutional under seibert, supra, 542 u.s. 600. defendant concedes her trial attorney suppression motion during trial on seibert grounds. without such a renewal or contemporaneous objection, deputy perez was never asked questions to clarify whether there were two separate interrogations, much less questions designed to ferret out whether teaching of mirandapeople v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 478 [quoting people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 448].) the 6 just his testimony at the suppression hearing, it would only serve miranda warning was inadequate. at trial, deputy perez was asked if, after giving of the shad 477, [defendant] agreed to speak to you, without an attorneyaffirmative. 17 seibert claim is therefore forfeited. (evid. code,  353, subd. (a); people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1170; see also people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 434 [requiring a contemporaneous objection is would deprive the people of the opportunity to cure the defect at at his trial secure in the knowledge that a conviction would be reversed defendant argues, however, that if the seibert issue is forfeited, his trial attorney was constitutionally ineffective in failing to raise it below. reversal is not warranted on ineffective assistance grounds either. aims of ineffective assistance of trial an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694[ ]; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189.) we presume rformance fell within the wide range of can be explained as a matter of sound trial strategy. defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate assistance of counseibid.) if the appellate record manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no ibid.) 18 dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that course should strickland v. washington, supra, at p. 697.) here, both prongs of the strickland v. washington test effectively people v. bradley (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 64, 90.) elstad, supra, 470 u.s. 298[ ] and seibert, supra, 542 u.s. 600[ ], the united states supreme court discussed the and after advisement of miranda rights. elstad heto unwarned yet uncoercive questioning may later waive his rights and confess given the requisite miranda (elstad, suprad statement was volunrelevant inquiry is whether, in fact, the second state (ibid.) as in any such inquiry, the finder of fact must examine the surrounding circumstances and the entire course of police conduct with respect to the suspect in evaluating the voluntariness of his statements. the fact that a suspect chooses to speak after being informed of his rights is, of cou (ibid.) elstad condone inherently coercive police tactics or methods offensive to due process that render the initial his rights once they are rea (id. at p. 317[ ].) seiberthold miranda warnings, thus resorting to an interrogation technique he had been taught: question first, then 19 seibert, supra, 542 u.s. at pp. 605-0-id. at p. 611[ ]), the interrogating officer left the defendant alone in an interview room at the police station for 15 to 20 minutes, then miranda warnings for 30 to 40 minutes, squremark (id. at pp. 604-605[ ]). after the defendant confessed and was given a 20minute break, the officer read her the miranda warnings, resumed the questioning by mentioning their previous conversatseibert, at p. 605[ ].) a divided supreme court held the defendants postwarning statements were inadmissible. (seibert, supra, 542 u.s. at pp. 617, 622s plurality opinion focused on whether it would be reasonable to find that in these circumstanc as miranda requires (id. at pp. 611-612[ ]), noting that the giving of midstream miranda warnings without expressly excepting the statement just given, could lead to an entirely reasonable inference that what [the accused] has just said will be used, with subsequent silence being of no avail([id.], at p. 613[ ]). s concurring opinion expressed his view that the pluraenvisions an objective inquiry from the perspective of the suspect, and applies in the case of both intentional and unintentional two-stage interrogations, was too broad. (seibert, supra, 542 u.s. at pp. 621-622[ ].)camino, supra, 188 cal.app.4th at pp. 1368-1369.) instead, justice kennedy concluded the principles in elstad should continue to in the infrequent case . . . in which the two-step interrogation technique was used in a calculated way to 20 undermine the miranda seibert, supra, 542 u.s. at p. 622.) in that scenario, postwarning statements that are related to the substance of prewarning statements must be excluded unless curative measures are taken before the postwarning statement is made.ibid.) the rule as articulated by justice kennedy in his seibert concurrence is the controlling rule for precedential purposes. (camino, supra, 188 cal.app.4th at p. 1370; people v. rios (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 491, 505.) in this case, there can be no reversible error for failing to object on seibert provided no adequate reason to believe a two-step interrogation occurred, let alone a two-step interrogation calculated to undermine miranda protections. the key statement by defendant determination of guilt was her admission to possessing the methamphetamine with intent to sell it for profit. but there is nothing in deputy defendant made this statement before being advised of her miranda rights. rather, on direct examination, deputy perez testified defendant made and similarly, on cross-examination, deputy perez agreed that [defendant] out of the vehicle[ ] and . . . gave her her miranda that agreed to speak to [him], without an attorney . . . to be sure, that trial testimony was inconsistent with ssion hearing testimony (given without the benefit of reviewing his incident report). but that does not mean, as defendant contends, a competent attorney would have objected and asserted the variance means deputy perez engaged in a calculated two-step interrogation to evade miranda protections. 21 rather, a competent defense attorney would understand the difference instead indicates a testimony about where defendant made the key incriminating admission (outside the patrol car or inside) given acknowledgement that patrol vehicle, while she was in the back seat of [his] patrol vehicle, while [he] was standing outside of [his] patrol vehicle talking to her, and, as well, . . . while [he] was sitting in the front seat of [his] patrol vehicle and she was in the back seat of [his] patrol vehicle.exploited that vulnerability by using deputy perconcerning where certain events occurred to cast doubt on whether defendant actually made the incriminating statement at all. a decision to instead renew a previously denied suppression motion on the theory that there had been a deliberate two-step interrogationnotwithstandintestimony that the incriminating statement came (only) post-mirandawould have been a far less promising avenue of attack. indeed, based on our review of the record presented, it would have been a meritless one. 22 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. raphael, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 