 filed 1/29/18 p. v. smith ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marcus kenneth smith, defendant and appellant. b279969 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba430349) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed and remanded. leslie conrad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, william h. shin, carl n. henry and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 summary defendant marcus kenneth smith appeals following his jury conviction of the first degree murder of donald chapman, with a true finding on the allegation he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death. the court found true a prior robbery conviction, and sentenced romero motion to strike the prior conviction.1 on appeal, defendant argues that prosecutorial misconduct during closing argument requires reversal. defendant also contends the trial court did not exercise informed discretion romero motion. and, in supplemental briefing, defendant contends that legislation effective january 1, 2018, ending the statutory prohibition on a (see pen. code,  12022.5 & 12022.53), applies and requires a remand for a new sentencing hearing.2 we find no prosecutorial misconduct and no error in denying the romero motion. accordingly, we affirm the judgment, but we agree that remand is required for the exercise to decide whether to strike the firearm enhancement under the new legislation. facts on october 12, 2014, at about 12:15 p.m., the los angeles police department responded to the scene of a shooting that had just occurred at 81st street and avalon boulevard. as he 1 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 arrived, officer michael estrada saw a group of about 10 people waving at his car and yelling at him to help the victim, a black male lying on his back, with his arms at his sides and eyes wide open, bleeding profusely from gunshot wounds to his face and head. he was unarmed. officer estrada called for backup to assist with crowd -a recognized most of the people in the crowd from his previous experience as a gang officer. he had never seen the victim before. officer joel morales also came to the crime scene with his partner, to assist with protecting the scene. a few minutes after chasing defendant the shooterdefendant running, officer morales saw the group of men who were chasing defendant push him down and start to beat him up, screaming and yelling at him. officer morales and his partner [defendant], and . . . took none of the people who shouted that defendant was the shooter remained at the scene to give a statement about what had happened. murder. his attempts to find witnesses to the shooting failed, but he located surveillance cameras at several places in the vicinity. 4 one of the surveillance cameras, at a residence on 81st street, captured the shooting of mr. chapman. the video showed a dark gray sedan the corner of 81st street and avalon. someone got out of the rear passenger seat and ran toward the southeast corner of the intersection. the video shows the person shooting mr. chapman. the shooter was wearing a dark-colored top and gray pants, and after shooting mr. chapman, ran eastbound down 81st street and then southbound down an alley. while he was fleeing, the 81st street. the dark gray sedan that had dropped off the shooter re-entered the video frame, traveling westbound and passing the shooting location just seconds after the shooter fled southbound down the alley. detective feria also located several surveillance cameras at an apartment complex at 83rd street and avalon. the video on one of these cameras showed a continuation of the same north/south alley that the shooter ran down in the preceding -colored top running southbound in the alley to eastbound 82nd and then running eastbound on 82nd street. detective feria same person running southbound down the alley wearing the dark-colored sweatshirt and . . . coming up over in the rear yard of this location [(a house on 82nd street)the person in the video jumped over the wall, the video showed he was wearing light-colored cargo-type pants, and appeared to be hiding from a crowd of people in the area. then, the video shows the person in the redetected by a crowd5 come out of the two houses just west of that residence giving videotape from a second camera in the apartment complex ame individual . . . now running northbound on the west sidewalk of avalon just north of 83rd suspected shooter wearing the dark-colored sweatshirt and the light- the video also showed a person on a bicycle following the shooter. video from yet another camera, at a strip mall on the west side of avalon between 82nd and 83rd streets, showed the same two individuals the suspect and the person following him on a bicycle. underneath it the suspect was wearing a blue t-shirt with a superman logo. two other cameras at the strip mall, with different views, also showed the suspect running northbound on the unzipped, black, hooded . . . sweatshirt, wearing the baggy cargo sweatpants; also again wearing the t-shirt, exposing the t- when officer morales arrested him, defendant was wearing a black hoodie or sweatshirt, a blue t-shirt with a superman emblem, gray cargo sweatpants and blue shoes. no weapon was residue in three places. detective feria and his partner interviewed defendant at the 77th street station on the evening of the murder. d when he was asked what had happened, defendant told got got my ass kicked excuse my language by a blo6 later testified that in june 2013, defendant told him he was a member of the denver lane bloods.) defendant explained to detective feria and hi.defendant was in the neighborhood (an nd street and avalon with his best friend, dominique moore. defendant told the detectives he and ms. moore had gone defendant made several telephone calls on the night of his arrest. detective feria listened to the recordings of these calls voice. in one call, at 12:01 a.m. on october 13, 2014, defendant told an unidentified woman that, [i]] e in a second call at 3:14 a.m., . . . as far . . . cal. . . happens from doing f----- the consequences, so . . . . defendant was charged by information with the murder of mr. chapman and with attempt to murder john doe, together with firearm and gang enhancements and a prior strike conviction for robbery. (a third count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling was dismissed on the first day of trial.) 7 in addition to testimony and documents establishing the trial in august and september 2016.3 investigation, police recovered a letter dated march 15, 2016, (ks4)(girl madd) exhibit 25). the third page of the letter was a copy of a page from an arrest report made when defendant was booked at the 77th defendant] stated that he went to church at 82nd street and avalon boulevard with his friend domonique [sic] at 1030 in the morning. the services begin at 1100. during the services, he in the letter to ms. moore, defendant listed six items of that i came to your house around 9:00 to 9:30 am. [] 2. i need you to say we got to the church around 10:00 to 10:30 to attend sunday school. [] 3. i need you to say if they ask what i was wearing say gray sweats blue addida shoes, a blue superman shirt, and a black hooded sweater. [] 4. i also need you to say i left 5- to 10 minutes after 12:00 pm after everything occurred to meme up. [] nothing more or nothing less. [] 6. just say i was with you the jury also heard a recording of two telephone calls from defendant in the county jail. one was on march 20, 2016. an 3 the jury was unable to reach a verdict on the gang allegation and it was dismissed, so we do not recount the evidence relating to that allegation. 8 . . . . . . what you needed her to do, like all march 28, 2016, defendant spoke to ms. moore. ms. moore (the police)hit was in the car when i was at top of that . . . i got my . . . public defender telling me you told . . . the private investigators something else. defendant said: said . . . that dominique said . . . my way to at trial, ms. moore testified that she was at the church on the day of the shooting; she did not see defendant at the church; she did not take him to church with her that day; and he was not at her house earlier that day. her testimony that defendant was not with her at the church was consistent with what she told the police in 2015 and the defense investigator in 2016. she testified she did not hear the shooting, but saw it when she went outside. ms. moore also testified she did not remember having telephone conversations with defendant about testifying for him, and did not remember getting the letter from him in march 2016. the jury found defendant guilty of the first degree murder of mr. chapman, and found true the allegation he personally and the jury found defendant not guilty of the attempted murder count, and could not reach a verdict on the gang allegations, which were later dismissed. 9 defendant waived a jury on a prior robbery conviction, and after a court trial, the court found the prior conviction had been romero ts] discretion in favor the court sentenced defendant to 80 years to life (25 years to life for the murder, doubled for the strike ( 667, subds. (b)-(i) & 1170.12), plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), plus a five-year enhancement for his prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1))). the court romero issue, the court does not have court also awarded custody credits and made further orders not at issue on this appeal. discussion 1. the claim of prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends that a statement the prosecutor made ri a. the law improper comments violate the federal constitution when they constitute a pattern of conduct so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. [citation.] improper comments falling short of this test nevertheless constitute misconduct under state law if they involve use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury.(people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 130 (cortez).) 10 to establish misconduct, defendant need not show that the prosecutor acted in bad faith. [citation.] however, she does need [i]n the context of the whole argument and the a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an imp if the challenged would have been taken by a juror to state or imply nothing harmful, [then] they obviously cannot be deemed objectionable. (cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 130.) b. during his closing argument, the prosecutor reviewed with the jury the surveillance videotapes admitted in evidence. in doing so, he said this: (defendant)] here, and that gate was closed. so the reason why the defendant could not just run down this alley and had to go behind these houses is because of that gate. . . . [on the tape]. run from the truth. it boxes you in. murder. 12:10 and 4 seconds, attempted murder. and then 12:10 and 8 seconds, you see a figure, a human being, running down the alley. and then that person is seen again on the other side of that brick wall. nd left and hop houses and hide and duck 11 argument, but the following morning moved for a mistrial, saying this: argued was arguing the issue of fabricating an alibi and that the truth did not need a script. [] the people [(this is not what the prosecutor said; see ante.)] first of all, [defendant] has a right to appointed counsel. and this, unfortunately, leads to a reasonable inference that counsel conspired with the defendant in order to fabricate an alibi. this alone is illegal, unethical, then, defense counsel referred to discussions all outside the presence of the jury surrounding the admission in evidence letter to ms. moore (25, telling her arrest report). defense counsel continued: the trial the letter [25)] was going to come in, and that . . . the letter could present a dangerous inference.[4] the people have acknowledged in doing the 402 that defense counsel did not provide this particular letter or copy of the arrest report to the defense. . . . [] the prosecutors agreed that they would not argue this; and if 4 defendant does not claim on appeal that the admission of xhibit 25 was erroneous. 12 desired, a stipulation would be offered because of this for the jury. [] on monday the prosecutors and i discussed that i would not be seeking the stipulation since the prosecutors would not be making that type of an argument and implying that defense counsel was engaged in some wrongdoing. after noting other points not at issue on appeal, counsel concluded: process, and the right to remain silent on both state and federal grounds. and i am moving for a mistr the prosecutor responded by pointing out his words meant there was absolutely no connection between the concept of lawyer or lawyering with the fabrication of evidence. at no point during that you would or did intentionally commit any kind of misconduct. [] . . . [] i do believe it is fair to argue that if the evidence that a person fabricated evidence or attempted to fabricate evidence, that one can comment on the nature of the statements that were made without violating any kind of constitutionsomething at a time when he was exercising his constitutional right, essentially in the nature of griffin[5] believe that happened. addressing defense counsel, the court offered to remind the 5 griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609. 13 sponsible for the fact that [defendant] had access to a page from the police report . . . . defense counsel then made her closing argument. in his rebuttal statement, the prosecutor reminded the jury of the ] fault. she can only work with what her client the taj mahal out of a pile of mud . . . . and in this case, the c. contentions and conclusions on appeal, defendant right to counsel to imply that his defense was fabricated; and . . . by suggesting [defendant] and his these hyperbolic claims find no support in the record or the law. first, defendant offers no analysis or explanation of how [i]n the context of the whole argument and the understood or applied in an improper or erroneous manner. cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 130.) that is because there is none. the mere does not implicate the right to counsel, integrity of defense counsel, when it is entirely untethered to neither the quoted comments nor anything else in the record before the jury contains 14 any suggestion or implication from which a reasonable juror could possibly infer that defendant and defense counsel second, defendant cites and quotes from more than a dozen prosecutorial misconduct cases for general propositions, but none of them applies here. for example, defendant cites people v. bain (1971) 5 cal.3d 839 implication by the prosecutor that defense counsel fabricated a (id. at p. 847.) of course that is so. but unlike in bain, here defendant cannot point to even a hint by the prosecutor of any fabrication by defense counsel. the contrast with bain could not be clearer. (see id. at pp. 845-846 his counsel had fabricated the . . . was made by the prosecution as early as the voir direprosecutor expanded on the theme in his clo similarly, defendant relies on people v. schindler (1980) 114 cal.app.3d 178, whedefendant clearly was impermissibly penalized for exercising her constitutional right to counsel by the s flagrantly improper argument that the time and circumstances surrounding her selection of this particular defense counsel, who had prosecuted her husband, impeached her testimony and showed she was guilty of murder.id. at p. 189; see also people v. fabert (1982) 127 cal.app.3d 604, 610 [here, as in schindler, the prosecution not only impermissibly adduced evidence of defendants exercise of her right to counsel but attempted to use this evidence to convey the impression that her defense [diminished capacity] was fabricated. 15 these cases do not help defendant, and indeed they demonstrate the fallacy of his misconduct claim. in all of them, there is a direct connection flagrantly right to counsel. that connection between the claimed is entirely missing here. in short, there was no misconduct. and if there had been misconduct, defendant would be unable to show prejudice, under any standard. we have recited the evidence at some length, and will not repeat it here. suffice it to say by way of summary: surveillance tapes showed the murder, and showed the shooter fleeing the scene and fleeing the crowd pursuing him, wearing the same clothes defendant was wearing when the police extracted him from the beating being administered by the crowd pursuing him. there were calls from jail that night, repeatedly saying such things as going to go to the pen for 25 years to h to pay the consequences . . . .sweatshirt. by telling ms. moore exactly her statements statement to police) defendant was not with her at the church on the day of the shooting. this evidence is overwhelming, and does not admit of any reasonable doubt as to de 2. the claim of romero error before sentencing defendant, the court denied his romero motion to strike his prior strike conviction in the interests of justice. defendant was 19 at the time of the murder, and if the 16 trial court had granted his romero motion, he would have been sentenced to 55 years to life instead of 80 years to life. defendant contends the trial court mistakenly believed defendant was entitled to the benefits of proposition 57. proposition 57 added section 32 of article i to the california constitution, effective november 9, 2016. section 32 applies to persons convicted of a nonviolent felony offense, and makes those persons eligible for parole after completion of the full term for the primary offense, excluding enhancements. ( 32(a)(1)(a).) it also allows an award of credits for good behavior and approved rehabilitative or educational achievements. ( 32(a)(2).) means the court did not exercise informed discretion when it denied his romero motion. we disagree. a. the sentencing proceeding the trial court entertained an oral romero motion from leniency in this case, specifically with respect to and in light of old and will not see the light of day if he were to serve that full provisions of the new proposition 57 donof 68 years. but he has credit for some. [(defendant had 797 days of actual custody credits.)] be applicable to him, which would have a significant impact the need for a ruling on a romero [sic] the change in 17 defense counsel pointed out defendant would still have a very lengthy sentence if the court were to strike the prior conviction. while his conduct as defendant had no father figure and no stability in the home, and striking the strike would give d the prosecutor noted that defendant was convicted of five violent offenses between the ages of 14 and 19; had two criminal threat sustained petitions; and an adult conviction for robbery. the murder occurred while he was on probation, he was the direct perpetrator, and he killed an innocent manupon the court through his actions while in county jconcluding deserves the the court then ruled, stating it agreed with defense counsel in part, and continuing: that someone at his age, and i have to say he looks even younger, is lookin he was an adult when this crime was committed. he was still on probation for a violent offense when he committed this crime. [] and if for reasons of lack of adult guidance he started committing crimes at a very early age, i chose to do. 18 looking at a significant amount of time in custody. ink legally that he falls within the spirit of the one- the court then imposed a total term of imprisonment of 80 years to life. after advising defendant of his appeal rights and imposed the three-year sentence that had been suspended, ordering it to run concurrently. then the court addressed defendant: . . . know for sure, but i believe that there are going to be changes in the law that are going to give you an opportunity to take advantage of programs, educational programs, any other kind of programs . . . within the state prison system. you can choose to do it or not. probabilities of you being paroled, with or without the benefit of the newly enacted constitutional provision contained in proposition 57, you should consider doing that, because it will result in you getting out of prison at the earliest possible time. provision will apply to you. but it is also clear from the provision that the department of corrections is going to take into consideration your availing yourself of the . . . programs they have available. are eligible for the youthful offender sentencing, which would decrease the minimum 19 decrease it significantly. corrections is obliged to take into consideration your youth, your background, and use that in making a determination as to whether or not you should be paroled at the earliest possible time. i also believe they will take into consideration what you choose to do while you are incarcerated. to prevent you from being released if you do what you can do for yourself to get released at the earliest possible time. b. contentions and conclusions effect of proposition 57 shows its exercise of discretion in denying romero (defendant also points out that he the trial court referred to when it told t may also be that you are eligible for the youthful offender sentencing which would decrease the minimum , subd. (h).) ruling. to the extent the court assumed defendant would be eligible for proposition 57 (or section 3051) treatment, the assumption was incorrect. (the those provisions were somewhat equivocal . . . igible . . ..) nonetheless, we find the trial court acted well within its discretion in denying defendant's romero motion. 20 as the supreme court tells us, the three strikes law establishes a sentencing requirement to be applied in every case where the defendant has at least one qualifying strike, conclud[es] that an exception to the scheme should be made because, for articulable reasons which can withstand scrutiny for abuse, this defendant should be treated as though he actually fell outside the three strikes scheme. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377.) the [i]n ruling whether to strike or vacate a prior serious and/or violent felony conviction allegation or finding under the three strikes law, . . . in furtherance of justice . . . the court . . . must consider whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant ms spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious and/or violent felonies.(ibid.) here, the trial court expressly concluded defendant should not be deemed outside the spirit of the three strikes scheme, murder while still on probation for a violent offense. that romero motion, parole hearing. further, while a court must explain its reasons for striking [citation] that the trial judge properly exercised his discretion in in re large 21 (2007) 41 cal.4th 538, 550, 551.) defendant has not rebutted that presumption. the trial court recognized that its romero ruling was a matter separate from proposition 57. (the court stated that, the for a ruling on a romero ) the court heard the arguments we have quoted above from defense counsel and the prosecutor. the court this cri in short, the court properly considered the factors the law requires it to consider: the nature and circumstances of carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 377.) the court concluded, based on those factors, that defendant was not one of those defendants should be treated as though he actually fell outside the three strikes scheme. (ibid.) plainly, there was no abuse of discretion. 3. discretion to strike the firearm enhancement as mentioned ear-years-to-life sentence included a mandatory 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). at the (on december 8, 2016), section 12022.53 tanding section 1385 or any other provision of law, the court shall not strike an allegation under this section or a finding bringing a person former  12022.53, subd. (h).) effective january 1, 2018, as a result of the enactment of senate bill no. 620, the prohibition against striking a firearm 22 enhancement was eliminated. now, section 12022.53 provides that section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occ( 12022.53, subd. (h).) the parties filed supplemental briefing on the applicability argued that the new legislation applies to all cases not yet final where a firearm enhancement was imposed at sentencing, and that we should remand the case to permit the trial court to exercise the discretion it now has to strike the firearm enhancement. respondent concedes that the amendment to section 12022.53 applies retroactively to nonfinal judgments. respondent says nothing about whether we should remand to the trial court, and we understand respondent to have conceded that is the correct procedure. to the trial court for the exercise of its discretion is appropriate. the case is not yet final. under in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740 (estrada), when the legislature has amended a statute to reduce the punishment for a particular offense, we assume, unless there is evidence to the contrary, that the deoperative date (people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323.) the estrada rule has been applied to statutes governing penalty enhancements (people v. nasalga (1996) 12 cal.4th 784, 792) and to situations where in the trial court discretion to impose either the same penalty as under the former 23 (people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 76). the amendments made by senate bill no. 620 do not specify that the change applies only to crimes committed on or after a particular date. nor do the amendments contain any other indication of legislative intent contrary to the estrada rule. consequently, the amendments apply to defendants whose judgments were not yet final on january 1, 2018. in this case, the trial court expressly recognized, when it sentenced defendant in december 2016, romero issue, the court does not have discretion with respect to the under the new legislation, the case must be remanded to give the court an opportunity to exercise its discretion. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the cause is remanded to the trial court for the limited purpose of exercising its discretion under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (h) and, if appropriate following exercise of that discretion, resentencing defendant accordingly. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 