 filed 11/1/17 p. v. navarro ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people of the state of california, plaintiff and respondent, v. pedro navarro, defendant and appellant. b279763 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba435580) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dennis j. landin, judge. affirmed. stephen temko, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, joseph p. lee and jaime l. fuster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant pedro navarro of first degree murder and personal use of a deadly weapon. on appeal, defendant contends that (1) the trial court committed reversible error in failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on third party ineffective in failing to request instructions on third party culpability. we affirm. facts and procedural background in accord with the usual rules of appellate review, we state favorable to the judgment. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) 1. escalating tensions between defendant and the victim in late february 2015, defendant rented an apartment to karina amparo velarde and her son, christian blanco. the apartment was in the back unit of a converted garage on separate units. on march 1, 2015, defendant barged into the unit while velarde and blanco were sleeping and demanded rent of the apartment. defendant tried to take their phones away when velarde attempted to call the police. defendant told them, [g]o ahead and call [the police] and be a snitch and see what advised defendant that he would need a formal eviction order to remove velarde and blanco. after the officers left, there was a second altercation. jazmin sandoval, a friend of defendant, enlisted her friends help ease the situation. at first, they calmly interacted with 3 tenant velarde. but then sandoval and velarde began screaming at each other, and blanco had to push the women away from one another. blanco tried to calm things down with defendant and asked him for a few days so he and velarde could move out. you jail nothing [sic] to me. and advised defendant he needed to obtain an eviction order to remove the tenants. in the early morning of march 2, 2015, blanco and velarde checked property to collect their belongings, but velarde suddenly changed her mind about moving out. blanco unsuccessfully tried to convince his mother to leave the unit with him, but she insisted she would stay. blanco left the unit without her, and did not see velarde alive again. 2. in the early morning hours of march 3, 2015, defendant fatally stabbed velarde 29 times and then partially burned her body. around 8:00 a.m., defendant picked up his friend sandoval drove to a turnout on mount baldy road, where they removed the body from the back of his truck and left it in a small ditch. around 9:30 a.m., a u.s. forest service employee discovered 3. police investigation property and observed missing tiles, paint on the floor, a missing portion of drywappeared that someone had attempted to clean the crime scene. dna testing of the bloodstains in the unit returned matches for velarde and defendant. police also discovered burn marks and 4 fire debris on the congray found a tablecloth the same color and pattern as the fabric defendant also had a cut on his left hand, consistent with an injury one might sustain while stabbing another person. him to the crime. in a series of text messages between defendant and his girlfriend, he voiced frustration about velarde and spoke of getting her out of ,lly evicting at the time of the murderwas in the area of velarde phone records also indicated that posed shortly before the body was discovered on mount baldy road. 4. on october 8, 2015, defendant and sandoval were charged sandoval entered into a leniency agreement by which she pled guilty to the offense of accessory after the fact, and would serve a seven- year sentence in exchange for her truthful testimony at people introduced the physical evidence described above and the phone records tying defendant to the crime. blanco, sergeant gray, lopez, and sandoval testified.1 the jury also heard testimony from officers who responded to the two altercations on march 1, 2015, the forest service employee who discovered 1 sandoval testified about the second altercation between statements about velarde, velarde her testimony is summarized in the preceding sections. 5 was that sandoval killed velarde, perhaps with her friend lopez. in support of this third party culpability defense, defendant presented two witnesses: his wife and vargas. although each , neither vargas nor 5. jury instructions the court instructed the jury that a defendant in a criminal case is presumed to be innocent, and the people bear the burden of proving his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. the court also gave calcrim no. 335 to instruct the jury that sandoval was an accomplice as a matter of law, and that the jury must not convict a defendant based on accomplice testimony alone. defendant requested this instruction, without any modifications. defendant did not request a pinpoint instruction on third party culpability. 6. def the jury convicted defendant of first degree murder and found the personal weapon use allegation to be true. defendant admitted having a prior felony conviction within the meaning of the california three strikes law. the trial court denied probation and sentenced defendant to the prescribed 25 years to life in prison, which was doubled pursuant to the three strikes law. the court also imposed a five-year enhancement for the prior serious felony conviction, and a one-year enhancement for the weapon use. 6 discussion 1. the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct on third party culpability defendant contends that the trial court erred by failing sua sponte to instruct the jury on third party culpability. we review this issue of law de novo (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569), and start with some familiar principles. the jury on general principles which are closely and openly connected with the facts people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 516 (abilez . . . , or if there is substantial evidence supportive of such a defense and the defense is not inconsistent with the defendant's theory of people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 824 (gutierrez).) a different rule applies to pinpoint instructions. those . . . are required to be given upon request when there is evidence supportive of the theory, but they are not required to be given sua ibid. ) sua sponte duty to instruct on third party culpability in gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th 789, and abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th 472. in those cases, neither of the defendants requested a pinpoint instruction on third party culpability, but both argued on appeal that the trial courts erred by failing to provide the instruction sua sponte. (gutierrez, at pp. 824-825; abilez, at pp. 564-565.) the supreme court held that the additional 7 pinpoint instruction on third party culpability was not required because the trial courts had instructed the juries that a criminal defendant is entitled to a presumption of innocence, and may only beyond a reasonable doubt. (id.instructed as to these issues, and because the jury could have acquitted defendant had it believed that a third party was gutierrez, at p. 825.) likewise here, defendant did not request a pinpoint instruction on third party culpability. the trial court instructed the jury that defendant was entitled both to a presumption of innocence, and to a verdict of not guilty if the jury was not convinced of his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. as in gutierrez and abilez, these instructions empowered the jury to find defendant not guilty if his theory of the case raised a reasonable doubt as to his guilt. therefore, the court was not required to give sua sponte an instruction on third party culpability. defendant asserts that the case at hand is distinguishable from gutierrez and abilez because the trial court gave an instruction (calcrim no. 335) that sandoval was an accomplice as a matter of law.2 defendant contends that this instruction could have been understood by the jury as a direction to consider sandoval only as an accomplice, rather than as the main perpetrator of the crime. defendant provides no citation to case law showing how this accomplice instruction eliminated defendparty culpability. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793 2 we observe defendant requested calcrim no. 335 without any modifications. 8 authorities on the points made. if none is furnished on a particular point, the court may treat it as waived, and pass it without consideration. people v. murray (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1133, 1143.) as stated above, it is well established that defendants must request pinpoint instructions like this one. (gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 824; people v. san nicolas (2004) 34 cal.4th 614, 669.) because the accomplice instruction given did not preclude ion did not specify accomplice in the murder, or provide the identity of any other person involved in the murder. in fact, dwithin the language of the instruction. in closing and opening statements, defense counsel advanced the idea that sandoval and the subsequent cleanup of the crime scene. defendant primarily for his in the crime, which was consistent with the language of the accomplice instruction. 9 2. culpability instruction was not prejudicial in the alternative, defendant asserts that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to request a third party culpability instruction. defendant relies on the same arguments made in the previous section to contend that it was crucial for his trial counsel to request the instruction to dispel any suggestion made by calcrim no. 335 that the jury should disregard his theory of the case. to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, defendant has the burden of proving that (performance fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, and (2) defendant suffered prejudice, measured by a reasonable probability of a more (people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 745-fell within the wide range of professional competence and that people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) assuming that defendant satisfied the first prong, he is unable to establish a reasonable probability of a more favorable outcome absent the alleged deficient performance. in gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at page 825, the supreme court held in the alternative that if the trial court had erred in failing to instruct on third party culpability, any error was harmless because the jury was properly instructed on reasonable doubt and burden of proof. therefore the jury could have acquitted the defendant if it believed the theory that a third party committed the murder. as a result, there was no reasonable probability of a different outcome if the instruction had been given. (id.) 10 likewise here, failure to request the instruction was harmless. as in gutierrez, the jury was properly instructed on the burden of proof and reasonable doubt. based on the defense evidence presented and the argument of counsel, the jury sandoval, perhaps in conjunction with lopez, was the actual perpetrator of the murder. in convicting defendant, the jury showing offered by defendant. the people presented an array of witnesses to testify to murder. several witnesses testified to details of the rental to pay rent and refusing to vacate the premises. in text messages between defendant and his girlfriend that the people entered into evidence, defendant said he apartment appeared to be a cleaned-up crime scene, there was a left hand that was consistent with an injury one might accidentally self-inflict during the commission of a stabbing. cell phone in the area of his property at the time of the murder and leaving the area where the body was dumped. sandoval also testified to her involvement in helping defendant dispose of the body. 11 in his defense, defendant presented only two witnesses: his stimony tried to explain away the evidence of the cut on although indicated that sandoval was the main actor responsible for ify that defendant was not involved in the murder. because sandoval was already assumed nothing to exculpate defendant. furthermore, the people impeached vargas with several prior inconsistent statements on cross-examination. as the jury was properly instructed as to burden of proof and reasonable doubt, and given the abundance of evidence of would have returned a more favorable verdict for defendant had his counsel requested a third party culpability instruction. disposition . rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p.j. flier, j. 