filed 2/7/18 p. v. valle ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan francisco valle, defendant and appellant. b279935 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba408877) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. donna l. harris, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and alliaon h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant jonathan francisco valle appeals his conviction of second degree murder. appellant contends: (1) with respect to the effect of post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd); (2) the trial court erred in giving calcrim no. 360 and in independently advising the jury midtrial that his during the diagnostic interview should not be considered for the truth of the matters asserted; and (3) the trial court erred in refusing to instruct on self-defense. we find no factual and procedural background a. information appellant was charged with the willful, deliberate and premeditated murder of marco blanco and of personally discharging a firearm in committing the crime. b. evidence at trial 1. prosecution case tannia sanchez and her sister alicia sanchez testified on behalf of the prosecution. tannia testified that on march 10, 2013, she and her sister were visiting a relative in the vicinity of . they left between 7:00 and 8:00 p.m. as they were walking to their car, tannia saw an unoccupied taurus that appeared to have crashed into a nearby fence. she also saw two men, one standing inside the fence -- later identified as blanco -- and one outside it -- later 3 identified as appellant. appellant asked the sisters for blanco walked toward the fence gate, talking on a cell phone. after the sisters got into their car, appellant drew a gun from his pocket and pointed it at the sisters, but then turned and shot blanco multiple times. tannia observed no weapon in possession.1 blanco was dead when officers arrived.2 his body was lying approximately a foot from the gate. there was a cell phone near the right side of his body and keys in his left hand. there were no weapons found on or near him. blanco children, who were inside the house, told officers that their father had brought home a pizza and then gone back outside. the day after the shooting, appellant went to the police station where he agreed to be interviewed. the interview was played to the jury. in it, appellwrong thing to prove a point, to make it right and that he 1 she recalled appellant asking if they could take him to get gas rather than asking for gas money. in addition, alicia did see not appellant pull the gun from his pocket and point it toward her and her sister. 2 blanco had four gunshot wounds in his torso, two of which severed his aorta. 4 he claimed to have heard voices , appellant said he had bought the gun and a bag of bullets years earlier for self-protection. during the interview, appellant made inconsistent statements about his use of drugs. he said he was a regular user of crystal methamphetamine, which he had used the morning of the shooting. he later said he had not used drugs, only alcohol. when directly asked why he shot blanco, appellant moments later, he said drugs had nothing to do with it, and that the shooting occurred me . . told me.still later, asked if drugs had anything to do with the shooting, trouble because [he] crashed the car and the police were going to come and arrest [him] for drunk driving or being describing the sequence of events, appellant said that when he first saw blanco, blanco was walking into his house with his son and a pizza, and that voices told him to wait the right time, tappellant said he believed he had scared blanco and . . . appellant ,but then 5 -- to during the interview, appellant said he had thrown the , and that he kept the extra ammunition at her place. after the interview, officers searched the residence and backyard of a house -- located 150 feet from -- and found the murder weapon in the yard and a bag of bullets inside the house. they also recovered a set of keys for the taurus. 2. defense case appellant testified he was in the area visiting his pregnant ex-girlfriend. they argued, and he got into his car to leave. the car rolled backwards into the fence of the house next door. appellant said that at the time he was homeless, had a substance abuse problem, and regularly used crystal methamphetamine. he had used methamphetamine the afternoon of the shooting. after his car hit the fence, appellant saw blanco and one of his children enter the house. blanco was talking on the phone and looking at appellant. blanco came back out of the house at the same time the sanchez sisters appeared. as appellant was asking them for help, he saw blanco walking toward him out of the side of his eye. blanco looked angry, which scared appellant. blanco got within two feet of appellant. 6 contrary to what appellant told officers in the interview, blanco was not talking on the phone at the time.3 they had -ppellant thought he saw blanco reaching for something in his pocket. something told him to shoot blanco. appellant testified that he had purchased the gun he was carrying after being the victim in a 2010 incident. in that incident, he was returning home with a former girlfriend. two men pulled up behind t[him] where [he] them, leaving a bullet hole in his car. after that, appellant did not feel comfortable anywhere and believed he had to keep up his guard, , and keep aware of his surroundings. he slept poorly. the circumstances surrounding the shooting of blanco, the way it happened[,] felt like it took [him] back to the 2010 incident. the drugs he had taken contributed to making him feel paranoid. the defense expert, kevin booker, ph.d., a trauma specialist, testified that ptsd arises from experiencing a life-threatening incident which induces terror or horror. ptsd is characterized by flashbacks, nightmares and a desire to avoid anything representing the life-threatening event. sufferer- 3 appellant testified he was under the influence of drugs during the police interview. 7 . they may worry about being attacked from behind. this leads to difficulty in forming interpersonal relationships or being in unfamiliar surroundings. the sufferer may turn to substance abuse as a form of avoidance, to numb his or her emotions related to the traumatic incident. the fear mechanism is activated unconsciously, overriding conscious decision-making, and may lead to a fight-or-flight response. dr. booker interviewed appellant to determine whether he had experienced a traumatic event that led to his developing ptsd. appellant told dr. booker about the 2010 shooting incident, and said he had flashbacks and nightmares about it afterward. appellant said it had caused worry about his personal safety when in public and led him to purchase the gun. based on this information from appellant, dr. booker diagnosed ptsd. defense counsel asked how suffering from ptsd would affect [appella] behavior. patient with [ptsd] may have a very difficult time engaging other individuals publically and, in some cases, even become very much preoccupied with protinterfering with interpersonal relationships and the ability to engage socially. dr. booker was asked to explain how diag8 replied that such persons beyond what you would expect from a person without an experience of trauma in terms of their perception or response perceive that there is actually [imminent] danger or threat when, in fact, none in other words, he explained, the disease can cause its sufferers to be asked how long after the traumatic incident the condition and its symptoms were [ptsd] is untreated, there is a significant chance that the individual may continue to experience these symptoms . . . for the entirety of their lives . . . . on cross-examination, dr. booker testified that when interviewed, appellant did not mention hearing voices. he acknowledged that not everyone who experiences a traumatic incident falls prey to ptsd. he also stated that malingering was difficult to detect, and that his diagnosis was dependent on appellant being truthful with him. c. pertinent jury instructions and argument the jury was given the instructions on first and second degree murder, manslaughter, and imperfect self-defense.4 4 the imperfect self-defense instruction was based on (fn. continued on the next page.) 9 the jury also was informed it could consider evidence of decid[e] whether the defendant acted with an intent to kill or the defendant acted and evidence of deliberation and premeditation. the jury was further instructed beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant acted with deliberation and premeditation. pursuant to calcrim no. are. it is up to all of you, and you alone, to decide what happened, based only on the evidence that has been presented to you in the give a particular instruction that i am suggesting anything in closing, defense counsel urged the jury to take into who suffers from mental to find that appellant reduced to voluntary manslaughter if the defendant killed a person because he acted in imperfect self-defense. the defendant acted in imperfect self-defense if: 1. the defendant actually believed that he was in imminent danger of being killed or suffering great bodily injury; and 2. the defendant actually believed that the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to defend against the danger; but 3. at least one of those beliefs was unreasonable. . . . [] . . . [] . . . the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant was not acting in imperfect self- 10 had committed manslaughter because he actually but counsel said that such a s the prosecutor asked the jury to focus on the police after seeing blanco reaching for his pocket, and shot blanco because he appeared to be making a call to the police. the prosecutor argued that in the moments between calming himself down and shooting blanco, appellant had time for premeditation. d. verdict and sentencing the jury found appellant guilty of second degree murder, and found the allegation that he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm true. the court imposed a sentence of 40 years to life, comprising 15 years to life for the base term and an additional 25 years to life for the enhancement. this appeal followed. discussion a. testimony 1. background prior to voir dire, the court asked counsel if there were any drug or mental health issues that counsel might wish to address with the jury. defense counsel informed the court that there would be ptsd issues, and that he expected to 11 call an expert witness to testify concerning the subject. the prosecutor stated that he would object to any such expert testimony if appellant failed to submit to cross-examination and the expert attempted to repeat hearsay statements from appellant. defense counsel informed the court that . . .make some sort of a decision. because if he testifies, it would be . . . the most fair to both sides to have him testify and then allow this doctor to use whatever [appellant] is saying as part of his evaluation. [] record . . . and then avoid having [appellant] ever be cross-indicated his then current intention to call both appellant and his mother, and said that the expert relied on information from both of them. the prosecutor again expressed concern that others would testify providing the prosecutor an opportunity to cross-examine appellant. the court stated that defense counsel could discuss ptsd with [appellant] is going to testify before any . . . other informa- immediately after the court made its ruling, the following exchange occurred. defense counsel stated. . . trying to get clarification on it. if [appellant] does not testify, i understand -- i mean, i understand 12 on that . . . [the expert] cannot testify as to what exactly was going on in his mind that day. [] diagnos[e] [appellant] having a condition from a prior incident which could affect his jucourt repliedthere is such a thing as ptsd. it can affect somebody who affected [appellant] or any statements made by [appellant] or [his] . . . mother. . . . how you mitigate the first degree murder without any testimony as to what defense counsel explained that the interview transcript, which the court had not seen, suggested that appellant believed blanco was going to pull a gun, but as indicated above, appellant testified on his own behalf, claiming that he believed blanco was reaching into his pocket for a weapon. in addition, defense counsel was permitted to question dr. booker about statements appellant made that led him to diagnose ptsd, and the expert explained, without objection, how ptsd could affect appellant when faced with an imagined threat. appellant 13 2. analysis penal code sections 28 and 29 limit the type of testimony psychiatric experts may provide in a criminal case. section 28 provides: mental defect, or mental disorder . . . is admissible solely on the issue of whether or not the accused actually formed a required specific intent, premeditated, deliberated, or harbored malice aforethought, when a specific intent crime section 29 prohibits a psychiatric expert from required mental states . . . it is well-settled that tdefendant from presenting expert testimony about any psychiatric or psychological diagnosis or mental condition he may have, or how that diagnosis or condition affected him at the time of the offense, as long as the expert does not cross the line and state an opinion that the defendant did or did not have the intent, or malice aforethought, or any other legal mental state required for conviction of the specific people v. cortes (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 873, 908.) for example, it is defendant], because of his history of psychological trauma, tended to overreact to scondition could result in [the defendant] acting impulsively impulsive reaction from one with [the defendants] mental 14 condition.people v. nunn (1996) 50 cal.app.4th 1357, 1365.) on the other hand, the supreme court has held that objections were properly sustained to attempts to elicit from be [in] a reactive kind of state, rather than . . . cold and impairment . . . [was] . . . part of why he couldnt handle the stress he was under [at the time of the commission of the crimes]people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 451.) in other words, [s]ections 28 and 29 . . . leave an expert considerable latitude to express an opinion on the of offense,prohibitions: actually having, the intent required to commit the charged people v. pearson, supra, at p. 451, quoting people v. coddington (2000) 23 cal.4th 529, 583.) in people v. herrera (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 467 (herrera), the trial court ruled that the ptsd expert could not testify as to anything related to mental state at the time of the commissbased on that ruling the court sustained objections to defendant] was suffering from [peritraumatic dissociative murder. the court of appeal found error, concluding that 15 the relevant authority does ular mental state that is an element id. at pp. 475, 477, 480.) citing herrera, appellant contends the trial court erred by uding his opinion that appellant was suffering from ptsd at the time respondent contends that, taking the statement in context, the court was merely outlining the potential in the event appellant failed to submit himself to cross-examination, and that its statement had no impact on the trial, as appellant did choose to testify. we statement was in direct response to defense counsel . . followup statement, . . . how you mitigate the first degree murder without any ,ranscript could provide evidence that appellant felt threatened by blanco make sense only if both parties to that exchange assumed appellant would not take the stand to explain his state of mind to the jury. our interpretation is further confirmed by defense at trial. after ascertaining that the expert had made a ptsd diagnosis gleaned from the diagnostic 16 interview, defense counsel asked how suffering from ptsd vefurther testified that persons suffering from ptsd tend to overreact and to what you would expect from a person without an experience of trauma in terms of their perception or response to a there is actually [imminent] danger or threat when, in fact, if, like appellant, the sufferer went untreated, he or she would likely never recover from the condition. testimony, if believed by the jury, established that appellant contracted ptsd after the traumatic 2010 shooting incident; that the condition existed at the time of his diagnosis and, inferentially, at the time of the shooting; and that the reality when blanco approached him, causing him to overreact. it is difficult to see what further opinion testimony counsel could have elicited while remaining within the bounds of penal code sections 28 and 29. dr. booker could not permissibly testify that appellant in 17 fact misperceived reality at the time of the shooting, or was gesture of moving his hand toward his pocket, as this was the ultimate question for the jury to decide in determining malice and imperfect self-defense. we find support for our conclusion in people v. nunn, supra, 50 cal.app.4th 1357, where the defendant, a vietnam veteran, had shot at a group of men who were standing near the fence of a property he was caring for and, in his view, engaging in threatening behavior. the court of appeal found that the expert psychologist was properly allowed to opine that the defendanttended to overreact to stress and apprehension, that defendants condition might result in his particular circumstances, and that the encounter with the was the type that could result in an impulsive reaction condition.id. at p. 1365.) uld not do, . . . was to conclude that appellant had acted impulsively, that is, without the intent to kill, that is, without express (ibid.) counsel was operating in line with applicable authority, not judicial constraint, when he refrained from asking dr. booker whether appellant was acting under the influence of ptsd when he drew his gun and pulled the trigger. moreover, even of was correct, and that the court intended to impose a restrictio18 regardless of whether appellant testified, its pretrial evidentiary ruling was not binding, but could have been reconsidered or set aside at the appropriate time. (see, e.g., people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1174 in limine rulings were court retains discretion to make a different ruling as the ; people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 634, fn. 16 [ruling on mog on the trial court, which is free to reconsider its ruling at the time the challenged evidence is offered]; people v. campa (1984) 36 cal.3d 870, 885-886 [rules allow the trial court to reconsider, modify or set aside its order [sustaining an objection to evidence] at any time prior to submission of the cause) at the time , defense counsel and the court acknowledged that they were discussing . . . [a] vacuum,hat the ultimate as we have seen, defense counsel did not ask the court to reevaluate any perceived limitations when dr. booker testified. it was constrained in any way. his failure to do so forfeited the issue. (see people v. holloway a tentative pretrial evidentiary ruling, made without fully knowing what the trial evidence would show, will not preserve the issue for appeal if the appellant could have, but did not, renew the objection or offer of proof and press for a final ruling in the changed context of the trial evidence itselfpeople v. karis, supra, at p. 634, fn. 16 [as pretrial 19 evidentiary the failure to object [when the evidence is offered] normally constitutes a elicited from the expert the very testimony he was permitted le effect. b. the trial court did not err in giving calcrim no. 360 or in advising the jury midtrial testimony repeating hearsay statements made by appellant during the diagnostic interview should not be considered for the truth of the matters asserted 1. background when defense counsel asked dr. booker how a person regard to his or her perception of threat or danger, the prosecutor objected. the court overruled the objection, but took the opportunity to tell the jury. . . telling us information . . . most of which we have heard before because it was testified to by [appellant], and it was subject to cross-examination. [] however, to the extent that there is anything that he is saying that was not exactly testified to by [appellant], you are not to consider this as necessarily something that happened but something that the doctor is considering as part of his opinion. [] in other n cross-examined on certain things that considered for the truth that these things actually occurred. 20 [] for example, the word an example. but that is something that dr. booker took into account, he is saying, from his interview with [appellant]. later, the court gave calcrim nbooker testified that in reaching his conclusions as an expert witness he considered statements made by [appellant]. you opinion. do not consider those statements as proof that the appellant contends the limiting instructions precluding the jury from about the contents of his interview with appellant for the truth of the matters comments about the evidence were erroneous. appellant asserts precluded the jury from properly considering his imperfect self-defense claim. we reject these arguments. 2. analysis a defendant who belies or comments are incorrect or misleading must raise a timely objection or, if applicable, request amplification. (people v. orloff (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 947, 958.) defense counsel did not do so; therefore, this contention is forfeited. (people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1308; people v. monterroso 21 (2004) 34 cal.4th 743, 781; people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 730.) moreover, appellant is incorrect on the merits. a psychiatric expert, like any other expert witness, is to rely upon reliable hearsay, including the statements of the mental state. (people v. campos (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 304, 307, 308gus detailed explanation [brings] before the jury incompetent hearsay evidence. (people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 137, quoting people v. montiel (1993) 5 cal.4th 877, 918.) in people v. elliot (2005) 37 cal.4th 453, the supreme court held that a limiting instruction similar to calcrim no. 360 was properly given manic-depressive and had an antisocial personality disorder was based, in large part, on the defendato the expert that he had been beaten as a child and suffered from a long-term addiction to alcohol, which the expert recounted without a hearsay objection by the prosecutor.5 (people v. elliot, supra, at pp. 479-480.) the defendant 5 pursuant to caljic no. 2.10, the court in people v. elliot instructed the jurors that they could consider statements the defendant had made to the expert for the limited purpose of showing the information upon which the expert based his opinion, not for the truth of the facts asserted in the statements. (people v. elliot, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 480.) 22 argued that the instruction removed important facts from (ibid.) the court held that the only for the liopinion, (id. at pp. 481-482.) the court explained that failing to advise on the limited purpose of the testimony e factual assertions and self-serving testimony from any cross-examination simply by id. at p. 481, citing people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 839.) appellant specifically objects to the giving of calcrim no. 360 on the ground that his statements to dr. booker were admissible under the state of mind exception to the hearsay rule. (see people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 700, fn. 15 [calcrim no. 360 to be given when statements do not fall within any exception to the hearsay rule].) we need not consider this issue as appellant did not raise this basis for admission of the statements at trial. (see evid. code,  354; people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 779.) moreover, appellant is incorrect. evidence code section 1250 provides an exception for the then existing state of mind, emotion or physical sensation (including a statement of intent, plan, motive, design, mental feelin when the 23 that time or at any other time when it is itself an issue in this provision does not, however, make admissible evidence of a statement of memory or belief to prove the fact remembered or believedevid. code,  1250, subds. (a), (b).) as the supreme court has explained, the exception of evidence code -of-court statements describing a relevant mental state being experienced by the declarant at the time the statements were people v. whitt (1990) 51 cal.3d 620, 642.) a experienced before the interview . . . do not fit this description, and are inad(id. at p. 643; see people v. frye (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 941, 950 [where defendant, after his arrest, not to steal, the statement declar[ed] his previously existing was inadmissible].) statements to dr. booker concerning how he felt during and after the 2010 incident were statements as to his pre-existing state of mind and were thus inadmissible under evidence code section 1250. appellant further contends that the court prejudiced the jury by erroneously giving as an example of expert testimony uncorroborated by appellant statement s2010 incident. article vi, section 10 of the california 24 comment on the evidence and the testimony and credibility of any witness as in its opinion is necessary for the proper evidence must be accurate temperate, nonargumentative and scrupulously fair. the trial court may not, in the guise of privileged comment, withdraw material evidence from the people v. rodriguez (1986) 42 cal.3d 730, 766.) the trial couitself to neutral, bland, and colorless summaries, but may focus critically on particular evidence, expressing views id. at p. 768.) the comments were neither improper nor erroneous. dr. booker testified that appellant said he experienced flashbacks in the . . . 2010 incident. appellant never testified to experiencing flashbacks, although he was asked several times by his counsel how the 2010 incident affected him. appellant contends he was describing a flashback when he testified [the shooting and surrounding circumstances] happened felt like it took me that statement did not corroborate dr. , which was clearly referring to flashbacks suffered in the intervening period between the 2010 incident and the shooting. finally, we note that the trial court instructed the jurors in accordance with calcrim no. 200 that they alone 25 must decide what the facts are . . . based only on the just because [the court gave] a particular instruction that [the court was] suggesting nt offers no reason to believe the jury failed to follow this instruction. (see people v. monterroso, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 784.) c. the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct on self-defense 1. background as indicated, the trial court gave the jury the instruction on imperfect self-defense. defense counsel asked the court also to give an instruction on perfect self-defense, contending that although he did not anticipate arguing perfect self-the ] action of . . . approaching [appellant] from behind, facing off and then reaching towards or reaching with something towards [appellant] in the dark could create even in a reasonable person the idea that a threat existed, . . . [] . . . even though it was later discovered that . . . [blanco] did not have a firearany evidence at all much less substantial evidence of self-defense in this case. . . . [] . . . [] hostility between the two. nothing. appellant contends the evidence at trial warranted giving an instruction on perfect self-defense. we disagree. 26 2. analysis to be acquitted of responsibility for a persons death based on self-defense, the defendant must have acted pursuant to an actual and reasonable belief in the need to defend himself under circumstances that would lead a reasonable person to fear the imminent infliction of death, or great bodily injury. [citations.]people v. watie (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 866, 877, citing people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082-1083.) the justification of self-defense requires a double showing: that defendant was actually in fear of his life or serious bodily injury and that the conduct of the other party was such as to produce that state of mind in a reasonable person. (people v. watie, supra, at p. 877, quoting people v. sonier (1952) 113 cal.app.2d 277, 278.) a trial court is required to instruct on self-defense only when there is substantial evidence supporting the defense, and the defendant is either relying on the defense or the defense is not inconsistent with the defendants theory of the case. (people v. villanueva (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 41, 49; accord, people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) substantial evidence is evidence the instruction did exist.people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 75.) we review the trial courts determination de novo and independently decide whether there was substantial 27 evidence in the record to support the requested instruction. (people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 538.) no substantial evidence warranted giving the requested instruction. toward his pocket while having an angry look on his face was insufficient to justify a deadly attack. (see people v. cisneros (1973) 34 cal.app.3d 399, 417, 418, disapproved in part on other grounds in people v. ray (1975) 14 cal.3d 20 to instruct the jury that the defense of self-defense was available . . . if he mistakenly perceived that [the victim] was of any evidence of a viewable object which a reasonable man would have taken for a knife or a gun it is pure speculation to assume that the defendant could reasonably believe that appellant did not claim to have seen a weapon of any kind and none was found. up to the point appellant drew his own gun and fired four shots into the victim, he had seen blanco engage in only innocent actions: delivering a pizza to his family, taking his child inside, and talking on the telephone. as the trial court stated, there was no verbal communication or expression of was under the influence of methamphetamine, clouding his perception and judgment. under these facts, the court did not err in refusing to instruct on perfect self-defense. 28 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 