filed 3/8/18 p. v. vela ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. luis a. vela, defendant and appellant. b279287 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba424910) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed. winston kevin mckesson for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury found luis a. vela (defendant) guilty of repeatedly molesting two of his step-granddaughters, and the trial court sentenced him to prison for 55 years to life. on appeal, defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence, asserts that the trial court erred in placing time limits on voir dire, and contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument. because none of these arguments warrants reversal, we affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts michelle l. (michelle) and ashley l. (ashley) are sisters. defendant is their step-grandfather. a. acts involving michelle 1. first incident when michelle was five years old, she lived in an apartment with her parents and sister in the same complex as her grandmother and defendant. one afternoon, while michelle away, defendant sat down next to michelle on the sofa as she watched cartoons in the living room, put his hand between her legs and began to rub her vaginal area through her pants. defendant then forcibly placed her onto the ground, removed her pants and underwear, and inserted his erect penis into her anus. as he was doing this, he was watching a video playing on his computer that depicted a naked adult woman having sex, and after a minute or two, defendant removed his penis without ejaculating and let michelle get up. michelle then walked away from defendant and into the kitchen. he followed, with his erect penis sticking out of the unzipped fly of the pants he had pulled up. defendant pushed 3 michelle onto one of the chairs in the kitchen, and proceeded to insert his erect penis into her vagina and to thrust into her. he in the door. michelle retreated to the apartment, and found both her anus and vagina sticky with her own blood. she placed her bloodied underwear in the trash, and did the same with the pair she wore the next day. michelle was in excruciating pain for the next several days. 2. second incident a few months later, defendant approached michelle, pressed his crotch against her shoulder and then her stomach, and gyrating in a circular motion each time. both of them were fully clothed. 3. third incident a few months after that, defendant wrote michelle a note asking, when michelle started to walk away from him with the note in her hand, defendant took it back and shredded it. 4. further conduct defendant subsequently tried to kiss michelle on the mouth whenever she would come to visit her grandmother. b. acts involving ashley 1. first incident when ashley was five years old, defendant sat next to her while she was watching cartoons on the sofa. he took his penis out of his pants and asked her to touch it. when she refused, he grabbed her hand and placed it on his penis. 4 2. second incident another time when she was five years old, defendant once again sat next to ashley on the sofa. he then placed his hands down her pants, beneath her panties, and touched her vagina -to-she struggled against him. he ended up just moving his finger after he removed his hand from her pants, he placed his fingers in his mouth. 3. third incident when ashley was 13 years old, defendant offered her $20 if she would go into the closet with him and show him her breasts. she declined. 4. further incidents defendant regularly tried to kiss ashley on the lips whenever her visits with her grandmother and defendant ended. when she was 13 years old, he smacked her buttocks through her clothes while she was talking on her phone. and another time, he held his hands out in front as if to squeeze her breasts, but did not touch them because she backed away from him. c. reporting the incidents january 2014. the friend told his parents, who alerted the authorities. michelle subsequently explained the abuse to the clinical social worker who responded to the call, as well as to the police. michelle had not told anyone else prior to that timenot ashley, not her mother, not her father (who had physically abused michelle), not her grandmother, and not the social workers or medical professionals who had interviewed her when she was involuntarily detained for suicidal ideation in 2011 and 5 2012. to the medical professionals, michelle had specifically denied being the victim of any sexual abuse. who had interviewed michelle. at first, ashley denied any sexual abuse, but after a 20 minute break in the interview, detailed the . ashley then reported the abuse to a responding police officer. prior to this point, however, ashley had not told anyone else about the abuse. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with (1) two counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years old or younger (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (a))1 for the anal and then vaginal penetration of michelle; (2) sexual penetration of a child under 14 by a foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1)(b)) for placement of counts of committing a lewd act on a child under the age of 14 ( 288, subd. (a)), one for the remaining sexual acts involving michelle and one for the remaining sexual acts involving ashley. multiple victims within the meaning of the one strike law ( 667.61, subd. (c)). the matter proceeded to trial. a jury found defendant not guilty of sexual penetration by a foreign object, and hung 11 to 1 (in favor of guilt) on the other four counts. the matter proceeded to a second trial on the remaining counts. defendant testified, denying any sexual abuse. at neither michelle nor ashley were 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 6 ever alone with defendant. defendant had never molested her. the jury convicted defendant, and found the multiple victim allegation to be true. n for a new trial, the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for 55 years to life. specifically, the court imposed a sentence of 25 years to life for the anal penetration count, to be followed by two consecutive sentences of 15 years to life for the lewd act counts; the court imposed but stayed a 25-years-to-life sentence for the vaginal penetration count. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence defendant argues that insufficient evidence supports his convictions. in evaluating this claim, we ask whether the record that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890, quoting people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) sufficient evidence supports each of the four counts because michelle and ashley testified to the sexual conduct underlying each count. defendant raises two categories of arguments. first, he argues that the evidence is insufficient because it -serving statements [of] the victims,without any corroboration from other percipient witnesses or any physical evidence (such as michenote he gave her). for more than a century, however, it has been 7 (people v. poggi (1988) 45 cal.3d 306, 326; people v. gammage (1992) 2 cal.4th 693, 700, citing people v. akey (1912) 163 cal. 54.) second, defendant asserts that the testimony of michelle and ashley is insufficient because they were not credible witnesses because (1) they did not report his sexual abuse until many years later, (2) they could not remember the month, date, or day of the week he sexually abused them, and (3) their testimony conflicts with the testimony of other witnesses (such as as well as defendant himself). we reject these assertions. to begin, we may not second-unbelievable per sethat is, unless it is physically impossible or inherently improbable.people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 963; lenk v. total-western, inc. (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 959, 968.) neither is true here. even if we ignored this restriction on appellate review, s credibility sooner, the people called an expert witness who testified how child victims of sexual abuse, who believe the abuse is their fault and who fear they will not be believed if they report it, will sometimes delay in telling others of the abuse. defendant because michelle had no qualms about reporting the physical abuse she suffered at the hands of her father. argument conflates with her willingness to report sexual abuse; it was well within inability of michelle or ashley to remember exact dates also does 8 not undermine their credibility; they were each five years old during most of the incidents, and those events occurred at least nine years before they testified. and the fact that their testimony conflicts with the testimony of other witnesses is of no moment because, in conducting substantial evidence review, we resolve all conflicts in the testimony in the light most favorable to the verdicts. (people v. szabo (1980) 107 cal.app.3d 419, 428; in re marriage of dick (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 144, 156.) ii. limitation on voir dire defendant next contends that the trial court was wrong to of prospective jurors during voir dire. a. pertinent facts 1. initial voir dire the trial court started voir dire by seating 24 prospective jurors and asking them a standard set of questions, including (1) their city of residence; (2) their employment; (3) the employment of any other adults in their household; (4) their prior jury service; (5) whether any of their family or friends had been the victim of a serious crime, including a sex crime; (6) whether any of their family or friends had been accused of a crime; (7) whether they had qualms about believing the testimony of law enforcement officers; (8) whether they had bad prior experiences with law enforcement; (9) whether there was anything about the pending charges that would make it difficult for them to be fair; (10) whether they would be able to handle explicit sexual terms; (11) whether they understood and would apply the presumption of innocence; (12) whether they understood and would honor the privilege against self-incrimination; and (13) whether they had 9 any other reason to believe they could not be fair. on occasion, the court would ask follow-up questions. the court then allowed the defense and prosecution to question the jurors, and gave them each 15 minutes to do so. following that questioning, the parties moved to excuse jurors for cause and exercised peremptory challenges. 2. second and third rounds of voir dire to fill the spots vacated due to the exercise of challenges, the court seated another 13 prospective jurors. the court repeated its standard questions along with any pertinent follow-up questions. then the defense and prosecution were granted another 10 minutes per side to question the new jurors. following that questioning, the parties moved to excuse jurors for cause and exercise peremptory challenges. to fill the spots vacated due to the second round of challenges, the court seated another 14 prospective jurors. the court again repeated its standard questions along with any pertinent follow-up questions. each side was then given a further five minutes to question the new jurors. following that questioning, the parties exercised peremptory challenges before agreeing to a panel. the parties then stipulated to four alternate jurors. b. analysis the people assert that we need not reach the merits of because he did not object to the limitation before the trial court. we disagree. when advised of the 15-minute limit, defendant told t that is sufficient to preserve the issue for appellate review. 10 on the merits, the law at the time of trial provided that trial courts in criminal cases had the discretion to or attorney questioning of prospective jurors.2 (former code. civ. proc.,  223 may specify the maximum amount of time that counsel for each party may question an individual juror, or may specify an aggregate amount of time for each party . . . .supplemental questioning as provided in code of civil procedure ; see generally people v. edwards (1991) 54 cal.3d 787, 830 [voir dire rulings reviewed for an abuse of discretion].) the law further provided that any abuse of discretion in setting unless the exercise of that discretion has resulted in a former code civ. proc.,  223.) in this context, a limitation on voir dire results in a miscarriage of 2 on january 1, 2018, a change in this law took effect. impose specific unreasonable or arbitrary time limits or establish an inflexible time limit policy for v 223, subd. (b)(2), added by stats. 2017, ch. 302,  2) we may not apply that new statute here because: (1) application of a statute governing voir dire procedures after a trial has taken place is a retroactive application of that statute (tapia v. superior court (1991) 53 cal.3d 282, 289); and (2) retroactive application of such a statute is permitted only if the legislature (code civ. proc., 3), and here it has not. in any event, the new statute would not alter the result because it also predicates relief upon a showing that any time limit resulted subd. (g)); as explained in the text, defendant has not shown a miscarriage of justice. 11 out the possible biases or the sixth amendment right to an impartial jury and the due process right to a fundamentally fair trial. (people v. chapman (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 136, 141-142; people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 661; people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1215, 1250-1251.) although the better practice, even under the law in effect at the time of trial, is not to place inflexible time limits on attorney voir dire (particularly time limits of 15 minutes a side to question an initial panel of 24 prospective jurors), we need not decide whether the trial court abused its discretion in departing from this better practice because its time limits did not result in a miscarriage of justice, as there was sufficient itself questioned each panel of prospective jurors, and each side then had a total of 30 minutes to ask follow up questions (that is, an initial 15-minute period followed by supplemental 10- and 5-minute periods). all told, the voir dire process lasted more than four hours. in this respect, the voir dire procedures in this case are hard to distinguish from the procedures upheld in people v. asbury (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 1222 (asbury). there, a trial court presiding over a murder trial questioned prospective jurors and left each side just 25 minutes to ask follow-up questions; asbury concluded that there was no miscarriage of justice. (id. at pp. 1227-1232.) as in asbury, defendant here does not identify any biased juror who remained on the jury and does not explain what additional questions over and above what he already asked would have ferreted out further bias or prejudice. (accord, people 12 v. carpenter (1997) 15 cal.4th 312, 354 [no miscarriage of justice where defendant did not claim that any juror was incompetent, defendant raises four further arguments. first, he contends that the trial court in his first trial allowed unlimited questioning, and he obtained an acquittal on one count and a hung jury on the remaining counts; the time limits on questioning in this case, he infers, contributed to the guilty verdicts in this case. we disagree, as nothing but speculation casually links the time for juror questioning with the outcomes in these two trials. second, defendant posits the courts should be loathe to set limits in cases (such as sex crime cases) where the crimes are serious, the sentences are long, and the prospective jurors are reluctant to talk about their personal experiences with such crimes. again, we agree that the better practice is not to impose such limits for such cases. but the departure from the better practice, even where these three considerations are present, does not automatically translate into a miscarriage of justice. the first two considerations do not, given that asbury upheld a more restrictive time limit for a murder case where the defendant was sentenced to 40 years in prison. (asbury, supra, 4 cal.app.5th at pp. 1227-1232.) and the last consideration was negated by the the jurors about their prior experiences with sex crimes (and which questioning did not count agai). third, defendant urges that time limits should be per se invalid, citing people v. hernandez (1979) 94 cal.app.3d 715, 720 [code of civil procedure section 222.5, which prohibits time limits 13 for juror questioning in civil trials. hernandez was superseded by the version of code of civil procedure section 223 in effect at people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 535 [noting supersession of hernandez]), and section 222.5, by its terms, does not apply in criminal cases. lastly, defendant awere arbitrary (and hence an abuse of discretion) because the court offered up no reason for them. however, this argument goes only to whether there is an abuse of discretion, not whether there is a miscarriage of justice. for support, defendant cites people v. dorsey (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 953, 965-966, but dorsey uphe jurors en masse. iii. prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends that the prosecutor engaged in misconduct during his closing argument. a. pertinent facts when cross-examining defendant, the prosecutor asked him about a recorded call that he made to his sister from the jail. defendant admitted that he asked his sister to have his wife write a letter indicating that michelle and ashley had [e] under the cover of night . . . to the prosecutor did not introduce the tape of that or any other call and did not introduce any portion of the transcription of any call. [his she was there and this never 14 in the final rebuttal argument, the prosecutor responded to e calls, twice talking to family members, ever defendant objected, asserting that defendant did deny his guilt during one of the calls. the trial court agreed, and ordered the in the phone call where i stand corrected the pt, [defendant] makes a statement thatit. nowhere in his testimon misstatement, but the trial court denied that ground for a new trial because the court had misstatement during the trial. b. analysis to due process under either the federal or state constitutions. conduct violates federal such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due people v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 568.) conduct violates state only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade ibid.) these prosecutor is given wide latitude to vigorously argue his or her 15 case and to make fair comment upon the evidence.people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 768.) defendant asserts that the prosecutor committed two species of misconductnamely, (1) that he referred to facts outside the record and (2) that he got those facts wrong. with respect to the first claim, it is misconduct to refer to information outside of the trial record. (people v. pinholster (1992) 1 cal.4th 865, 948, overruled in part on other grounds by people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405.) and it is undisputed that the prosecutor argued that the tapes of the jailhouse calls as a whole contained no denial of guilt by the defendanteven though the whole of the tapes (or their transcription) were never admitted into evidence. it is nevertheless unclear whether this by itself constitutes misconduct because it was in response to argument that also referred to the statements on the tapes beyond those el-examination. fairly respond people v. bryden (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 159, 184), the fact that the prosecutor strayed beyond the record may not, by itself, constitute misconduct. (accord, people v. mcdaniel (1976) 16 cal.3d 156, 177 [argument that may constitute misconduct in the abstract is not misconduct when responsive to a defense argument].) with respect to the second claim, it is misconduct to misstate [the] facts. (people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 230.) it is undisputed that the prosecutor got the facts wrong when he stated that nowhere on the jailhouse calls did defendant deny committing the crime. even if we accepregarding the tapes constituted both types of prosecutorial 16 misconduct, that misconduct does not warrant reversal. reversal is mandated only when it is reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a more favorable result had the misconduct not occurred. (people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 839-840.) a different result is not reasonably probable in this case because the prosecutorcorrected his misstatement of the evidence. that correction suffices to erase any prejudice arising from the misconduct. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 685-686 [no prejudice when court corrects people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 752 [no prejudice when prosecutor corrects his own misstatement of fact].) defendant argues that the unrung; the law is to the contrary. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p. j. lui _________________________, j. chavez 