filed 6/30/17 p. v. roberts ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. leroy roberts, defendant and appellant. b279633 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga093223) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, jared d. moses, judge. affirmed. mathew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer, acting supervising deputy attorney general, and michael c. keller, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendant and appellant leroy roberts guilty of first degree residential burglary. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion when it would not permit defense counsel to discuss three well-publicized cases of police shootings of african-american males and instructed the jury to disregard comments about those unrelated cases. we find no abuse of discretion in limiting the argument of counsel because the trial court allowed counsel to nevertheless make the central point of that argument without further specific reference to the three cases. we affirm the judgment of conviction. factual background in the middle of the day on may 6, 2014, concepcion s. (the witness) was sitting in her home looking out the window when she saw two african-american males in a gray car drive slowly in front of her house. the vehicle pulled into the across-the-street riveway.1 the driver, whom the witness later identified as defendant, got out of the car and went to the front porch of the house. defendant knocked on the front door several ,but returned to the d 1 house was across the street. she testified she could see right into it is exactly direct . . . . [ 3 the vehicle and spoke briefly to the passenger, who was later identified as glen edmondson. edmondson entered the home.2 when edmondson went into the house, defendant backed the car out of the driveway and parked on the street. the witness called 911 as soon as defendant kicked down the door.3 she watched the police arrive and saw defendant. two city of alhambra police officers responded to the residential burglary . . . in progress call reporting that two african-american males driving a gray sedan were observed breaking into a home. sergeant tai seki, in uniform and driving a marked patrol vehicle, was the first to arrive at the home. he parked 30 to 40 feet behind the gray vehicle, but did not get out of his car. the car had tinted windows, and sergeant seki initially did not see anyone inside. shortly after he parked, however, the blinked once and the front passenger door opened. an eighteen-inch screwdriver flew out. he recognized the screwdriver as the type of prying tool often used in burglaries. seconds later, defendant stepped out of the vehicle from the passenger side and just who was still in his vehicle. sergeant seki, still alone, exited his vehicle and, because he sergeant seki ordered defendant to the ground; defendant complied and was handcuffed. defendant gave the officer a false name. after 2 the witness did not see edmondson again until she identified him at the scene of his detention, blocks away. 3 911 call was played for the jury. 4 handcuffing defendant, sergeant that, in addition to the tinted windows, made it difficult to see if anyone was seated behind the wheel of the car. corporal wilfredo ruiz was within two blocks of the house in response to the burglary broadcast when he saw an african-american male walking eastbound on emerson avenue. corporal ruiz approached individual, later identified as edmondson, in a marked patrol vehedmondson and then ran from corporal ruiz and three other officers who also responded. the officers engaged in a foot pursuit during which corporal ruiz observed edmondson with his hand in front perimeter containment and apprehended edmondson, who was no longer wearing the multi-colored sweater he was wearing when initially stopped.4 while canvassing the area, corporal ruiz recovered a blue jewelry box containing jewelry. the homeowner arrived to find her front door broken in with . . . scattered all over the place. the back screen door was off the hinges. she later identified the blue box and the jewelry items as hers. the homeowner did not give anyone permission to enter her home or remove anything from it. procedural background the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant in an information with first degree residential 4 the sweater was later recovered from a nearby trash can. 5 burglary in violation of penal code section 459.5 the district attorney alleged defendant had suffered a prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1) and two prior serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of sections 667, subdivisions (b) through (j) and 1170.12. the jury found defendant guilty as charged. the trial court subsequently found defendant had suffered two prior strike convictions, with one qualifying as a serious felony under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court sentenced defendant under the three strikes law to a term of 25 years to life, plus a consecutive five-year term under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), for an aggregate sentence of 30 years to life. the trial court subsequently ordered -year sentence be served consecutively to a 60-years-to-life sentence imposed against him for his recent murder conviction. discussion a. sua sponte ruling limiting argument 1. background in her closing, defense counsel argued: attorney [is] going to point to presence in the gray car as . . . conclusive evidence. however, there [are] other interpretations, other rational conclusions about why he was in the car and who was the actual person who kicked in the door. [] . . . [t]he district attorney will argue or could argue that 5 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 6 [defendant] getting out of the car and, basically, tossing the screwdriver and lying down and submitting himself to the police are signs of consciousness of guilt, that he gave himself up for that. certainly, the explanation is that in the age of [tamir] rice from [cleveland] . . . , in the age of walter scott from south carolina, in the age of michael brown at that point, the trial court interjected [is] going to sustain its own objection on relevance grounds. [] . . . , members of the jury. [ defense counsel continued: . . . [h]e was getting out of the car. because he was an african american male, [defendant] was fearful of being shot, or . . . he was fearful of being harmed, . . . he stepped out [of the car] in order to be submissive to the police officers. [] and, certainly, from my questions with sergeant seki there, the screwdriver could possibly be used as a weapon. so part of the thinking is do i want to be caught with something that could be perceived - - not as a screwdriver used to screw in . . . screws [but] as a weapon, you toss that thing out. [] 2. legal principles and standard of review in conducting closing argument, attorneys for both sides have considerable latitudehe right of counsel to discuss the merits of a case, both as to the law and facts, is very wide, and he has the right to state fully his views as to what the evidence shows, and as to the conclusions to be fairly drawn therefrom. the adverse party cannot complain if the reasoning be faulty and the deductions illogical, as such matters are ultimately for the 7 consideration of the jury. [citations.] counsel may vigorously argue his case and is not limited to chesterfieldian politeness. [citations.] an attorney is permitted to argue all reasonable inferences from the evidence . . . . [citation.] only the most persuasive reasons justify handcuffing attorneys in the exercise of their advocacy within the bounds of propriety. (grimshaw v. ford motor co. (1981) 119 cal.app.3d 757, 798-799, most internal quotation marks omitted.) the rules are the same for criminal cases. (cassim v. allstate ins. co. (2004) 33 cal.4th 780, 795.) the great latitude in . . . limiting the scope of closing summations. . . . [it] may ensure that argument does not stray unduly from the mark, or otherwise impede the fair and orderly conduct of the trial. in all these respects [the trial judge] must have broad discretion. (herring v. new york (1975) 422 u.s. 853, 862 (herring).) limitations on closing argument are reviewed under the abuse of discretion standard. (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 743.) citing herring, supra, 422 u.s. 853, the california supreme court has acknowledged the criminal defendantwell-established constitutional right to have counsel present closing argument to the trier of factis right is not unbounded . . . the trial court retains discretion to . . . ensure that argument does not stray unduly from the mark.people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 854-855 (marshall).) 3. analysis defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion when it prevented his attorney from discussing by name three 8 highly-publicized cases involving police shootings of young african-american males. according to defendant, the three police shootings were matters of common knowledge and historical fact that his counsel should have been able to discuss and present as an alternative explanation for defendantscrewdriver from the car, exit the vehicle, and comply with commands. that defense counsel did argue dscrewdriver, exit the vehicle, and submit to police authority had nothing to do with consciousness of guilt and everything to do with a reasonable fear the officer might shoot him or consider him to be armed or aggressive because he was a young african-american male. defendant has failed to demonstrate that his to proffer an explanation for his conduct. thwithin its discretion to control the scope of closing argument [while not precluding] defendant from making his central pointmarshall, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 854 [no error where counsel was not permitted to argue in detail the evidence or outcomes of specific capital cases crimes did not involve the types of heinous conduct present in other case]; see also people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 554 [no error where counsel was prevented from mentioning charles people v. pelayo (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 115, 122 the trial courts discretionary decision to prohibit reference to another trial involving different facts was not erroneous as a 9 matter of law. . . . [s]ummation must be based upon the evidence in the case. counsel may refer the jury to . . . common experience, history, or literature [citation], but he may not dwell on the particular facts of unrelated, unsubstantiated cases. . . . [t]he court properly denied defense counsel license to read newspaper clippings about unrelated specific crimes, hearsay material which could only confuse the jury with irrelevant facts correct on the merits. defendant presented no evidence at trial from which the jury could have reasonably inferred he was aware of the facts or circumstances of the three shootings, much less that his conduct in throwing the screwdriver and then submitting to police authority was a direct response to those shootings. b. in camera review before trial, and after an in camera review, the trial court concluded there were no dipersonnel file. (pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531.) defendant contends, and the attorney general agrees, we should conduct an independent in camera review of the personnel records reviewed by the trial pitchess motion. we have independently reviewed the transcript of the in the contents of the personnel file, conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding there were no discoverable documents. (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) 10 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports dunning, j.* we concur: kriegler, acting p. j. baker, j. * judge of the orange superior court, appointed by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6, of the california constitution. 