filed 5/10/17 p. v. taylor ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin taylor, defendant and appellant. b280143 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta141485) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, joel wallenstein, judge. affirmed. michele a. douglass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 defendant kevin taylor appeals from a judgment of to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, stating that no arguable issue exists and requesting that this court independently review the record. we have reviewed the entire record and find no arguable issue. we affirm the judgment. background defendant was charged with assault with a deadly weapon, second degree burglary, and misdemeanor vandalism. a prior serious or violent felony was alleged. it was further alleged defendant served two prior prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5. according to the probation report, on october 17, 2016, two security guards heard glass breaking and observed defendant running with a briefcase. when the security guards confronted defendant, he lunged toward one of them holding a box cutter. the window of a vehicle had been shattered, and a briefcase was missing from the car. defendant had numerous prior convictions dating back to 1997. at the time of his crimes, he was on postrelease community supervision. defendant pled no contest to one count of assault with a deadly weapon. the court found that defendant freely and voluntarily pled and understood the consequences of the plea. the court sentenced defendant to state prison for four years. the remaining counts were dismissed. defendant appealed from the judgment. on his request for a certificate of probable cause, defendant wrote that the attorney fighting the case as i wanted too [sic] the trial court issued a certificate of probable cause. 3 on appeal, defendaissues. defendant did not file a supplemental brief. discussion we have reviewed the entire record and find no arguable fully complied with the responsibilities of counsel. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278; see people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 111; people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 