 filed 1/8/19 p. v. porter ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. darnell porter, jr., defendant and appellant. b280053 los angeles county super. ct. no. ya092990 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, amy n. carter, judge. affirmed. heather l. beugen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and , deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted darnell porter, jr. of stalking, attempted first degree burglary, and carrying a loaded firearm. the jury found true allegations that porter was armed with a firearm in the commission of the stalking and attempted burglary, and that a person was present in the residence during the burglary attempt. the trial court granted porter probation. on appeal, porter argues the trial court erred in (1) permitting the prosecution to present evidence that police could not access the contents of his cell phone without a passcode; and (2) denying a defense motion for a mistrial based on jury misconduct. we find no error and affirm. the evidence at trial porter does not challenge the evidence underlying his conviction, so we summarize it only briefly. alissa peterson and porter began dating in about may 2015. peterson was living in redondo beach with her roommate, alexandra acheson. just sleeping over on a nightly in about august of 2015, porter began to question peterson a school psychologistif she had ever worked in a strip club. on september 8, 2015, peterson went to work then to school. when she got home after 10:00 p.m. that night, she locked her door. acheson came home not long after. she told peterson she thought she had seeand at some point that night, peterson heard banging at her porter tried to open the door. speaking through the door, peterson told porter, 3 [i]n a very apparently referring to the possibility of peterson calling porter peterson went into her bedroom and texted her mother and her sorority sisters to come and pick her up. acheson called 911. apartment building around 11:30 p.m. officer ryan harrison ating a cell legs. buttocks, towards the pistol grip was visible k the gun was a black glock semiautomatic handgun with live rounds in the magazine. orter had cree keeler, that night building for police to arrive. s of her home and of home. apartment. erson driving with a . . . keeler and acheson recognized porter in 4 the photos as the man with the gun. acheson also saw a video street where peterson and acheson lived. another video on porter bedroom] officers, who recorded them as screen shots the prosecutor showed the images to the jurors at trial. the verdicts and sentence the jury convicted porter on all counts. the jury found not true the allegations on the stalking and attempted burglary counts that porter personally used a firearm. the jury found true the allegation as to those counts that porter was armed with a firearm in the commission of those crimes. the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed porter on probation for five years. the court gave porter credit for time served in the county jail, and ordered him to complete domestic violence prevention counseling, to submit to a psychiatric evaluation, and to take all prescribed medications. issues 1. a. facts on the fourth day of testimony in the trial, the prosecutor told the court he planned to call a law enforcement witness to testify into evidence but they were unable to retrieve any information from it without a passcode. counsel had asked the prosecutor at some point for from the phone; the get into the cell phone 5 1 the prosecutor told the court he was seeking at we cannot access this do not intend to elicit the fact that we sought this information 2 port. the court that the efforts were after and in defense counsel objected to that proposal as well 1 the record on appeal does not contain the e-mail exchanges between the deputy district attorney and defense counsel. the prosecutor told the court he had informed defense counsel in early aprilsome five months before the trialthat the people passcode-mail documenting efforts by [the] redondo beach police department to attempt to have the phone of mr. pasfor the phone. officers made these efforts in response to defense 2 at one point the trial court asked asked the prosecutor, it counsel ever asked porter for his passcode after the prosecutor told her he could not provide the contents of the phone she had asked for without the passcode. it is apparent, however, that defense counsel never offered to give the passcode to the prosecution. 6 the court noted the defense hamade an issue of the investigation in this case, and the lack of any efforts to recover in her opening statement, defense counsel told the jurors the redondo beach police department had conducted a counsel said there were text messages between porter and peterson [t]hey are not available for you. they were not preserved by [officers] . . . . them so you can see them for yourself . . . alleged snapchat so that you the jurors could see the entire instead you are going to see some blotchy potential video footage, but you are not going to be able to have the whole story. accordingly, the trial court stated it would testimony regarding the efforts that were made to recover at the request of the defense . . . to admonish the jury that this does not shift the burden in any way in the efforts to recover information from the cell phone, does not shift the burden in any the next afternoon, the court and counsel discussed the testimony about the passc the court continued, this testimony is being admitted over the instruction and admonish them, in the final packet of jury instructions and at the time of 7 the testimony, if the defense so requests, an admonition that the defendant has no burden of proof, has no obligation to assist the police officers in their investigation in any way, and has no obligation to provide a passcode, if that . . . t again asked defense defense counsel continued to argue with the court. the court then read absolutely no burden of proof, is under no obligation to assist the police officers in their investigation in any way, and has no obligation to provide a passcode or any other information would like me to give, or is there different language that you counsel asked the court infer that mr. porter was requested this information [sic] and objection to that language. later that afternoon, the prosecutor asked sergeant john 8 an iphone 6could not be accessed without the passcode. the court then read the admonition to the jury: absolutely no burden of proof. he is under no obligation to assist the police officers in their investigation in any way, and has no obligation to provide a passcode or any other information to the police department. nor is the jury to infer that mr. porter was asked to give this b. discussion to the griffin error. in griffin v. state of california (1965) 380 u.s. 609, the united states supreme court held that the fifth and fourteenth amendments failure to testify. (see also doyle v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610, 617-618 [post-arrest silence in wake of miranda warnings[3] cannot be used to impeach an explanation offered at trial].) but griffin and doyle (people v. lewis (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 246, 257 (lewis).) in lewis, defense counsel challenged the photographic lineups police had shown to witnesses who identified lewis as the man who shot at them. counsel argued to the jury that the photo lineups were inappropriately suggestive. (lewis, supra, 117 cal.app.4th at p. 257.) the court of appeal held it was not griffin or doyle error for the trial court to have permitted the 3 miranda v. state of arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 9 prosecutor to establish that lewis could have requested a live lineup. (lewis, at pp. 248, 255-258; see also people v. austin (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1596, 1610-1613 [no griffin/doyle violation in testimony that police gave defendant opportunity to make full unfairly by not giving him the opportunity to explain his damaging .) accordingly, the prosecution was entitled to elicit testimony that one without his passcode. the prosecutor kept his inquiry on this subject narrow: he did not ask the detective whether porter even had been asked to provide his passcode, much less whether he had refused to do so. and the trial court gave a special instruction reminding the jurors that porter had no burden whatsoever to cooperate or to provide any information. (cf. lakeside v. oregon (1978) 435 u.s. 333, 339-objection that jury must not draw any adverse inferences from id not violate fifth amendment]; u.s. v. imran (2d cir. 1992) 964 f.2d 1313, 1318 rse inference may be drawn from the fact that defendant stood upon his constitutional rights melgoza v. peters jury must not draw any violation because it correctly informed jury of law and was not a 10 porter also complains that, in his closing argument, the prosecutor compounded the griffin error by noting he had not possible acted with the necessary specific intent. the prosecutor at all of this evidence . . . together, in its totality, what do you suggest otherwisethat what the attorneys say is not evidence. and that there is material evidence is proper. (see, e.g., people v. miller (1990) 50 cal.3d 954, 996 [comment about failure of defense to produce logical witnesses is not griffin error]; people v. gaulden (1974) 36 cal.app.3d 942, 954-955 [statement that defendant failed to produce any evidence on his behalf was not griffin violation]; people v. meneley (1972) 29 cal.app.3d 41, 60-61 [griffin does not extend to comments on the state of the evidence or on the failure of the defense to introduce material witnesses or to call logical witnesses. cf. people v. roberts (1975) 51 cal.app.3d 125, 135-griffin error even though only witness who could have contradicted 2. the jury misconduct issue a. facts after nearly seven days of trial testimony, the people rested on thursday, september 15, 2016. the defense called a 11 police concluded on friday, september 16. the court instructed the jury, counsel presented closing arguments, and the jurors began deliberating. the court ordered the jurors to return on monday morning, september 19, to deliberate. on that monday morning, defense counsel told the court that on the previous wednesdayseptember 14a juror had been overheard asking another juror wnot brought the matter up five days earlier. counsel answered, source of the information was rayven reid, who described porter the court then had reid sworn. the court asked reid what she had seen and heard on wednesday, september 14. reid said n asian lady and a the court and counsel determined that the two jurors to whom reid was referring were jurors nos. 9 and 11. reid stated juror no. 9 them [sic based on what defense counsel had reportedthey had no questions for reid. the court then questioned juror no. 9 in the presence of counsel and porter. juror no. 9 confirmed she had been talking with juror no. 11 on the previous wednesday. juror no. 9 12 denied talking about the case, however. the court asked the juror if she had , having heard any other juror say either of those things. next, the court questioned juror no. 11. when asked if she had been talking with juror no. 9 the previous wednesday, juror her and julie. i forgotjuror nhas somebody said that, and i i think it was it a juro we just left it like that. we are not supposed to talk about it and we rested [sic he it [sicpposed response to further questioning by the court, juror no. 11 said she did not remember anyone saying, what is he hiding? after hearing from counsel, the trial court stated it would a mistrial. 13 juror no. 9 . . . and juror no. 11 . . . and i found them both to be credible. . . . i s of making [the] the was immediate[ly] to shut the conversation down, to remind anyone and everyone of the fact that they were not to talk about these issues. and it appears from my inquiry with juror no. 11 the court then brought the jurors into the courtroom and reread the instruction and admonition previously read to them: that porter had absolutely no obligation to assist the police or to give them his passcode. the court asked each juror individually whether he or she understood and would follow that instruction and admonition. each and every jurorincluding juror no. 9 by a show of hands, who feel that you would have difficulty b. discussion misconduct by a juror . . . usually raises a rebuttable presumption of prejudice.people v. loker (2008) 44 cal.4th 691, 746-747 (loker), quoting people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th (loker, at p. 747, quoting danks, aside if there appears to be a substantial like(lokermisconduct is a mixed question of law and fact. we review legal if they are supported by substantial evideibid.) before opening statements, the court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 101. that instruction tells jurors: 14 about any of the people or any subject involved in the case with anyone . . . . you must not talk about these things with other jurors either, until you begin deliberating. [] as jurors, you may discuss the case together only after all of the evidence has been presented, the attorneys have completed their arguments, and i have instructed you on the law. after i tell you to begin your deliberations, you may discuss the case only in the jury room, and only when all if juror no. 9 talked to juror no. 11 about the passcode for is instruction. the court judged event, juror no. 11 stated she reminded whomever made the remark that jurors were not to talk about the case. the trial court also judged the credibility of reid, who said she was the inquiry, then admonished the jurors, reminding them that porter had no burden to prove anything and no obligation to give the authorities his passcode. the court asked, and secured assurances from, each juror that he or she could and would follow dmonition that porter had no duty to help the police. having reviewed the entire record, and exercising our people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 809), we conclude the trial court did not err in finding no substantial for a mistrial. (cf. loker, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 748-749 [jurors 15 presumption of there was no substantial likelihood that defendant suffered actual harm].) disposition we affirm darnell porter, jr. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. dhanidina, j. 