 filed 11/15/18 p. v. saez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus miguel saenz, defendant and appellant. b280356 los angeles county super. ct. no. ka110231 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed. john l. staley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and william n. frank, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant jesus miguel saenz appeals from his conviction for attempted voluntary manslaughter, assault with a deadly weapon, corporal injury to his girlfriend, and other crimes. saenz contends the trial court erred in permitting the prosecution to redact statements by saenz that can be heard in recording was played for the jury. we find no error and affirm. facts and procedural background 1. the events of july 26, 2015 in july 2015 suzanna e. was living with saenz, her boyfriend, on west orange grove in pomona. they had been dating for about two years and living together for about six months. at 12:57 a.m. on july 26, the pomona police department received a 911 call from the orange grove address. boyfriend would not let her out of the house, was beating her up, had barricaded herself in the bathroom. pomona police department officer jesse hedrick and his partner officer kenneth maiques arrived at the apartment about 1:00 a.m. they knocked loudly on the front door five or six times response, and the officers could not hear anything inside the apartment. the 911 operator told the dispatcher, who told the the female maiques then opened a front-facing window and climbed into the apartment. 3 it was dark inside the apartment. the coffee table had from the back of the apartment. as hedrick and maiques made toward them from the back of the apartment. she appeared to be extremely distraught and was crying hysterically. her face was red and swollen. the officers told suzanna to go to the living room and stay there. hedrick and maiques found saenz sitting on the bed in the bedroom. saenz was wearing pants but no shirt. the officers handcuffed saenz; maiques then put him in the police car and drove him to the station. hedrick spoke with suzanna. suzanna told him she and let her leave. saenz told locked it. suzanna tried to go out through the front window but saenz grabbed her by the shoulders, pulled her back into the apartment, closed the window, and used a stick so the window could not be opened. saenz then pushed suzanna to the floor and used his forearm to choke her.1 suzanna was so frightened she urinated 1 forensic nurse melinda wheeler testified at the trial that piece of food. by . . . we use both terms here as used by the police and lay witnesses at trial. 4 that she was wearing [were] saenz, run into the bedroom, and lock the door behind her. saenz kicked the bedroom door open, pushed suzanna down onto the bed, and began to suffocate her with a pillow from the bed. hedrick saw and photographed the damage to the door frame. suzanna was able again to get away. she ran into the bathroom, closed the door, and called 911. saenz came into the bathroom, suzanna ran past him into the living room, saenz again threw suzanna to the ground, then he grabbed a pillow from the couch and tried again to suffocate her. at that juncture, police could be heard at the door. saenz took suzanna into the bedroom, held her by the throat, and told her to be quiet. hedrick saw bruising, scratches, and red marks on was bruised and swollen. suzanna told hedrick the bruise was from an incident several days earlier: saenz had been in a fight, suzanna had tried to break up the fight, and saenz had punched ears and red marks next to her ears. suzanna told hedrick the finger marks and bruising on her arms were from saenz grabbing her. suzanna said all of her injuries were attributable to saenz. hedrick recorded his conversation with suzanna. 2. the charges, motion in limine, and trial the people charged saenz with attempted murder, assault with a deadly weapon (a pillow), assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury, corporal injury to a cohabitant or girlfriend, and false imprisonment by violence.2 the case 2 the people also charged saenz with misdemeanor possession of methamphetamine. when maiques took saenz to 5 proceeded to trial in july 2016. the people filed a trial brief admissible under evidence code sections 1240 and 1241. statements on the recording of the 911 call. the prosecutor submitted a transcript of the call: after suzanna told the accuse suzanna of lying. before jury selection began, the trial court discussed the issue with counsel. the prosecutor had submitted to the court copies of both the entire unredacted recording of the 911 call and suza3 together with transcripts. when the maiques found a small baggie of methamphetamine in the cargo pocket of the shorts saenz was wearing under his jeans. saenz does not challenge his conviction on this misdemeanor count. 3 see her injuries. wsee the bruises and the marks;marks on me;cops are gonna come and see it. . . . i swear i have a black eye from the other day, from him, were all removed before the recording was played for the jury. 6 court first addressed the issue, it had read the transcript but not foundation is laiunder evidence code sections 1240 and 1241. argued the rule of completeness embodied in evidence code phone with the -serving the statements are spontaneous. they are part and parcel of the whole phone call. . . . so just as much as she is describing what is of the entire event. and taking those statements out would be misleading to the jury. . . . even if the court says that it is hearsay, i would submit to the court that it is his mental state. the court first summarized the rule of completeness, noting entirety if that portion that was left out is needed to be able to explain the part that was sought to be introduced by one side[,] in court then described the officer saw her urine-7 absolute constitutional right not to take the stand. certainly, he can explain, and if he takes the stand, i suspect that the entire phone call can be played, and he can explain why he did say why ose upon her. but if he chooses not to testify, it is apparent at this point, without having any further information, that those statements are self-serving and contrived, and they are hearsay, and they are calmly stated. . . . [a]nd the physical evidencsaying. so i am going to exclude his statements until such time 4 the next day the court revisited the issue. the court read evidence code section 356 aloud. the prosecutor then discussed unless it comes in under [section] 356, but . . . i agree with the reasoning that the statement of this complaining witness is . . . ing else to explain her statement or to make that statement understood. his statements are a defense. so . . . if he takes the stand, then it would come in as a prior consistent statement and as evidence that his position of innocence is not a recent fabrication. . . . and are complete in and of [themselves] and nothing else need[s] to be . . . 4 the court also raised the issue of comments on the gave me chills. really. yeah. i think hdefense counsel confirmed that she wanted those comments redacted. the prosecutor later confirmed she would edit the , and she did so. 8 i think the people can play the 911 call without his comments in excluding his statements does not mislead what the victim is defense counsel asked the court to listen to the recording, ying. i think those portions are necessary because, again, the jury is gonna be left to wonder, what is going on in the background and original and the edited versions of the recording. the edited 911 tape was played for the jury. robin oliver, a senior dispatcher for the pomona police department, testified from the orange grove address. oliver testified that she recognized her own voice as well as that of the caller. potentially exonerating evidence, but also evidence of the full picture of what happened that night. and the jury is not being defense. . . . [a]nd again, i would argue that under the completeness rule, you need tthe unredacted recording in the defense case. the court again said it would listen to the unedited recording of the call. later that day, the court told cduring the call. the court stated it had reread evidence code 9 section 356 and people v. cornejo (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 36 (cornejo conversation between the victim and the 911 operator requires no explanation as to what is being said by either side. the defendant is not even part just chiming in in the back. whether -serving -serving explain how the injuries that are alleged occurred. just a blanket statement that she is lying . rule of completeness is applicable here under [this] set of 5 and my kids love him. i mean, we had ups and down[s], but it thing [she] remember[ed] was cooking the prosecution introduced recordings of telephone conversations between suzanna and saenz when he was in jail. 5 were not admissible under evidence code section 1240. as saenz does not contest that ruling on appeal, we do not address it. 10 forensic nurse including petechial hemorrhages (burst blood vessels) and strangulation and smothering. 3. the verdicts and sentence the jury found saenz not guilty of attempted murder but guilty of the lesser crime of attempted voluntary manslaughter. the jury also convicted saenz on the remaining counts. at a priors trial and sentencing proceeding on november 23, 2016, saenz admitted two prior strike convictions for robbery in 2001 romero motion.6 the court sentenced saenz to third-strike sentences of 25 years to life on the attempted manslaughter and assault with a deadly weapon counts. the court imposed two five-year priors under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1) on each of the third-strike counts, for sentences therefore of life with a minimum eligible parole date of 35 years. on the injury to a cohabitant, assault by means of force, and false imprisonment counts, the court chose the midterms and doubled each because of one prior strike. the court stayed the sentences on each of those three counts as well as on the second life count under penal code section 654. discussion erred in permitting the prosecution to redact his statements accusing suzanna of lying during her 911 call before the 6 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 11 recording of the call was played for the jury. saenz argues (1) the redacted reprosecution did not properly authenticate it under evidence code background statements in the recording under the rule of completeness embodied in evidence code section 356. 1. our standard of review have been presented to support admissibility [of a writing] is people v. smith (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 986, 1001determination of whether evidence is admissible under the statutory rule of completeness for abuse of discretion. (people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 235; people v. parrish (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 263, 274.) on appeal, we may not disturb a trial an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-10.) 2. of redacted as ordered by the trial court, was an unauthenticated meritless sion of the 911 call admitted by the trial court was not an authentic copy of the 911 saenz asserts the version of the recording played for the jury was 12 ing of evidence code section 1402.7 the attorney general notes saenz did not make this reason defense counsel at trial did not raise an objection under evidence code section 1402 is plain: any such objection would producing a writing as genuine which has been altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, must account for the 1402 obviously has to do with documents that appear to have been forged or altered in some unknown but perhaps nefarious or misleading way. (see, e.g., arneson v. webster (1964) 226 cal.app.2d 370 [pre-section 1402 case; suit by real estate broker for commission; handwritten alteration to copy of agreement already signed by seller valid where evidence established seller had agreed to that term].) thethe prosecutor submitted the entire unredacted recording to the trial court and the court listened to it. the prosecutor also gave the court and counsel a transcript of the unredacted call, as well as a transcript of the call, redacted as the prosecutor proposed. oliver, a senior dispatcher at the pomona police department, testified she recognized her own voice as well as a second female voice as those in a 911 call placed at 12:57 a.m. on july 26, 2015 from 1900 west orange grove in pomona. suzanna admitted the voice on the recording of the 911 call was hers. 7  250.) 13 it is of course common for trial courts and lawyers to redact documents and recordings to remove irrelevant or prejudicial gang activity in a police interview of a defendant. indeed, here, as noted, defense the victim. such litigated and court-ordered redactions do not code section 1402. 3. comments in the 911 call recording did not violate the rule of completeness evidence code section 356 codifies the common law doctrine of completeness. (cornejo, supra, 3 cal.app.5th at pp. 72-declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the same subject may be inquired into by an adverse party; . . . and when a detached act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, conversation, or writing which is necessary to make of a conversation, act, declaration, or writing, so as to create a misleading cornejo, at p. of acts or statements that should be viewed in their proper evidmechanically to permit the whole of a transaction to come in people v. perry (1972) 7 cal.3d 756, 787.) 14 we have listened to the unredacted and redacted -serving and or not [a statement by saenz is] a self-serving statement is not -e.g., people v. douglas that declarations made by the accused were self-serving does not preclude their introduction in evidence as part of his whole after discussing the matter extensively with counsel, the trial court ultimately granted the pros accusing suzanna of inadmissible matter only . . . [where] it is necessary to make the already introduced conversation understoodpeople v. gambos (1970) 5 cal.app.3d 187, 192-necessary to make the earlier conversation understood or to in sum, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in people v. farley (2009) 46 cal.4th 1053, 1102-defendant wrote to victim but exclusion of others did not violate the prosecution were 15 people v. williams (2006) 40 cal.4th 287, 317-319 [court did not err in refusing to even though later detailed confession was admitted; prosecution objected as misleading impression was created by admitting one without the people v. sandoval (1992) 4 cal.4th 155, 177 [rule of even though prosecution introduced slips of paper clipped to people v. barrick (1982) 33 cal.3d 115, 131 & postarrest statement did not violate section 356 because earlier earlier, 16 disposition we affirm the judgment. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j 