filed 7/3/18 p. v. sanders ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. donte sanders et al., defendants and appellants. b280271 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta136164) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. allen joseph webster, jr., judge. affirmed in part and remanded in part with directions. victoria h. stafford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant donte sanders. janyce keiko imata blair, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant aerick shorty. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, scott a. taryle, and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 in an information filed by the los angeles county district (sanders) and aerick shorty (shorty) were charged with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); count 1),1 three counts of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder ( 664/187, subd. (a); counts 2, 3, & 4), and shooting at an inhabited dwelling ( 246; count 5). shorty (count 6) and sanders (count 7) were also charged each with one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). as to counts 1 through 5, it was further alleged that defendants committed the charged offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). in count 1, it was alleged that defendants personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). in counts 1 through 4, it was also alleged that a principal used a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)), personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (e)(1)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)). finally, the information alleged that sanders had suffered two prior serious felonies ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and two prior serious or violent felonies ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and that shorty had suffered two prior serious felonies ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and one prior serious or violent felony ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 the jury found both defendants guilty as charged. in conviction allegations to be true. defendants were each sentenced to 260 years to life in state prison. sanders was awarded 738 actual days of presentence custody credit. defendants timely filed notices of appeal. both defendants argue: (1) the evidence was insufficient to find that either of them premeditated the shooting; and (2) insufficient evidence supports the finding that they committed the crimes to benefit the gang. separately, sanders argues: (1) the trial court erred in failing to hold a marsden2 hearing and in requiring sanders to represent himself at the new trial motion and at sentencing; (2) intelligent, and voluntary; (3) the four-year term for a gang enhancement in count 7 must be stricken because no gang enhancement was pled or proven in count 7; and (4) he is entitled to two more days in presentence credits. shorty separately argues: (1) tthat shorty is a black pea stone member who acted in association with another gang member was impermissibly based on case-specific hearsay in violation of people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez) and crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36; and (2) the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct in closing argument.3 he also joins in all arguments raised by sanders. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 3 sanders joins in this argument. 4 the judgment as to shorty is affirmed. as to sanders, the matter is remanded so that (1) the trial court may properly orally pronounce his sentence as to count 7; (2) he may be awarded two additional days of presentence custody credit; and (3) the abstract of judgment and two minute orders can be amended to correct clerical errors. in all other respects, the judgment against him is affirmed. factual background the murder and attempted murder on december 27, 2014, jessica reed (reed) was living in a four-bedroom apartment in los angeles. a number of people shared the apartment with her, including hodes (rhodes), and chasity wimley (wimley), had lived there until the two had a falling out over the rent. previously lived at the apartment along with shorty and wimlpea stones street gang member and that sanders, who has gang tattoos, was a van ness gangsters gang member. after wimley moved out, reed believed that wimley was talking about her on the internet and with coworkers. at approximately 7:30 a.m. that dayapartment to confront her. certain friends and family, including her cousin (shalonna meadows (meadows)) were home. initially, reed and wimley talked. at some point, meadows attacked the fight, reed and her group left. 5 and indicated that they were going over to apartment. wimley her sister, and ebony monterossa (monterossa). when they reed looked out the window, she saw rhodes running from the parking lot towards the apartment door. rhodes was attacked by apartment to help rhodes. reed punched wimley in the face and body, and then dragged wimley by the head towards the gate. 4 punched wimlehardy. w at around 4:15 p.m., wimley and a group of about 25 others her. shorty was holding a nine-millimeter semiautomatic handgun. reliford was sitting in his car with aaron howard (howard) and robinson. raven williams (williams) was standing in front of the car. when defendants arrived, the three got out of the car. shorty and sanders were standing alongside wimley. shorty asked reliford and the other men where they were from. when then asked robin*** 4 hardy and robinson each testified that they had known shorty when he lived with reed. both testified that shorty had admitted that he was a black pea stone gang member. 6 robinson answered that no one had jumped his mom, stating, shorty then said that he was not there to talk. reliford then asked defenguys bring st then, nigga, was going to do anything. sanders then pushed shorty aside and pulled a large revolver out of his waistband. as reliford turned stop arguing, sanders opened fire on reliford, shooting him in the back. shorty also started shooting at reliford. as reliford turned back around, he was shot in the chest. shorty continued to fire as he and sanders ran for the gate. howard, williams, and hardy were all hit by gunfire. approximately 15 shots were fired. when the shooting had stopped, reliford was dead. gang evidence los angeles police department officer joshua medina testified as a gang expert for the prosecution. according to officer medina, the black pea stones and van ness are both blood gangs in south central los angeles. they are allies, share territory, and their members are often related to one another. both gangs have similar hierarchies. it is not unusual for the two gangs to work together to commit a crime. fear and respect are important within each gang. there are about 300 black pea stone gang members. they use the bloods hand signal. their tattoos include the palm tree their territory is van ness has approximately 100 members. their symbols 7 ival to both gangs. according to officer medina, the primary activities of the black pea stones gang are burglaries, robberies, home invasions, shootings, including murders and attempted murders, assaults with a deadly weapon, and shooting into an inhabited dwelling. burglaries, shootings, and narcotic sales. officer medina opined that sanders was a van ness gang member based on his self-encounters, including his own 15 to 20 contacts with sanders. sanders went by the moniker itty bitty moe. officer medina believed that shorty was a black pea stone gang member that used the moniker little joe moses, based on his review of with other gang members, throwing gang signs, and wearing gang attire. officer medina testified that he became familiar with shorty after two shooting incidents were simulcast to police officers. specifically, shorty claimed to officer leo guillen that he had been shot at two different locations. officer guillen shared that information with officer medina, who then testified about what officer guillen had told him at trial. the prosecution presented certified documents indicating a july 19, 2013, conviction of black pea stone and van ness gang member anthony watkins for attempted burglary; a january 5, 2011, conviction of black pea stone gang member marquise jewel turley (turley) for attempted murder; a march 15, 2013, conviction of van ness gang member darrell cain for possession of marijuana and ammunition; and a september 26, 2012, 8 conviction of brim gang member bryan smith (smith) for attempted murder, shooting at an inhabited dwelling, and being a felon in possession of a firearm. the brim criminal street gang van ness gang. given a hypothetical mirroring the facts of the instant case, officer medina opined that the crime was committed in association with and for the benefit of the gang. he based his conclusion on the fact that defendants knew each other and of the (the older defendant) realized that shorty (the younger defendant) was not reacting when challenged, which showed that he was afraid and weak, and that after sanders took over and started firing, shorty joined in the shooting. officer medina also relied on the fact that when defendants arrived, they challenged reliford and the others as to their gang association. defense evidence wimley testified on behalf of her brother shorty and her uncle sanders. she said that she had been friends with reed for over 10 years and that they lived together. they had a disagreement over rent and paying the utilities. wimley ended up moving out. wimley described the first two fights. during the second fight, the men were not involved, but were encouraging reed and fight. at approximately 4:30 p.m., after communicating with robinson on facebook, shorty decided to go to to talk to robinson. when shorty arrived with wimley, sanders they arrived, reliford and four men jumped out of their car. on 60 crip[.] 9 and took off his shirt. wimley sshe jumped in front of shorty, and when she heard gun shots, she started running. shorty was running in front of her. he did not have a gun. discussion i. substantial evipremeditated murder and attempted murder it is well-bears a massive burden in ro(people v. akins (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 331, 336.) we review the record in the light most favorable to the judgment and determine whether it discloses substantial evidence such that a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 887.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 690.) we do not reweigh evidence, reappraise the credibility of witnesses, or resolve conflicts in the evidence, as these functions are reserved for the trier of fact. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) the same standard applies to the review of circumstantial evidence. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 792.) murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. ( 187.) first degree murder includes any unlawful and intentional killing that was willful, deliberate and  an intentional killing is premeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of preexisting thought (people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 543.) 10 attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. (people v. smith (2005) 37 another does not often declare his state of mind either before, at, or after the moment he [acts]. absent such direct evidence, the intent obviously must be derived from all the circumstances of (people v. lashley (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 938, 945946.) the mental state required for attempted murder can be satisfied by an intent to kill a particular person or by an intent to kill someone. thus, a person who intends to kill can be guilty of attempted murder even if that person has no specific target in mind. (people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 789; people v. stone (2009) 46 cal.4th 131, 136.) people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 331, fn. 6.) california courts have repeatedly permitted multiple convictions for attempted murder based on the firing of just a single shot as long as the victims were in the same line of fire. (see, e.g., people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 743; people v. leon (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 453, 465; people v. chinchilla (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 683, 690.) the california supreme court has identified three factors often considered in assessing whether there has been sufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation: motive; planning activity; and the manner of killing or attempting to kill. (people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 2627.) here, sanders had a strong motive to kill reliford and the others. it could have started out as vengeance, given sanders 11 s familial relationship with wimley. and the motive could also have been related to their status as gang members. reliford had questioned sanders and shorty as to why they needed to bring guns to a felt disrespected. when shorty failed to act, sanders came out firing. shorty then quickly joined himto redeem himself and not lose his respect in the gang. second, evidence of planning activity could be inferred from the fact that defendants brought guns to the location where now involved in a fight. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1183 [possession of a loaded gun provides evidence of planning considered the possibility of murder in advance third, there is ample evidence to support an inference that defendants had an opportunity to reflect and deliberate since reliford urged them to engage in a fistfight rather than use guns. and at least two bystanders, including wimley, urged defendants to put the guns away just moments before shorty shot reliford in the back. the murder and attempted murders were premeditated and deliberated. ii. sufficient evidence supports the inference that the crimes were committed in association with a gang sanders contends that the evidence failed to prove that he ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) 12 his challenge lacks merit. the evidence supported an inference that defendants were members of a criminal street gang who shot at rival gang members in retaliation for being disrespected. (people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1171.) reliford asked why shorty and sanders would bring guns to a when shorty showed weakness by not responding, sanders pushed him out of the way and started shooting. shorty then joined in and fired at the victims. moreover, because the shooter identified himself as a black pea stone to the victims, the gang stood to benefit by solidifying its reputation as a violent gang that would not be disrespected. (see, e.g., people v. margarejo (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 102, 110.) and, because both shorty and sanders participated in the shooting together, sanders necessarily committed the crimes in association with their affiliated gangs. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 62.) finally, the people presented ample evidence that promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members apartment looking for trouble. they were armed when they approached reliford and the other victims. and given a hypothetical mirroring the facts of the instant case, officer medina opined that the crimes were committed with the specific intent to promote or further criminal activity. iii. sanchez that he was a black pea stone gang member was impermissibly based on case-specific hearsay, in violation of sanchez. 13 a. sanchez in sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at page 684, our supreme -specific out-of-court statements, and treats the content of those stid. at p. 686.) the statements must therefore be independently proven or covered by a hearsay exception to be admissible. (ibide relating to the particular events and participants alleged to have id. at p. 676.) seeks to relate testimonial hearsay, there is a confrontation clause violation unless (1) there is a showing of unavailability and (2) the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-id. at p. -of-court analogs, in purpose a(id. at p. 685.) sanchez nevertheless relate information acquired through their training and experience, even though that information may have been derived from conversations with others, lectures, study of learned sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 675.) and, [a]ny expert may still rely on hearsay in forming an opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms id. at p. 685.) sanchez testimony concerning background information regarding his knowledge and expertise and premises generally accepted in his field. 14 is what distinguishes him from a lay witness, and, as noted, testimony relating such background information has never been subject to exclusion as hearsay, even though offered for its truth. thus, our decision does not affect the traditional latitude granted to experts to describe background information and knowledge in the area of his expertise. our conclusion restores the traditional information and case-ibid.) b. analysis 1. pea stone gang member black pea stone gang member. it seems that he is arguing that officer medina impermissibly relied on hearsay to form this opinion. but, as set forth above, sanchez expressly approved of this type of expert testimony. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 685.) 2. shorty through a simulcast he learned of shorty through a simulcast of a prior shooting incident violates sanchez. again he is mistaken. through a simulcast did not convey any hearsay. he only testified that he became familiar with shorty through simulcasts. 3. he was told by officer guillen that shorty claimed to have been shot at two different locations. this testimony involved two layers of hearsay 15 medina that shorty made the first statement to officer guillen. to officer guillen that he had been shot at two locations is subject to the party admission exception to the imony was admissible. (evid. code,  1220.) and that statement does not violate the confrontation clause. (people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 661implicate the confrontation clause].) statement was case-specific hearsay not covered by any hearsay exception and violates sanchez. but, that error does not constitute a violation of the sixth amendment confrontation clause because shorty has not shown that that hearsay was testimonial. (sanchez, suprastatements are those made primarily to memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, which could be used like trial testimony. nontestimonial statements are those whose primary purpose is to deal with an ongoing emergency or some other purpose unrelated to preserving fpeople v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575, 585.) but, as the people concede, the admission of this testimony violated state law. thus, we must now review that error for prejudice pursuant to people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached people v. jeffrey g. (2017) 13 cal.app.5th 501, 510.) we conclude that even without this 16 obtained a more favorable result. there was ample testimony of his gang affiliation and that the shooting was gang-motivated. 4. was little joe moses shorty contends that another officer told officer medina that he was known as little joe moses and was a cousin of joe moses, a van ness gang member; thus, officer metestimony violates sanchez. we disagree. nickname and his relationship to joe moses during his investigation, which included being told things by another officer. but, it was from officer medinfails. moreover, at least three other witnesses (reed, hardy, and robinson) testified before officer medina testified that shorty had admitted that he was a black pea stone gang member. because their testimony was properly admitted and later testimony was proper. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686 [an expert cannot relate as true case-specific facts unless they are independently proven by competent evidence]; people v. jeffrey g., supra, 13 cal.app.5th at p. prior unobjectecase-specific testimony, the testimony was not objectionable under sanchez.) 17 5. facebook did not violate sanchez. he testified as to what he personally viewed in photographs. and, he drew his conclusions from what he saw. the fact that officer medina was led to the photographs by another officer does not make his testimony hearsay. 6. officer meshooting was committed for the benefit of the black pea stone and van ness gangs shorty claims that officer medina improperly opined that the murder was committed for the benefit of the black pea stone and van ness gangs. he asserts that this opinion was invalid under sanchez because it was based on matters that officer medina learned through hearsay. we disagree. reliford was committed for the benefit of his gang. rather, he testified that a hypothetical crime, based on the facts in evidence, would have benefitted the gang. expert opinion testimony based on hypothetical questions does not contravene the hearsay rule or the confrontation clause under sanchez. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 676, 684685.) second, sanchez was not even implicated because officer not case-specific facts. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 685686.) 7. testimony regarding the gang membership of the perpetrator of a predicate crime is not case-specific under sanchez when asked how he was familiar with turley, officer 18 hoover criminal task force was the gang expert on that case. i have also spoken toand i spoke to him regarding the case and about mr. turley. i have also spoblack pea stones. shorty challenges that turley, the perpetrator of one of the predicate crimes that supports the gang enhancement, was a gang member. he contends that because officer medina did not personally know n as a qualifying predicate crime. did not convey any actual hearsay; he merely stated that after speaking with other officers, he formed an opinion that turley was a gang member. sanchez permits experts to give opinions based on hearsay. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 685.) membership conveyed hearsay, it was not the sort of case-specific hearsay prohibited by sanchez. sanchez expressly allows experts sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 676; see also people v. meraz (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 1162, 1175 [expert case-and participants alleged to have been involved in the case being tried], review granted on unrelated issue 3/22/17, s239442; but see people v. ochoa, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at pp. 588589; people v. lara (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 296, 337.) 19 iv. the predicate crimes were supported by substantial evidence shorty contends that the prosecution presented insufficient evidence to prove the predicate crimes of the black pea stones. a. applicable law to support an enhancement using the same standard we apply to people v. howard (2010) 51 cal.4th 15, 34.) thus, rd in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a re(people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578.) for purposes of the gang enhancement imposed pursuant eorganization, association, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of [specified] criminal acts enumerated in . . . subdivision (e), having a common name or common identifying sign or symbol, and whose members individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in, a  186.22, subd. (f).) a mthe commission [or] attempted commission of . . . two or more [enumerated] offenses, [the last of which occurred] within three years after a prior offense, and . . . were committed on separate occasions, or by two  186.22, subd. (e).) official court records establishing the convictions of two or more 20 predicate offenses by members of the gang. (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 610, 622624, disapproved on another ground in sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686, fn. 13.) [i]nstances of current criminal conduct can satisfy the statutory people v. loeun (1997) 17 cal.4th 1, 10either past or present criminal acts listed in subdivision (e) of section 186.22 is admissible to establish the statutorily required people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 323.) b. analysis shorty first crime pursuant to sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665. shorty contends that because officer medina did not personally know predicate crime. as set forth above, shorty is mistaken. officer medina did not offer any case-specific hearsay when offering his opinion that turley was a gang member. -specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants alleged to have been involved sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 675676.) under this definition, facts regarding other predicate crimesand the gang memberships of those who perpetrated them-case currently being tried. instead, predicate crimes are section 186.22, subdivision (e), required to establish that a gang criminal gang activity is best characterized as a matter of general background expertise about the gang, on which hearsay is 21 -people v. meraz, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at pp. 1172, 11741175 [expert testimony t case-specific particular events and participants alleged to have been involved in the case being tried regardless, even if the evidence was insufficient regarding ed evidence of three other qualifying crimes. ( 186.22, subd. (e).) thus, shorty next contends that the prosecution presented no evidence of an association between the brim and van ness gangs. we disagree. in people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59, 70 (prunty), the section 186.22[, subdiviprosecution seeks to prove the street gang enhancement by showing a defendant committed a felony to benefit a given gang, but establishes the commission of the required predicate offense with evidence of crimes coalleged subsets, it must prove a connection between the gang and id. at pp. 67form of evidence of collaboration or organization, or the sharing of material information among the subsets of a larger group. alternatively, it may be shown that the subsets are part of the same loosely hierarchical organization, even if the subsets themselves do not communicate or work together. and in other cases, the prosecution may show that various subset members 22 exhibit behavior showing their self-identification with a larger group, thereby allowing those subsets to be treated as a single organization. (id. at p. 60.) that a relationship exists, the evidence must show that it is the subdivision (f)]i.e., that the group committed the predicate offenses and engaged in criminal primary activitiesand that the defendant sought to benefit under section 186.22[, subdivision (b)]. but it is not enough . . . that the group simply shares a common name, common identifying symbols, and a common enemy. nor is it permissible for the prosecution to introduce evidence of different subsprimary activities and predicate offense requirements without demonstrating that those subsets are somehow connected to each prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at pp. 7172.) here, officer medina specifically identified smith as a encounters with him. the brims consisted of three small gangs; because of their limited size, they united under one umbrella, with van ness. as further evidence of their association, the prosecution presented a photograph showing gang graffiti of black pea stones, van ness, and brims on the same wall. officer medina opined that their graffiti on the same wall indicates an alliance among those gangs. in sum, officer mevidence of an association of these gangs. 23 v. the prosecutor did not commit prejudicial misconduct shorty argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument. sanders joined in this argument. a. applicable law amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44.) in other people v. cole that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 305.]hen the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an people v. morales, supra, at p. discuss the evidence and to comment on reasonable inferences ibid.) a prosecutor is given wide latitude during argument. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819.) even where a defendant shows prosecutorial misconduct occurred, reversal is not required unless the defendant can show that he suffered prejudice. (people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, spect to prosecutorial misconduct is evaluated under the standards enunciated in chapman v. 24 california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24, . . . to the extent federal constitutional rights were implicated, and under people v. watson[, supra,] 46 cal.2d [at p.] 826, . . . to the extent only state people v. adanandus (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 496, 514.) b. analysis he first rosecutor defense is asking you to speculate and d according to shorty, these statements constitute misconduct because the prosecutor was implying that the defense had designed defense counsel. not so. the comments here did not disparage which does no more than point out that the defense is attempting to confuse the issues and urges the jury to focus on what the (people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1302, fn. 47.) second, shorty contends that the prosecutor committed know, i would love for mr. reliford to be able to come up and by stating that reliford, hardy, 25 howard, and williams were the real victims in the shooting and 5 testimony and her credibility were well within the wide latitude given to prosecutors to discuss and draw inferences from the evidence. (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522.) the prosecutor argued that wimley was untruthful in numerous aspects of her testimony and was trying to blame reliford and the other victims. her comments do not seem to have been designed to inflame the juryshe was just stating the obvious, namely testimony. finally, shorty alleges that the prosecutor improperly vouched for the credibility of the witnesses when she said that a prosecutor may not express a personal opinion or belief in the guilt of the accused when there is substantial danger that the jury will view the comment as based on information other than evidence adduced at trial. (people v. lopez (2008) 42 cal.4th 960, 971; people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 971, disapproved in part on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.the context in which they are made to determine whether there is a substantial risk that the jury would have considered the remarks to be based on outside sources. (people v. lopez, supra, at p. 971.) 5 not evidence. 26 risk because it was based on the evidence presented. she indicated that shorty and sanders were the aggressors and that there was no evidence that they had taken responsibility for their actions. admitting to drinking, smoking, and their role in the fight. under these circumstances, we see no evidence of the prosecutor improperly vouching for these witnesses. even if the prosecutor had committed misconduct, which she did not, we would find that defendants were not prejudiced by her remarks. the trial court properly admonished the jury after each objection by defense counsel. we presume jurors foromano v. oklahoma (1994) 512 u.s. 1, 13.) vi. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by refusing to hold a marsden hearing sanders argues that the trial court committed reversible error when it failed to hold a marsden hearing when he raised issues of inadequate representation. a. relevant proceedings court that he wanted to bring a new trial motion alleging that entation had been inadequate and that he was requesting new counsel be appointed to assist him with the motion. the trial court stated that there would have to be a time waiver, and indicated that because ineffective assistance of counsel is not a ground for a motion for a new trial, they would take up whether to appoint a new attorney at a later date. 27 make a motion for a new trial. the trial court asked counsel whether she intended to file the motion for sanders. trial counsel indicated that she did not see any grounds for a motion for a new trial, but her client was requesting it. the trial court l right to that request. the [] normally speaking with most of these motions for new trial, either the litigant does it in pro per, or else the attorney does it for them. rarely do we appoint cocounsel replied that she would not file a motion because there was no basis for one. after a discussion off the record, both defendants indicated that they wanted to file the motion for new trial in pro. per. the trial court continued the matter for the motion for a will be filing [the] motion on your own. you can basically get an investigator to assist you in this endeavor. basically you will have your pro per status there in the jails. and it will be your responsibility to put together a motion for new trial. [] and i caution you like i do all the other people that have done this. there are certain grounds for motion for new trial pursuant to penal code section 1181. you need to familiarize yourself with that, since you [are] your own lawyers, be in a position to address what particular element or what particular grounds pursuant to [section] th defendants answered in the affirmative. sanders then signed a faretta waiver.6 6 pursuant to faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, a defendant may knowingly and intelligently waive the right to counsel and elect to represent himself. 28 on october 27, 2016, sanders informed the trial court that fred darden would be representing him. however, sanders continued to represent himself and filed a motion for a new trial and a supplemental motion for a new trial. after a hearing, counsel (christopher darden), the trial court denied the motion for a new trial. b. no further marsden inquiry was required sanders contends that the trial court should have conducted a marsden inquiry because sanders expressed dissatisfaction with his appointed lawyer. we find no error. marsden only when the defendant asserts directly or by implication that people v. leonard (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 776, 787.) the marsden inquiry is forward-looking in the sense that counsel would be substituted in order to provide effective assistance in the future. but the decision must always be based on what has happened in the past. (people v. smith (1993) 6 cal.4th 684, 695.) substitution of court-appointed counsel under marsden is a matter of judicial discretion, and a trial court retains discretion to deny a marsden motion as untimely. (people v. lara (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 139, 151.) under the circumstances presented here, the trial court was not required to conduct any further marsden inquiry. sanders indicated that he wanted to file a motion for a new trial alleging ineffective assistance of counsel. but he never established that been so 29 inadequate as to deny him his constitutional right to effective counsel.people v. leonard, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 787.) in his motion for a new trial that was presented while defendant was in pro. per., and which occurred outside the presence of defense counsel, sanders argued that his defense counsel was ineffective only for failing to impeach reed and failing to investigate a cell phone that was found near the crime scene. his claim of ineffective assistance of counsel did not removal. (people v. leonard, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 787.) vii. -representation sanders contends that his waiver of his right to counsel was not knowing, intelligent, and voluntary. a. legal principles constitutional rights with respect to representation that are people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 20.) counsel but also allows him to waive this right and to represent himself without united states v. erskine (9th cir. 2004) 355 f.3d 1161, 1167.) thus, in any case in which a faretta request for self-representation has been made, the court must evaluate, sometimes under problematic circumstances, two absolute right to counsel, which must be assiduously protected; right to discharge counsel if he pleases and represent himself. (people v. sullivan (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 524, 525.) 30 -disadvantages of self-representation, so that the record will speople v. stanley (2006) 39 faretta waiver understands 1) the nature of the charges against him, 2) the -united states v. erskine, supra, 355 f.3d at p. 1167.) the admonitinstruction on courtroom procedure or to provide the assistance that otherwise would have been rendered by counsel. thus, a defendant who chooses to represent himself or herself after knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily forgoing the assistance of counsel assumes the risk of his or her own ignorance, and (people v. barnum (2003) 29 cal.4th 1210, 12141215.) the -representation is almost always unwise and that the defense he conducts might be to his detriment; he will have to follow the same rules that govern attorneys; the prosecution will be represented by experienced, professional counsel who will have a significant advantage over him in terms of skill, training, education, experience, and ability; the court may terminate his right to represent himself if he engages in disruptive conduct; and he will lose the right to appeal his case on the grounds of ineffective assistance of counsel. [citation.] in addition, he should also be told he will receive no help or special treatment from the court 31 and that he does not have a right to standby, advisory, or cocounsel. [citation.] [] while this list of issues is not exhaustive, it demonstrates that there are a number of matters the court must ask about and consider before ruling on a people v. phillips (2006) 135 cal.app.4th 422, 428.) admonishing a defendant who seeks to forgo the right to counsel and engage in self-counsel is not whether specific warnings or advisements were given but whether the record as a whole demonstrates that the defendant understood the disadvantages of self-representation, [citationspeople v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 140.) if the disadvantages of proceeding pro se,faretta requires.people v. sullivan, supra, 151 cal.app.4th at p. 546.) b. analysis applying these legal principles, we conclude that sanders was properly advised before he knowingly, intelligently, and voluntarily waived his right to counsel. when sanders said that he wanted to represent himself, the trial court cautioned him. he was warned that the task would not be easy and that he would grounds might warrant relief. immediately thereafter, sanders filled out the four-page counsel (faretta waiviform penmanship. that form explained to sanders that he had constitutional rights, including the right to counsel, to a speedy jury trial, to subpoena 32 witnesses and records, to confront and cross-examine witnesses, against self-incrimination, to release on bail, and to waive counsel and represent himself. throughout the form, sanders initialed each of those advisements, including his understanding of each right. sanders also stated that he was 35 years old. sanders also initialed, indicating his understanding of, a disadvantages to self-on to follow all technical rules of substantive law, criminal law, and considerat sanders indicated that he understood that he could not and coufunds by showing receipts for funds already expended, his custody status would make trial preparation and investigation more difficult, no continuance would be allowed without a showing of good proceed without counsel if he changed his mind, that his courtroom movement might be limited due to his custody status, that he could not abuse thattorney took over representation midtrial, he might be at a disadvantage. 33 sanders indicated that he understood all of the risks and disadvantages, and still wanted to proceed in pro. per. he then certified that he warnings and was voluntarily giving up his right to have an attorney represent him. all of the foregoing establishes that sanders was properly advised regarding his election to represent himself, that he understood what he was doing, and that the trial court properly permitted him to represent himself. oral colloquy in addition to any waiver form is meritless. (people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 6faretta as here, we have no indication that defendant failed to understand what he was reading and other grounds in people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912, 919920.) viii. the matter is remanded so that the trial court may properly in count 7, sanders was charged with possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). it was further alleged that he had suffered two prior serious felonies ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and two prior serious or violent felonies ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the jury found sanders guilty in count 7, and in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found the prior conviction allegations to be true. during sentencing, the trial section 29800, which is the felon in possession of a firearm and with a gang allegation have been found true. the high term doubled, plus additional four years with a gang allegation for a 34 when it sentenced him to a gang enhancement in count 7, and that it should strike the four-year gang enhancement. the people agree that the matter should be remanded so that the trial court can properly orally pronounce the sentence as to count 7. it may be that the trial court misspoke when it included a gang enhancement. while there was no gang enhancement pleaded or found true by the jury, the trial court did find true subdivision (a). consequently, sanders was exposed to an additional five-year sentence pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a). because of the apparent discrepancy, the matter is remanded to the trial court so that the sentencing court can orally impose an authorized sentence. ix. sanders is entitled to additional custody credit sanders received 738 days of actual presentence custody credit. however, the record shows that he spent a total of 740 days in custody. thus, he is entitled to an additional two days of custody credit. x. must be amended sanders contends that two of his minute orders and his abstract of judgment must be amended because they contain clerical errors. the people agree. motion for [a] new trial . . . sanders notified the trial court that he wanted to file a motion for a new trial. the actual motion was heard and denied on january 13, 2017. therefore, the march 17, 2016, minute order 35 must be amended to reflect that sanders requested a motion for a new trial. and, because the january 13, 2017, minute order does was heard and denied that day, it must be amended to reflect as such. in addition, the abstract of judgment indicates that the attempted murder in count 2 was committed in 2012 and that all other offenses were committed in 2014. in fact, all the charges arose from the same incident on december 27, 2014. thus, the abstract of judgment should be modified to reflect that count 2 was committed in 2014. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185186.) the abstract of judgment and minute orders indicate that the trial court imposed and stayed gang enhancements pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). however, the trial court sentenced sanders within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), which called for a minimum 15-year parole eligibility period. thus, the abstract of judgment and minute orders should be corrected to reflect the true oral pronouncement finally, the abstract of judgment does not reflect the length of the sentences that the trial court imposed and stayed in counts 5 and 7. in count 5, sanders was sentenced to 15 years to life, doubled to 30 years to life. in count 7, he was sentenced to the high term of three years, doubled to six years plus four years for a total of 10 years. the abstract of judgment must be amended to judgment in counts 5 and 7. 36 disposition the judgment against shorty is affirmed. as to sanders, the matter is remanded to the trial court so that it can orally impose an authorized sentence as to count 7. the matter is also remanded to grant sanders 740 days of custody credit. and, the matter is remanded so that the trial tract of judgment and the march 17, 2016, and january 13, 2017, minute orders. as modified, the judgment against sanders is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ______________________________, p. j. lui ______________________________, j. hoffstadt 