 filed 12/4/17 p. v dursa ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph lane dursma, defendant and appellant. b280498 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na034161) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, william c. ryan, judge. affirmed. a. william bartz, jr., under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant joseph lane dursma appeals the trial courts order denying his petition to recall his felony sentence for second degree burglary (pen. code,  459)1 and to resentence him for misdemeanor shoplifting ( 459.5) pursuant to proposition 47 ( 1170.18). we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. 8 burglary conviction on january 20, 1998, dursma was charged with the second degree commercial burglary ( 459) of long beach truck and auto parts, along with three prior serious felony conviction enhancements and two on-bail enhancements ( 667, subds. (b)(i), 12022.1). following a jury trial, dursma was convicted of the burglary. the trial court subsequently found the on-bail enhancement allegations not true, the prior serious felony conviction allegations true, and sentenced dursma to a three-strikes prison term of 25 years to life. dursma filed a notice of appeal, but abandoned that appeal a month later. 2. proposition 47 petition and hearing in 2014, the electorate passed proposition 47, codified in relevant part as section 1170.18, which reduced penalties for certain theft and drug offenses by amending existing statutes. proposition 47 also added several new provisions to the penal code, including section 459.5, which created the crime of shoplifting. (see people v. gonzales (2017) 2 cal.5th 858, 863.) on july 8, 2015, dursma, represented by counsel, filed a petition pursuant to section 1170.18 seeking to have his felony burglary sentence recalled and to be resentenced for 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 misdemeanor shoplifting under section 459.5. proposition 47 petition alleged that he was eligible for resentencing as a misdemeanant for having committed shoplifting, rather than as a felon for having committed burglary. noting not take any items from the store. . . . [and there] was no testimony as to how much money was contained in the safe [that dursma attempted to break into], or whether there was any evidence that [dursma] stole or attempted to steal money or because dursma abandoned his appeal of his conviction, no reporters transcript of his trial was ever prepared; therefore, for the parties and the trial court relied on the evidence presented at the preliminary hearing. that evidence was as follows. larry byrne, whose father owned long beach truck and auto parts, testified that in the early evening of october 3, 1997, dursmacame into the store to use the telephone. about 15 or 30 minutes later, dursma himself came into the store. byrne knew both dursma and laurie. dursma spoke to laurie for a few minutes and then asked byrne if he could use the bathroom, which was located in the rear of the store. byrne, who was about to close up for the night, agreed. as he was in the process of closing up shortly thereafter, byrne looked inside both the mens and the womens bathrooms and saw that they were empty. he assumed dursma had already left the store. as byrne continued to close up, he saw laurie 4 outside. she said dursma had left, so byrne set the burglary alarm, locked all the doors and left. a few hours later, long beach police officers responded to a silent security alarm at the auto parts store. the building was still locked. called to the scene, byrnes father gave the officers access. inside the stores office, officers observed that a safe had been turned on its side and there were a couple of crowbars sticking out from its hinged edge; there were also tools, including a sledgehammer, lying on the floor. byrne testified the safe had been in its normal condition when he closed up. near the customer counter, officers found a shotgun lying on the floor. this shotgun was usually kept under the counter in a case or sleeve. dursma was discovered hiding in a crawlspace inside the stores second story attic. at the hearing on dursmas proposition 47 petition, his attorney argued that the value of the shotgun was irrelevant because the evidence showed he had not attempted to steal the shotgun; rather, the evidence showed only that he had unsuccessfully tried to break into the safe. the following colloquy occurred: the court: what is the value of the safe? he wasnt going to steal the safe, was he? [defense counsel]: he was not going to steal the safe. the court: he was going to steal what was in it. [defense counsel]: he attempted to break in but wasnt able to. there was no property available to him, so the court: you have to show that the property taken or attempted to be taken was less than $950. how much was in the safe? 5 [defense counsel]: thats unknown. and its my argument that because he was unable to actually open the safe, there was no property for him to steal; and, therefore, there was no value to the property . . . there was nothing taken or intended to be taken. the court: well, that would make this nothing more than a simple trespass. [defense counsel]: however . . . he entered the establishment during regular business hours with the intent to commit larceny, as is defined in [the] shoplifting statute. at the close of the hearing, the trial court took the eligibility question under submission, and subsequently issued a written memorandum of decision on november 9, 2016. the memorandum reiterated the facts of the case as set forth in the preliminary hearing transcript and then concluded dursma was ineligible for proposition 47 relief. the trial court noted that the shoplifting statute requires entering a commercial establishment with intent to commit larceny while that establishment is open during regular business hours ( 459.5), and reasoned: the record is devoid of any facts to suggest that petitioner intended to commit larceny while the store was open during regular business hours and instead shows that it was petitioners intent to conceal himself in the store until past closing and then to commit theft.2 2 the record supports the trial courts conclusion that dursma intended to commit theft after business hours. as the court reasoned: [dursma] asked byrne to use the restroom upon entering the store only to disappear when byrne was closing the store and checking the restrooms for petitioner. also, petitioner did not set off the alarm for over two hours past closing, suggesting that he did not move or attempt to open the safe until waiting what he deemed to be a sufficient amount of time. 6 regarding the value of the property taken or attempted to be taken, the trial court concluded there is no information provided [about] the contents of the safe or the value thereof. as for the shotgun, the people argued at the eligibility hearing that petitioner intended to take the shotgun (in addition to breaking into the safe) and that the shotgun was valued at over $950. while the court is unconvinced that petitioner intended to steal the shotgun, there is again no information provided regarding the possible value of the shotgun. further, in light of petitioners failure to show that he intended to commit larceny while that establishment is open during regular business hours, it is of no consequence whether the value of the property intended to be taken exceeded $950. dursma timely appealed from the order denying his proposition 47 petition. standard of review retation of a statute enacted as part of a voter initiative, the issue on appeal is a legal one, which we review de novo. ([people v. arroyo (2016) 62 cal.4th 589,] 593 . . .) where the trial court applies disputed facts to such a statute, we review the factual findings for substantial evidence and the application of those facts to the intendments are indulged in to support it on matters as to which further, petitioner attempted to open the safe using crow bars and a sledgehammer, actions which were hardly furtive and could not have been attempted during regular business hours. finally, his girlfriend falsely informed byrne that petitioner had left the store [which] suggests that she was helping to conceal petitioner in the store until after closing. 7 the record is silent, and error must (people v. carpenter (1999) 21 cal.4th 1016, 1046 . . .) in the trial court people v. johnson (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 953, 960 [proposition 47 resentencing case]; accord people v. hallam (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 905, 911decision on section 1170.18 petition is inherently factual, which interpretation of the statute is reviewed de novo].) even if it is not the ground specified by the court. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 351, fn. 11 [trial ruling, not the s reasoning and, if the ruling was correct on any ground, we affirm ; accord people v. rogers (2009) 46 cal.4th 1136, 1162, fn. 14.) discussion 1. proposition 47 proposition 47, known as the safe neighborhoods and schools act (the act), reducing penalties for certain theft and drug offenses by amending existing statutes. [citation.] the act also added several new provisions, including penal code section 459.5, which created the crime of shoplifting. . . . shoplifting is punishable as a misdemeanor unless the defendant has previously been convicted of a specified offense. ( 459.5, subd. (a).) section 459.5, subdivision (b) contains an explicit ined in subdivision (a) shall be charged as shoplifting. no person who is charged with shoplifting may also be charged with burglary or 8 section 1170.18 now permits a defendant serving a sentence for one of the enumerated theft or drug offenses to petition for resentencing under the new, more lenient, provisions. if the offense committed by an eligible defendant would have been a misdemeanor under the act, resentencing is required es that resentencing the petitioner would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to 1170.18, subd. (b).) a person who has already completed a felony sentence may petition to have his conviction designated a misdemeanor. ( 1170.18, subds. people v. gonzales, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 863, fns. omitted.) 2. the trial court properly concluded that dursma was not eligible for proposition 47 relief because he did not demonstrate that he committed the crime of shoplifting as enacted in 2014, section 459.5, subdivision (a), defines shoplifting as entering a commercial establishment with intent to commit larceny while that establishment is open during regular business hours, where the value of the property that is taken or intended to be taken does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950). ( 459.5, italics added.) the facts of the present case highlight an ambiguity in the constitute shoplifting. under one possible interpretation of the statute, an individual commits the crime of shoplifting if he or she (1) enters a commercial establishment while the establishment is open during regular business hours, and (2) has the intent to commit larceny. under this interpretation, it does not matter whether the perpetrator intends to commit larceny before or after the business closes, so long as he enters an open commercial establishment 9 with a larcenous intent.3 under a second possible reading of the statute, both the entry and the larceny must occur during regular business hoursthat is, the offender must intend to commit the larceny while the establishment is open. we need not resolve this issue in the present case, however, because dursma failed to 3 some cases have assumed without deciding that the italicized language requires only that the perpetrator enter a commercial establishment while the establishment is open during regular business hours, and with an intent to commit larceny. (e.g., in re j.l. shoplifting has three elements: (1) entry into a commercial establishment, (2) while the establishment is open during regular business hours, and (3) with intent to commit larceny of property valued at $950 or less. ( 459.5, subd. people v. hallam, supra, 3 cal.app.5th at p. 911; see also people v. gonzales, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 873 [although employee who enters workplace one minute before opening time with intent to steal commits burglary, while same employee commits only shoplifting by entering a minute later, this result is not any committed during nighttime, which our penal code did until that interpretation, however, requires reading section commercial establishment while that establishment is open during regular business hours with intent to commit larceny, where the value of the property that is taken or intended to be with intent to commit larceny while that establishment is open during regular business hoursppears to require that the larceny be planned for regular business hours. 10 carry his evidentiary burden of proving that the value of the property he intended to steal did not exceed $950.4 as we have noted, to constitute shoplifting, the value of the property that is taken or intended to be taken may not exceed $950. dursma concedes there was no information provided at the proposition 47 hearing regarding the value of either the shotgun or the contents of the safe, but he urges that the prosecution must bear the burden of proof on this issue. not so. to the he ultimate burden of proving section 1170.18 eligibility lies with the petitioner. [citation.] (people v. romanowski (2017) 2 cal.5th 903, 916, italics added [proposition 47 petitioner has burden to prove reasonable and fair market value of stolen access card information].) accordingly, because dursma introduced no evidence regarding the value of the shotgun or the contents of the safe, he failed to carry his burden of demonstrating that he was entitled to proposition 47 relief.5 thus, because dursma did not demonstrate that the property he intended to take had a value of less than $950, he 4 another unresolved issue raised by the shoplifting statute i.e., an area not open to members of the publicprecluded relief under proposition 47. this issue currently is before our supreme court in people v. colbert (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 385 (review granted feb. 15, 2017, s238954). 5 dursma asserts that the trial court never addressed the value of the property he attempted to take, and thus we should remand for the trial court to make this determination. in fact, as noted ante (at p. 6) the trial court did find that no information had been provided as to the value of either the shotgun or the contents of the safe. accordingly, remand is unnecessary. 11 failed to demonstrate that he was entitled to proposition 47 relief. disposition s affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: lavin, j. dhanidina, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 