filed 5/31/18 p. v. williams ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bernard williams, defendant and appellant. b280187 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na091969) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, judith levey meyer, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. kathy r. moreno, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, nicholas j. webster, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 an altercation between defendant and appellant bernard williams (defendant), defendant(hayden), and victim raynard fulton (fulton) left fulton dead of a gunshot wound. on trial for the killing, defendant sought to sow doubt regarding who shot fulton. a jury found defendant was the shooter and convicted him of second degree murder. we various arguments seeking reversal of his conviction: the trial court should have instructed the jury on the lesser included offense of aiding and abetting voluntary manslaughter under a natural and probable consequence theory; trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by eliciting what he claims was prejudicial testimony from a law enforcement witness; the trial court improperly commented on, and limited argument concerning, a transcript of an audio recording; there was insufficient evidence to prove the predicate offenses that would support a gang allegation true finding; the trial court abused its discretion in denying his romero1 motion to strike a prior strike conviction; and the cause should be remanded in any event so the trial court may exercise newly conferred discretion to strike a firearm sentencing enhancement. i. background a. the shooting of reynard fulton on the evening of october 1, 2011, defendant encountered hayden- at a shopping center in long beach. hayden and defendant got into a fight with fulton, who was shot and killed in the shopping center parking lot as a result. 1 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 3 surveillance video cameras in the shopping center captured footage of defendant and hayden fleeing the scene but not the fight or the shooting. hayden was 6 feet 4 inches tall and was wearing dark pants. defendant was 5 feet 10 or 5 feet 11 inches and was dressed in a gray hoodie with a front center pocket and blue basketball shorts; the video footage appears to depict him with his hands in the pocket of the hoodie while running away. revealed two gunshot wounds: one bullet hit the corner of his mouth and the otherinflicting the fatal woundentered his lower back. the fatal shot traveled upward six inches before becoming lodged near his sternum. the medical examiner could not determine the relative positions of the shooter and fultonexcept when he fired the fatal shot. fulton had abrasions on a finger of his right hand, his right wrist, and his abdomen. blood samples determined there was alcohol, pcp, and marijuana in his system at the time of death. fulton was a member of holly hood piru, a blood gang based in compton. at the time of the shooting, he was living with his girlfriend in an area of long beach claimed by crip . defendant lived near the shopping center at the home of children, paul nicholas proano (proano) and donovan baldwin, lived with them. law enforcement officers arrested defendant for fuapril 2012; they arrested hayden two months later. 4 b. the charges and the first trial the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant and hayden in an information with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))2 and attempted robbery ( 211, 664). defendant alone also faced a separate charge of possession of a firearm by a felon (the prior felony being a conviction for making criminal threats). the district attorney alleged that the charged crimes were gang related ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and that defendant and hayden personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing fulton great bodily injury and death ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (d)). defendant and hayden were tried before a jury in 2013. the jury acquitted defendant of attempted robbery, but it could not reach a verdict on the counts against him for murder and firearm possession by a felon.3 c. retrial defendant was retried on the murder and weapons possession charges in 2016. the defense endeavored to undercut the prosecution by suggesting that hayden, not defendant, was the shooter and that fulton was overly aggressive. 2 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 3 the jury was deadlocked by a vote of 11 to 1 in favor of both charges against him. 5 1. evidence of the shooter a. eyewitness testimony defendant and hayden both testified at trial, with each suggesting the other shot fulton. defendant testified fulton approached hayden on a bicycle in an aggressive manner. hayden or fulton said the other, and defendant heard fulton say ,, and according to defendant, he telling fultonbring it with all the extras.defendant testified fulton appeared was motion to sw swung first at fulton. defendant missed, and fulton hit hayden in the face, knocking him to the ground. when defendant picked up bike and tried to hit him with it, defendant heard gunshots. defendant claimed he had seen hayden in possession of a gun before and figured he was carrying one at the time of the fight because . . . hayden testified fulton was aggressive toward defendant and hayden was trying to break up a fight between the two of them when fulton threw hayden to the ground. as hayden struggled to rise, he heard gunshots. hayden testified he never had a gun. three bystanders to the shootingtwo of whom called 911 after it happenedtheary ly (ly) was across the street from the shopping center parking lot when he noticed three men throwing punches. ly saw fulton fall to the ground and the other two men kicking him. ly testified the taller of the two (recall that hayden was taller) threw a bike at fulton then pulled out a gun and shot him. 6 recalled the taller man was the shooter, but he was less certain at the time of trial about what the perpetrators were wearing.4 stella lugo (lugo) was sitting in her car in the shopping center parking lot when she noticed three men scuffling over a bike. lugo saw fulton push the bike toward defendant and hayden, then turn to run away, at which point fulton was shot. lugo testified the shooter was standing and that none of the men fell to the ground before fulton was shot.5 lugo when the shooting happened, but he did not see it. after 4 when ly called 911 after the shooting, he told the wearing black or blue shorts and a striped t-shirt (recall that defendant was the one wearing shorts). when the dispatcher shooting . . . approximately nine months after the incident, ly told a law enforcement officer the non-shooter was wearing shorts. after viewing video footage of defendant and hayden fleeing the scene of the shooting, ly testified neither looked like the men he shooting were older and were wearing different clothes than defendant and hayden. 5 lugo told the 911 dispatcher immediately after the shooting that the shooter threw the bike at fulton before she was not wearing her glasses that night, she could not make out the facial features of the men involved in the shooting, and she did not pay attention to their clothing. 7 hearing shots fired, ulloa saw defendant and hayden running from the sceneone wearing dark pants and the other wearing shorts. ulloa testified the man wearing pants was carrying something dark in his right hand. b. text messages shortly before the altercation with fulton, defendant was hanging out at the shopping center with a friend, ishia bridgette (bridgette). she left shortly before the fight and heard gunshots as she arrived at her house, which was close to the shopping center. minutes later, bridgette and defendant exchanged texts: defendant]: im ok [bridgette]: so what happened 6 idgette]: you had a gun on you always [shaking my head] so yall shot him for what [defendant]: are u mad at me 6 erally established the words were crip terms that had spread into use by non-crips and non-gang members. when confronted with this text message during his personally shoot fulton because he rrect function. 8 defendant]: he was set trippin7 [defendant]: i know can u see police around yo bridgette replied she was busy, and their communications ceased that evening. bridgette and defendant exchanged another series of texts the next morning: [bridgette]: you guys killed that guy [] . . . [] e was a paru [sic] blood8 mh it was a question rme [rolling my eyes] i guess wat u mean u guess [bridgette]: just what i said i guess [defendant]: oh wow so u mad [bridgette]: you killed a dude [defendant]: ok i dont wanna talk about it o you not ma friend nomo? ok why would you say that . . . ? do i like what you did no oh i thou u wasnt nomo . . can we keep dat a secret wat i did 7 8 bridgette took this to be an explanation for why fulton was 9 my dad is the one who told me [the victim died] and they have cameras but yeah thats not somethigoing to go and broadcast about an hour later, defendant exchanged text messages with palafox: [defendant]: it[ ] was me i gotta leave asap [defendant]: dont tell [palafox]: shut the fuck up . . . .9 [palafox]: nobody knows [palafox]: stop lying [defendant]: 20s10 [palafox]: it was [hayden] [defendant]: yea [defendant]: how u know [palafox]: cuz i know things niguh . . . i pay attention . . . [defendant]: i was wit him and i tuched da bike [defendant]: [proano] told u [palafox]: shit u just happen ta b der at da wrong time . . . how u touch da bike . . . .?? no [proano] shit datz on my dead grandma . . . i was wit him wanna run away 9 changed from time to time depending on her mood. these phrases are omitted from the quoted excerpts here. 10 palafox underon the rollin 20s street gang, i.e., that he was serious. 10 palafox and defendant were exchanging texts about plans they had previously made to move to las vegas a palafox did not respond. that same day, defendant sent the following text to an unidenti defendant did not actually get a rollin 20s tattoo on his face, however. two weeks after the shooting, defendant sold his cell phone to a juvenile, chris b. the next day, defendant sent a text message to chris fr[is] bernard chris asked to keep the memory card and it was unclear whether he did so, but law enforcement found nothing of evidentiary value on the phone when they later obtained it. 2. gang evidence long beach police department detective chris zamora testified as a gang expert for the prosecution. detective zamora had been a gang detective for over five years and had done gang- the detective testified the rollin 20s was a long beach crip gang with approximately 350 members. the rollin 20s use references to as symbols for the gang, along with pittsburgh steelers paraphernalia.11 the illegal weapons possession, and violent acts including shootings and homicides. 11 the detective admitted non-gang members also referred to 11 the rollin 20s were antagonistic toward blood gangs, of which long beach had none. detective zamora testified about two prior offenses committed by louis white (white) and demetrius granvle (granvle) that could be used to establish the pattern of criminal activity required to prove the alleged gang enhancement. white was convicted of murder in 2010, and detective zamora believed he was a rollin 20s gang member based on his -related tattoos the facts surrounding [tcrimes. granvle was convicted of carrying a loaded firearm in public, and detective zamora believed he was a rollin 20s gang member because he had a tattoo, he committed the offense while at a party attended by 30 to 40 other rollin 20s members, and he was carrying a card in his wallet that read, ast side detective zamora had never personally interacted with defendant prior to trial, but he opined defendant was a member of the rollin 20s. in forming his opinion, detective zamora relied 2010 admission to law enforcement that he was affiliated with (though not a member of) the rollin 20s. detective t the detective believed were related to the rollin 20s. three days after shooting fultontwo years later, defendant had rollin 20his fingers. defendant also had an on one arm that, in , rather when considered together with detective zamora also relied on to conclude he was a rollin 20s gang member. crips avoided 12 crip killer. routinely spelled ,bacc, , . when text to bridgette that tripping members of different gangs aggressively claiming their respective gangs. in response to a hypothetical posed by the prosecution that described a fight in rollin 20s territory between a holly hood piru gangster and members of the rollin 20swho were losing the fight but who had a gundetective zamora opined it was gun would be used and that the shooting would be for the benefit of, in association with, and in order to assist and promote the rollin 20s because it would promote the the gang maintain control over the area. defendant testified he became a member of the rollin 20s in august or september of 2013almost two years shootingwhile he was incarcerated awaiting trial. defendant said he o on his hands at that time. unrelated to the gang and he got the tattoo only because it was defendant conceded he had had told detectives in this case tony houston (houston), a security guard at the shopping center very other day, 13 believed defendant was a member of the rollin 20s because he kind of and houston saw defendant associating with a man houston believed to be a gang member. bridgette said defendant told her he associated with the rollin 20s and she had heard him use the 20s. kimi lent (lent), a gang intervention specialist, testified as a gang expert for the defense. lent opined that at the time of 20s but not an active member of the gang. lent said people who were not active gang members sometimes joined gangs when they [j]ust she understood that defendant obtained while he was in custody, and she did not believe his indicated he was a gang member. lent also testified she was unaware of any specific, or ongoing, rivalry between the rollin 20s and any blood gangs, and it was more common for gang rivalries to occur between gangs based in the same immediate area. lent did agree crips did not spell wordother. hayden testified he had never been a gang member, and there was no evidence he had any gang tattoos. defendant testified he believed hayden was a member of the exotic family city crips gang. 3. the jury verdict and d sentence the jury found defendant guilty of second (not first) degree murder and of possessing a firearm as a felon. it further found 14 true the enhancements alleging defendant intentionally discharged a firearm, a handgun, which caused great bodcrimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. defendant admitted he sustained a prior strike conviction but asked the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike the conviction under romero, supra, 13 cal.4th 497 for purposes of sentencing. romero motion and sentenced him to prison for 60 years to life: 15 years to life for the murder convplus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), plus another five years under section 667 because the prior strike was a serious felony. the court imposed but felon in possession of a firearm conviction the gang enhancement and other firearm enhancements. ii. discussion defendant raises a litany of claimed errorsby the trial court, his counsel, and the jurybut none has any merit, particularly in light of the aspects of the trial and the jury findings defendant does not challenge. defendant contends he is entitled to reversal of his conviction because the trial court refused to give a voluntary manslaughter instruction premised on a natural and probable consequences theory of liability, but the contention fails by definitionthe jury specifically found defendant personally and intentionally shot and killed fulton and defendant does not challenge that finding. 15 defendant argues his trial attorney provided constitutionally deficient representation by eliciting testimony from a detective that would tend to undermine credibility, but defendant admitted on the stand that he had lied to the understood, in context, as an attempt to show the detective was biased and/or to front that would come later during trial. defendant contends the court compelled the jury to conclude he was the shooter by commenting on the evidence and fact-finding, but this argument is forfeited for failure to raise a contemporaneous objection and the record shows, in any event, the court did nothing to alter the actual evidence considered by the jury. defendant asserts there was insufficient evidence he was a gang member, but he admitted claiming membership in the rollin 20s and his text messages corroborated the same. as to his sentencing assertions of error, defendant claims the trial court abused its discretion by declining to strike his prior strike conviction. to the contrary, the record demonstrates the court properly discharged its responsibility to sentence defendant within the spirit of the three strikes law. we do agree, however, that the trial court should be given an opportunity to exercise the discretion it has now been given by statute enhancements. we will therefore remand the case for that purpose. 16 a. alleged instructional error does not warrant reversal the trial court instructed the jury it could find defendant guilty of second degree murder under three theories: if it found defendant personally pulled the trigger or if it found hayden killed fulton and defendant either directly aided and abetted the murder or aided and abetted an assault murder as a natural and probable consequence. the court also instructed the jury it could find defendant guilty of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter rather than murder, but only if the jury determined defendantand not haydenpersonally shot fulton upon sudden provocation or based on an unreasonable belief in the need to defend himself or hayden. defendant contends it was error for the trial court not to instruct the jury it could alternatively find him guilty of voluntary manslaughter on a natural and probable consequences theory. defendant requested such an instruction, but the trial court declined to give it after engaging in considerable discussion with counsel, which encompassed whether and to what extent our people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155 (chiu) should be read to foreclose such an instruction.12 12 chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th 155 holds an aider and abettor may not be convicted of first degree murder under a natural and probable consequence theory. (id. at p. 166.) the chiu court ability under the natural and probable consequences doctrine is vicarious in idof the . . . doctrine depends on the foreseeability of every element id. at p. 165, fn. omitted). but the court limited natural and probable consequences liability to second 17 a trial judge must instruct jurors on all lesser included reasonably conclude that the defendant committed the lesser, uncharged offense, but not the greater, chargpeople v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 538 (nelson); see also people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154, 162 (breverman)). we review a claim the trial court failed to give a lesser included offense instruction de novo. (nelson, supra, at p. 538.) our supreme court has made reference to voluntary manslaughter under the natural and probable consequences doctrine without directly considering the issue. (see, e.g., people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 612 [reviewing murder conviction in case where jury was instructed on both murder and voluntary manslaughter under natural and probable consequence theory]; people v. ayala (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1440, 1450 [same].) we have no need to examine the scope of the doctrine in this case because the trial cannot have prejudiced defendant. our supreme court has held that [e]rror in failing to instruct the jury on a lesser included offense is harmless when the jury necessarily decides the factual questions posed by the omitted instructions adversely to [the] defendant under other people v. beames (2007) 40 cal.4th 907, 928; see also people v. sedeno (1974) 10 to impose the severe punishment accorded to those convicted of first degree murder (id. at p. 166). 18 instruction was necessarily resolved adversely to the defendant upport a finding that only the lesser offense was committed has been rejected by the breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 165.) here, the jury specifically found defendantnot haydenwas the shooter when it found true the allegation that defendant personally used and discharged a firearm causing . because that finding cannot be reconciled with convicting defendant of voluntary manslaughter under a natural and probable consequence theory, there could be no prejudicial error in declining to give the requested instruction.13 b. defendant has not shown his trial attorney was constitutionally ineffective on the record before us cross-examination of detective mark bigel, the investigating officer, counsel confirmed the detective interviewed defendant twice after his arrest and then asked the following: would it be fair to say, in the [defendant] had defense counsel followed up by asking whether the detective investigated 13 the jury finding that defendant personally shot fulton prevents defendant from establishing prejudice under either the people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 or the chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 standard of assessing prejudice. 19 certain background that might bear on his possible gang membershipthe detective said he had not. defendant argues a liar and damaged the heart of his defense, which depended on the jury believing he was telling the truth. he contends his trial counsel was constitutionally deficient because he had no tactical reason to elicit, and then not move to strike, assertedly prejudicial testimony. counsel, a defendant must performance was deficient and that the defendant suffered prejudice as a result of such deficient performance. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 198 (mickel).) to carry the burden of establishing deficient performance, the defendant must show fell below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional norms. ibid., internal quotation marks omitted.) to ibid.) where the record on appeal does not demonstrate why counsel acted in the manner asserted to be deficientcourt has no basis on which to determine whether counsel had a legitimate reason for making a particular decision, or whether objectivelmickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 198; see also people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) 20 deference to mickel, supra, at p. 198.) what this means, in effect, is that a conviction will not be reversed for ineffective assistance of counsel on direct no rational tactical purposeibid.) record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to demonstrate strategy in questioning detective bigel. (people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) there could be various tactically valid reasons why trial counsel pursued the line of inquiry he did; here are two. first, defense counsel may have sought to demonstrate detective bigel was a biased investigator who jumped to defense counsel may have reasonably sought to show detective bigel formed an opinion that de even though the detective dbackground that might have substantiated account during the interview. second, defense counsel may have sought to preemptively self-damaging testimony to come. (see, e.g., in re kristen b. (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1535, 1543 [trial counsel often pose questions for the strategic purpose on cross-attorney (who had also represented him in the first trial) would have been keenly aware that the prosecution would spend significant time exploring 21 during its cross-examination of defendant.14 the defense made no attempt to conceal the fact that some of defendants prior statements were false; rather, strategy was to argue he had good reason to lie when he didbecause he did not actually kill fulton and did not want to be charged with a crime he did not commit. not only could there be valid tactical reasons for defense also resulted in no prejudice to defendant. because detective bigel did not introduce evidence contrary to , there is no reasonable probability the jury would have rendered a more favorable verdict for defendant absent defquestion. (people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 673 [no prejudice in admitting adoptive admission to authorities].) c. the trial court did not usurp the juryfact-finding role a trial court the testimony and credibility of any witness as in its opinion is const., art. vi,  10.) any comments made by the court must be accurate, temperate, nonargumentative, and scrupulously 14 indeed, this is exactly what occurred. early in its cross-you talked to the detectives, there were things that you were not expla 22 fair. the trial court may not, in the guise of privileged comment, the record, expressly or impliedly direct a verdict, or otherwise (people v. monterroso (2004) 34 cal.4th 743, 780.) the court [citation.]people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 823.) the issue here concerns statements proano made to police detectives regarding shooting.15 prior to calling proano to testify, the defense sought a ruling on whether it could introduce in evidence o police. the defense planned to ask hayden whether he told proano he shot fulton and the defense anticipated hayden would say no. the defense then intended to impeach this expected answer by asking proano whether he heard hayden say he shot fulton. if proano responded in the negative, the defense wanted to highlight a statement proano purportedly made to detectives, namely, that hayden told proano, i capped his [i.e., here is the portion of exchange with the detectives at issue, as originally transcribed personnel from an audio recording of the interview (with added emphasis on the key statement at issue): with [hayden] about this shooting? [] . . . [] afterwards. [] . . . [] 15 murder but dropped the charges after interrogating him. 23 just basically how i explained about the shooting and stuff like that, about how the guy was fighting back and stuff like that, and he open fired [sic]. like, he capped his ass, he said. no, not like that. kind of hard later in the interview as transcribed, however, proano said he told his mother defendant . the following exchange ensued: detective hubert]: so who did it, [defendant] or [hayden]? [proano]: [defendant] said [hayden] did it and [hayden] [defendant] capped, you know[ ] that me and [defendant] were trying to come up on a bicycle, this and that, thatyo detective hubert]: back up then, because in my notes here when we were just now talking about [hayden], and you said you had a conversation apped his ass, yeah. s the word you used. i capped his ass, saying? just, like, oh, 24 and that, and we shot him. -huh. but [defendant] told me that [hayden] shot him. [] . . . [] bert]: okay. and [hayden] just kind of said we? , shot him. after listening to the audio recording, the trial court believed the transcript was inaccurate: in the view, opposite, the court determined [i.e., hayden] say the court informed counsel that, believe and [was] not going to submit this to the jury as to a factual finding whether they think mr. proano said [hayden] shot [fulton] defense counsel permission to he court told the defense, however, it could not argue anywhere that . . . hayden says, i shot him. you can argue that the tapeyou guys [i.e., the jury] can listen to the tape. you can determine what he says, but that one line will be changed in the defense counsel responded but argued he should be able to 25 argue to the jury that [w]hat s proposal, noting it was up to the jury to decide the tone based on what it heard. jurors were given the revised transcript by the court to read didnt said [sicthe court advised the jury that [audio is court told jurors it had written a word in on the transcript thought [it] heard it . . . ., the court added, jurors were entitled to disagree with its view and should decide for defendant contends thconduct and at least impliedly directed a he believes the trial court contravened the proper limits on its commenting authority and prohibited the comment on the evidence. the argument does not carry the day, both because defendant forfeited any error and because the ruling was not error regardless. defense counsel transcript. rather, counsel acquiesced in the ruling and asked only that the court permit him to argue statement showed proano was 26 correcting his earlier tone.16 by accepting the trial alteration of the transcript and not objecting when the court prohibited any argument inconsistent with what it heard on the recording, defendant forfeited his claim of error.17 (people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237 [are not preserved for appellate review if no objections were made cure the resulting prejudice or be futile]; see also people v. williams (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 644, 693.) even assuming defendant preserved the issue, his argument is unconvincing on the merits. the court did not invade the province of the jury because it did not prevent them from considering relevant evidence or effectively direct a verdict for the prosecution. the court did nothing to alter the actual 16 listen to [the audio recording] carefully, you can almost hear [proano] saying it in terms ofhe knows he says it close enough to sounding like it was something that [hayden] told him because [hayden] said. he 17 defendant suggests the trial court was aware he objected to its decision and that protesting further would have been futile. that he which the trial court permittedcannot reasonably be interpreted as an objection. and defendant fails to show a direct objection would have been futile: there is no basis to conclude the trial court would have, for example, certainly refused to reconsider or to differently tailor what it would tell the jury had the court been presented with the precise objection now advanced on appeal. 27 evidencewhich it advised the jury was the audio recording, not the transcript. moreover, the court advised jurors before playing the recording that interpretation for their own, and it later instructed them that if and form [their] under the circumstances, people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1177.) jurors were told they should decide for themselves what proano said, with the implication being they could decide differently from the trial judge. and defense counsel was told he could argue jurors should listen to the recording to determine what proano said.18 defense counsel asked proano on the witness conversation with [hayden] where he admitted to you he shot the later heard the recording, allowing them to determine for themselves what proano said hayden told him. 18 within appropriate bounds. a trial court can, of course, sustain an objection during closing argument that an attorney has misstated the evidence. (people v. ponce (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 1380, 13control the proceedings to prohibit argument which is not that the court made the equivalent of such a ruling in advance here is immaterial. 28 d. the prosecution presented substantial evidence of a pattern of criminal gang activity by the rollin 20s benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist enhanced sentence. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) for section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) to apply, the prosecution must not only prove the defendant acted for a gang-related purpose, it must also more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) includes members who either individually or collectively have attempting to commit, or soliciting two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so- [citations.]people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 698 (sanchez).) defendant does not dispute that the rollin 20s is a criminal street gang, but he contends the prosecution failed to prove a because the prosecution did not prove rollin 20s gang members committed two predicate crimes in this case, and the crimes committed by white and granvle, would qualify as predicate offenses, but he asserts the evidence that defendant, white, or granvle were members of the rollin 20s. 29 in considering defendasufficiency of the evidence claim, judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation]. if the circumstances reasonably justireversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60.) under this standard of review, there is arguably enough evidence that all three men (defendant, white, and granvle) were members of the rollin 20s, but there is ample evidence that defendant and granvle were members of the gang. because proof of the charged crime may serve to establish a predicate offense for the purpose of showing a pattern of criminal gang activity (people v. loeun (1997) 17 cal.4th 1, 9-10), we accordingly have no difficulty concluding (for reasons we shall now summarize) the pattern of criminal gang activity element was satisfied at trial. the evidence that defendant was an active member of the rollin 20s at the time of the shooting was contested, but it is sufficient to support the jury finding. defendantwith the rollin 20s was undisputed, and defendant admitted he had in the past and had described himself as together. he told bridgette he and hayden shot fulton because 30 fulton was a blood gang member who was that is enough. as for granvle, defendant concedes that if detective his gang membership is at [s] membut defendant contends the prosecution was also required to prove, and did not prove, offense was committed for the benefit of the rollin 20s. that, however, is not the law. in gang activity ( 186.22, subd. (e)), the prosecution need not show the predicate offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with the gang. (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 621, disapproved on another ground by sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686, fn. 13; people v. ochoa (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 575, 581.) e. cumulative error defendant contends that even if the errors at his trial did not prejudice him when considered individually, their cumulative effect deprived him of due process and a fair trial. having failed to establish multiple errors, defendantcumulative error claim is meritless. (see, e.g., people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 491; people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 767.) f. sentencing issues 1. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in romero motion in accordance with section 1385, subdivision (a), to strike an allegation that the defendant was previously convicted of a 31 serious or violent felony subjecting the defendant to an increased sentence under the three strikes sentencing scheme. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 151-152 (williams); romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 504.) strong presumption that any sentence that conforms to [its] (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 378 (carmonycarefully circumscribes the trial [the] norm[s it establishes] and requires the court to explicitly ibid.) in order to properly exercise its discretion to dismiss a prior strike allegation under section 1385, the trial whether, in light of the and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the prospects, the defendant may be deemed outside the [three spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though [the defendant] had not previously been (williams, supra, at p. 161.) a trial decision declining to strike a prior conviction allegation is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 374.) a trial court abuses its discretion in declining to strike a prior strike conviction when the court is unaware of its discretion, when it considers impermissible factors in reaching its decision, or when [established by the three strikes law . . . , as a matter of law,] produce[ under (id. at p. 378.) 32 in making his romero motion, defendant argued his young age mental condition placed him outside the spirit of the three strikes law. defendant was 19 years old at the time of the shooting and 24 years old on the date of sentencing. defendant provided voluminous records documenting his fractured home life: his mother was a drug addict who lost custody of defendant and his siblings; his older sister sexually abused him; and his father beat defendant and placed him and three siblings in foster care before passing away when defendant was 12. school and medical records showed defendant performed far below grade level and was diagnosed with mild mental retardation and depression. defendant also argued the underlying facts of his prior strike conviction were not particularly serious. attorney emphasized he was 18 years old the foster cartelephonically threatened the foster mother of his younger brother because she would not let the brother speak to defendant on the phone. defense counsel stated defendant was particularly close to the brother in question and that the off conviction allegation. pointing to information in the probation report for that prior conviction, the prosecution argued defendant was minimizing his prior conduct. the report indicated defendant not onlthe prosecution also described criminal conduct defendant had engaged in 33 , which had resulted in another criminal conviction. conviction, and defendant now contends this was an abuse of discretion because the court failed to consider his youth, background, and mental problems. the record demonstrates otherwise. the trial court properly considered, and balanced, other factors including the seriousness of his present murder conviction and criminal conduct defendant engaged in after his arrest. the court stated it was aware it must particulars of the background, character, and prospects of the allegation. childhood and indicated it might have considered striking the 19 [lt] in light of his background but recognized it was obligated to consider not 19 defendant arguein context, the court was not refusing to on one of the reasons why it felt it would be inappropriate to grant a romero telling me . . . is essentiallyi should strike it because i feel sorry for your client. so that may have been something to 34 considering murderwhich included date of murder, one involving criminal threats and the other involving use of force likely to produce great bodily injurythe an abuse of discretion. the court properly balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the law . . . (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 378, citation omitted.) 2. a remand is warranted so the trial court can decide whether to exercise its section 12022.53, subdivision (h) discretion senate bill 620, which the governor signed in october 2017 and which went into effect january 1, 2018 (after briefing was completed in this case), amended the penal code to give trial courts discretion 1385 and at the time of sentencing, [to] strike or dismiss an 12022.5 or 12022.53. ( 12022.5, subd. (c), 12022.53, subd. (h).) in a supplemental brief, defendant contends that because he was sentenced to a mandatory, consecutive 25-years-to-life prison term pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), we should remand his case to give the trial court an opportunity to strike the firearm enhancement that led to the imposition of that term. the attorney general concedes section 12022.53, subdivision (h) applies retroactively to defendant but contends remand would be futile because the record shows the trial court 35 would not have exercised its discretion to strike the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) enhancement. relying on the trial prior strike allegation, which added 15 years to his sentence, the attorney general argues the trial court impliedly decided the sentence imposed was the appropriate length and there is no chance the court would exercise its discretion to strike the 25-year-to-life firearm enhancement. while the attorney general may ultimately be proven correct in predicting the trial court would not choose to exercise its discretion to strike section 12022.53, subdivision (d) sentencing enhancement, we are not confident the record cat[es] that [the sentencing court] would not, in any event, have exercised its discretion to strike the allegation[ ]. (people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896.) a trial when deciding whether to strike an allegation in furtherance of justice for purposes of applying the those factors it finds relevant to deciding whether to strike a firearm allegation. (williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 160 [in under section 1385, courts ] within the [particular statutory] scheme in question, as informed by generally applicable sentencing principleswe believe the better course in this case is to permit the trial court to make the determination itself in the first instance, rather than attempting to read the tea leaves. 36 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court for the limited purpose of providing the court with an opportunity to decide whether to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. kim, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 