filed 3/19/18 p. v. ogbeiwi ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ogbemudia uware ogbeiwi, defendant and appellant. b280497 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba433640) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. lindsey m. ball, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 ogbemudia uware ogbeiwi appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted in count 1 of first degree residential burglary (pen. code,  459),1 and in count 2 of second degree robbery. ( 212.5, subd. (c).) appellant admitted the prior conviction allegations ( 667, subds. (a)(i), 1170.12, subd. (c)(1)) as well as the allegation that he was out on bail at the time of his arrest ( 12022.1). the trial court imposed an aggregate sentence of 15 years in state prison.2 appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion to sever the robbery from the burglary charge. we disagree and affirm. factual background the february 10, 2015 burglary shane lee and his family lived in a two-story house near 7th avenue and adams boulevard in los angeles. on february 10, 2015 around 5:00 a.m. shane was awakened by rumbling someonewhom shane thought was his brother, patrick 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 years on count 1 doubled to four years for the prior strike enhancement ( 667, subd. (b)(i), 1170.12, subd. (c)(1)), plus two years pursuant to section 12022.1, and five years for the serious felony enhancement. ( 667, subd. (a).) on count 2, the trial court imposed a consecutive sentence of one-third the three-year middle term, doubled to two years for the strike prior. in the same proceeding, the trial court sentenced appellant to a consecutive prison sentence of two years for his conviction in los angeles county superior court (lasc) case no. ba429867. 3 bedroom door and closed it. about five minutes later, the door opened again, and appellant entered the room and turned on the light. appellant took a few steps into the room and asked, brother? appellant then left the room, closing the door behind him. shane dressed quickly and grabbed his phone. as shane was walking out of the house, appellant followed him and asked, are you leaving? appellant followed shane outside, but as shane walked up the street appellant turned around and walked in the other direction. shane called patrick, called 911. when police arrived they found appellant on a balcony ledge on the roof although appellant complied with orders to go inside, he was stumbling, shouting shane identified appellant as the man who had entered his room. when patrick returned home, he found a duffel bag on the roof of the patio. he retrieved it, and found property from his bedroom, including some of his clothes, dvds, an old wallet, and video games. patrick had not packed the bag or put it on the roof. police found no signs of forced entry, and were informed that the front door had likely been left unlocked. in a written statement, appellant explained that the last thing he remembered was being with his brother and some friends listening to music, drinking and smoking marijuana. he drank something out of a cup, and then woke up in an unfamiliar place. 4 yi, he and appellant had been to a party earlier in the evening. after about two hours, seem like he knew not appear able to control himself. iyayi had to help his brother stand up and escort him out of the party. while waiting for a bus, appellant was talking to passing cars and stumbling. he did not seem to understand what iyayi was saying to him. after appellant said something that hurt iyayis, iyayi allowed the february 10, 2016 robbery approximately 5:00 p.m. on february 10, 2016, appellant and his niece, ariel, walked into a grocery store in compton where christopher farrow was working as a uniformed security guard. as ariel and her uncle walked toward the liquor display, ariel looked over at farrow twice, who was standing at the exit door next to the customer service window. farrow felt they were appellant grabbed two bottles of liquor from the shelf, and proceeded past the cashier toward the exit with ariel. farrow confronted appellant near the front door and asked him if he had a receipt for the bottles of liquor in his hands. appellant ot no receipt. you know appellant hit farrow with a bottle. both bottles broke as farrow and appellant began to wrestle. at some point, appellant managed to break away and go back inside the store to retrieve another bottle of liquor. farrow confronted appellant again and they resumed their struggle. farrow got on top of appellant and held him down until police arrived about 10 minutes later. 5 surveillance camera. appellant explained to the officers that he was going to pay for the items, but he forgot. discussion i. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the severance motion a. relevant background appellant was charged in connection with the february 10, 2015 residential burglary (lasc case no. ba433640) on april 1, 2015.3 he posted bond and was out of custody when he committed the robbery in compton a year later. the robbery was originally charged in lasc case number ta139326. the trial court denied a defense motion to transfer all pending cases against appellant to compton, and subsequently granted the to consolidate the burglary and robbery counts in lasc case number ba433640. shortly before the start of trial, the trial court denied the defense motion to sever the burglary charge (count 1) from the robbery charge (count 2). the court explained its ruling, stating: the motion to sever them again. they are the same class of crimes and i mean clearly they are two separate incidents but they are the same class of crimes and that is exactly the kind of things that are oftentimes joined. they are both theft cases and certainly the court appreciates that it may be somewhat more 3 on december 18, 2014, appellant had pleaded guilty to robbery ( 211) and grand theft person ( 487, subd. (c)) in lasc case no. ba429867. sentencing in that case was delayed, and appellant remained out of custody. 6 but on the other hand, certainly it is not so prejudicial as to b. standard of review the joinder offenses of the same 954) is generally favored over separate trials because it avoids the increased costs and expenditure of judicial resources associated with separate trials. (alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1205, 1220 [because that is .) nonetheless, a trial court has discretion to sever properly joined charges in the interest of justice and for good cause. (people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 122 (simon).) we decision to deny severance for abuse of discretion. (people v. armstrong (2016) 1 cal.5th 432, 455456 (armstrong).) a trial court abuses its discretion only when its ruling reason. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1315.) where the statutory requirements for joinder are metthat is, where the offenses are of the same class of crimes to establish that the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion. (simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 122123; armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 456.) moreover, because joinder is preferred, a party seeking severance must make a stronger showing of potential prejudice than would be necessary to exclude other-crimes evidence in a severed trial. (people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 127 (arias).) 7 c. relevant factors our supreme court instructs that in our review of the trial s order denying severance, we consider the record before the trial [citation.] we first consider whether evidence of each of the offenses would be cross- [citation.] if the evidence is not cross-admissiblewhether the benefits of joinder were sufficiently substantial to outweigh the -- evidence on the jury in its consideration of the evidence of s guilt of [citation.] we consider three additional factors, any of whichcombined with our earlier determination of absence of cross-admissibilitymight establ discretion: (1) whether some of the charges are particularly likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (2) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the totality of the evidence may alter the outcome as to some or all of the charges; or (3) whether one of the charges (but not another) is a capital offense, or the joinder of the charges converts the matter into a capital case. [citations.] we then balance the potential for prejudice to the defendant from a joint trial against the counte (armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 456.) s ruling was proper as a matter of state law, we will reverse the judgment if the defendant shows that joinder of the charges actually resulted gross unfairness during the guilt phase. (simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 123.) as the trial court found, because burglary and robbery are in the within the meaning of section 954, 8 the two offenses were properly joined in this case. (people v. biehler (1961) 198 cal.app.2d 290, 293; people v. johnston (1931) 114 cal.app. 241, 244.) appellant contends, however, that the trial court abused its discretion in denying severance because it failed to consider adequately the lack of cross-admissibility of the evidence to prove each of the offenses. appellant is correct that the evidence was not cross-admissible on the charges, but as our high court has observed, cross-admissibility is not the sine qua non of joint trials. (people v. marquez (1992) 1 cal.4th 553, 572; arias, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 127.) in the absence of cross-admissibility of evidence, we look to other factors to determine if the trial court abused its discretion. (armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 456.) none of those factors supports severance, much less an argument that the trial court abused its discretion here. there was nothing particularly inflammatory about either the robbery or the burglary in this case that might have unfairly prejudiced the jury against appellant, thereby bolstering a weak prosecution case on one of the charges. (see people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 850 [no abuse of discretion in joinder of brutal rape incident with separate robbery where there was little risk that details of the rape would bolster prosecution of the robbery charge].) here, the store surveillance video showed nothing more than a garden variety theft-turned-robbery when appellant used force to get out of the store with the two bottles of liquor. it plainly did not constitute the type of inflammatory evidence likely to overwhelm the jury and persuade it to find 9 appellant guilty of the burglary based on an improper inference that he had a propensity to commit theft.4 in the same vein, there is no indication the consolidation of these charges resulted in the joinder of a weak case to a strong case. rn arising in connection with this issue is that jurors may aggregate evidence and convict on weak (simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 127.) no such concern arose here. crtion, the evidence on the burglary charge was just as compelling as the evidence of his guilt in the robbery case. true, there was no video of but there was abundant evidence from which the jury could deduce that appellant entered the home intending to commit theft rather than out of confusion about where he was. shane indicating that appellant went there first, not looking for his , filling his pockets, and packing at some point he tossed onto the roof. seeing that shane had left the house, appellant returned to finish the job, and was located by a police helicopter hiding on the roof. appellant overstates any ambiguity created by evidence that he turned on the light as and asked for his own brother. at that point, appellant had already been which he had 4 indicates it considered the issue of intent on the burglary charge separately from the evidence of the robbery. 10 found vacant. upon unexpectedly encountering shane in the other bedroom, his behavior was entirely consistent with feigning confusion and innocence to avoid being caught in the middle of a burglary. in sum, appellant has failed to establish any abuse of discretion in the consolidation of the robbery and burglary we also reject contention that the joinder of resulted in gross unfairness amounting to a denial of due process, conviction. (see people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 162, quoting arias, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 127; people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 783.) appellanin this regard rests entirely on the lack of cross-admissibility of the evidence on the two charges. but as discussed above, absence of cross-admissibility of the evidence is not the sole factor for courts to consider in determining prejudice from the consolidation of charges. indeed, [a]ppellate courts have found no prejudicial effect from joinder when the evidence of each crime is simple and distinct, even though such evidence might not have been admissible in separate trials. soper, at p. 784.) so it is here. the evidence of these two crimes was straightforward and discrete, and the prosecution of each offense was independent of the other with no spill-over effect. accordingly, on this record, we find no likelihood of a different outcome had the charges been tried separately. 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, p. j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. hoffstadt, j. 