 filed 9/12/17 p. v. martines ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. martin martines, defendant and appellant. b280678 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na043088) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark c. kim, judge. affirmed. robert g. berke and edith nazarian, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant martin martines (a.k.a. arturo lara-aguilera) appeals from the denial of his motion to vacate his plea pursuant to penal code section 1016.5.1 he contends he was improperly advised of the immigration consequences of his plea and suffered prejudice as a result. we affirm. factual and procedural history in 2000, defendant pled guilty to six counts of robbery ( 211) and admitted the special allegation that he personally used a firearm ( 12022.53) in the commission of the robbery charged in count 1. according to defendant, his original, court-appointed counsel presented him with an offer of 12 years. defendant then met with a private attorney whom his family had hired; this attorney told defendant he could get a better deal. however, shortly before trial, private counsel informed him that the offer had been raised at a pre-trial hearing discussing a poten he recommended that defendant take the plea offer. defendant agreed to take the plea. the court then gave the following advisement: citizen of this country, as a result of these pleas you will be deported. you will be denied reentry if you were to leave the country, and you will be deni the court asked defendant if he understood what the court had said 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 about immigration consequences and if he had any questions. defendant stated he understood and, after conferring further with his counsel, he had no questions. sentenced him to 16 years in state prison. on september 20, 2016, defendant filed a motion to vacate his conviction and withdraw his plea pursuant to section 1016.5. in his accompanying declaration, defendant stated that after he completed his criminal sentence in july 2014, he was transferred to a detention facility by the department of homeland security and placed in removal proceedings. defendant retained immigration counsel, who advised him that his robbery convictions were classified as crimes of moral turpitude that would render him inadmissible to the united states. defendant also stated in his declaration that at the time he entered his plea, he was married to a u.s. citizen. considered the fact that, by entering my plea, i would become ineligible from adjusting my status or that the conviction would render me deportable from the united states because i was never made aware that these were thifrom relief, and be barred forever from immigrating to the united states after removal, i would never have entered this plea. i definitely would have taken my chances at trial or tried to get an immigration-safe deal. . . . the trial court denied the motion. the court found that the advisement given during the plea hearing substantially complied with the requirements of section 1016.5. further, the court concluded that defendant failed to establish prejudice, finding that defendant 4 this appeal follows.2 discussion i. governing principles immigration consequences of his plea and conviction did not meet the requirements of section 1016.5. in pertinent part, that statute y or nolo contendere to any offense punishable as a crime under state law . . . the court shall administer the following advisement on the record to the defendant: if you are not a citizen, you are hereby advised that conviction of the offense for which you have been charged may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of subd. (a).) if the court fails to give the admonition required by subdivision (a) and the defendant can show that the conviction might result in the immigration consequences addressed by the statute, then upon the court must vacate the judgment and allow the defendant to withdraw his plea and enter a plea of not guilty. ( 1016.5, subd. (b).) defendant must establish that (1) he or she was not properly advised of the immigration consequences as provided by the statute; (2) there exists, at the time of the motion, more than a remote possibility that the conviction will have one or more of the specified adverse immigration consequences; and (3) he or she was prejudiced by the (totari, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 884.) 2 the denial of a motion to vacate under section 1016.5 is an appealable order. (people v. totari (2002) 28 cal.4th 876, 887 (totari).) 5 the purpose of section 1016.5 is to ensure that the defendant has both actual knowledge of the possible adverse immigration consequences of a guilty plea and a chance to make an intelligent choice whether to plead guilty. (people v. superior court (zamudio) (2000) 23 cal.4th 183, 193-194 (zamudio); people v. gutierrez (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 169, 173 (gutierrez).) and third prongs of his motionthat he was properly advised of the immigration consequences of his plea and that, if there was any error in the advisement, he was not prejudiced by it. we review the trial discretion. (zamudio, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 192.) ii. defendant was adequately advised of the immigration consequences of his plea deportation, exclusion from admission, and denial of naturalization. (gutierrez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at p. 174.) defendant challenges only the advisement regarding exclusion from admission to the united states. the immigration advisement pursuant to section 1016.5 need not be in the statutory language; substantial compliance is all that is of all three (gutierrez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at p. 174; zamudio, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 207-208 [substantial compliance with the statutorily described advisement is adequate]; people v. limones (1991) defendant argues that the 6 advisement he received was not substantially compliant because context, and the aimplied that, so long as he did not leave the united states, he could avoid adverse immigration consequences. this argument has been uniformly rejected. in gutierrez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th 169, the prosecutor similarly advised the defendant as follows: states citizen, you will be deported from the united states, denied re-id. at p. 171.) the ctually three components to exclusion: reentry, rescission of resident status, and ineligibility to as to re-entry. (id. at p. 174, fn. 4.) the court disagreed, stating, [b]oth zamudio[, supra, 23 cal.4th 183] and [people v.] gontiz [(1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1309 (gontiz)] make clear that the words used by the prosecutor here were the equivalent of the statutory language. zamudio, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 207.) distinguished from exclusion, which is the denial of entry to the united states. (gontiz, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 1317.) . . . . appellant was expressly told that one of the immigration consequences of his conviction was that he would be denied reentry into the united states; in other words, under the statute, he would be excluded from the united states. the trial court, thus, substantially complied with the statute, and, hence, committed no error in the manner in which it (gutierrez, supra, 106 cal.app.4th at p. 174.) defendant contends that gutierrez was incorrectly decided f the 7 federal immigration statutes. this argument ignores the language of both gutierrez and zamudio, which expressly considered the terms as they were incorporated into section 1016.5 from immigration law, and found them sufficiently equivalent for purposes of the advisement under section 1016.5. (see gutierrez, supra, 106 cal.app. 4th at p.174; zamudio, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 207, quoting roseman, the alien and the guilty plea: caveat to the defense (1984) 12 w. st. u. l.rev. 155, 165, fn. oart from immigration law. . . . exclusionis being barred from entry to the united states.] defendant also notes that, unlike the defendant in gutierrez-immigration statutes. but the crux of his argument is the samethat the advisement regarding denial of re-entry did not encompass the same array of circumstances as exclusion from admission, most pertinently the inability to adjust his status. section 1016.5 does not require the articulation of any or all sub-components to exclusion. moreover, even if the advisement had quoted the statutory language, would not have provided him the information he claims he lackedthat he would be prevented from adjusting his status while still in the united states.3 the requirements of section 1016.5. assisted by his attorney, defendant informed the court that he understood the admonition and the consequences of that plea. we find no abuse of discretion in the denial 3 pposite. 8 iii. defendant failed to show prejudice even if we found defendant received an inadequate advisement, we would nevertheless conclude his section 1016.5 motion was properly denied because he failed to make the required showing of prejudice. to establish prejudice, defendant must show that it is reasonably probable he would not have pled guilty had he been properly advised. (totari, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 884; zamudio, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 209210.) [citation.] to that end, the defendant must provide a declaration or testimony stating that he or she would not have entered into the plea bargain if properly advised. it is up to the trial court to determine an assertion that is not supported by an explanation or other (people v. martinez (2013) 57 cal.4th 555, 565.) the trial court found would not have entered into his plea if he had been advised of its immigration consequences in the language of section 1016.5. the objective evidence to corroborate this assertion, and by the fact that nd therefore he would have been willing to reject the plea if he had known it would render him unable to seek to adjust his status based on his marriage. but the marriage certificate marriage was not until may 11, 2016, 16 years after he entered his plea. he also claimed he was never advised that he could be deported, which was undisputedly part of the advisement the court gave on the 9 record and which defendant acknowledged he understood. finally, estion that he would have tried to negotiate a plea without immigration consequences is undercut by the circumstances of his pleahe was facing what his own attorney termed as a likely conviction and sentence of up to 40 years, and he had already seen the available plea deal increase from 12 to 16 years. moreover, had defendant proceeded to trial and been convicted, he would have been subject to the same immigration consequences. defendant was likely to lose at trial, no evidence of possible defenses to the charged offenses, and no other basis to conclude that he would have likely proceeded to trial or been able to negotiate a better plea if given the a different he choice . . . that petitioner would have faced at the time he was considering whether to plead, even had he been properly advised, would not have been between, on the one hand, pleading guilty and being deported and, on the other, going to trial and avoi [citation.] the defendant thus must convince the court he or she would have chosen to lose the benefits of the plea bargain despite the possibility or (people v. martinez, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 565.) defendant failed to convince the trial court that he would have proceeded differently under the circumstances existing at the time of the statute. we find no error in that conclusion. 10 disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 