 filed 11/9/17 p. v. crawford ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ieon raymond crawford, defendant and appellant. b280363 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa080086) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, david b. gelfound, judge. affirmed as modified with directions. law offices of james koester and james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant 2 attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ introduction defendant ieon raymond crawford appeals from the trial judgment reimposing sentence on five counts following his first appeal. in the previous appeal, this court found insufficient street terrorism conviction and gang enhancements (pen. code,1  186.22, subd. (a), 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). (people v. crawford (sept. 21, 2016, b267354) [nonpub. opn.].) we remanded for resentencing and otherwise affirmed. we agree with defendant that, under section 654, his sentence for his criminal street gang conspiracy constituted multiple punishment for the same conduct as his sentences for his substantive crimes. we also agree that one of his firearms convictions constituted multiple punishment for a single act of otherwise affirm. background defendant was arrested in a bedroom of a house that had been under surveillance for suspected gang narcotics sales. from 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code except where otherwise noted. 3 that bedroom, police recovered methamphetamine, marijuana, narcotics paraphernalia, two digital scales, and $50 in cash together with two semiautomatic handguns. specifically, under the mattress that defendant had been laying on when officers entered, police found three individual baggies of methamphetamine, a loaded .380-caliber handgun, and ammunition. additionally, a .45-caliber handgun was in a brown paper bag inside a milk crate. the .45-caliber weapon had been active member of the san fer gang. the gang members engaged in a pattern of criminal activity including theft, robbery, battery, deadly weapon assault, shootings, attempted murder, and distribution of illicit drugs. these activities produced income for the gang. gang members carried firearms to defend and protect gang territory, to commit crimes, to protect illicit drugs from theft by rival gang members, and to promote fear and intimidation. defendant stands convicted of criminal street gang conspiracy (count 1); methamphetamine possession while armed with a loaded, operable firearm (count 3); misdemeanor methamphetamine possession (count 4);2 firearm possession with a prior violent felony conviction (count 5); firearm possession by a felon (count 6); and ammunition possession by a felon (count 7). ( 182.5, 29800, subd. (a)(1), 29900, subd. (a)(1), 30305, subd. (a)(1); health & saf. code,  11370.1, subd. (a), 11377, subd. (a).) 2 the jury convicted defendant of a lesser offense. he had been charged with methamphetamine possession for sale. 4 the court imposed prior conviction and prison term enhancements, and sentenced defendant to a total of 15 years 8 months in state prison. discussion a. section 654 section 654, subdivision (a) provides in part: omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one section 654 prohibits multiple punishment for a single physical act or for a course of conduct pursuant to a single intent or objective. (people v. corpening (2016) 2 cal.5th 307, 311.) the divisibility of a course of conduct depends upon the intent and objective of the actor, and if all the offenses are incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of them people v. coleman (1989) 48 cal.3d 112, 162.) as to conspiracy, whether section 654 prohibits a sentence 654] to sentence a defendant for conspiracy to commit several crimes and for each of those crimes where the conspiracy had no objective apart from those crimes. if, however, a conspiracy had an objective apart from an offense for which the defendant is punished, he may properly be sentenced for the conspiracy as in re cruz (1966) 64 cal.2d 178, 180-181.) thus, punishment for both conspiracy and the 5 underlying substantive offense has been held impermissible when the conspiracy contemplated only the act performed in the substantive offense [citations], or when the substantive offenses are the means by which the conspiracy is carried out [citation]. punishment for both conspiracy and substantive offenses has been upheld when the conspiracy has broader or different objectives from the specific substantive offenses. [citations.] people v. vargas (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 506, 571.) our review is for substantial evidence to support the trial he application of section 654. (people v. coleman, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 162.) b. the criminal street gang conspiracy conviction must be stayed defendant argues punishment for his criminal street gang conspiracy conviction should have been stayed under section 654. we agree. a criminal street gang conspiracy consists of three in any criminal street gang, . . . [(2)] with knowledge that its members engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity, . . . [(3)] and who willfully promotes, furthers, assists, or benefits from any felonious criminal conduct by members of that gang is guilty of conspiracy to commit that felony and may be punis) a criminal street gang conspiracy differs from a traditional conspiracy in five significant ways. (people v. johnson (2013) 57 cal.4th 250, 261-262.) first, the defendant cannot be a stranger to his or her coconsp6 (id. at p. 262.) second, while a traditional conspiracy may encompass misdemeanors, a section 182.5 conspiracy requires the commission or attempted commission of felonious criminal conduct. third, a criminal street gang conspiracy does not require an agreement with requires both the specific intent to agree, and specific intent to commit a target crime. [citation.] a [section] 182.5 conspiracy does not require any prior agreement among the conspirators to promote, further, or assist in the commission of a particular target crime. even without a prior agreement, an active and knowing gang participant who acts with the required intent to promote, further, or assist in the commission of a felony by other gang members can violate section 182.5. that act of assistance or promotion replaces the required prior agreement to commit a (ibid.[t]raditional conspiracy liability attaches once an overt act is committed. a [section] 182.5 conspiracy requires the actual commission of felonious criminal conduct as either an (ibid.) and fifth, section 182.5 extends to gang members who merely benefit from crimes committed by other gang members. (ibid.) the jury was instructed that to prove defendant was guilty of a criminal street gang conspiracy the prosecution was required criminal street gang; [] 2. the defendant knew the gang members engaged in a pattern of criminal activity; [] 3. the members of the criminal street gang have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity; [] and [] 4. the defendant willfully 7 promoted, furthered, assisted in or benefited from felonious conduct was furthfelonious criminal conduct means committing or attempting to commit any of the following crimes: possession of a controlled substance with a firearm; possession for sale of methamphetamine, a controlled substance; possession of a firearm with prior violent conviction; possession of a firearm (italics added.) defendant received an eight-year sentence on count 3 for possessing methamphetamine while armed, and an additional consecutive three years eight months for his other convictions for firearms and misdemeanor methamphetamine offenses. he received a further consecutive two years for his criminal street gang conspiracy conviction. the additional punishment for the criminal street gang conspiracy would be permissible if it had a broader or different objective than the specific substantive felonies. (in re cruz, supra, 64 cal.2d at pp. 180-181; people v. vargas, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 571.) there was no substantial evidence that it did. the evidence and reasonable inferences therefrom established defendant actively participated in the gang with -related activities and that he willfully furthered those activities by committing the felonies, that is, by protectively arming himself while engaging in sales of illicit drugs. the trial court instructed the jury that defendant was charged with a conspiracy, the objective of which was the commission of the substantive offenses. under the instruction given, the jury could not have found defendant guilty of a conspiracy with a broader objective. (in re romano (1966) 64 cal.2d 826, 829.) 8 the attorney general argues the conspiracy had broader objectives. tang experts testimony about gang characteristics typical of gangs generally and of the present gang. these included reliance on income from drug sales, and its need to promote fear and intimidation in rival gangs and the community thereby allowing gang members to commit crimes with impunity. the commission of a specific felony by gang members. section furthers, assists, or benefits from any felonious criminal conduct by members of th[e] gang is guilty of conspiracy to commit that felony (italics added.) plain terms (people v. licas (2007) 41 cal.4th 362, 367) refers to a specific felony committed by gang members. moreover, our supreme court has held that similar language in section 186.22, subdivision (a)limits liability to gang members who aid a specific felony committed by to those who promote, further, or assist a specific felony committed by gang members and who know of tern of criminal gang activity. thus, a person who violates section 186.22[, subdivision] (a) has also aided and abetted a separate people v. castenada (2000) 23 cal.4th 743, 749.)3 here, the gang expert 3 we held in our september 21, 2016, opinion that the conviction pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (a), holding 9 addressed no specific felony apart from those of which defendant was convicted. the evidence demonstrated that the objective of the present conspiracy was to commit the specific firearms and narcotics offenses of which defendant was convicted, but not particular felonies beyond those. because there was no substantial evidence the conspiracy had a broader or different objective, the trial court should have conspiracy conviction. the judgment must be modified to so provide. c. the firearm possession counts must be stayed defendant was convicted of methamphetamine possession while armed with a loaded, operable firearm (count 3), firearm possession with a prior violent felony conviction (count 5), and firearm possession by a felon (count 6). defendant contends punishment on counts 5 and 6 should have been stayed. we agree in part. defendant possessed two semiautomatic handguns. section 654 does not preclude multiple punishment for possession of multiple firearms. ( 23510, subd. (a); people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 334, 342-343.) a felon who possesses several firearms is more culpable than one id. at p. 342.) that there was no evidence that defendant acted with any other gang member. defendant did not then challenge the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his criminal street gang conspiracy conviction. 10 yet defendant was convicted and punished for three firearms offenses involving those two guns. possession of the loaded, operable .380-caliber handgunstored with baggies of methamphetamine under the mattress on which he was layingmet the elements of count 3, methamphetamine possession while armed with a loaded and operable firearm. (health & saf. code,  11370.1, subd. (a).) his possession of the .45-caliber weapon supported either count 5 or count 6. but he could not be punished twice for the single act of possessing a single firearm on a single occasion. (people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 350, 357.) hence, either the count 5 or count 6 punishment should have been stayed.4 punishment on count 6. both sections 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (count 5) and 29900, subdivision (a)(1) (count 6) carry the same range of punishment16 months, 2 years, or 3 years ( 18, subd. (a), 29800, subd. (a)(1), 29900, subd. (a)(1)). the sentence the trial court imposed on count 5 was a consecutive one-third the conviction, for a total of 16 months. on count 6, the trial court imposed a concurrent midterm sentence of 2 years doubled for a 4 defendant asserts the jury could not rely on his possession of the .45-caliber weapon to convict him on any count because the gun was inoperable. the jury was instructed in connection with the felon in possession offenses, sections 29800 and 29900, that der if it was designed the .45-caliber handgun was described at trial as having been could reasonably conclude the .45-calib 11 total of 4 years. even the imposition of a concurrent sentence is precluded by section 654. (people v. jones, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 353.) therefore, we will modify the count 6 sentence to 16 months stayed. disposition the judgment is modified to stay the sentence on count 1 and to impose and stay a 16-month sentence on count 6. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. on remand, the trial court is to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and deliver a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports raphael, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. baker, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 