filed 1/5/18 p. v. izaguirre ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david izaguirre, defendant and appellant. b280354 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na097956) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard r. romero, judge. affirmed. laura s. skelly, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 david izaguirre appeals the judgment following his conviction for the premeditated murder of alicia espinoza. he seeks reversal of his conviction on the grounds (1) the prosecutor misstated the reasonable doubt standard during voir dire and rebuttal closing argument; (2) his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to object to the admission of certain autopsy photographs; identification card; and (4) the prosecutor improperly told jurors we find no prejudicial error and affirm. procedural background a jury convicted appellant of the murder of espinoza (pen. code,  187)1 and found true allegations appellant committed the murder willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation, and he personally used a deadly and dangerous weapona knife ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced him to 26 years to life. factual background on december 31, 2013, espinoza and appellant were found in a hotel room. espinoza was dead; she had been stabbed 28 times, 21 of which were fatal, and had been strangled and beaten. appellant was alive, but his throat was slit and he had been stabbed in his abdomen. it was determined those wounds were self-inflicted. at trial, there was no real dispute appellant killed espinoza; the only major issue was his mental state when he did so. 1 all undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code unless noted otherwise. 3 1. prosecution case appellant and espinoza were in a relationship for six years until they separated in june or july 2013. they stayed at the oscar motel together on december 30, 2013. appellant checked in that night and paid cash for a one-night stay, showing his honduran identification card to the motel manager. security footage showed him entering his room at the hotel with espinoza around midnight. the next morning, the motel manager knocked a master key to open the door and saw blood on the bed and a body on the floor. she called 911, and about five to 10 minutes later, police and paramedics arrived. clad only in a bra, espinoza lay face-down on the floor next to the bed. just off to her side, appellant lay on a comforter and pillow. espinoza was pronounced dead at the scene and paramedics began medically assisting appellant. a foldable appellant was transported to the hospital. his throat was slit and he had stab wounds in his abdomen. he had bruises around his knuckles and bloodstains around his nails. he had no defensive wounds on his hands. he told a nurse he had walked in and found his girlfriend dead. he had become so distraught he slit his own throat and stabbed himself. he wanted to die with her. dna analysis of blood on the knife revealed only espinoza and appellant as contributors. dna samples collected from espinoza with a sexual assault kit matched appellant (although there was no contention he sexually assaulted her). chest, abdomen, back, and arms consistent with the pocket knife 4 found at the scene. twenty-one of the wounds were fatal. the close spacing of the wounds to the back of her neck indicated she probably was not moving when they were inflicted. the wounds to the sides of her neck indicated she could have been moving her head from side to side or fighting when they were inflicted. she had a contusion across her neck and petechial hemorrhages in her eyes, suggesting she may have been strangled and rendered unconscious for a period of time. she had contusions to her skull caused by blunt force trauma. she had defensive wounds to her hands and arms. a toxicology test detected no alcohol or drugs in her system. espinoza2 testified appellant told her in a phone call in june 2013 that he was going to kill espinoza. in the same month, appellant was with ema at hated her. he said he wanted to kill her but he was asking god not to do it. ema asked why he was with espinoza if he hated her, and he responded that he had a roof over his head and food. ema relayed these statements to espinoza. ema also told the police about these statements in a recorded interview a few days 2. defense case appellant testified his relationship with espinoza began between 2005 or 2006 and ended in november 2013. from november 9, 2012, through the end of june 2013, he had had an 2 we refer to ema by first name to distinguish her from the victim. 5 affair with ema.3 when his relationship with ema ended, he resumed his relationship with espinoza in july 2013. he denied help to prevent him from killing her. on december 29, 2013, appellant happened to meet espinoza at a party. around 10:30 the next morningdecember 30, 2013, the day of the murderthey went out to eat and then checked into the oscar motel to have sexual relations. they went to their homes, and appellant picked her up again around 5:00 or 6:00 p.m. to go to a night club. during the drive, espinoza told appellant she held resentment against him. they talked about that, but they did not argue. according to appellant, at the club espinoza drank at least 12 beers, while appellant drank one. around 11:00 p.m., appellant and espinoza headed again to registered. they went to pick up food and brought it back to the room. after eating, they had sexual relations. during the act, they began arguing. espinoza again said she felt resentment cheating on her. appellant revealed he cheated on espinoza with ema. espinoza became angry, yelled at appellant, and slapped his face. he got angry and pushed her. espinoza reached for the knife appellant habitually carried in the pocket of his pants, which were on the nightstand. she said, 3 on cross-examination in the case-in-chief, ema testified she did not know if appellant was having a sexual relationship with someone other than espinoza in 2013. 6 from getting it, and he either opened it or it opened on its own. still yelling, espinoza came at him. he pushed her back with the knife in his hand, and he saw blood on his hand. after that, he did not remember anything until arriving at the hospital. in that moment when he picked up the knife, he was angry but he had no intention to kill her. appellant remembered a woman at the hospital asking him about his address and phone number and related questions, but he did not remember her asking him what happened. he did not know how he got the wounds to his throat and abdomen. the defense called two witnesses to undermine the -in-chief. on direct examination, ema testified she had no further contact with appellant after her conversation with him at her home in june -girlfriend testified she overheard a phone conversation between appellant and ema in december 2013. ema also testified on direct examination she before the murder and asked for a loan, to which he agreed. she asked him to deliver the money to appellant, who would deliver it to her. she never repaid the loan. 3. rebuttal opening and closing functions by pulling a lever or pushing a pin. discussion 1. prosecutorial error aburden of proof during voir dire and in closing argument. 7 defense counsel did not object to any of these statements, so appellant forfeited these contentions. (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674 (centeno) [ may not complain on appeal of prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashion, and on the same ground, the defendant objected to the action and also requested that the jury be admonished to disre shown his forfeiture should be excused because either the been cured by an admonition or any objection would have been futile. (ibid. an objection would have been futile or if an admonition would not have cured the h appellant alternatively contends his counsel was ineffective for failing to object. (centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 674 [ defendant whose counsel did not object at trial to alleged the effective assistance of .) appellant must show (1) deficient performance by his counsel and (2) resulting prejudice. (ibid.wide range of professional competence and sound trial strategy, counsel is deficient if there is no conceivable tactical purpose for the failure to object. (id. at pp. 674-675.) prejudice is shown if there is unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have id. at p. 676.) we need not decide whether those comments were erroneous or defense counsel performed deficiently by failing to object to them. 8 in the context of the overwhelming case against appellant, we allegedly deficient performance. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1126 ing the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged a. during voir dire of prospective jurors, the prosecutor used examples of a wedding and the american flag to attempt to illustrate the reasonable doubt standard. first, she stated: juror no. 17attend the wedding. you worry about dui, okay? you have a few drinks. you get in your car. you drive down the strip. you see a woman with a nice white dress. you see a man with a nice suit. you see children throwing . . . rice. you see the woman holding flowers. [] what can you reasonably conclude is going on at that moment in time that 17: assume there was a wedding and they just got done. okay. [] why would you make that assumption? 17: white dress, blackblack suit, kids throwing rice. 9 based on the facts i gave you, that was a reasonable conclusion that you could draw, right? shooting a movie. i 17: possible. but did you hear me give any facts to support that, such as there was a camera, anybody yelling, [] e wa theme that these kids are having for their prom. possible, correct? did you hear me say anything that the person in white was actually a child? did you hear me say anything about the man being a child? r]: did you hear me say anything about music playing? so were there facts to support that uror no. 10 you were totally hallucinating the 17: possible. osecutor]: alien invasion and that is the only way they can think of to take over the world. possible, right? g in life is possible, correct? 17: the prosecutor then moved on to the flag analogy with prospective juror no. 3so my burden is proof beyond a reasonable doubt. not a possible doubt, not a maybe doubt, not a proba reasonable doubt. and because anything in life is possible, there could always be some doubt regarding something, but the doubt must be reasonable. [] for example, prospective juror no. 3, you raised your hand, right, that i would have to prove this has the color red, has the color white, blue, and some stars. if i were to ask you what that was, what would you say that was 3: a flag. okay. [] 3: because the way you described it. okay. [] but thing. 3: no. 11 3: if i wasjust based off the description, i would assume that you were describing the american flag. okay. [] why would you make that assumption? o. 3: because of the colors and thejust the way you described it. ith the american flag, correct? 3: yes. hangs up in courtrooms, in official buildings, correct? 3: yes. now, do i have to unhook that flag, lay it out in front of you, count each and every star, each and every stripe, go back in time, get our founding fathers and betsy ross, put them on the stand, and ask them questions for you to believe that the american flag? okay. [] because proof beyond all doubt would require me to take that kind of action; is that fair to say? tive juror no. 3: yes. but my burden is proof beyond a reasonable the prosecutor repeated the wedding analogy when questioning potential alternate jurors. in concluding the bably, perhaps, more than likely, it could have been, all these things are 12 also during voir dire, in discussing the concept that a conviction could be based on a single credible eyewitness, the prosecutor gave the prospective jurors a hypothetical crime in which a man punched her in a courtroom equipped with cameras, and while fleeing, he hit his head, bled, and touched the podium. incident, but the people did not present any footage from the cameras, any dna evidence, or any fingerprints. she elicited responses from prospective jurors that they could convict based on the witness alone. she concluded the hypothetical by saying, base your decision solely on the evidence presented. so dna is lack the prosecutor stated later in focused on the punishment, can you focus on the evidence? can from the start whatwhat we like to call you then begin looking for doubt. instead of listening to the evidence and listening to the facts, you begin finally, in rebuttal closing argument, the prosecutor t 12 beers was not credible because her toxicology test came back negative for alcohol. in referring to the reasonable doubt 13 doubt based on nothing less than all the evidence. and youit cannot be unreasonable. it has to be true, and it has to be defense has no burden. i only have the burden. but if they put on a case, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, well, they have to give you meaningful, truthful, and trustworthy evidence. and you have to evaluate the evidence the same you would evaluate the evidence i put onwhich means nobody gets to sit up here people pro b. analysis relying primarily on centeno, appellant claims all of these burden of proof. in centenoity, which was called into question in several centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 677.) in that context, the court found the prosecutor prejudicially erred in attempting to illustrate the reasonable doubt standard using a diagram of the outline of california and hypothetical facts, some of which were accurate and some of which were inaccurate or incomplete. the court reasoned, the use of an iconic image like the shape of california or the statue of liberty, unrelated to the facts of the case, is a flawed way to demonstrate the process of proving guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. these types of images necessarily presented at trial. they are immediately recognizable and 14 irrefutable. additionally, such demonstrations trivialize the deliberative process, essentially turning it into a game that id. at p. 669.) also misleading because urately reflect the evidence in this case, which was far from definitive. there may certainly be cases in which a few particularly strong pieces of information (such as scientific evidence or the testimony of a single reliable witness) are sufficiently compelling to prove the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] this was not such a case. it involved starkly conflicting evidence and required assessments of centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 670.) centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 671.) is reasonable. it must be convinced that all necessary facts have been proven beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the prosecutor, however, left the jury with the impression that so long as her interpretation of the evidence was reasonable, the people had met tid. at p. 672.) here, reasonable doubt standard appear to violate centeno. but we ultimately need not decide whether her comments were erroneous because impact on appellant. 15 during jury voir dire, prior to the introduction of evidence or the giving of formal instructions, people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 745.) further, after the close of evidence, the jury was given the standard instruction on the burden of proof. (calcrim no. 220.) the jury was also instructed that nothing the attorneys said was evidence (calcrim no. 222), mments on the law instructions (calcrim no. any confusion or uncertainty that may have been created by the medina, supra, at p. 745 [finding no prejudicial misconduct from use of chart during voir dire purportedly illustrating reasonable doubt standard].) comment the court. the former are usually billed in advance to the jury as matters of argument, not evidence [citation], and are likely viewed as the statements of advocates; the latter, we have often recognized, are viewed as definitive and binding statements of to instructions given a jury, we will ordinarily conclude that the 16 people v. katzenberger (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1260, 1268.) also, unlike in centeno, which turned on the challenged credibility of the young victim, the evidence supporting in this case was overwhea vicious attack that included a beating, strangulation, and 28 stab wounds in her neck, chest, abdomen, back, and arms, 21 of which were fatal. some of those wounds were defensive, suggesting she fought back, and appellant possibly rendered her unconscious and stabbed her in the back of the neck multiple times as she lay still. (people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 247 bloody death sustained as a result of multiple stab wounds can be consistent with a wounds had to take some period of time, even if brief, and the fact that appellant overpowered her at some point strongly suggested premeditation and deliberation. (people v. san nicolas (2004) 34 cal.4th 614, 658 involving deliberation and premeditationrequires nothing more than a appellant also told he hated espinoza and twice said he was going to kill her. though appellcredibility, he failed to undermine the veracity of these specific statements. could not remember what happened after he pushed espinoza and saw blood on his hand, but he testified in detail to the events leading up to the moment of the stabbing. he also told the nurse at the hospital he had walked in and found his girlfriend dead, 17 which conflicted with his testimony at trial that he accidentally stabbed her once and did not remember anything after. even if the jury believed his version of events, it would not have convicted him of second degree murder or voluntary manslaughter. heat of passion reduces murder to voluntary actually obscured as disposition . . . to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, and from this passion rather than from judgmen (people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1306.) provocation can (people v. jones (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 995, 1000.) appellant testified that during sex, he and espinoza began arguing, and she said she felt resentment toward him. at that point, appellant revealed he cheated on her with her sister ema. espinoza became angry, yelled at him, and slapped his face. in response he angrily pushed her. as espinoza reached for the , may or may not have opened it, and pushed her away. when he looked down at his hand, it was bloody. he remembered nothing after, including inflicting wounds on himself. these facts do not show a reasonable person would have been provoked into killing without deliberation. (see people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 586 [insufficient provocation from name-calling and urging defendant to use a weapon if he had it]; see also people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 826-827 (gutierrez) [argument, name-calling, and simple assault 18 insufficient to warrant voluntary manslaughter instruction].) there is also actions subjectively prevented him from deliberating and premeditating. while he claims the wounds he inflicted on himself showed some does not show his subjective mental state before the murder. also, the prosecutor pointed out in closing argument that after appellant stabbed himself, he apparently moved the comforter and pillow to lie on it and placed the knife next to espinoza to make it seem like she was the last person to touch it. those actions strongly undercut his claim he was so emotional that he was unable to deliberate. in sum, even if his counsel performed deficiently by not prejudice, so reversal is not warranted. 2. autopsy photographs during trial, the prosecution introduced crime scene photographs that showed blood throughout the motel room and graphically depicted espinoduring the several photographs taken during , including five depicting trial exhibit no. 95 depicted her skull with the scalp pulled away to reveal bruises, only one of which was visible on her skin. trial exhibit nos. 96, 97, and 98 showed forceps holding open the cleaned stab wounds to the back of her neck. trial exhibit no. 99 depicted a dissection of her neck, wdefense counsel did not object to the introduction of any of these photographs. 19 after the coroner discussed trial exhibit nos. 95 through 98, the trial court had to go to sidebar because a juror felt like he was going to pass out. he explained he had difficulty seeing bloody photographs and he did not think he could proceed with trial. noting the juror appeared to be hyperventilating and was the court excused the juror and replaced him with an alternate. the court did not inform the rest of the jury why the juror was dismissed, and the coroner continued testifying about trial exhibit no. 99. appellant contends his counsel was ineffective for failing to object that trial exhibit nos. 95 through 99 were more prejudicial than probative pursuant to evidence code section 352. because at least two reasonable tactical reasons existed failure to object, we must reject his claim. (centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 674-675.)4 first, defense counsel could have plausibly decided the photographs supported the defense theory that appellant acted under a heat of passion. (see people v. turner (1990) 50 cal.3d 668, 706, fn. 19 photos an.) indeed, defense counsel argued in closing, 4 claim because appellant failed to request the trial exhibits be included in the or separately transmitted to this court. appellant timely requested the superior court transmit , and we have received them. (cal. rules of court, rules 8.224(a)(1), 8.320.) 20 attack could have begun and ended in a matter of seconds. you do not need to stab somebody 28 times, try to strangle them, and that. many of these stab wounds were fatal in and of themselves. this was a frenzied out-of- second, counsel could have reasonably concluded any objection based on evidence code section 352 was meritless and would have been futile. (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 387 assistance by failing to make motions or objections that counsel reasonably determines the photographs were highly probative of the nature and severity of the attack and helped illustrate the many wounds. (see people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1234, 1272 (gonzales) evidence is highly relevant to the issues raised by the facts, or if the photographs would clarify the testimony of a medical people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 171 (booker].) trial exhibit no. 95 was particularly probative because it showed additional bruising on scalp not visible on her skin. the photographs posed little risk of undue prejudice. trial exhibit nos. 96 through 98 were not particularly graphicthey merely depicted the cleaned stab wounds to the back of neck held open by forceps. trial exhibit nos. 95 and 99 were unquestionably graphic, but they were no more gruesome bloody, nearly naked body at the crime scene, to which appellant has raised no objection. (see gonzales, supra, 54 cal.4th at 21 p. 1271 [autopsy and crime scene photographs properly admitted not alter this balance. people v. marsh (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 987, 996-999, a 30-year-old case finding the trial court erred in admitting autopsy photographs of a toddler murder victim, several of which were more graphic than the photographs in this case. that photographs of murder victims are relevant to help prove how the charged crime occurred, and that in presenting the case a prosecutor is not limited to details provided by the testimony of live witne(booker, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 170.) because reasonable tactical choices could have explained 3. honduran identification card before trial, appellant objected to the introduction of his honduran identification card he showed to the manager at the motel at check in. defense counsel contended it prosecutor responded the card was relevant because the motel the individual who showed this card at the front desk. the court overruled the objection, finding the identification card was relevant and any possible prejudice was speculative. appellant argues this ruling was an abuse of discretion and violated his constitutional due process rights. we disagree. 22 the relevance of evidence. [citation.] similarly, the court has broad discretion under evidence code section 352 to exclude even relevant evidence if it determines the probative value of the evidence is substantially outweighed by its possible prejudicial regarding relevancy and admissibility under evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. [citation.] we will not trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage people v. jones (2017) 3 cal.5th 583, 609 (jones).) the trial court reasonably concluded the card was relevant the manager testified she had no independent recollection of identification card. probative value was low because it was cumulative to undisputed evidence that appellant was the one who checked into the motel. appellant did not object on this ground in the trial court, so he forfeited this argument. (people v. brady (2010) 50 cal.4th 547, 576.) in any case, the card was not duplicative for the specific purpose of ref the court also reasonably concluded any potential risk that the jury might infer appellant lacked legal status in the united states was speculative. while appellant is correct a reference to significant risk of prejudice (cf. velasquez v. centrome, inc. (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 1191, 1214 [trial court erroneously informed prospective jurors plaintiff was an undocumented immigrant 23 during voir dire]), the trial court here specifically excluded any evidence that appellant was an illegal immigrant and the parties identification card in context was extremely unlikely to prompt jurors to draw any negative inference about his immigration status.5 for the same reasons, the admission of the identification jones, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 612.) 4. juror refusal to deliberate appellant claims the prosecutor tainted deliberations when she asked a prospective juror during voir dire if the juror would feel comfortable informing the court that that person is just supposed to appellant forfeited his argument by failing to object to this comment. (centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 674.) even if we reached the merits we would reject his claim. for that ineffective for failing to object. appellant relies on people v. engelman (2002) 28 cal.4th 436 (engelman), but in that case our high court concluded there 5 appellant cites the comments of two prospective jurors one counsel asked why the juror thought that was relevant, the juror ad a discussion about the issue. according to the parties, neither juror served on the jury, so their comments could have had no impact on the case. 24 was no state or federal constitutional issue with an instruction telling jurors, the integrity of a trial requires that jurors, at all times during their deliberations, conduct themselves as required by these instructions. accordingly, should it occur that any juror refuses to deliberate or expresses an intention to disregard the law or to decide the case based on [penalty or punishment, or] any [other] improper basis, it is the obligation of the other jurors to immediately advise the court of the situation. id. at pp. 441-442.) the court exercised its supervisory power to direct trial courts not to give the instruction because it posed an unnecessary risk to the deliberative process. (id. at p. 449.) later, in people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038 (barnwell) such a thing were to happen that a juror refused to deliberate, would you be strong [enough] to remind that juror that they were the jurors again answered id. at p. 1055.) even though the case was tried before the instruction in engelman was adopted, the court found no error under engelman instruction on these topics would not have infringed upon state constitutional right to a unanimous verdict. [citation.] moreover, the remarks made by the court and prosecutor did not license to scrutinize other jurors for some ill-defined misconduct rather than to barnwell, supra, at p. 1055.) 25 differ from either the instruction in engelman or the comments in barnwell. for the reasons explained in those cases, we reject claim of error. 5. cumulative error having assumed only a potential error comments on the reasonable doubt standard, which did not prejudice appellant, we find no cumulative error warranting reversal. (see gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 828-829.) disposition we affirm the judgment. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 