filed 4/4/19 p. v. linares ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jimmy s. linares, defendant and appellant. b280163 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya092800) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. alan b. honeycutt, judge. affirmed. janet uson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and douglas l. wilson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 jimmy s. linares appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of one count of first degree residential burglary (pen. code,1  459) and one count of felony vandalism ( 594, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced appellant to four years in state prison on the burglary count and imposed and stayed two years on the vandalism count under section 654. this appeal followed. subsequently, linares filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus in case no. b286383.2 appellant contends: (1) the trial court erroneously found appellant had failed to make a prima facie showing of group bias under batson/wheeler3; (2) 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 writ of habeas corpus, which raises the same ineffective assistance of counsel claims advanced on appeal. one of those claims arises from matters appearing on the four corners of the appellate record, and will be addressed in the context of the appeal, rendering this claim in the petition for writ of habeas corpus moot. the other claim of ineffective assistance of counsel will require an evidentiary hearing for resolution. as to that claim, we separately issue an order to show cause returnable in the superior court. 3 batson/wheelerbatson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheelerjohnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 168 (johnson) in determining of bias against an identifiable group distinguished on racial, people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1158.) 3 stitutional rights to due process; (3) the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that appellant harbored the requisite burglary intent; and (4) appellant received ineffective assistance of counsel. we reject and affirm the judgment of conviction. factual background the prosecution evidence luchia garvey and sabrina gilmore met appellant when he helped them move into their two-bedroom apartment in june 2015. afterward appellant and gilmore had a beer outside on the balcony. appellant told gilmore his sister lived in the same apartment. he lived nearby in the apartment complex next door, and he frequently visited his sister. garvey overheard appellant say he was not happy in his relationship and was looking for someone he could be happy with. appellant and gilmore exchanged cell phone numbers and appellant offered to take gilmore out to check out the local bars since she was new to the neighborhood. sometime later appellant texted gilmore asking her how she was and what she was doing, but gilmore did not respond. on july 13, 2015, gilmore left the apartment around 1:30 p.m., and garvey left sometime between 2:00 and 3:00 p.m. garvey returned home between 10:30 and 11:00 p.m. as she was about to unlock the front door, she heard someone snoring inside the apartment and noticed that the window next to the door was broken. several panels of glass were shattered and the screen was bent inward leaving an opening large enough for a person to crawl through. looking inside the apartment garvey could see a sofa and the other leg stretched out in front of the sofa. garvey also saw a blue chase 4 bank debit card on the floor in front of the sofa. name was imprinted on the card. garvey called 9-1-1 to report a break-in. deputies arrived apartment, the deputies found appellant asleep on the couch and lingerie. deputy dwayne javier woke appellant, handcuffed him, and escorted him to a patrol vehicle. appellant walked downstairs without difficulty, keeping his head down. he had red lipstick on his mouth, and dressed only in clothing, he was wearing two tank tops, a bathing suit top, a green camisole, black bikini bottoms, and a pair of pink and red underwear. deputy javier, who had conducted hundreds of arrests involving people under the influence of drugs or alcohol, did not believe appellant was under the influence of a drug. however, aslurred, and he admitted he had been drinking, all of which led deputy javier to conclude appellant had consumed alcohol and was intoxicated. nevertheless, no breath or field sobriety tests were conducted because appellant was lucid and able to answer the locking mechanism for the deadbolt on the front door was damaged, and there were scratches near the lock between the door and the door frame. inside the apartment, several items near the broken window had been knocked over. on the floor near the sofa was a popsicle wrapper, which matched the brand of popsicles in the freezer that garvey had recently purchased. a bowl of cereal was on the kitchen counter. en tall can of beer was on the floor near clothing, including a pair of pants, a button-down shirt, and a 5 pair of shoes. a wallet conin the pants pocket, and it appeared that appellant had simply dropped his pants and stepped out of them. clothing was strewn about the floor. makeup on top of the dresser was out of place and appeared to have been used. one red lipstick was smashed and ruined. there were red lipstick stains in the crotch area of several articles of underwear, shorts, and inside the cups of two bras. the lipstick appellant was wearing was the same shade as the lipstick a pair of pantyhose appeared to have been stretched and worn. clothing that gilmore had just washed was disheveled and wet, and several articles of clothing that had been removed from the laundry hamper were wet and smelled of urine. and moist. in the bathroom there was urine in the toilet which had not been flushed. the closet s bed were wet. the defense expert testimony dr. john stalberg, a forensic psychologist, testified for the ity for based on an interview with appellant and his review of the police reports, photographs, and the preliminary hearing testimony, dr. stalberg testified that he point of view, any perversions. stalberg took into e affair 6 evaluation, the trial court ruled that dr. problem. in addition, dr. stalberg stated that he knew appellant had been accused and exonerated of rape in 1994, but he was unaware of any arrest for a violation of penal code section 288, child molesting. appellant testified that in 1994, he was accused of a rape but was not prosecuted after it was discovered the alleged victim was lying. he was never charged or accuse on july 13, 2015, appellant left his apartment between 2:00 and 3:00 p.m. and where he drank beer he had just bought in the parking lot. in the bar appellant . f beer, and started walking home around 6:00 or 6:30 until he was told to leave. around 8:30 p.m. appellant bought more beer. recognized he did not know their names. he described the woman as chubby shorter and heavier than appellantwith long hair. the man was skinny with short blond hair and taller than appellant. the man invited appellant to have some beer, and appellant walked with them. idea where they were going. when they reached the apartment complex where his sister lived, the couple opened the gate and led front door and appellant followed him and the woman inside. appellant did not notice the broken window. 7 appellant started drinking the beer he had bought at the store. but after drinking a glass of wine the woman gave him, the next thing he knew he was being awakened by deputies. appellant denied that he touched any of the clothing in the the only explanation he had for how makeup was that this couple had framed him. appellant surmised that after he passed out, the couple undressed him and they then dressed him lingerie top, and put red lipstick on his lips. the couple was never located. according to deputy javier, when appellant was led out of the apartment, he appeared coherent and lucid and never mentioned a man and woman taking him to the apartment and drugging him. appellant also never told the deputy he thought he had been framed. discussion i. batson/wheeler appellant contends reversal is required because the trial court failed to find a prima facie case of discrimination based on only two african-americans from the jury panel in violation of ional rights to equal protection and a representative jury. (u.s. const., 6th & 14th amends.; cal. const., art. i,  16; batson, supra, 476 u.s. 79; wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d 258.) based on our independent review of the totality of the circumstances surrounding the exercise of those peremptory challenges (people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 434435), we 8 conclude that the trial court correctly ruled that appellant did not present a prima facie case of discrimination. a. relevant background during jury selection, the prosecutor exercised seven peremptory challenges, including two consecutive challenges against two african-american women, prospective juror nos. 3543 and 7995. appellant objected under batson/wheeler after each challenge on the ground that the prospective juror was african-american, and after the second such challenge, no other african-americans remained in the venire. describing several race-neutral reasons that appeared on the record and justified the these jurors, the trial court found no prima facie case of discrimination. 1. prospective juror nos. 3543 and 7995 prospective juror no. 3543 was an artist and a healthcare provider with two minor children. she had previously served on a jury in a criminal case and reached a verdict. her husband, father and brother were attorneys. she stated she could be a fair and impartial juror. prospective juror no. 7995 was divorced with four adult children. in her job as a care manager she was occasionally required to contact police in connection with the seniors and people with disabilities with whom she worked. she previously served on a civil jury which reached a verdict. she felt uncomfortable and found the everything about again. her nephew worked in a prison facility in washington, and a sister was a deputy sheriff. she also had siblings who were incarcerated for drug offenses in other states. prospective juror no. 7995 stated she could be a fair and impartial juror and considered herself an open-minded person. 9 however, she volunteered that she had an issue with people drinking alcohol based on her experience dating a man who became brutal when he consumed alcohol. nevertheless, she believed that a person who was drunk could be found not guilty of a crime with which he was charged. 2. the prosecutor asked jurors if they could reach a guilty verdict even if they had unanswered questions. prospective juror come back with a verdict sayi but when the prosecutor added that the unanswered questions were not material to the elements of the crime, the juror said she would be able to reach a verdict. when the prosecutor posed the same question to prospective juror no. 7995, she responded that if she had questions, it would be hard for [her] to say that someone is at an individual committed a crime, you believe beyond a reasonable doubt this person committed a crime because each one of those elements have been met, have been proven beyond a reasonable doubt, so even if you still have unanswered questions, you think without aunanswered questions. so if i have unanswered questions, in my opiniofeel 10 then i the prosecutor used the following hypothetical set of facts to explain the concepts of circumstantial and direct evidence: a teacher walks into her class and places a giant chocolate chip cookie on her desk. as she leaves the classroom, she tells the students she will be right back and not to touch the cookie. she returns moments later to find a piece of the cookie gone. one of the students, suzy, points at joey, and says she saw him eat the the circumstantial evidence would be the cookie missing and the direct evidence would be suzy seeing and saying i saw him do it the prosecutor asked prospective juror no. 7995 for her t have issues with that scenario because in my opinion suzy could have the prosecutor asked if the juror would take into consideration additional corroborating evidence. prospective juror no. 7995 answered, the prosecutor then turned to prospective juror no. 3543 sort of the same thing that suzy could of made the little boy eat it. so it could have been that is asked by the defense and the people and that never comes up. e] evidence of the case. is that something 11 7995 responded to tthe same way as prospective juror no. 3543. the prosecutor then addressed prospective juror no. 3543 again, confirming that she had been the victim of a robbery and statingyou if you could be fair in this case. i sensed some hesitation as to whether or not you believed that you could be a fair judge of the facts in this 3543 tated. i think i could be stated she did not think her prior experience would affect her ability to be fair, and she could evaluate whether the prosecution had proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt without being influenced by that experience. finally, the prosecutor asked prospective juror no. 7995 about her sister who was incarcerated in las vegas on a weapons charge. the juror said there was nothing about that case that would affect her ability to be a fair judge of the facts in this case. 3. batson/wheeler motion when the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge to excuse prospective juror no. 3543, the defense objected under batson/wheeler. stating the basis for the objection, defense lack juror and this was one of only three black jurors in the venire. defense counsel t had to note that for the record. we would make observing there were other african-americans in the venire, the trial court declared that no prima facie showing of discrimination had been made and overruled the objection. 12 when the prosecution exercised its next peremptory challenge against prospective juror no. 7995, defense counsel again objected under batson/wheeler, . defense prosecutor would kick [this jurjurorbdeclaring that prospective juror no. 7995 was the only remaining african-american juror, have to make the objection under batson versus kentucky and people versus wheeler finding a race-peremptory challenges against both prospective juror nos. 3543 and 7995, the trial court explained, let me clarify for the record each of the jurors engaged with counsel in the hypothetical about the cookie that, in essence, they inserted into the hypothetical facts that were not, in essence, given, looking for alternative explanations to find a reason as to why [joey], the cookie eater, i realize and -hearted to some extent. i think it does give some insight into the mind-set of the juror in consideration of the very plain simple presentation of facts and their thought process as it relates to other alternative exchange between the prosecutor and prospective juror no. 3543 in which the juror deni hesitated in responding to a question about whether she could be a fair judge of the facts in this case. b. applicable law peremptory challenges are designed to be used for any (people v. armstrong (2019) 6 cal.5th 735, 765.) but they are not without limits. both the 13 peremptory challenges to exclude prospective jurors based on race. [citations.] doing so violates both the equal protection clause of the united states constitution and the right to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 of the california constitution. people v. parker (2017) 2 cal.5th 1184, 12101211 (parker); people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 383.) exclusion of even one prospective juror for reasons impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural error, requiring reversal. (people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 386people v. gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) there is, however, a rebuttable presumption that a peremptory challenge is being exercised properly, and the burden is on the opposing party to demonstrate impermissible discrimination. (parker, at p. 1211; armstrong, at p. 766.) our supreme court has explained that [t]o assess whether such prohibited discrimination has occurred, our inquiry under batson/wheeler follows three distinct, familiar steps. first, the party objecting to the strike must establish a prima facie case by showing facts sufficient to support an inference of discriminatory purpose. (johnson[, supra, 545 u.s. at p.] 168.) second, if the objector succeeds in establishing a prima facie case, the burden shifts to the proponent of the strike to offer a permissible, nonbiased justification for the strike. ([ibid.]) finally, if the proponent does offer a nonbiased justification, the trial court must decide whether that justification is genuine or instead whether impermissible discrimination in fact motivated the strike. (ibid.)people v. reed (2018) 4 cal.5th 989, 999 (reed).) however, [t]he ultimate burden of persuasion regarding racial motivation rests with, and never shifts from, the opponent of the 14 strike.(people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612613; parker, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1211.) our supreme c hen a trial court denies a wheeler motion without finding a prima facie case of group bias, the appellate court reviews the record of voir dire for evidence to support the trial courts ruling. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 421 (pearson).) in conducting our review, we maconsider nondiscriminatory reasons for the peremptory strike that necessarily dispel any inference of bias, so long as those reasons are apparent from and clearly established in the record. (reed, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1000.) finally, we confidence that trial judges, experienced in supervising voir dire, [are] able to decide if the circumstances concerning the s use of peremptory challenges creates a prima facie case of discrimination against black jurors. (people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 838 (harris), quoting batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 97.) c. analysis applying the foregoing principles to the instant case, we conclude the record does not support an inference of peremptory challenges against prospective juror nos. 3543 and 7995. i make as complete a record as feasible trial judge to draw an inference that discrimination has occurred. (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 916 (jones).) here, however, to excusing these jurors were at best perfunctory. the sole basis for batson/wheeler motion was that the prosecutor had 15 excused the only african-american prospective jurors on the panel. even assuming the truth of that assertion, a numerical falls short of a prima facie showing [citation] because the small number of african-americans in the jury pool drawing an inference of discrimination from this fact alone impossible. (harris, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 835; parker, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1212 e bare circumstance that all african-american prospective jurors were struck from the pool would be insufficient in this case to support an inference that the sample was too small to permit an inference of discrimination]; people v. lopez (2013) 56 cal.4th 1028, 1049 [prosecutor struck the only two african- the small absolute size of this sample makes drawing the inference of discrimination from this fact alone impossible pearson, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 422 [no prima facie case of discrimination challenges to strike african-americans from panel]; people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 223 [no prima facie case where prosecutor exercised three of five peremptory challenges against african-americans, thus using a disproportionate ratio of strikes against african-americans who constituted only 28 percent of the prospective jurors].) appellant also fails to show that the prosecutor while the prosecutor did question these prospective juror at some length, the record demonstrates that these jurresponses to the prosecutorquestions and hypothetical differed sufficiently from the answers of the other prospective jurors to warrant further inquiry. we -up questions to support an 16 inference of discrimination. as the trial court observed, these demonstrated a willingness to speculate outside the evidence to find alternative explanations for the charged criminal behavior. given the anticipated defensconcerned about such speculation by the jury. further, whether or not the prosecutor correctly identified any hesitation by prospective juror no. 3543 in answering the constituted a race-neutral ground for the prosecutor to exercise a peremptory challenge. actual finding in this regard. additional race-neutral grounds for excusing these prospective jurors appear on the record. both women stated they would have difficulty returning a guilty verdict if there remained any unanswered questions, even if all the elements of the crime had been proved beyond a reasonable doubt. in addition, both jurors had family members who may have caused concerns for the prosecutor. finally, in describing her prior jury service as something she never wanted to repeat, prospective juror no. 7995 conveyed an active aversion to serving as a juror. indeed, defense counsel was forced to acknowledge there were legitimate reasons for the prosecutor to excuse prospective juror no. 7995 dire. 17 ii. the trial crefusal to instruct on third party liability appellant contends the trial court committed reversible error in refusing a defense instruction that pinpointed the defense theory of third party culpability. in refusing the requested instruction, the trial court noted that appellant had presented evidence of third party culpability and could argue that . however, no authority required the court to give the requested pinpoint instruction. nonargumentative instruction that pinpoints his or her theory of people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 720 (ledesma); people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 361; people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 886 (earp) [court must give ] the theory of that highlight specific evidence as such ].) generally, an instruction that the jury must find the defendant not guilty if evidence tending to prove that a party other than defendant committed the crime raises a reasonablis the type of ledesma, at p. 720.) trial court need not give a pinpoint instruction if it is argumentative [citation], merely duplicates other instructions (people v. hartsch (2010) 49 cal.4th 472, 500 (hartsch).) here, appellant proposed the following instruction: perpetrators of the charged offense. it is not required that the defendant prove this fact beyond a reasonable doubt. in order for 18 him to be entitled to a verdict of acquittal, it is only required that such evidence raise reasonable doubt in your minds of the however, our supreme court has explained that similar instructions add little to the standard inshartsch, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 504.) even if such instructions properly pinpoint the theory of third party liability, their omission is not prejudicial because the reasonable doubt instructions give defendants ample opportunity to impress upon the jury that s liability must be considered in weighing whether the prosecution has met its burden of proof. (ibid.; people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1234, 1277.) here, the trial court instructed the jury on reasonable each crime beyond a reasonable doubt.4 closing argument to the jury was that others had committed the the prosecution had failed to carry its burden of proving the charges beyond a reasonable doubt. but as in hartschsimply restated the reasonable doubt standard in connection with the possibility that one or more others might be guilty parties. the omission of this instruction, if error, could not have affected the verdict. it is hardly a difficult concept for the jury to grasp that acquittal is required if there is reasonable doubt as to whether someone else committed the charged crimes.hartsch, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 504; see earp, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 887 4 the court properly instructed the jury in accordance with calcrim no. 220, the standard instruction on reasonable doubt. 19 [not reasonably probable that had pinpoint instruction on third party liability been given jury would have reached different conclusion].) appellant argues tpinpoint instruction in combination with argument effectively of the third party liability defense. we disagree. when viewed in proper context, the remarks do the prosecutor specifically told the to the charges. the people have the absolute burden to prove nevertheless, as the prosecutor explained, it was incumbent upon appellant support his third party defense in order to have the jury consider it. repeating that the defense had no burden of proof, the prosecutor reminded the jury that the defendant could have but failed to call any witnesses to support the defense. the prosecutor then case. of the , there is nothing about this argument burden of proof or improperly shift any burden to the defendant. iii. burglary intent appellant contends the evidence did not support the conviction for residential burglary because the evidence of his 20 intoxication precluded a finding that he harbored the requisite specific intent to commit a felony or theft. we disagree. a. applicable law the crime of first degree burglary requires an unlawful entry into a structure presently being used for dwelling purposes with the specific intent to commit any felony or a theft. ( 459; people v. anderson (2009) 47 cal.4th 92, 101; people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 463; people v. montoya (1994) 7 cal.4th 1027, 1041.) although intent at the time of entry is necessary to sustain a burglary conviction, direct evidence of such intent is usually absent. therefore in most cases, the intent to commit a felony must be inferred from the circumstances of the charged offense. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 669.) in determining whether substantial evidence supports the favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact (jones, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 960; people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87 (manibusan); people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 504.) we presume the truth of every fact the jury could reasonably infer in support of the intent to commit a felony required to sustain the burglary conviction. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 113.) hether a person accused of burglary was sufficiently intoxicated to negate his entertaining the requisite specific intent in entering a building, structure, or a room is a question of fact for the trier of fact to resolve.(people v. smith (1968) 259 cal.app.2d 868, 870.) must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute 21 our evaluation of a witnesss credibility for that of the fact (jones, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 963.) however, it is the jury, not the appellate court which must be convinced of the defendant (id. at p. 961.) justify the trier of facts findings, a reviewing courts conclusion [that] circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant the judgment (manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 87; jones, supra, at p. 961; people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 643644.) b. analysis our review of the record in this case reveals substantial evidence to support a reasonable inference that when appellant entered the apartment he intended to commit a felony inside. a jury can reasonably infer the requisite intent for burglary from unlawful and forcible entry alone. (people v. stewart (1952) 113 cal.app.2d 687, 691.) here, the evidence suggested appellant first attempted to jimmy the lock with his debit card, and when that did not work, he broke out the window panes and pushed in the screen to create an opening large enough to crawl through to gain access to the apartment. (see people v. hinson (1969) 269 cal.app.2d 573, 576, 578 [broken window establishing unlawful and forcible entry sufficient to justify reasonable inference of burglarious intent].) other aspects of this crime also support an inference that appellant entered the apartment with the intent to commit a felony. when appellant helped gilmore and garvey move into the apartment some weeks earlier, he had expressed interest in gilmore and asked her out. but gilmore did not reciprocate t, and she did not respond to his text message. the nature of the vandalism of this apartment where appellant 22 knew gilmore lived suggests more than a crime of random opportunity, and the evidence supported the prosecution theory that appellant entered this particular apartment with the intent to seek retribution. demonstrated he was not so intoxicated as to be unable to form the requisite intent. appellant was coherent and lucid when police first encountered him in the apartment. he had no difficulty walking down the stairs from the apartment to the patrol car, and he understood and responded directly to the for his name and date of birth. given the strength of the evidence, the jury could reasonably infer that appellant entered the apartment with the intent to commit a felony insid conviction for burglary is supported by substantial evidence. iv. ineffective assistance of counsel claims appellant contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to adequately investigate and present an intoxication defense. he further contends his defense counsel was ineffective due to her failure to move in limine to exclude references to a prior arrest, and by failing to object on grounds of for during the recross-examination of the defense expert. appellant asserts both of these claims in his petition for writ of habeas corpus, filed concurrently with his opening brief on appeal.5 5 with the appeal and address the claim for relief in the habeas petition by separate order. 23 having considered the issues raised in the habeas petition, counsel regarding the failure to investigate and present an intoxication defense at trial is best addressed in an evidentiary hearing pursuant to an order to show cause returnable to the superior court. we therefore need not address that claim on appeal. however, aassistance of counsel arising from the handling of reference to an alleged prior arrest for child molestation is based entirely on matters contained in the appellate record. because we conclude the record on appeal does not support this claim of inadequate representation, we resolve the issue in the context of this appeal. a. legal principles appellant contends he received ineffective assistance of counsel under both the sixth amendment of the federal constitution and the california constitution, article i, section 15. the benchmark for judging any claim of ineffectiveness must be s conduct so undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just result. (in re valdez (2010) 49 cal.4th 715, 729 (valdez), quoting strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686 (strickland).) s assistance was so defective as to require reversal of a conviction . . . has two components. first, the defendant must show s performance was deficient. this requires showing that counsel made errors so serious that counsel was not guaranteed the defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense. this requires s errors were so serious as to deprive the 24 defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose result is reliable. unless a defendant makes both showings, it cannot be said that the conviction . . . resulted from a breakdown in the adversary process that renders the result unreliable. ([strickland,] at p. 687.)valdez, at p. 729.) to establish ineffectiveness, a defendant must show that his attorneys representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms[citations] and that there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsels unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome[citation]. this second part of the strickland test is not solely one of outcome determination. instead, the question is whether counsels deficient performance renders the result of the trial unreliable or the proceeding fundamentally unfair. valdez, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 729; in re hardy (2007) 41 cal.4th 977, 10181019; williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390391.) appellate scrutiny of defense counsels performance must be highly deferential. it is all too tempting for a defendant to second-guess counsels assistance after conviction or adverse sentence, and it is all too easy for a court, examining counsels defense after it has proved unsuccessful, to conclude that a particular act or omission of counsel was unreasonable. [citation.] a fair assessment of attorney performance requires that every effort be made to eliminate the distorting effects of hindsight, to reconstruct the circumstances of counsels challenged conduct, and to evaluate the conduct from counsels perspective at the time. because of the difficulties inherent in making the evaluation, a court must indulge a strong presumption that counsels conduct falls within the wide range of 25 reasonable professional assistance; that is, the defendant must overcome the presumption that, under the circumstances, the challenged action might be considered sound trial strategy. [citation.](strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689.)valdez, supra, 49 cal.4th at pp. 729730.) in any event, as strickland court need not determine whether counsels performance was deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies. the object of an ineffectiveness claim is not to grade counsels performance. if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that course should be followed.strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697; people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 982.) b. appellant does not demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel on the basis of trial the reference to a prior molesting at trial dr. stalberg opined that appellant did not have any clothing. the opinion was based on dr. stalberg appellant during which he questioned and observed him and discussed details of the incident with him. dr. stalberg did not conduct any psychiatric or psychological testing, but found ightforward, candid individual . . . based on [dr. ] experience of seeing thousands of finally, the expert admitted that the value of his 26 testified that he believed appellant had been honest and was not malingering. on recross-examination, the prosecutor questioned dr. dor during the interview, of this case. dr. stalberg confirmed that he had. the prosecutor violation of penal code section 288.prior arrest, but dr. stalberg explained that appellant had discussed his prior history, but had not said anything about a prior 288. 90s he added that ito describe the arrest and charge filed against him. during the final redirect examination, dr. stalberg confirmed that appellant had told him he had no prior arrests other than the one more than 20 years earlier wherein appellant was accused but exonerated of rape because the alleged victim had lied. the line of questioning on prosecutorial misconduct grounds and seek an admonition amounted to ineffective assistance of counsel. however, given the abundant guilt based on his entry into the apartment and conduct inside, we fail to see how a few fleeting referencein prejudice sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome of his trial. 27 it bears repeating that, in seeking reversal for the ineffectiveness of counsel, the defendant must affirmatively prove prejudice. (strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 693; ledesma, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 217.) thus, even if the defendant establishes that were unreasonable, he must further show that the errors in fact adversely affected the defense. (strickland, at p. it is not enough for the defendant to show that the errors had some conceivable effect on the outcome of the proceeding. virtually every act or omission of counsel would meet that test, [citation], and not every error that conceivably could have influenced the outcome undermines the reliability of the result of the proceeding. (ibid.) here, her response to the establishing -year-old prior arrest with dr. offense involved child molestationeffectively neutralized any possible prejudice based on previous omission. inquiry appears to have caused strategy to credibility. this defense tactic was a far more effective rebuttal arrest than a simple admonition from the court would have been. questions and argument are not evidence. jurors are presumed . (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 447.) accordingly, we conclude that appellant has failed to demonstrate 28 the evidence of his prior arrest and the fleeting reference to a disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, p. j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. chavez, j. 