filed 2/28/18 p. v. mcintee ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard orlando mcintee, defendant and appellant. b280917 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba444657) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne harwood egerton, judge. affirmed. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant richard mcintee took his two-year-old daughter, z., from the arms of the babysitter her mother hired and drove her away in his van. for the next two weeks, defendant declined isclose her whereabouts. law enforcement officers tracked defendant to riverside county and arrested him; his girlfriend led the officers to a converted garage, from which z. was recovered unharmed. s mother of child custody, making criminal threats, endangering a child, and vandalism. during his jury trial, the court granted the vandalism charges as time-barred. the jury, which the court instructed with calcrim pattern instructions, convicted defendant of kidnapping z. and depriving her mother of custody. it acquitted him of making criminal threats. on appeal, defendant contends he lacked the requisite intent to support his convictions. he further contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury because it did not instruct sua sponte on mistake of law and improperly expanded the definition charge. defendant also argues the court improperly revoked his right to self-representation, his counsel was ineffective for allowing the time-barred misdemeanor counts to proceed to trial, and the trial court abused its discretion by denying his romero1 motion to strike his prior strike. we find no reversible error and affirm the judgment of the trial court. 1 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 3 procedural history an amended information filed on september 27, 2016 charged defendant with one count of kidnapping (pen. code,  207, subd. (a)),2 one count of child custody deprivation ( 278.5, subd. (a)), one count of making criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)), two counts of endangering a child ( 273a, subd. (b)), and one count of vandalism under $400 ( 594, subd. (a)). the criminal threats, child endangerment, and vandalism charges stemmed from a july 2014 incident; the kidnapping and child custody deprivation charges arose from an incident beginning in february 2016. in addition to the charges, the amended information alleged that the kidnapping victim, z., was under the age of 14 and that defendant kidnapped her with the intent to permanently deprive her mother of custody within the meaning of section 667.85. it further alleged, in connection with the kidnapping and criminal threats charges, that defendant suffered two prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, for robbery ( 211) and shooting at an occupied building or vehicle ( 246), within the meaning of sections 667, subdivisions (a)(1), (d), and (b)-(j), 1170.12, subdivision (b), and 1192.7, subdivision (c). the prosecution later elected to proceed as a second rather than third prior shooting conviction. after acting in propria persona for a portion of his pretrial proceedings, defendant proceeded to jury trial with the assistance of appointed counsel. after the presentation of evidence but prior to closing argument, defense counsel advised the court and the 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 prosecution that the misdemeanor child endangerment and vandalism charges were time-barred. the trial court granted the jury acquitted defendant of the criminal threats charge but found him guilty of kidnapping and child custody deprivation. it found the allegation regarding trial the court found true the allegations pertaining to romero motion to strike that conviction. the trial court sentenced defendant to the midterm of five years on the kidnapping conviction, doubled to 10 years due to the strike, and imposed an additional five years for the prior conviction pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). on the custody deprivation conviction, the court sentenced defendant to the midterm of two years, doubled to four years due to the strike. the court stayed that sentence pursuant to section 654. in addition, the court imposed a 10-year restraining order and ordered defendant to pay various fines and fees. defendant timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution evidence a. family background -wife, jacqueline r., testified that she and defendant married in 2001. their first daughter, a., was born in 2005. sometime thereafter, defendant became verbally abusive toward jacqueline, and the couple separated in 2008. after and jacqueline established an informal visitation arrangement pursuant to which defendant would call and ask to visit a. or 5 overnight. january 2011. their custody agreement provided that a. would live with jacqueline three days per week and with defendant two days per week, with the parents alternating custody of a. on the weekends. jacqueline testified that defendant did not abide by the cust in 2012, jacqueline and defendant rekindled their relationship and defendant moved back into defendant verbally and physically abused jacqueline, which prompted her to end the relationship while she was pregnant home, however, and the couple resumed their relationship later in may 2013. jacqueline and defendant stayed together for a few defendant moved out of the home in december 2013 and resumed his sporadic visitation with the children. b. july 2014 incident jacqueline testified that defendant requested to see the girls on july 27, 2014. she agreed to bring them to see defendant at a los angeles strip mall that afternoon. the visit began well but devolved into argument when defendant told jacqueline he wanted to introduce the girls to a female friend of his. defendant and. 6 wrist and shoved her to the ground. a mall security guard approached and asked jacqueline if she needed help. jacqueline told him that defendant was trying to take the girls. the security guard called 911 on his cell phone. meanwhile, defendant walked away with z. jacqueline followed, asking defendant to bring z. back. defendant ignored her and took z. into a nearby park. jacqueline went back to the mall when she heard police sirens approaching. jacqueline told the police what occurred. she gave the when they called. the police sent a patrol car to look for defendant but were not successful in locating him. after two to three hours, jacqueline reached defendant via text message. jacqueline testified that defendant texted that he did not trust t and asked jacqueline to roll down the window so he could speak to a., who was in the back seat. jacqueline did so, but declined defendant to put z. in the car. defendant stuck his hand in the back to the passenger side where a[.] was -open window. jacqueline tried to close the window, but down forcibly. the window 7 as jacqueline drove away; jacqueline later found a small cut on while jacqueline was driving home, she received a phone the threat seriously because she believed defendant could carry it out. jacqueline hung up the phone, but defendant called her back and made similar threats to send a man in black after her. jacqueline asked him why he was saying these things, and he for her safety. the next day, jacqueline sent defendant a text actions in front of the girls and suggesting that they attend family counseling. never see ur fault so its one sided we r gonna hav mutual drop off pick up spot stay out of my life n business u lucky u were n c. deteriorating relations after the july 2014 incident, jacqueline made two unsuccessful attempts to obtain a restraining order against prevented him from seeing the girls when he wanted to. they proceeded in this fashion until mid-2015. 8 between july 2015 and mid-november 2015, defendant had no contact with a. or z. after not hearing from him for approximately two months, jacqueline had a. call defendant and leave a message to make sure he was okay. defendant called a. back a few days later and said he would call again. he did not. in mid- jacqueline if he could see a. jacqueline agreed that defendant could pick a. up from school one day; instead, he took her out of few hours. she said yes and he took the girls with him. a few hours later, jacqueline texted to see when he planned to return and he responded that he would bring the girls back the next day, on sunday. jacqueline texted defendant that day, and he responded that he was going to keep the girls another night. jacqueline called him to object because she did not want a. to miss school. defendant did not get a. to school in time for her to attend her field trip that monday. a few days later, on the day before thanksgiving, even though she told him beforehand that he could not visit that day. jacqueline had taken the day off work and was home when defendant arrived. she testified that defendant was surprised that they would be with a babysitter and that he was just going d by officers from the culver city police department (ccpd). jacqueline 9 cqueline and defendant to go to court to clarify the agreement. the police allowed jacqueline to keep the girls that day. she went to family court in san bernardino in early december 2015 and filed paperwork seeking clarification of the custody arrangement. the court set a hearing date of february 24, 2016. jacqueline also obtained a restraining order from the santa monica courthouse near her culver city home. at some point during the holiday season, defendant told jacqueline he wanted to take the girls for a week. she said he could take the girls for three days, an offer defendant rejected. and he can take them for how long he wants to, and he can bring them back if and when he wa on december 26, 2015, defendant texted jacqueline: keep playing with my life cuz ima warn you n court[.] no more games i guarantee you or any muthafucker pig or no pig judges fuck kids. contacting ccpd one more time n file formal complaint if in january 2016, defendant asked jacqueline if he could see the girls. she agreed to let him visit on the condition that he apprise her of his latest address, which he refused to tell her address because she was concerned that defendant would take 10 the girls and she would not know where they were. defendant refused to provide an address, so she did not let him see the girls. d. february 2016 incident 2016 to request a visit with the girls. he did not provide an address, so no visit took place. on february 22, 2016, jacqueline dropped off a. at school and left z. with her regular babysitter, brenda bullock, before going to work. jacqueline had not had any contact with defendant about a visit that day. bullock testified that she had cared for z. since z. was an took z. outside to walk around the apartment complex. on february 22, 2016, bullock and z. left the apartment for a walk around 11:00 a.m. bulloapproaching. bullock, a longtime friend of the family, recognized both the van and defendant, who was alone. bullock crossed the street and walked toward the leasing office because she did not z.; defendant, who had her cell phone number, had not called her to tell her he would be coming by. defendant got out of the van and followed bullock and z. on foot. the leasing office was closed, so bullock and z. turned defendant walked slowly toward them. he had a camera in his testif11 sidewalk as defendant carried z. across the street to his van, got into the jury and admitted into evidence. bullock testified that she called jacqueline immediately and told her what had happened. jacqueline testified that she received a call from bullock during the day on february 22, 2016. after receiving the call, jacqueline called the police and reported that defendant had taken her daughter. jacqueline also called defendant, who answered the phone and answered the phone and said he would let jacqueline speak to z. if she let him speak with a. first. jacqueline let defendant speak with a., but he hung up the phone when jacqueline came back on the line. the ccpd officer she spoke to, officer houck, also was unsuccessful in reaching defendant by phone. ccpd detective tobias raya, who later obtained and that jacqueline texted defendant at 12:38 p.m. on february 22, have no jurisdiction over me as a father. i am a god created natural human flesh n blood n fluids person. i have my god given birth right to preserve n protect my life and my children n travel f 12 on february 23, 2016, jacqueline consulted with an 3 jacqueline took the paperwork to court the same day, filed it, and obtained an order authorizing and directing the investigation and to take all actions necessary to locate [defendant] and the minor child z[.] . . . and to procure compliance with the custody order in the above-entitled matter by taking custody of the child z[.] and turning her over to her mother, peti the next day, february 24, 2016, was the hearing date for jacqueline attended the hearing in san bernardino with her cousin and sister. defendant also attended the hearing; he did defendant with the family code section 3130 order, as well as whereabouts, the court held 3 family code section 3130 states: determine custody of a child has been filed in a court of competent jurisdiction, . . . and the whereabouts of a party in possession of the child are not known, or there is reason to believe that the party may not appear in the proceedings although ordered to appear personally with the child pursuant to section 3430, the district attorney shall take all actions necessary to locate the party and the child and to procure compliance with the order to appear with the child for purposes of adjudication of custody. the petition to determine custody may be filed by the 13 whereabouts. defendant was held for a few hours and was released after providing the court with an address. jacqueline, who was later apprised of the address defendant disclosed, testified that it was an unfamiliar los angeles address. when defendant was released, jacqueline and her family members tried to follow him but lost him on the freeway. in the days following the court hearing, jacqueline did not respond. jacqueline also remained in contact with law her on march 7, 2016, to tell her that z. had been found. matted, and she was very hungry, but she did not appear to have been abused during her time with defendant. e. law enforcement testimony ccpd officer kyle houck testified that he took a missing child report from jacqueline around midday on february 22, 2016. he called defendant several times and left him a voicemail return call. ccpd detective tobias raya testified that he began working on the case on february 22, 2016. he spoke with jacqueline and made contact with various agencies, including the exploited children. raya ultimately decided against issuing an [defendant] into hiding and us possibly never recovering the g.p.s. locate a 14 can pinpoint the location of a cell phone within a radius of anywhere from about three meters to three miles. raya minutes. he eventually deduced that defendant was probably in banning, in riverside county. raya relayed his suspicions to banning police officers, who used the cell phone location data to provide raya with an address of a house at which they believed ng. a team of ccpd officers surveilled the house but did not see defendant or z.; an arrest warrant was issued for defendant on march 4, 2016. on march 7, 2016, a team of seven ccpd officers went to banning and located defendant driving his van. ccpd detective mark umutyan was among them. he testified that banning police officers stopped defendant, who refused to get out of the defendant had called banning police dispatch to report that the police had pulled him over. eventually, banning police officers used a beanbag gun to break a window in the van and shot exited the van and was taken into custody. z. was not in the van. they had surveilled earlier in the week. they walked past the hoa washer and dryer, and a few cots on the ground. there was no restroom, and the only source of heat was a small space heater. z. was recovered from the garage. tanya newton, an 15 office, took custody of her. newton called jacqueline, and jacqueline came to pick up z. ii. defense evidence a. family background defendant was the sole witness for the defense. he denied t having joint legal and physical custody of understood the resultant arrangement to be that a. would spend two days per week and alternating weekends with him, and the parents would share custody equally during school breaks. custody of a. defendant and jacqueline reconciled for about a year, during which jacqueline became pregnant with z. they broke apartment to help out after z. was born. that arrangement did z., which led to arguments between him and jacqueline. and jacqueline did not discuss visitation at that time. defendant i wanted to care for her the way i cared for my older daughter. so it was the same amount of time and energy that, you know, i or other items when he visited. the girls frequently stayed with 16 him overnight. defendant wanted to spend even more time with the girls, but he did not have a babysitter who could watch them while he was at work and school. at some point, defendant reunited with an ex-girlfriend, laquinta, whom he trusted to babysit the girls. telephone number, and allowed a. to spend time with her during visitation. he teshe was always supportive early on as far as even if my visitation school. b. july 2014 incident in july 2014, defendant decided to introduce jacqueline to laquinta. he set up a meeting at a strip mall in los angeles. jacqueline that he had found a potential babysitter, laquinta, jdefendant tried to fend off jacqueline, explaining that it was his weekend with the girls and repeating that he was entitled to take them. jacqueline struck defendant near the back of his head and neck area, and her arm hit z. in the face as it glanced off defendant. defendant told jacqueline it was not right for her to aggreshis arms. comforting a., who was crying, 17 when a security guard approached. after jacqueline accepted the guto the park alone with z. defendant met laquinta and her daughters at the park, where the children played together. at some point, defendant and jacqueline had a text message discussion about defendant returning z. and taking a. for a weekend visit. jacqueline came over to the park in her car. defendant put z. in her car seat behind jacqueline and walked over to the rear passenger side of the car to see a. jacqueline rolled the window down so that defendant could help a. get out of the car. while defendant had his arms inside the vehicle, jacqueline told him she had changed her mind and he could not take a. jacqueline defendant told her that his arms were still inside, but jacqueline kept rolling up the window. defendant became fearful that he would be injured and tried to extract his arms from the window. as he was doing so, he lost his footing and grabbed the window, which broke. defendant left the scene without either girl and went back to the park, where he spent more time with laquinta before leaving. defendant did not call jacqueline and say anything about a man in black or otherwise threaten her. defendant declined c. deteriorating relations defendant resumed visiting with the girls within a week of the july 2014 incident. during the remainder of 2014, defendant 18 in 2015, when z. was about two-and-a-half years old, jacqueline stopped responding to his inquiries about the girls and mentioned that she was not going to facilitate visits like she ck to family court. before he could file anything in court, he received some court papers that jacqueline had filed. defendant filed a response to those papers. contact with the girls between july and november 2015. he testified that he purchased a cell phone for a. and used it to communicate directly with her via phone calls and text messages. apartment around thanksgiving because she had been giving d. february 2016 incident in february 2016, defendant realized that jacqueline had not responded to his text messages in three months, and that he had not seen z. during that time. on february 22, 2016, he decided to drive from his current residence in banning to jacqueline to be at work and z. to be in the care of bullock; he took his camcorder with him to gather evidence regarding what he believe 19 as defendant neared the apartment complex, he saw bullock and z. walking down the street. he double-parked his van, grabbed his camcorder, and called out to bullock to stop. defendant walked across the street toward bullock and told bullock to give z. to him. other hand, and defendant, still filming, carried z. to his van. . on his lap. he once z. was buckled up, defendant drove away. defendant made no attempt to contact jacqueline, and did not rdefendant explained on cross-the garage in banning where he was staying with his then-girlfriend and her daughter. defendant later went to the store and bought clothes, shoes, food, blankets, and a potty chair for z. plan to keep z. for very long; he just wanted to spend some time with her because he had missed her during the holidays. -time that he wanted to spend with both girls. he only took z., however, because he knew a. was back in school after winter break. 20 defendant did not provide jacqueline with an anticipated duration for the visit. even though his longest visit with z. had -week , which was based on his understanding that the custody agreement governing a. provided -week window to where you would have to give your new that he was just spending time with her. defendant did not tell jacqueline that he and z. were in banning; jacqueline did not text defendant that she had gone to the police or obtained a family code section 3130 order from the district attorney. defendant was aware the police left him a voicemail message but he did not call them back. defendant did not bring z. to the february 24, 2016 custody hearing in san bernardino because he did not think children could attend court proceedings. he agreed that ng custody 4 4 defendant videotaped himself preparing to mail the packet of paperwork to jacqueline. the eight-minute video was admitted into evidence and played for the jury. the documents custody and visitation order and a temporary restraining order. on the outside of the envelope, defendant wrote a note indicating ntly received and opened by acknowledgeable or recognizable under the penalty of false personification and/or false post location, and m contains the aforementioned and misdirected documents, as there is not enough knowledge or information disclosed to form a responsive 21 defendant denied turning his back on the family court judge but admitted that he was held in contempt until he provided the judge with an address. he thought the court had asked forand he therefore providedan address at which he could receive mail, not the address at which z. was located. to return z., because he was going to go back to work soon and had been with z. for more than the two however, because he was pulled over on march 7, 2016. defendant thought it was a routine traffic stop and became confused when the officers instructed him to throw his keys out the window and exit the vehicle. he accordingly called 911 to find out what was happening. the dispatcher told defendant to follow d in the van, however, as rolled the window up and asked the officers why they were firing fired more pepper balls into the vehicle. defendant exited the van when the pepper balls began to aggravate his asthma. officers handcuffed defendant, told him he was being charged with kidnapping, and asked him where z. was. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends the evidence was insufficient to support his convictions. specifically, he argues that the answer, said documents and materials are being returned 22 intent necessary to the crime of child custody deprivation or the we disagree. a. standard of review evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of reviewing coexistence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715.) we do not reweigh the evidence, resolve conflicts therein, or reassess the credibility of witnesses. (people v. zamudio (2008) no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to ibid.) b. child custody deprivation the crime of child custody deprivation is completed when a maliciously deprives a lawful custodian of a right to custody, or a he words section ii.a, infra23 see also people v. neidinger (2006) 40 cal.4th 67, 79.) defendant contends that such intent was not proven here. relying exclusively on his own testimony regarding his intent, established intent was his being able to spend more time with nce of his intent, the prosecution presented sufficient evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could infer defendant acted maliciously. the prosecution presented evidence from which the jury reasonably could conclude defendant did not respect jacqueline her by taking and concealing z. jacqueline testified that she and defendant had an antagonistic relationship, to the point that defendant verbally and physically abused her while she was pregnant with z., his daughter. the jury saw strongly worded, volatile, and sometimes unprompted text messages defendant sent to jacqueline. one such message accused jacqueline of capital lettersreasonably infer from this alone that defendant intended to act by taking z. and refusing to tell jacqueline where she was. indeed, one could infeunprecedented length of time to get back at jacqueline for her denial of his request to visit the girls for a week in december. 24 further evidence from which a jury could infer defendant acted with the requisite intent included the delay with which defendant z., his refusal to speak with jacqueline even when she complied with his request to speak to a., and his refusal to engage with the law enforcement officers and judge who asked him about z. and c. kidnapping defendant also contends he lacked the requisite intent to kidnap z., his biological child. the kidnapping statute, section or by any other means of instilling fear, steals or takes, or holds, detains, or arrests any person in this state, and carries the person into another country, state, or county, or into another part unresisting infant or child is the amount of physical force required to take and carry the child away a substantial distance mental incapacitin re michele d. (2002) 29 cal.4th 600, 609, 612.) the prosecution also custodial rights to the child. (people v. senior (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 765, 780-781.) defendant argues that the prosecution impermissibly relied on the child custody deprivation charge to make this showing, 25 defendant is correct that the prosecution relied on the custody deprivation charge to establish his illegal intent or purpose; the and the illegal purpose of the defendant regarding the kidnapping is in fact the child custody deprivation. his illegal purpose by taking the child z[.] is to keep her from her mother. any bootstrapping, or double-counting of a single intent. we decline to do so. in people v. jones (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 455 (jones), the court of appeal considered and rejected a virtually identical argument. the defendant, convicted of kidnapping and murdering his four-month-that the taking of a child for the purpose of a child abduction is kidnapping defeats the statutory distinction the legislature has drawn between the offenses of kidnapping and child abduction. such a result would improperly bootstrap the crime of child abduction into kidnapping in cases in which both the act and id. at p. 465.) legal authority, and is inconsistent with the function of the ibid.) the court observed carrying away of a very young victim would not result in a (jones, supra, 108 cal.app.4th at p. 466, citing in re michele d., supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 612.) that 26 the purpose of the asportation of the victim was to detain or jones, supra, at p. 466) the court explained that the concept of bootstrapping or double-possibility of convicting an individual for moving a child with a ibid.) we agree. as the supreme court explained in in re michele d., supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 614, child abduction ( 278), a crime closely analogous to the child custody deprivation at issue here ( 278.5), is a crime against a lawful custodian of the child. kidnapping, on no reason why he or she should not be prosecuted under both statutes. [fn. omitted] to hold otherwise would be to devalue the in re michele d., supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 614.) there are two victims here, jacqueline and z., and there is no reason to conclude that conviction for kidnapping z. ii. jury instructions defendant contends the court committed two errors in instructing the jury, one of commission and one of omission. as to the alleged error of commission, he argues that one of the instructions the court delivered, calcrim no. 1251 (child abduction: by depriving right to custody or visitation (pen. code,  277, 278.5)), impermissibly expanded the definition of 27 even if defendant is correct, any such error was harmless in this case because the evidence did not permit a finding that defendant acted with an intent to defraud. as to the alleged error of omission, defendant contends the court erred by failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on a mistake of law defense. in the alternative, he argues that his counsel was ineffective in failing to request a mistake of law instruction. we reject these arguments. the court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct on the mistake of law defense, nor did counsel render ineffective assistance in failing to request the instruction. a. definition of the court instructed the jury using calcrim pattern instructions. the calcrim instruction for child custody deprivation, no. 1251, to which neither defendant nor the prosecution objected at trial,5 sets forth three elements the he defendant took, kept, withheld, or concealed a child; [] 2. the child was under the age of 18; [] and [] 3. when the defendant acted, he maliciously deprived a lawful custodian of 5 ilure to object or request a clarifying instruction below forfeits his ability to challenge the given instruction here. trial court gives an incorrect or incomplete instruction that allegedly affects the substantial rights of a defendant, it is (people v. denman (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 800, 812; see also people v. hudson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1002, 1012;  1259.) because we conclude that the argument was preserved, we need not for failing to present this issue below. 28 intentionally does a wrongful act or when he acts with the unlawful intent to disturb, defraud, annoy, or injure someone supporting this definition of maliciously is section 7, subdivision wish to vex, annoy, or injure another person, or an intent to do a section 7 sets forth default definitions for several terms used in the penal code, and the supreme court has indicated that the definition of maliciously in section 7, subdivision (4) is the relevant one for purposes of section 278.5. (see people v. neidinger, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 79; see also people v. casagranda (1941) 43 cal.app.2d 818, 822 [same].) defendant argues that calcrim no. 1251 impermissibly expands the definition of malicious intent by using the words in support of this position, defendant points to section 450, subdivision (e), which specifically or an intent to do a wrongful act, established either by proof or he contends that section 450, subdivision (e) would be redundant and unnecessary if the default definition of maliciously in section 7, subdivision (4) already included the intent to defraud. (see also people v. atkins (2001) 25 cal.4th 76, 29 found in section 7, subdivision 4, except for the addition of even if defendant is correct, he has not shown that the alleged error would require reversal. when a jury is misinstructed on an element of an offense, reversal is required unless the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. hayes (1990) 52 cal.3d 577, 628; see also people v. merritt (2017) 2 cal.5th 819, 826.) an error is harmless under rational jury would have rendered the same verdict absent the (people v. merritt, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 831.) that standard is met here. the jury was not presented with any evidence that defendant intended to defraud or in fact defrauded jacqueline, the victim of the child custody deprivation. all of the evidence demonstrated that defendant acted openly and made no effort to conceal his identity or intentions. defendant abducted z. in public, from her babysitter, without employing any sort of deception or trickery. defendant readily admitted to jacqueline that he had taken z., and he did not make any false statements to her, such as misleading her as twhereabouts. defendant contends that the jury could have inferred an intent to defraud (but not an intent to vex, annoy, or injure) from his lack of responsiveness to jacqueline and law enforcement and the address he provided to the family court judge. we disagree. much as vexing or annoying, and he provided the address to the court, not to jacqueline, who testified that defendant refused to talk to her at the hearing. moreover, the prosecution did not 30 argue that defendant intended to defraud jacqueline by taking z.; it argued, consistently with the definition of malice in section mother . . . in retaliation because nothing in the record suggests the jury could or did convict defendant based on an intent to defraud, any instructional error would not require reversal. b. mistake of law defendant contends the court had a sua sponte duty to instruct on a mistake of law defense with respect to the kidnapping charge. we disagree. law can negate the existence of a specific intentsupports a reasonable inference that any such claimed belief was people v. vineberg (1981) 125 cal.app.3d 127, 137.)6 the trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on this affirmative defense when it appears that a defendant is relying on it, or if substantial evidence supports the defense and the case. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 157; people v. salas termining whether the evidence is sufficient to warrant a jury instruction, the trial court does not determine the credibility of the defense evidence, but 6 while simple kidnapping is a general intent crime (people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 519), kidnapping an unresisting infant or child is a specific intent crime due to the additional (see in re michele d., supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 612.) 31 was sufficient to raise a reasonablpeople v. salas, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 982.) we review de novo claims that a trial court failed to properly instruct the jury on applicable principles of law. (people v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1111.) defendant contends that his conduct and testimony admission to the act itself at trial, his description of his intention behind taking z[.], his use of a camcorder to corroborate those intentions, his willingness to appear before a court two days after taking z[.], and his calling 911 because he was confused as to why he was stopped by police, all demonstrated that mcintee believed . . . he was acting within his lawful rights as a parent when he took z[.] jacqueline did not have a custody agreement governing z., and asserts that family code section 30107 gave both parents equal custody of z. in addition, defendant argues that his trial counsel relied on a mistake of law defense by making the following three believe, is he testified, in terms of what was going on in 2016 during the holiday season, he was getting very exasperated and really unable to getting it. so he made the decision to come out and see what he could do about some self-doing so, he took that portable camera with him. now, if he was 7 family code section 3010, subdivision (a) provides: mother of an unemancipated minor child and the father, if presumed to be the father under section 7611, are equally 32 intending to kidnap z[.], his own daughter, there were other times when that could have happened in a much different and easier way. and if he really intended to commit a criminal act, told us he wanted to do it because he felt it would help prove what he was trying to do and he felt it would corroborate what kidnapping. there was no deprivation of custody. he had not committed a crime other than an unknown infraction that he my client believed that he had an equal right to visitation and is that the evidence showed z. or otherwise breaking the law. the first problem with this argument is that, even if supported by substantial evidence, it does not negate the specific intent required to complete the kidnapping alleged here. as explained by witkin and epstein, negates the intent or other mental state that is an element of the a criminal law (4th ed. 2012) 45, p. 476.) the prosecution alleged and arguedand the evidence showed, as discussed, ante, in part i.cthat defendant kidnapped z. with the illegal purpose of vexing, annoying, or injuring jacqueline by depriving her of her custody of z. even if defendant did not believe he was breaking the kidnapping law, and therefore did not intend to act illegally, the intent at issue was whether defendant maliciously deprived jacqueline of custody of z. such intent or purpose was amply supported by the evidence. 33 kidnapping is a continuing offense. (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1159.) it was undisputed that law enforcement officers contacted defendant within hours of the kidnapping to undisputed evidence showed that defendant was served with the family code section 3130 order indicating that jacqueline was entitled to temporary custody of z. a mere two days into the two-week-long incident. thus, even if defendant initially had a good faith belief that he was entitled to take custody of z., no reasonable jury could conclude that he continued to maintain that belief in good faith beyond the first few hours or days he continued to hold z. defendant was on notice that his conduct was potentially illegal, yet he did nothing to remedy the to the family code section 3130 order. a mistake of law claimed mistake was not made in good faith. (people v. vineberg, supra, 125 cal.app.3d at p. 137.) neither the trial court nor sel erred in omitting a mistake of law instruction. iii. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues that his trial counsel was ineffective for another reason: he did not timely seek dismissal of the three misdemeanor charges. the trial court ultimately dismissed the single count of vandalism and two counts of child endangerment as time-barred, but did so only after evidence regarding those charges already had been presented to the jury. defendant contends that this evidence, which concerned the july 2014 34 incident at the strip mall, was not relevant to the remaining charges and served only to prejudice him. we disagree. performance was deficient and that the defendant suffered prejudice as a result of such deficient performance. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-people v. mickel performance, defendant bears the burden of showing that [citation.] to demonstrate prejudice, defendant bears the burden of showing a reasonable pdeficient performance, the outcome of the proceeding would have ibid.court deciding an ineffective assistance claim to approach the inquiry in the same order or even to address both components of the inquiry if the defendant makes an insufficient showing on performance was deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a r(strickland v. washington, supraeasier to dispose of an ineffective assistance claim on the ground (ibid.) we follow this course here and conclude that defendant cannot show the requisite prejudice. the three time-barred misdemeanor charges were not the only charges arising from the july 2014 incident: it also gave rise to the felony criminal threats charge, which was not time-barred. 35 still have been introduced in connection with the criminal threats relevant to a jacqueline. he specifically points to evidence showing that he pushed jacqueline to the ground, walked away with z. and said alls, was unduly prejudicial because it suggested a pattern of this evidence, while unflattering to defendant, nevertheless was highly relevant to the criminal threats charge. threat, and whether the words were sufficiently unequivocal, unconditional, immediate and specific they [sic] conveyed to the victim an immediacy of purpose and immediate prospect of execution of the threat can be based on all the surrounding history can also be considered as one of the relevant people v. mendoza (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 1333, 1340.) indeed, the statute under which defendant was charged, section 422, subdivision (a), specifically states that the alleged er the people v. martinez g z. suggested a motive for the subsequent threats jacqueline 36 with z. and attitude toward jacqueline also was relevant to deprivation charges, as it demonstrated a long-simmering desire testimony that he took z. to make up for visitation he missed during the holidays. july 2014 incident was relevant and would have been admitted into evidence even if the misdemeanor charges had been dismissed earlier. dismissal of the misdemeanor charges accordingly did not prejudice defendant and did not amount to ineffective assistance of counsel. iv. self-representation defendant contends the court violated his right to self-representation when it revoked his right to proceed in propria persona during his arraignment hearing. we disagree. a. background on march 23, 2016, prior to his preliminary hearing, defendant waived his right to counsel. the court approved $60 in pro. per. funds for defendant and continued the matter to enable him to review the discovery and prepare for the preliminary hearing. defendant told the court he wanted the record to reflect that he rejected and returned a restraining order and visitation the defendant to obey the orders unless and until he litigated them to get them changed. defendant said he understood. 37 on the day of the continued preliminary hearing, april 15, 2016, defendant filed a handwritten demurrer to the felony ental health and competency. the court adjourned the criminal proceedings and ordered a competency hearing. the court appointed defense counsel for the competency hearing, but advised defendant that he could reassert his right to self-representation if and when the criminal proceedings were reinstated. defendant was found competent, and criminal proceedings were reinstated on may 6, 2016. three days later, defendant elected to proceed with counsel, though he expressed reservations and his counsel. the court continued the preliminary hearing again. that hearing was held on july 19, 2016, and an information was filed on august 2, 2016. at his arraignment on august 2, 2016, defendant objected wanted to exercise his right to self-representation. because 8, 2016 so that defendant could consult with his attorney before deciding to proceed in propria persona. on august 8, 2016, defendant reiterated his request to represent himself. after advising defendant against doing so and reviewing a written faretta8 waiver with him, the trial court a copy of the information and asked for his plea. defendant 8 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 38 over the information, to catch up on the discovery i just received, request additional funds or supplies to undertake these activities. the court continued the arraignment to august 22, 2016 without objection from the prosecution. defendant immediately filed a handwritten discovery motion. at the august 22, 2016 arraignment, defendant informed - - reading of the information, statement of charges; enter a plea of defendant responded that he was not prepared to enter a plea. the court reminded him that the arraignment had already been continuance request, and told him it would not grant another continuance absent good cause. the court asked if defendant understood that this was an arraignment. he said he did, but would need auxiliary funds before he could proceed. the court reminded defendant that he had to act as an attorney would, by being diligent and prepared when in court. defendant again said asked him what supplies he needed for an arraignment. defendant explained that he needed supplies to file a demurrer to some documents this week, again stated that there was no good cause to continue the 39 arraignment. defendant said he had objections, and the court told him he was welcome to make them. defendant then asserted part of the arraignmit verifies - - where you can be more clear as to the filing of the were violated at his preliminary hearing. the court responded, you do not have any requisite knowledge to proceed with this. it appears to the court you are being dilatory. it appears to the the court then asked defendant what he wanted to do, and the court then asked defendant if he wished to acknowledge receipt of the information eceived a probable being dilatory and did not appear to be acting in good faith. the court cautioned defendant his pro. per. status would be revoked if he did not proceed. the court then paused the proceedings to allow defendant to speak to his standby counsel. when defendant returned to the courtroom, he told the court he was ready to proceed with the arraignment and requested a formal reading of the amended information. during 40 the formal reading, defendant corrected the birthdate on the amended information but acknowledged that the name on the amended information, richard orlando mcintee, was his true name. when the court asked him for his plea, however, defendant told the court that he lower-case i, lower-case c, lower-case h, lower-case a, lower-case r, lower-case [d], space, capital o, lower-case r, lower-case l, lower-case a, lower-case n, lower-case d, lower-case o, space, capital m, lower-case c, capital i, lower-case n, lower-case t, as in tom, lower-case e, lower- his plea. you are acting in dilatory matter [sic]. you are not, in any way, approaching these proceedings. you are not participating in the proceedings. you are doing everything you can to delay and obstruct them. i will warn you that i am about to revoke your lose his status. the court asked him if he understood, and defendant again stated that he did not want to lose his status. the court then asked if he wished to enter a plea. defendant documents from the delay regarding that. these are very serious allegations that i am innocent of and - - [] ... [] i did file - - you should have in the record - - demure [sic] to the original complaint, which i had asked defense of counsel [sic], mr. sullivan at the time, that i wanted it to be amended. and not 41 receiving the documents as of today, the probable cause declaration, arrest warrant, anything of that nature puts me at a bind to properly amend the demure [sic the court reiterated its request that defendant enter a - - respectfully do not believe i defendant is not cooperating, does not understand the nature of the proceedings, is not capable of representing himself. his pro counsel accepted the appointment, and the court asked him to enter a plea. before standby counsel could do so, defendant sought to consult with this is a life sentence case. he does not seem to have any comprehension of the jeopardy he is in. he is not participating in any way to represent his owagain, if defense counsel wanted to enter a plea. counsel entered thanked defendant and proceeded to schedule the next hearing. defendant made no further requests to represent himself during the remainder of the proceedings. b. governing principles the sixth amendment to the united states constitution gives a criminal defendant the right to represent himself or herself. (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 819.) a defendant who proceeds without the assistance of counsel is held to the same standards as an attorney (see rappleyea v. campbell (1994) 8 -representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the courtroom. neither is it a license not to comply with relevant rules of procedural and 42 faretta, supra, at p. 834, fn. 46.) a trial court accordingly may deny a request for self-representation that is intended to delay or disrupt the proceedings, (people v. butler faretta, supra, at ilatory or obstructive faretta rights are subject to people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1, 10.) revocation of the right to self-people v. carson, suprainconsistent with the integrity and fairness of the trial that id. at p. 10.) in addition court should consider the availability and suitability of lesser, alternative sanctions, the likelihood that the integrity of the trial will be compromised, and whether the defendant has been warned that particular misconduct will result in the revocation of his or her in propria persona status. (ibid.) the trial court also may consider whether the defendanibid.) such intent, while not necessary, may be sufficient to warrant revocation. (ibid.) ht to self-people v. welch 43 sincerity as well as the nature and context of his misconduct and its impact on the integrity of the trial in determining whether termination of faretta rights is necessary to maintain the carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 12 people v. becerra (2016) 63 cal.4th 511, 518.) in conducting judge defendantpeople v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th faretta rights is per se reversible error. (people v. joseph (1983) 34 cal.3d 936, 946) c. analysis defendant argues that the trial court abused its discretion by revoking his right to represent himself. he contends his refusal to enter a plea after the court disallowed his request for a er. status. he points to his previous demurrer as evidence that he was making a genuine request rather than being dilatory. he also assets that his we are not persuaded the trial court abused its discretion. the trial court awarded defendant $60 for supplies when he initially asserted his right to self-representation, on march 23, 2016. defendant presumably used some of those funds during his initial period of self-representation, to purchase the supplies necessary to file his nine-page demurrer on april 15, 2016, and the four-page discovery motion he filed immediately upon reinstatement of his pro. per. status on august 8, 2016. the court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that defendant 44 did not require additional funds to prepare another demurrer, particularly where defendant made no mention of financial restrictions when he asked to continue the arraignment on august 8, 2016. moreover, the court explained to defendant that the argument he desired to make, that his arrest was not the court further advised defendant that he could file a section 995 motion after the arraignment. defendant nevertheless persisted in his refusal to plead, even after the court twice warned him that his pro. per. status was at stake. the court did not abuse its discretion by concluding that defendant was being dilatory and disruptive. the cold record before us does not provide much insight into the manner in which defendant engaged with the court and that defendant was being dilatory and disrespectful. he issue in the arraignment and insisted upon spelling his name using capital and lower-case letters after he agreed that it was accurately spelled in the amended information. he also refused to enter a plea of not guilty despite telling the court he was innocent of the charges. even if defendant was respectful during these exchanges, his intentions are not determinative; his ive effect on the proceedings, which is very apparent from the record, is the crucial concern. defendant attempts to minimize the disruptive nature of serious and intentionally obstructionist misconduct than the 45 people v. fitzpatrick (1998) 66 cal.app.4th 86, people v. rudd (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 620, and people v. clark (1992) 3 cal.4th 41. defendant emphasizes that all three of these cases involved (people v. clark, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 115.) these three cases indeed involved more serious and continuous disruptive conduct than occurred in this case; for instance, the defendant in people v. fitzpatrick feigned mental illness for four months, delayed his trial by an additional seven months by escaping from custody, and told the court he would need over a year to get ready for trial. (people v. fitzpatrick, supra, at p. 93.) yet, as the supreme court noted in people v. carson, suprafinding of error in one situation does not mean error occurred in another. (cf. people v. clark, suprafinding of no error in one situation is not tantamount to the misconduct must span several hearings before pro. per. status may be revoked is at odds with the case-by-case examination required here. moreover, such a rule would enable self-represented defendants to engage in disruptive conduct without consequence, so long as they confined their misbehavior to one hearing. we decline to impose such a rule, or otherwise restrict a continuance; gave him several opportunities to explain his position; advised him of an alternative procedural vehicle, the section 995 motion; encouraged him to speak with his standby 46 counsel; and warned him that his continued refusal to enter a plea could result in revocation of his right to self-represent. defendant responded by spelling his name and disregarding the the court did not abuse its discretion in terminating his right to represent himself. v. cumulative error defendant contends that all of the alleged errors discussed above resulted in cumulative error sufficient to deprive him of due process and warrant reversal of his convictions. we disagree. nstances in which we have found error or assumed its existence, no prejudice resulted. the same conclusion is appropriate after considering their cumulative (people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 181.) similarly, the cumulative effect of any errors in this case was not prejudicial. vi. romero motion finally defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his romero motion to strike his prior strike offense. we disagree. a. background early in the case, defendant filed a romero motion to strike the prior strike convictions for robbery ( 211) and shooting into an occupied vehicle ( 246) alleged in the amended information. defendant argued that the convictions, which arose from a single case and dated to 1991, when he was a teenager, were remote in crime free existence after his release from the california youth 47 [o]ver his visitation fight with his three strikes law. elected to proceed as second strike rather than third strike case. it accordingly dropped its allegation pertaining to the shooting and proceeded only with its allegation pertaining to the robbery, which the court found to be true after a bifurcated bench trial. romero motion prior to sentencing. in doing so, the trial court acknowledged that the conviction occurred 25 years ago. however, the court stated that whole set of crimes in which he and a colleague, in about five different incidents with numerous victims, robbed people at gunpoint. he shot one person - - this is all in fairly short order - - resulted in charges for two counts of attempted murder, four counts of robbery, and one count of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, but defendant resolved the matter by pleading only to one count of robbery and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. the court further remarked that defendant was arrested and convicted in 1996 for being a felon in possession of a firearm, which it viewed as very serious. the court acknowledged that whenever he was paroled on refusal to talk to the police and the family court judge, and the need for law enforcement to send seven officers to recover z. the there are ways to do this and to simply 48 -year-old, the court also observed that the prosecution already had romero concluded that strspirit or the letter of romerothe motion. b. standard of review under the three strikes law, the decision to dismiss or s discretion. (romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 504.) in exercising its discretion, tthe nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed outside the schemes spirit, in whole or in part. . . .(people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) we review the romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 530.) where the court, aware of its discretion, conformity with the spirit of the law, we shall affirm the . . . ruling, even if people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 378.) c. analysis defendant argues that the court abused its discretion despite the seriousness of his prior conviction and his failure to 49 emphasizes the age of the conviction, his youthful age when it was sustained, the nonviolent nature of his current and felon-in-possession offenses, and the difference in kind between his current and prior crimes. defendant further points out that the sentence under section 667, subdivdecision to proceed as a second rather than third strike case. none of these arguments persuades us that the court abused its discretion. generally, abuse where [the trial courts] choice iircumstances being (people v. trausch (1995) 36 cal.app.4th 1239, 1247, quoting people v. welch (1993) 5 cal.4th 228, 234.) bounds of reason. the trial court thoughtfully and thoroughly considered the nature and circumstances of conviction, which were much more serious than the conviction at the time of his robbery conviction and generally law-abiding life beyond offered some mitigation, but appropriately exercised its discretion by weighing those factors against aggravating ones, -in-possession conviction and disregard of authorities and legal processes. although defendant is correct that his current offense and most recent prior offense were not violent, the three strikes law does not 50 principally of violent or serious felonies to bring a defendant people v. strong (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 328, 340.) defendant has not pointed to any authority in support of his contention that it was improper as a second strike rather than third strike case, and we see no reason why such a considercircumstances a trial court may consider in deciding whether a disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 