filed 6/19/18 p. v. godfrey ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles wayne godfrey, defendant and appellant. b280875 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066354) appeal from a judgment in the superior court of los angeles county, lisa m. strassner, temporary judge. (pursuant to cal. const., art. vi,  21.) reversed in part. david m. thompson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 charles wayne godfrey was convicted following a jury trial of pimping and attempting to dissuade a witness from testifying. on appeal godfrey contends the trial court erred by admitting improper opinion testimony from the prosecutions expert witness and giving incomplete jury instructions. he also contends his conviction for attempting to dissuade a witness from testifying was not supported by substantial evidence. we reverse conviction for attempting to dissuade a witness, vacate his sentence in its entirety and remand for retrial on that count or resentencing. ion for pimping.1 factual and procedural background 1. the third amended information in a third amended information filed november 1, 2016 godfrey was charged with one count of pimping (count 1) (pen. code,  266h, subd. (a)),2 one count of making a criminal threat (count 2) ( 422, subd. (a)), one count of false imprisonment (count 3) ( 236), one count of human trafficking (count 4) ( 236.1, subd. (b)) and one count of attempting to dissuade a witness from testifying (count 5) ( 136.1, subd. (a)(2)). as to count 5 it was specially alleged the offense was a serious felony and godfrey had suffered two prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a); as to all counts it was specially alleged godfrey had suffered two prior 1 godfrey does not challenge his conviction for pimping. in fact, his trial counsel conceded during closing argument that godfrey was guilty of pimping; on appeal godfrey acknowledges 2 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 3 serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12). 2. the evidence at trial miqueda washington testified she met godfrey in january 2015 and began working for him as a prostitute. washington was 22 years old at the time and had been working as a prostitute for approximately six years. washington testified that, during her working relationship with godfrey, he determined the dates and times she worked. godfrey would take her to a designated area to solicit customers and drive around the neighborhood to monitor her activity while she worked. if godfrey saw washington do something he did not like, he would call her on a mobile telephone he had given her and reprimand her. if washington wanted to take a break from working to get something to eat, she had to get godfrey. washington turned over all the money she earned working as a prostitute to godfrey. on approximately five occasions godfrey slapped or hit washington after she told him she did not want to work on a particular day. at some point she told godfrey she no longer wanted to work for him. he responded by sending her threatening text messages, including writing, bitch, you talk too much. imma put you in the hospital. in april 2015 washington was arrested and spent a few weeks in custody. when she was released, washington told godfrey she no longer wanted to work as a prostitute. godfrey became angry and hit washington. at trial washington did not recall whether godfrey had hit her with a fist or an open hand, nor did she remember what part of her body was hit. washington tried to leave the motel room in which they were 4 staying, but godfrey told her she could not leave. washington testified she believed godfrey would hit her if she tried to leave and she was scared. godfrey was arrested in june 2015. at some point after godfreys arrest washington received at least two telephone calls urging her not to testify against him.3 the first call was from a man and a woman. washington testified she recognized the womans voice as serena vallier, the mother of godfreys child. washington testified vallier and the man were both talking at the same time, and i dont really recall the conversation. and i hung up the call pretty quick. however, she remembered vallier said snitches get stitches. during another telephone call someone told washington, dont go to court. washington also received messages on her social media account from vallier. the messages accused washington of lying about her involvement with godfrey and setting him up with the police. one message stated, imma let it known that you set up ass bitch straight out. washington interpreted this to mean vallier would tell people washington had told on godfrey. washington testified this scared her because, if she was to tell other people, you know, then, like, they have their own thoughts about how they want to handle stuff. . . . i mean, some people fight about it. some people might kill about it. another message from vallier stated, if he going down, you going down 3 washington could not remember exactly when she received these calls. initially she testified she received two calls prior to testifying at the preliminary hearing in this case and one call after the preliminary hearing. however, later in her testimony she stated she did not really remember when she received the calls. 5 with him. washington understood that to mean, if godfrey went to jail, then something violent could happen to her. in september 2015, while godfrey was in custody awaiting trial, washington and vallier had a physical altercation. washington was with her sister and a friend, who, unbeknownst to washington, was valliers cousin. the friend took washington and her sister to valliers house. vallier and two female family members came out of the house, recognized washington and began arguing with her. eventually one of valliers relatives began punching washington and a fight ensued, during which vallier kicked washington in the back. once the fight was broken up, washington left. detective mike davis of the los angeles county sheriffs departments safe streets bureau testified regarding his investigation into godfreys conduct. davis testified he had been a police officer almost 17 years and in 2015 had been assigned to the human trafficking division of the major crimes bureau. that assignment lasted one year. davis stated he became familiar with the terminology used by prostitutes and pimps by attending two week-long training classes and speaking with numerous victims of human trafficking, prostitutes and pimps.4 detective davis testified he had reviewed godfreys social media page and text messages exchanged between godfrey and 4 prior to trial the people requested detective davis be designated as an expert in human trafficking and permitted to testify as to the meanings of certain terminology that is unique to pimpingand human trafficking-type cases. the court granted the request on the condition the people could establish davis expertise. godfrey did not object to the peoples request or the courts ruling. 6 washington. davis explained the meaning of certain words and phrases used by godfrey and washington on social media and in their text messages, and he testified they were terms commonly used by pimps and prostitutes. as for the text messages, davis stated they contained conversations about prostitution, trafficking, going to other states. detective davis also testified regarding four telephone calls made by godfrey while he was in custody. recordings of the calls were played for the jury. the first telephone call took place on july 2, 2015 and was between godfrey and an unidentified woman. on the call godfrey said, you need to holler at brianna. you feel me? you need to holler at brianna really really holler at her though like. the woman replied, all she said when she hit me up. godfrey then stated, you know you like really just need to get up in her head like look bitch like. to which the woman replied, i hit her up too and then i like finished a whole bunch of stuff she was talking about stuff like way back three months. . . . i think brianna think to the pressure if i get in her head. godfrey then stated, if i cant get up outta here . . . its gonna get worse for me. you feel me? its not gonna get no better. thats how i feel its gonna get worse. after playing the recording for the jury, the prosecutor asked detective davis what he believed the conversation was about. davis replied, it was about getting the victims family in order to get her to stop testifying, and he explains that if they dont do something that its going to get worse for him while hes in county jail.5 5 detective davis also testified brianna was the name of washingtons sister. however, the answer was stricken after godfreys counsel objected based on lack of foundation. 7 the second telephone call took place on july 6, 2015 between godfrey and an unidentified man. godfrey told the man, you gotta call baby moms right or text baby moms and you gotta um and then and then she gonna tell you feel me the whole little get down. . . . t gonna tell you the whole get down. you like feel me? and the tell t whats briannas sisters name. you feel me? and she gonna tell you briannas sisters name cuz. and then hit her up cuz. you feel me? later, godfrey said, but um its briannas sister cuz ask for her name and then holla at her however you can holla at her cuz. whats up whats going on whats the deal? you feel me? like this shit weird. detective davis testified he believed this conversation was about the unidentified man getting in touch with washington. the third telephone call took place later in the day on july 6, 2015 between godfrey and vallier. on the call godfrey said he was going to court that week and did not plan on accepting any plea agreement offered by the prosecution. he stated, i already said im not taking nothing man im a speedy trial it you feel me. but i gotta see what they talking about. im gon try and call you back though you feel me so i can talk to you cause you already know the deal like i cant you know what im saying. . . . if you get any collect calls you gotta answer you already know the deal, everything whats up you feel me. you should get in contact with a mother fucker, with a mother fucker, what a mother fucker really doing you feel me thats what you should do. vallier responds, yeah i am baby daddy, dont trip. dont trip. after playing the recording the prosecutor asked detective davis to explain the context of the series of statements made by the defendant when it says, you should get in contact with the mother fucker. davis responded, prior to that 8 statement he talks about his upcoming court date. he also talks about she already knows the deal, and then, based off those statements with upcoming court date saying that, you need to get in touch with the mother fucker and she already knows, i believe theyre referencing [washington]. further, when vallier responded, yeah i am baby daddy, davis believed that meant vallier either has or is going to contact washington. the fourth telephone call took place on september 10, 2015 between godfrey and an unidentified woman. the woman told godfrey, [y]our baby mama, her ass did some crazy shit. when godfrey asked what happened, the woman said, i dont really wanna say cause you on the phone. just know she talked to the girl. . . . if you can read in between the lines. godfrey then asked, oh yeah, oh yeahshe, she, she uh talked to twany? the woman answered, yes. . . . she got into it with twany last night. godfrey responded, thats weird cause they was already sayingthey was already saying that shit like you feel me. they was already saying that shit like, they were already saying it. you feel me like. the woman then said, thats what i was saying like that was a no go. they could have just waited for that. detective davis testified that, based on the context of the conversation, he believed twany referred to washington. as to godfreys statements that they was already saying it, davis said he believed, based on the prior calls that were heard, that there were already things in motion to get at [washington] and that the word was already out that if they saw her, they could get her. throughout detective daviss testimony concerning the telephone calls, godfreys counsel repeatedly objected based on 9 foundation, speculation and relevance. the majority of those objections were overruled. godfrey did not testify or present any witnesses in his defense. 3. the verdicts and sentencing after the conclusion of the peoples evidence, godfrey moved for dismissal of count 3 (false imprisonment) pursuant to section 1118.1 on the ground that the only evidence supporting the charge of false imprisonment was an act that took place in san bernardino county, outside the jurisdiction of the trial court. the court granted the motion and entered a judgment of acquittal on count 3. after deliberating on the remaining charges for one and a half days, the jury informed the court it had reached a verdict on count 1 (pimping), but was at an impasse on count 2 (making criminal threats), count 4 (human trafficking) and count 5 (attempting to dissuade a witness). the court urged the jury to continue deliberating, which it did for an additional 90 minutes. at that point, the jury announced verdicts of guilty as to counts 1 and 5 and stated it could not reach unanimous verdicts on counts 2 and 4. the trial court declared a mistrial on counts 2 and 4. prior to sentencing, godfrey admitted he had suffered the two prior serious felony convictions alleged in the third amended information. on february 3, 2017 the trial court sentenced godfrey to an aggregate state prison term of 43 years to life.6 6 on count 1 the court imposed a determinate term of eight years: the middle term of four years doubled pursuant to the three strikes law. on count 5 the court imposed an 10 the court also imposed statutory fines, fees and assessments and awarded godfrey 1,180 days of presentence custody credits. discussion 1. the trial court abused its discretion by admitting detective daviss opinion testimony regarding the meaning of the telephone calls a. governing law and standard of review an expert witness may provide opinion testimony on matters [r]elated to a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would assist the trier of fact . . . . (evid. code,  801.) however, expert opinion testimony will be excluded when it would add nothing at all to the jurys common fund of information, i.e., when the subject of inquiry is one of such common knowledge that men of ordinary education could reach a conclusion as intelligently as the witness. (people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 60; accord, amtower v. photon dynamics, inc. (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1582, 1598 [expert opinion is not admissible if it consists of inferences and conclusions which can be drawn as easily and intelligently by the trier of fact as by the witness].) further, exclusion of expert opinion testimony is proper when the opinion rest[s] on guess, surmise or conjecture. (people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1046.) this proposition is an inherent corollary to the foundational predicate for admission of the expert testimony: will the testimony assist the indeterminate term of 25 years to life pursuant to the three strikes law, plus two consecutive five-year terms for the prior serious felony convictions pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). 11 trier of fact to evaluate the issues it must decide? [citation.] expert testimony not based on the evidence will not assist the trier of fact. (ibid.) while an expert may express opinions that embrace the ultimate issue to be determined by the trier of fact (evid. code,  805), an expert may not express an opinion about the defendants guilt or his or her subjective knowledge or intent. (vang, at pp. 1048, 1051.) we review the trial courts admission of expert testimony for abuse of discretion. (people v. robinson (2005) 37 cal.4th 592, 630; people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 627.) b. detective daviss testimony regarding the telephone calls was improper opinion godfrey contends detective daviss testimony regarding the four telephone calls was improper opinion testimony that godfrey was guilty of attempting to dissuade washington from testifying.7 in response, the attorney general argues daviss opinion testimony was necessary to assist the jury in understanding the habits of prisoners or the meaning of particular coded verbiage, especially coded verbiage that is constantly evolving to evade detection. the articulation of this argument provides the reason for its failure. contrary to the attorney 7 godfrey also argues detective daviss opinions were improper because he was qualified as an expert only on human trafficking and not on interpreting jail telephone calls. the attorney general contends godfrey forfeited this argument by failing to raise it in the trial court. we need not decide these issues because we find, even if davis was shown to have the requisite expertise, his opinions fell outside the scope of permissible expert testimony. 12 contention, daviss opinion testimony regarding the telephone calls was not based on any description of the habits of prisoners, nor did davis give any explanation of the meaning of any specific coded verbiage. for example, when asked what he believed the july 2 conversation was about, davis answered, it was about getting the victims family in order to get her to stop testifying. davis did not interpret or define a specific word or phrase, nor did he explain which words or phrases caused him to believe godfrey was discussing an attempt to dissuade washington from testifying. davis did not articulate how his particular training or experience enabled him to form his opinion. likewise, davis did not explain any basis for his opinion that brianna referred to washingtons sister or that twany referred to washington. absent any explanation of how or why davis formulated his opinions, his testimony was purely conclusory and essentially of no use to the fact finder. (people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59, 85; accord, jennings v. palomar pomerado health systems, inc. (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 1108, 1120, fn. 12 [[w]e are convinced the expert must provide some articulation of how the jury, if it possessed his or her training and knowledge and employed it to examine the known facts, would reach the same conclusion as the expert].) even if detective davis had articulated his opinions in a less conclusory fashion, they would still be inadmissible. the attorney general has not identified any words or phrases used in the telephone calls that were sufficiently beyond common experience as to require expert testimony for the jury to comprehend their meaning. the jury was as able as detective davis to listen to the recordings and determine for itself what they meant. (see people v. smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 628 13 [jury was as able as expert to listen to taped recordings of defendant and decide how to interpret them]; people v. torres (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 37, 47 [expert testimony improper when jury clearly was competent to determine from the evidence and the courts instructions whether defendant intended to rob or extort [victims]].) as such, detective daviss opinions about the evidence in this case did not offer the jury anything more than the lawyers can offer in argument. (kotla v. regents of the university of california (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 283, 294; accord, summers v. a.l. gilbert co. (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 1155, 1183 when an experts opinion amounts to nothing more than an expression of his or her belief on how a case should be decided, it does not aid the jurors, it supplants themconclusion that godfrey was trying to prevent washington from testifying might be an appropriate inference to be drawn from the evidence, it was not an appropriate subject of expert testimony. 2. the erroneous admission of detective opinion testimony regarding the telephone calls was not harmless people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 provides the appropriate standard for determining whether the erroneous admission of expert testimony requires reversal. (people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 247.) under watson, reversal is warranted it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of (watson, at p. 836.) the attorney general argues admission of detective appellant intended to try to prevent washington from testifying 14 agconsiderable evidence that washington had been contacted by various individuals who attempted to dissuade her from testifying, the only evidence linking godfrey to those attempts was the four recorded jail telephone calls and dm. the actual language of the telephone calls was open to more than one interpretation. while it was certainly possible the jury would have concluded from the calls that godfrey was discussing attempts to dissuade washington from testifying, the jury was improper opinion testimony. particularly because washington had difficulty recalling the timing of the threatening calls to her, which makes it uncertain when these calls occurred in relation to jail conversations, it is far from clear the jury would have reached the same verdict without the improper influence of summers v. a.l. gilbert co., supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 1182 there is a substantial danger the jury simply adopted the experts conclusions rather than making its own decision it is reasonably probable, based on the language of the calls alone, that at least one juror would have s did not prove his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. soojian (2010) 190 cal.app.4th watson standard a hung see also people v. sanchez (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 1517, 1535 [quoting soojian].) our conclusion the erroneous admission of detective fact the jury reported it could not reach a unanimous verdict on count 5 after deliberating for more than a day. (see people v. 15 sergill (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 34, 41 [erroneous admission of expert testimony not harmless where prior trial resulted in deadlocked jury].) we find it is reasonably probable a result more favorable to godfrey would have been reached had that testimony not been allowed. the conviction on count 5 must be reversed.8 3. attempting to dissuade a witness although we reverse conviction for attempting to dissuade a witness because of the improper admission into evidence of detective opinion testimony, we must also evaluate his claim the conviction, as tried, is not supported by substantial evidence. double jeopardy clause forbids a second trial for the purpose of affording the prosecution another opportunity to supply evidence which it failed to muster in the first (burks v. united states (1978) 437 u.s. 1, 11 [98 s.ct. 2141, 57 l.ed.2d 1].) to avoid placing a defendant in double jeopardy, a reviewing court that reverses a conviction due to legal error must assess the challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to determine whether the defendant may be retried for the offense. (see people v. morgan (2007) 42 cal.4th 593, 613; people v. hayes (1990) 52 cal.3d 577, 631.) defendant . . . may preserve for himself whatever double jeopardy benefits accrued in his first trial notwithstanding some 8 because we reverse for attempting to dissuade a witness based on the improper admission of detective additional argument the jury was not properly instructed on the elements of the offense. 16 fatal defect in the (people v. superior court (marks) (1991) 1 cal.4th 56, 72, fn. 14.) in considering a claim of insufficient evidence in a criminal case, we review the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] conflicts and even testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation [citation.] a reversal for insufficient evidence unwarranted unless it appears upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to the s (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357, 75; accord, people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) in applying this deferential standard of review to determine whether a retrial is permissible, the reviewing court must consider all of the evidence presented at trial, including evidence that should not have been admitted. [w]here the evidence offered by the state and admitted by the trial court 17 whether erroneously or notwould have been sufficient to sustain a guilty verdict, the double jeopardy clause does not preclude retrial. [citation.] accordingly, a reviewing court must consider all of the evidence admitted by the trial court in deciding whether retrial is permissible under the double jeopardy clause (people v. story (2009) 45 cal.4th 1282, 1296-1297; accord, people v. lara (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 296, 328, fn. 17.) the evidence presented to the jury was sufficient to support as discussed, there was considerable evidence washington was repeatedly contacted and warned not to testify. washington testified that, at least some of those warnings, were delivered by godfrey on the telephone on july 6, 2015. while washington was not positive of the dates of the threats she received, she testified she thought she received two of the calls prior to testifying at the preliminary hearing on july 9, 2015. this timing coincides with that took place in early july. on the jail telephone calls godfrey is heard telling various one call the unidentified godfrey told the unidentified man that someone else would tell woman indicated she was hesitant to discuss washington on the telephone. while these conversations could have more than one reasonable interpretation, detective davis testified unequivocally that in his opinion godfrey was discussing plans to keep washington from testifying. on this record there was substantial 18 evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could find godfrey guilty of attempting to dissuade a witness from testifying. disposition the conviction for attempting to dissuade a witness is reversed. sentence is vacated in its entirety, and the matter is remanded for possible retrial on count 5, attempting to dissuade a witness. if the prosecutor elects not to retry godfrey, or at the conclusion of any retrial, the court is to resentence godfrey.9 perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j. 9 godfrey contends, and the attorney general concedes, the credits. at resentencing the court will have the opportunity to address that issue. 