filed 11/30/17 p. v. ward ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james vernon ward, defendant and appellant. b280320 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba392093) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. craig j. mitchell, judge. affirmed. barbara a. smith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 james vernon ward appeals from a judgment that was reinstated following a second remand for the hearing and determination in reasons for exercising a peremptory challenge against a prospective juror were race-neutral. in his first appeal, appellant challenged the the a peremptory challenge against one of two african-american jurors. (batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 85, 9699 (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 276277 (wheeler).) we conditionally reversed the judgment, remandithe second and third stages of the batson/wheeler analysis with respect to prospective juror no. 4. (people v. ward (oct. 24, 2014, b244947 [nonpub. opn.] p. 8.) upon remand, the trial court conducted the hearing as directed, but appellant was not present. the record did not reflect whether the trial court refused to order appellant transported for the hearing or simply failed to do so. the record t. the only (people v. ward (aug. 24, 2016, b263316 [nonpub. opn.] p. 3.) we again conditionally reversed the judgment and remanded the cause to the trial court, with orders that the trial in the presence of defendant wardattempt to perform the second and third stages of the batson/wheeler analysis. the court should require the prosecutor to explain her peremptory challenge of prospective juror no. 4. if the prosecutor offers a race-neutral explanation, the court must attempt to make a sincere and reasoned evaluation of that 3 explanation. if the court finds that, due to the passage of time or any other reason, it cannot adequately address the issues at this stage or make a reliable determination, or if it determines that the prosecutor improperly challenged prospective juror no. 4, it should set the case for a new trial. if it finds the prosecutor exercised her peremptory challenges in a permissible fashion, it (people v. ward, supra, b263316, p. 9.) the second remand hearing took place on january 9, 2017. appellant was present. the trial judge began the proceedings by describing his own recollections of the trial and prospective juror no. 4, and he explained why his memory of the proceedings was so clear. tiffany forsberg, the trial prosecutor, then testified under oath to her recollections of prospective juror no. 4 and the reasons she independently recalled for excusing the juror. the prosecutor explained: i excused juror no. 4 for a variety of reasons. one reason was that he informed us that he was a social worker. . . . [a]s a general matter, . . on my jury, primarily because i believe that a juror should look to the facts and examine the facts and determine from the facts that are presented if the defendant is guilty or not and not be swayed by any sympathy or try to fill in any blanks of maybe what where they are today.she held this opinion about social workers regardless of the race of the juror or the defendant. in this case she used a peremptory challenge to excuse three social workers, which accounted for all of the social workers on the entire panel. one of the other jurors she excused for being a social worker was a white woman, but ms. forsberg 4 did not recall the race or gender of the third social worker she excused. a social worker caused her concern that he might not follow the law as given in . the prosecutor opined that a jury trial is -they like to change hats frequently, that that is not the type of juror that i was lookin another reason the prosecutor gave for excusing prospective juror no. 4 was that he had been late to court one day. she explained that in a previous trial a juror who was consistently late throughout the trial had casecourt on a particular date. i think that just, in general, showslike to have possible indicator that t finally, ms. forsberg explained that she noticed prospective juror no. 4 had nodded positively at something defense counsel had said, but did not give her a similar nonverbal response during voir dire. this conduct led the prosecutor to believe that the prospective juror might be responding more positively to the defense attorney, which became a factor in excusing the juror. when asked about a moment during voir dire when prospective juror no. 4 did not seem to understand ms. the prosecutor stated that she did not specifically recall that. nevertheless, it could have factored into her exercise of the peremptory challenge. at least one, possibly two, african- 5 american jurors remained on the jury that was impaneled. the prosecutor specifically recalled the jury foreperson, who was an african-american man. the trial judge stated that he had a specific clear memory well-spoken individual, consistent with his job as a social worker. he was very involved in the selection process, was quite able to interject himself when the trial judge stated he was satisfied that ms. memory was sufficient to allow the court to make a sincere and reasoned examination of the proffered explanation for the peremptory challenge, based on the statement that this had been a unique and very significant case in her career. the court juror no. 4 to be genuine, and her exercise of the peremptory challenge based on race-neutral reasons having nothing to do thus, in accordance with prior opinion in people v. ward, supra, b263316, pp. 3, 9), the trial court reinstated the judgment. mr. ward once again appealed, and we appointed counsel to represent him on appeal. after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and asking this court to independently review the record. appellant has filed no supplemental brief of his own. we have examined the entire record and are satisfied that attorney has fully complied with her responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109110; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) 6 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 