 filed 10/29/18 p. v. dominguez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. oliver dominguez, defendant and appellant. b280068 los angeles county super. ct. no. va140209 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. higa, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, jonathan j. kline and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant oliver dominguez of seven counts of aggravated sexual assault on a child as well as continuous sexual abuse and lewd act on a child. the years old when the abuse started and 15 when she finally told a nurse about ittrial court dissuaded him from exercising his constitutional right to represent himself at trial by emphasizing too emphatically the risks and dangers of self-representation. we find no error and therefore affirm. background 1. sexual abuse of the minor victim because dominguez does not challenge the evidence supporting his conviction, we summarize it briefly. on september 29, 2015, marcela g. became worried when her 15-year-old daughter, e.,1 did not come home from school. finally, after 7:00 p.m., marcela found e. on their street, walking home. crying, e. told her mother that someone had drugged and raped her. marcela called police; paramedics arrived and took e. to the hospital. marcela also went to the hospital, along with her boyfriend, defendant oliver dominguez. after e. spoke with a therapist at the hospital, she told her mother that dominguez south gate police investigated. touching her vagina when she was 11 and visited her motherwho was living with dominguezin maywood. 11 and marcela was at work. when dominguez did this, e. felt 1 her first name and to the victim by the initial of her first name. 3 her mother. when e. was 12 and they were home alone, dominguez dominguez pinned e. down on the bed and put his penis into her vagina. e. was not able to move. after dominguez was done, dominguez told her dominguez told [her] and then what would she and her mother do for when e. was 13, dominguez put his penis in her vagina three times a week. when e. was 13 or 14, dominguez also put his mouth on her vagina about once a week. on about four when questioned by a detective, dominguez said e. initiated the sexual conduct and he never forced her to do anything. dominguez told the detectilast had sex two weeks earlier. dominguez asked the detective how many years he might get, apparently referring to prison. that had to think . dominguez said, asked the detective to ask marcela to forgive him. dominguez 4 then dictated a letter of apology to marcela for the detective to write for him. 2. marsden and faretta motions the people charged dominguez with five counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child (rape), five counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child (oral copulation), five counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child (sodomy), and one count each of lewd act on a child and continuous sexual abuse.2 the court appointed deputy public defender mark disabatino to represent dominguez. dominguez was arraigned on the information on may 18, 2016, and on the amended information on october 4, 2016. after a number of pretrial conferences, on october 4, 2016 the parties announced ready for trial. the next day, the case was transferred to judge robert j. higa for trial. a spanish language interpreter assisted dominguez throughout the proceedings. when the court called the case, defense counsel told the judge, me court urged dominguez to show the document to his lawyer before giving it to the court. -page handwritten statement in english. in the statement dominguez -hearted effort to contact or subpeona [sic 2 at 2016, the court dismissed three of the oral copulation counts and ultimately, the jurors were unable to reach a verdict on the two remaining sodomy counts and the court dismissed them. 5 know what[:] he wants to do a marsden.3 the court had the prosecutor leave the courtroom. the court conducted a hearing at which both dominguez (through the interpreter) and disabatino spoke. at the marsden motion. dominguez then apparently indicated he wanted to represent himself. dominguez the court stated it would let dominguez think during the lunch recess about what he wanted to do. the court then brought in the prospective jurors and ordered them to return after the lunch recess. when court resumed after lunch, the judge asked en said it would have dominguez fill out the faretta advisement and waiver form.4 the interpreter said she would read the form to dominguez in spanish. the court then addressed dominguez: yourself because if you are reading that form, you understand that you are going to be treated just like any other lawyer. . . . [j]ust because you are going 3 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 4 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 6 pro. per. want you to understand that. it is a very serious offense. you are looking at life. . . . very serious and you are uneducated. you saying that because i kind of, i hate to see anyone go pro. per. in serious cases like this. it is not a misdemeanor. . . . this is very serious. it will affect talked to other people and heard about it. this is a very complicated type of offense. i know you got a right to go pro. per. but[,] like i said[,] i [have] never seen anyone successful[ly] representing themselves on these cases, the big cases. i just want you to understand the seriousness of it. you have 15 counts defense counsel then confirmed dominguez faced multiple life counts, and the prosecutor noted the life sentences would be mandatory. the court continued, you. i just want to make sure you understand what you are getting into and nobody else canyou know all of these other people can talk and give you all of this advice. but they are not going to, if you lose they are not going to suffer the consequences. okay. so it is easy for them to tell you what to do. so i just want you to go ahead and she will explain it. i want you to know how i do. but it is up to you and she will go ahead and translate the form for you if that is what you want to do. (italics added.) 7 . . . since i have been here. it has been destroyed. i need to represent not here . . . to jtelling you the seriousness of it and you have to make a decision dominguez then conferred with disabatino and completed and submitted the faretta form. dominguez confirmed he had initialed each box and signed the form. dominguez stated on the form he had attended but not graduated from high school. in response to the questions on the form asking if the defendant had gh school or any legal education, and whether the defendant ever had been granted the right to self-representation in a criminal case, dominguez wrote, to the questions whether he knew what facts had to be proved before he could be found guilty or what the legal defenses the court addressed dominguez: place where you have initialed you understood what you were the court ez .apparently referring to the last page of substance, page three of four. the court reviewed the third page of the form, which contains a section entitled, told dominguez, dominguez the advisements on the form: t i do not represent myself and that i accept court appointed counsel.i understand if i accept court appointed counsel, an experienced trial attorney will be assigned to try my case.8 understand the lawyer will be able to investigate my case and what that says? you have a right to have this lawyer, a very experienced lawyer represent you through this trial. i have already told you that. i think it is not wise for you to do this. so you understand that [,] knowing all this and everything i said and everything on this form, you do still wish to proceed in pro. per. not assigning you another attorney. you have an attorney assigned to you. so are you over lunch. i told you instead of ruling on it before lunch, i years to life. the court asked[,] you still wish to represent yourself, right? said[,] one that helps me, someone that fights for my case. someone who really investigates things. someone who fights for my life. it is my lawyer, mr. disabatino, is experienced and he is here to fight for you. he is ready to go to trial. all right. it is either yes or no? do you want to represent yourself or not? . . . if you do want to grant that wish. 9 your petition if that is what you want to do. you will have mr. disabatino represent you; is the court then brought in the jurors and the trial went forward. discussion appointed counsel was] railroaded by the trial extended and heavy-handed reproach of [his] assertion of [his] right [to self-representation], repeatedly questioning the decision to proceed, and the wisdom of that decision, and repeatedly life terms, but, more to the point, that [dominguez] had no chance of winning if he were to go pro[.] in faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806, the united states supreme court held that under the sixth amendment to the united states stitutional right to proceed without counsel when he voluntarily and id. at p. 807, italics omitted.) -representation if the defendant unequivocally asserts that right within a reasonable time prior to the commencement of trial, and (people v. lynch (2010) -representation is waived unless defendants articulately and unmistakably demand to proceed pro se (people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269, 295 10 (danks).) (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 23 (marshall); see also brewer v. williams invoked the right to self-representation, we examine the entire reco (people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, 218 (dent).) farettaunequivocal, and competent invocation of the right suggests that an insincere request or one made under the cloud of emotion may be denied.danks, supramade out of a temporary whim, or out of annoyance or frustration, is not unequivocaleven if the defendant has said he or she seeks self- (marshall, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 21; see also jackson v. ylst (9th cir. 1990) 921 f.2d 882, 888 [self-representation request deemed an equivocal, emotional counsel]; cf. people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1205 (scottfaretta motion immediately after the trial court denied his marsden motion, and [his] subsequent comments suggest he made the faretta motion only because he (italics omitted)].) a defendant seeking to represent himself should be made aware of the dangers and disadvantages of self-representation, so that the record will establish that he knows what he is doing and his choice is made with eyes open. (people v. burgener (2009) 46 cal.4th 231, 241.) the court has a 11 response to [a] de (id. at p. 242.) assistance of counsel is knowing and intelligent, the court should of self-rid. at pp. 241, 243.) should satisfy itself that the defendant understands the nature of the charges against him, though there is a split of authority in california as to whether the court must also specifically advise the defendant of the maximum penal consequences of conviction. (people v. ruffin (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 536, 544.) faretta motion was untimely,5 the trial court stated it would grant it. the court then proceeded to fulfill its duty of advising dominguez of the hazards, pitfalls, and consequences of self-representation. the court engaged in a lengthy colloquy with dominguez to ensureas requiredthat dominguez understood and appreciated these 5 as noted, dominguez made his motion for self-representation on the morning of trial, after jurors had been assigned to the courtroom. when the court asked him if he was people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 102 [motion made moments before jury selection was to begin]; people v. frierson (1991) 53 cal.3d 730, 742 [eve of trial]; people v. burton (1989) 48 cal.3d 843, 853-854 [day of trial]; scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at pp. 1204-1205 [four days before trial was to begin]; people v. howze (2001) 85 cal.app.4th 1380, 1396-1399 [request made two days before trial]; people v. rudd (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 620, 624, 626 [day of trial]; people v. caird (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 578, 583-584 [one day before trial].) 12 dangers. dominguez made his faretta request for the first time immediately after the court denied his marsden motion and jury selection was about to begin. dominguez said several times that when, after going over the advisement and waiver form with proceed in pro. per. , yes. the prosecutor then advised the court and dominguez of his maximum possible sentence. the court again asked dominguez if he wanted to represent himself. dominguez again complained about his court-appointed counsel and again asked if his marsden motion had been denied. at that junctureeven though the trial court had stated, grant your petition if that is what you want to do. it.dominguez chose to proceed with the lawyer he had. dent, supra, 30 cal.4th 213, is misplaced. dent was a capital case. on the morning of trial, -appointed lawyers showed up. defense counsel repeatedly had requested continuances. the court told . on its case. (id. at pp. 215-216.) finally appeared and told the court that dent wished to proceed with him as counsel or, in the alternative, to proceed pro. per. the court interrupted: pro. per. . . . not id. at p. 217.) the court then relieved counsel and appointed new counsel. dent never renewed his request for self-representation. (ibid.) (dent, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 215.) 13 faretta but, the court held, response was not only legally erroneous but also unequivocal, and foreclosed any realistic possibility [dent] would perceive self-representation (dent, at p. 219.) faretta requestfar from it. the court gave dominguez the advisement and waiver form, had the interpreter go over it with him in spanish, and then engaged him in a colloquy about it. the court told dominguez it would grant his motion if that was what he wanted. but after his demands for a new lawyer were rejected and the prosecutor told him he faced more than 230 years in prison if convicted, dominguez decided to proceed with his court-appointed attorney. we find no error. 14 disposition we affirm oliver not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. goodman, j. retired judge of the los angeles superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 