filed 3/14/18 p. v. bunton ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. douglas l. bunton, defendant and appellant. b280879 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba439636) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mildred escobedo, judge. affirmed as modified. edward j. haggerty, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, 2 assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. a jury convicted douglas l. bunton (bunton) of the following felonies: forcible rape (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2)1); forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)(a)); and battery ( 242). the trial court sentenced bunton to an aggregate sentence of 100 years to life plus five years. on appeal, bunton advances four principal arguments.2 first, he contends that the trial court erred by failing to declare a mistrial after the rape and oral copulation victim, olivia t. (olivia), became upset while testifying and addressed certain comments directly to bunton. second, bunton argues that the trial court abused -of-court photo identification of bunton as her attacker. third, bunton claims that the trial court abused its discretion when 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 bunton also argues that he is entitled to one additional day of presentence custody creditinstead of 514 days of credit, he is entitled to 515 days. the people agree that the correct amount of custody credit should be 515 days due to the fact 2016 was a leap year with 366 days, not 365 days. accordingly, we direct the trial court to prepare an amended abstract of judgment reflecting that bunton has 515 days of presentence custody credit. 3 it denied his romero motion (people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497) requesting that the court convictions. finally, bunton argues that his sentence constitutes cruel and/or unusual punishment. we are not persuaded by any of these arguments. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. background i. the attack on september 7, 2015labor dayat approximately 5:00 p.m., olivia was at her home barbecuing with two other people, her boyfriend and another friend. at approximately 5:22 p.m., shortly after the friend had boyfriend had gone to the store for some seasoning, olivia went inside to retrieve some meat for the barbecue. bunton, a cigarette laced with phencyclidine (pcp), followed olivia into her house. according to bunton, once he was inside , the pcp just hit hi in the living room, bunton, who weighed approximately 185 pounds, attacked olivia, who weighed about 100 pounds, from behind, down on a coffee table, telling her that olivia immediately began to holler and call for help. olivia struggled free of bunton and ran for the front door, but he slammed and locked it before she could get out. then she tried to jump from a window, but bunton grabbed her, slammed her on the floor, and began forcibly removing some 4 of her clothing. olivia got bunton off of her long enough to run to the bedroom. bunton followed her into the bedroom and slammed her down on the bed. bunton then climbed on top of olivia and put his erect penis inside her vagina, but only ers with his knees and told her, olivia kept hollering and fighting, but bunton cheeks, chin, the front of her mouth, and partially into her open mouth, enough that sh olivia pushed bunton off of her and fled to the living room where she tried once more to escape through the window, but again bunton pulled her back and slammed her down onto the floor. she tried to escape through the front door again, but bunton knocked her once more to the floor and dragged her by the hair back into the bedroom where he sexually assaulted her for a second time. during this second episode in the bedroom, olivia lost consciousness for a time her vagina. after he ejaculated once more on her thigh, he again pinned her shoulders down and tried to force his penis into her mouth. her aid. bunton, however, shoved his wife another neighbor, santos e. (santos) to the ground as he tried 5 wife and another neighbor called 911. the police arrived, tasered bunton, and took him into custody. ii. investigation and trial on september 8, 2015the day following the attackolivia identified a photo of bunton as that of her attacker; her photographic identification was videotaped. on that same day, a detective with the los angeles police department interviewed bunton. during that interview, bunton admitted to the following: smoking pcp shortly before the attack; pushing olivia down; pulling her clothes off; telling olivia that she was going to give him some . . . pussy suck [his] dick putting his penis in her mouth; olivia running away from him and him chasing her, and yelling and screaming at near the end of the interview, bunton stated that, if he could, that made him act the way he did. on january 4, 2016, the people filed a three-count information alleging bunton forcibly raped and orally copulated olivia and committed battery against santos. as to the rape and oral copulation counts, the people alleged further that those crimes were committed during the commission of a first degree burglary and that bunton had 6 two prior convictions for serious or violent felonies.3 on december 12, 2016, after deliberating for approximately one and a half hours, the jury returned verdicts against bunton on all counts. on february 2, 2017, the trial court sentenced bunton to a term of 25 years to life on each of the forcible rape and forcible oral copulation charges; each sentence was doubled to 50 years to life pursuant to the section 667.61, subdivision (a). in addition, the trial court added a five-year serious felony enhancement pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a). the trial court ordered that these sentences were to run consecutively. as for the battery conviction, the trial court imposed a concurrent term of six months. bunton timely appealed. discussion i. during the second day of her testimony, near the conclusion of the , the prosecutor asked olivia about her relationship with bunton before the assault. midway through her answer, olivia began addressing bunton directly, he was a very nice person, a friendly person, very nice. i would have never knew he would do something like that. . . . i never knew he would do something like that. why the hell you do that to me for? 3 after the jury rendered its verdicts, the trial court granted the prior convictions. 7 why did you do that to me? you hurt me. night. i cry every, every, every, every night. why did you do that? you were my friend. he was my friend. (italics added.) although the trial court immediately called for a break in the proceedings so that olivia could collect herself, and instructed the jury to go into the jury room, olivia continued to address bunton directly and discuss how the assault had friend. [] . . . [] he was my damn friend. it was him that hurt me. him. why you touch me? alk down the street. [] . . . [] nothing. i think people after me all the time. i see your face all the time. i . [] . . . [] he got me shaky all the time. throughout court repeatedly tried to calm and comfort olivia. after a brief recess and outside the presence of the jury, the trial court, without placing any blame on olivia for her outburst, question and just answer the qshe understood and she completed her direct examination and cross-examination without further outbursts. as discussed below, we disagree the trial court should have declared a mistrial following . 8 a. standard of review of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in (people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 198.) s volunteered statement can, under some circumstances, provide the basis fpeople v. ledesma be s chances of receiving a fair trial h (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 282.) a sua sponte declaration of a . (carrillo v. superior court (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 1511, 1529.) we r deny a mistrial under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 555.) b. no abuse of discretion wchances of receiving a fair trial were not irreparably damaged boutburst. first, we note that the trial court repeatedly instructed the jury at other points during the trial sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion influence [their] consistently stated in numerous contexts generally presume 9 that jurors are capable of following, and do follow, the trial s instructions. (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 447.) such a presumption is eminently sensible. juries often hear unsolicited and inadmissible comments and in order for trials to proceed without constant mistrial, it is axiomatic the prejudicial effect of these comments may be corrected by judicial admonishment; absent evidence to the contrary the error is deemed cured.people v. martin (1983) 150 cal.app.3d 148, 162163 [no mistrial for witness emotional outburst].) here, there is no evidencesuch as posttrial juror declarations or affidavitsthat any juror was unduly . second, courts seldom declared a mistrial when there has been an isolated emotional outburst by a witness. for example, in people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, our supreme court held that the trial court properly refused to grant a mistrial after the mother of a murder was proper the comment added nothing to what the jury knew(id. at p. 1029; people v. roy (1971) 18 cal.app.3d 537, 554 [no mistrial due to single emotional outburst by murder while testifying].) already heard from two neighbors who described hearing olivia screaming and calling for help and seeing a naked bunton pull her back inside the house when she tried to 10 escape. the jury had also heard olivia describe in detail assault upon her. under these circumstances, jury already knewthat is, at the time of her outburst, the jury already knew that olivia had suffered emotional as well as physical trauma as the result of being a victim of a sustained and brutal sexual assault in her own home on a holiday by a neighbor whom she trusted. finally, there is no factual basis for a finding of evidence that bunton brutally raped olivia was in the attack was confirmed in a number of important respects by testimony from her neighbors and the content of their contemporaneous 911 calls, by the testimony of the nurse practioner at the rape treatment center who performed a sexual assault examination of olivia shortly after the assault and who videotaped her injuries, and, perhaps, most own videotaped admission to the police that he had raped her. while emotional outburst was not fleeting, it was addressed by the court and the conduct ceased. as such, isolated and momentary loss of composure did not trial court was obligated to grant a mistrial on its own motion. (carrillo v. superior court, supra, 145 cal.app.4th at p. 1529.) 11 ii. a-of-court identification prior to opening statements, the people sought to admit at trial a shortless than a minute longvideo recording of olivia identifying bunton from a photograph as her assailant. the trial court described the video as showing a male detective presenting a single photograph to olivia, who emotional fashion kind of grabs at the paper, pushes it back toward the detective and eventually starts cry the defense, pursuant to evidence code section 352, objected to the admission of the video on the ground that it not disputing attacker. the people argued that, because the defense had not yet actually conceded identity, it still had to prove that fact to the jury, and, moreover, because would be placed at issue by the defense, the jury could draw inferences about her credibility from the responseruling on the issue until after olivia gave her testimony so that it could assess probative value and prejudicial effect, and cautioned the parties not to refer to the video during opening statements. at the conclusion of the first day of testimony, before the people had completed their direct examination of olivia, the trial court ruled that the video was admissible under evidence code section 352 because it was probative of her credibility and more probative than a description of her 12 identification by one of the officers who was present during the identification. in addition, the trial court ruled the video admissible under evidence code section 1238,4 if a proper foundation was laid. the people, after first having olivia testify about her identification of bunton via a photograph and then having the attending detective testify about the identification, played the video for the jury. on appeal, bunton argues that the trial court erred elicited a strong emotive response from the jurors, who likely we disagree. a. standard of review evidence code section 352 pthe court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury 4 evidence code section 1238 provides as follows: made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement would have been admissible if made by him while testifying and: [] (a) the statement is an identification of a party or another as a person who participated in a crime or other occurrence; [] (b) the statement was made at a time when memory; and [] (c) the evidence of the statement is offered after the witness testifies that he made the identification 13 s rulings under section 352 for abuse of discretion and will not disturb the trial court's determination unless the court acted in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 11241125he decision on whether evidence . . . is relevant, not unduly prejudicial and thus admissible, rests within the discretion of the trial court. [citation.] where, as here, a discretionary power is statutorily vested in the trial court, its exercise of that discretion must not be disturbed on appeal except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of jus s burden on appeal to establish an abuse of discretion and prejudice.(people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 224225.) b. no abuse of discretion bunton makes three arguments for why the trial its discretion. each of those arguments is without merit. first, bunton argues that the video was not relevant because dealso did not stipulate to identification, thereby leaving the people with the burden of provevery element of the crime by evidence sufficient to satisfy the minds of the jurors beyond a reasonable doubtpeople v. martinez (1922) 57 cal.app. 771, 775776, italics added; people v. valenti (2016) 14 the s burden to prove every element of the crime is not relieved by a s tactical decision not to contest an essential element of the offense estelle v. mcguire (1991) 502 u.s. 62, 69; people v. merritt (2017) 2 cal.5th 819, 840841, italics added.) second, bunton asserts that the video was not relevant because the defense veracity, the defense, however, never advised the trial court that it either generally or with respect to her identification of buntoneven when both the people and the trial court repeatedly mentioned that the video was relevant to and probative of whether it would challenge credibility was not surprising given the emphasis that the defense placed on witness credibility during its opening argument, mr. bunton and i ask that when every witness testifies, give that witness your utmost attention and notice if there are 5 third, bunton maintains pre . . . elicited a strong emotive response from the jurors, who likely reacted with undue 5 d passage constituted six lines or more than a third of the 15 sympathy toward olithis argument. for evidence code section 352 purposes, invoke an emotional bias against the defendan without people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 1121.) while the video was likely prejudicial or damaging to the defense, there is no evidenceno juror declarations or affidavitsthat the video had any emotional impact on the jury, let alone created an emotional bias against bunton relevance. moreover, even assuming that the video did have an emotional effect on the jurors, any such impact would have been minor s testimony about the assault. over the course of two days, olivia testified at length and in considerable detail about the assault. in contrast, the video lasted only 43 seconds. in short, we hold that the trial court did not abuse its considerable diidentification of bunton. even if the trial court did err, any such error was harmless in that it was not reasonably probable that bunton would have obtained a more favorable result absent the admission of the video. (see people v. beltran (2013) 56 overwhelming that the defense was forced to take a position at the close of trial that was radically different from the one it took at the beginning. during opening statements, the 16 defense told that jury that after reviewing all the evidence it would find bunton not guilty of all charges. by closing argument, however, the defense conceded that bunton was guilty of battery against santos and that he had raped olivia, and only asked the jury to find reasonable doubt that and/or her bedroom and acquit him of the charge that the rape and forced oral copulation took place during a burglary. given the overwhelming nature of the evidence against bunton, including his own confession, we hold that the admission of the video, even if erroneous, was harmless under any conceivable standard. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) iii. romero motion the information alleged that bunton had two prior convictions for robbery, both in 1987. after bunton was strike one of the robbery convictions. bunton, after admitting to the remaining robbery conviction, subsequently filed a romero motion to strike the single remaining robbery conviction. in opposing that bunton was a recidivist offender, noting that in addition to the robbery conviction, he was also convicted in 1997 of inflicting corporal injury ( 273.5, subd. (a)) on a spouse or cohabitant and in 2001 of violating a court order to prevent domestic violence and stalking ( 646.9, subd. (b)). given the given 17 romero motion even sent on appeal, bunton argues that, offenses are certainly serious and warrant severe punishment, the indeterminate life terms provided by section 667.61 were sufficient to se argues fu-repeat felony offender who should be subject to the harsh recidivist sentencing scheme set forth in the three strikes we disagree. a. standard of review trial courts have discretion under section 1385 to dismiss three strikes allegations in the furtherance of justice. s decision under the abuse of discretion standard of review. (romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 530; people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 992993.) an abuse of discretion occurs with respect to a romero motion only when the trial court was not aware of its discretion to dismiss, where the court considered impermissible factors, or where the defendant clearly falls outside the spirit of the three strikes law. (people v. scott (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 920, 926.) in determining whether to dismiss a prior felony conviction, the trial court must cumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony 18 convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed s spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161 (williams).) s burden as the party attacking the sentencing decision to show that it was arbitrary or irrational, and, absent such showing, there is a presumption objectives, and its discretionary determination to impose a (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 376377.) such a discretionary decision will not be reversed merely (id. at p. 377.) in other words, [i]t is not enough to show that reasonable people might disagree about whether to strike one or more of his prior convictions. where the record demonstrates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the law, s ruling, even if we might have (people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 310 (myersbecause the extraordinary . . . by which a career criminal can be deemed to fall outside the spirit of the very scheme within which he squarely falls once he commits a strike as part of a long and continuous criminal record, the continuation of wh 19 [citation], the circumstances where no reasonable people could disagree that the criminal falls outside the spirit of the three strikes scheme must be even more extraordinary.(carmony, at p. 378.) we presume the trial court considered all relevant factors in the absence of an affirmative record to the contrary. (myers, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 310.) b. no abuse of discretion here, the trial court, after taking into account bunpre- considered the relevant factors. first, it found the natucurrent offensesthe rape and forced oral copulation of olivia and the battery of one of her would-be rescuersto constitute a second, the trial court still includes ongoing criminal conduct and multiple crimes certain mitigating factors, such as the relative remoteness of the robbery conviction his assault on olivia. after balancing and weighing all of these factors, the trial three strikes law as indicated in williams or even in the romero casehold that there was no abuse of discretion. 20 iv. sentence does not constitute cruel or unusual punishment bunton contends his sentence of 100 years to life plus five years constitutes cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the eight amendment to the united states constitution and cruel or unusual punishment in violation of the california constitution. we disagree. a. bunton forfeited his arguments as a preliminary matter, we note that bunton failed to raise these arguments below. as a result, those arguments are waived on appeal. (see, e.g., people v. norman (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 221, 229; people v. vallejo (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1033, 1045; people v. kelley (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 568, 583.) however, we consider the merits of his cruel and/or unusual argument under the relevant constitutional standards in order to address buntonancillary argument that the failure to object was the result of alleged ineffective assistance rendered to him by his trial counsel. (see norman, at pp. 229230.) b. buntons constitutional claims fail the eighth amendment to the united states constitution prohibits cruel and unusual punishment. (u.s. const., 8th amend., italics added.) (ewing v. california (2003) 538 u.s. 11, 23 (lead opn. of o'connor, j.) (ewing).) the california constitution [c]ruel or (cal. const., 21 art. i,  17, italics added.) this prohibition may be violated which it is inflicted that it shocks the conscience and offends (people v. cartwright (1995) 39 cal.app.4th 1123, 1136.) although there is a considerable overlap in the federal and state approaches to determining whether a punishment is cruel and/or unusual, we consider each separately because the (people v. carmony (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 1066, 1085.) 1. standard of review whether a punishment is cruel and/or unusual is a question of law subject to our independent review, but underlying disputed facts must be viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. palafox (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 68, 82.) 2. onstitution claim the united states supreme court considered the constitutionality of substantial indeterminate prison terms cases. in the first case, ewing, supra, 538 u.s. 11, the court directly confronted the issue of hether the eighth amendment prohibits the state of california from sentencing a repeat felon to a prison term of 25 years to life id. at 22 p. 14.) the indeterminate term was imposed after a grand theft of three golf clubs together worth in total almost $1,200. (id. at pp. 18amendment, which forbids cruel and unusual punishments, idonly his current felony, but also his long history of felony ids public-safety ibid.) the indeterminate life grossly disproportionate and therefore does cruel and 6 (id. at pp. 3031, italics added.) in the second case, lockyer v. andrade (2003) 538 u.s. 63 (andrade), which involved federal habeas corpus review, the court concluded that it was not a clear violation of the federal prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment to impose two consecutive terms of 25 years to life under of petty theft with a prior. the thefts involved the taking of 6 two concurring justices (scalia, j., thomas, j.) disavowed the existence of a proportionality principle, but still concluded that the sentence did not violate the eighth amendment. (ewing, supra, 538 u.s. at pp. 3132.) 23 videotapes worth $84.70 from one store and $68.84 from another store. (id. at pp. 66rehnquist, c.j., scalia, j., kennedy, j., and thomas, j.) reserves a constitutional violation for only the extraordinary idapplicable only in the (id. at p. 73), and that here, unlike the property crimes at issue in ewing, supra, 538 u.s. 11 and andrade, supra, 538 u.s. 63, a brutal sexual assault. moreover, bunton had a history of committing crimes that either involved the threat or use of violence (robbery and corporal abuse of a spouse/cohabitant) or raised the specter of violence (stalking). in light of ewing and andrade, we disproportionate to his crime. bunton argues his prison sentence is cruel and unusual under the federal constitution legitimate pena he bases his argument on the coker v. georgia (1977) 433 u.s. 584 (coker) and a concurring opinion in people v. deloza (1998) 18 cal.4th 585 (deloza). coker, supra, 433 u.s. 584 was a death penalty case in which the court held that it categorically violates the eighth amendment to impose the death penalty for the crime of 24 rape because such a punishment is excessive and grossly disproportionate. (id. at p. 592.) the coker court stated, endment bars not only those punishments relation to the crime committed . . . . [a] punishment is measurable contribution to acceptable goals of punishment and hence is nothing more than the purposeless and needless imposition of pain and suffering; or (2) is grossly out of proportion to the severity of the crime. a punishment ibid.) deloza, supra, 18 cal.4th 585 was a case in which the defendant received a prison sentence of more than 100 years to life. the majority opinion had nothing to do with cruel and unusual punishment. the issue was whether the court had discretion to impose concurrent rather than consecutive terms. the case was remanded for resentencing because the trial court had misunderstood the scope of its discretion to impose concurrent terms. (id. at pp. 599600.) justice mosk le id. at p. 600.) bunton cites no case in which a sentence was found to expressly rejected that contention. (see people v. haller (2009) 174 25 cal.app.4th 1080, 10891090 [78 years to life for stalking and making criminal threats did not violate eighth amendment]; people v. retanan (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 1219, 1231 [affirming sentence of 135 years to life]; people v. byrd (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1373, 13821383 [both federal and state constitutions affirm 115 years plus 444 years to life].) bunton further asserts that his sentence is cruel and conceivably complete serves no rational legislative purpose, under either a retributive or a utilitarian theory of coker, supra, 433 u.s. 584, provides no support for this premise because its holding was that death was an excessive punishment for rape. here, bunton was not sentenced to death. he was sentenced to 100 years to life plus five years in prison. moreover, bunton fails to cite any authority for the proposition that a lengthy sentence for his offenses would serve no rational legislative purpose. as the united states supreme court has held, punishment is justified under one or more of three principal rationales: rehabilitation, deterrence, and retributionkennedy v. louisana (2008) 554 u.s. 407, 420.) here, tence plainly serves two of those penological goalsdeterrence, and retribution. strong psychological deterrent to those who would consider 26 engaging in that sort of conduct in the future. in fact, courts have affirmed sentences as long as or (see people v. cartwright, supra, 39 cal.app.4th at pp. 11341137 [375 years to life and a determinate term of 53 years not cruel or unusual under federal or state constitutions]; people v. wallace (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 651, 666667 [upholding sentence of 283 years]; people v. bestelmeyer (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 520, 531532 [upholding sentence of 129 years].) 3. onstitution claim in determining whether a punishment is cruel or unusual, our supreme court has identified three factors for the reviewing court to consider: (1) the nature of the offense and the offender; (2) a comparison with the punishment imposed for more serious crimes in the same jurisdiction; and (3) a comparison with the punishment imposed for the same offense in different jurisdictions. (in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 425427.) punishment is cruel or unusual may be made based on the foffender. (people v. ayon (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 385, 399.) a sentence amounts to cruel or unusual punishment. (people v. wingo (1975) 14 cal.3d 169, 174.) as applied to a particular defendant, a reviewing court must 27 examine the circumstances of the offense, including its motis involvement in the crime, the manner in which the crime was committed, and ths acts. the court must also consider the personal characteristics of the defendant, including age, prior criminality, and mental capabilities. (people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 14261427; people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 479.) the court must give great deference to the penalty prescribed by the evaluate the gravity of different crimes and to make ju (people v. martinez (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 489, 494.) rarest of cases could a court declare that the length of a sentence mandated by the legislature is unconstitutionally (ibid.) this is not such a case. here, as discussed above, bunton has a criminal history involving both violence and the threat of violence against women. the sentence at issue was imposed as the result of yet another violent but far more brutal crime against a woman. moreover, despite being sentenced to prison for his robbery and stalking convictions, bunton has not demonstrated an ability to be a law-abiding citizen. he admitted to the police that he not only raped olivia but that he has been smoking pcp for over 23 years. consequently, based on the nature of the offense and the offender, we hold 28 state constitution. in sum, bunton did not receive ineffective assistance from his defense counsel when his counsel failed to object to sentence was constitutionally valid. disposition the judgment shall be modified to reflect presentence custody credit of 515 days. the superior court is directed to send an amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation reflecting such modification. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 