filed 3/1/18 p. v. hernandez ca2/2 received for posting 3/2/18 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. guillermo garcia hernandez, defendant and appellant. b281787 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa077636) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, harry jay ford iii, judge. affirmed. ____________________________ william l. heyman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 the instant appeal presents a single issue: did the trial court abuse its discretion when it found that defendant guillermo garcia hernandez (defendant) had willfully violated a condition of formal probation requiring him to residence and work and home telephone numbers at all times. defendant had been deported to mexico shortly after pleading no contest in 2011 to felony aggravated assault and being placed on three years formal probation. defendant reentered the united states in 2017. because the evidence supports that defendant (1) was informed of the term of formal probation requiring him to advise the probation department of his residence address and work and home telephone numbers, and (2) had access in mexico to means of communicating with the probation department; and that the latter t resided in mexico, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion and affirm. procedural and factual summary we base our factual recitation on the probation report. on may 15, 2011, jose garcia-olivera (garcia-olivera) parked his car in the alleyway behind his apartment building. defendant and three other men approached garcia-olivera and began arguing with him about his parking space. garcia-olivera called a friend for help. when the friend arrived, defendant punched garcia-olivera in the face, then struck garcia-olivera in the head with a bottle. later on, los angeles police officers located and arrested defendant. on july 14, 2011, defendant pled no contest to one count of assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury on 3 garcia-olivera. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1).)1 the trial court placed defendant on formal probation for three years subject to various conditions, including that defendant serve 120 days in county jail, perform 25 days of graffiti removal, complete 26 sessions of anger management, keep his probation officer advised of his residence and work and home telephone numbers at all times, and make restitution to the victim in the amount of $4,000 pursuant to section 1202.4, subdivision (f). defendant was in jail and subject to an immigration hold when he was sentenced to probation. the record does not disclose whether the trial court was aware of this immigration hold when it sentenced defendant. the record does contain a probation report stating that on july 18, 2011 defendant was released from county jail to the custody of united states immigration and customs enforcement personnel and deported to mexico on august 24, 2011. on august 29, 2011, defense counsel informed the trial court that defendan supervision the request was denied. on october 3, 2011, the trial court summarily , and issued a bench warrant. on january 23, 2017, defendant was arrested in calexico california after he crossed the border from mexico into the united states. this was the first time defendant had returned to the u.s. since being deported. he was taken to a detention center in imperial california and then transferred to los angeles, where there was an outstanding warrant for his arrest. defendant was then booked into the los angeles county jail. 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4 the trial court held the probation revocation hearing on february 17, 2017. it noted the probation departmefendant testified he had been living in a small village in mexico with his wife and child. he was employed there and earned about $30 per week. he also there was no cellular telephone service in the village, and defendant did not have a cellular telephone. there was, however, one public telephone booth and defendant had at the conclusion of the revocation hearing, the trial court his whereabouts to keep the probation officer informed of his address and conta it noted that defendant could have contacted the probation department by letter or a telephone call from the village phone booth. the is that he failed to report his whereabouts to keep the probation officer informed of his address and contact . . . definitely reflected in the minutes. the trial court acknowledged that it did not appear that the trial court that essed what he should do if he [was] the trial court did not find any other violation of probation. thus, the trial court stated that it was not finding defendant in 5 48 hours of his release from custody because he did not have the so stated that with respect to victim restitution, in violation of that condition. thirty-five dollars a week, supporting the trial court then terminated the probation that had been summarily revoked and resentenced defendant; it suspended sentence and granted him four years of formal probation. the conditions o180 days with credit for 165 days, defendant payment to the victim of $4,000 in restitution, and the obligation to probation office of a mailing address and/or phone number where you can be reached in the country deported to in order to keep the probation officer informed of your home address and defendant filed a timely appeal. discussion defendant claims he was not clearly advised that he had to keep his probation officer informed of his contact information even if he were deported, and thus any violation of that probation condition was not willful. he also argues that a condition that required him to report a. trial court has broad discretion to revoke probation when a defendant violates a condition of probation a trial if the interests of justice so require and the court, in its judgment, has reason to believe . . . that the person has violated any of the conditions of his or her probation. 6 people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 440 (rodriguez).) the standard of proof in probation revocation hearings is by a preponderance of the evidence. (rodriguez, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 445.) of the defendantreport to probation, to pay restitution, to attend counseling, and to provide proof of employment. (people v. gomez (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1028, 1039.) abuse of discretion. [citations] are reviewed for substantial evidence. (people v. butcher (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 310, 318.) should an appellate court interfere with the discretion of the trial (rodriguez, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 443.) hile it is an abuse of discretion to revoke probation for conduct over which the probationer has no control (people v. cervantes (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 291, 295 . . . [inability of immigration detainee to appear for review hearing not willful]; people v. galvan (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 978, 982984 . . . [because defendant was deported immediately following his release from county jail, his failure to report to probation department within 24 hours of release from county jail was not willful]), the mens rea standard in revocation proceedings is difficult to state with precision beyond that. (see [people v. zaring (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 362,] 379 [absent irresponsibility, contumacious behavior or disrespect for the orders and expectations of the court, probationerin re kevin f. (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 351, 362363 disapproved on other grounds by people v. hall (2017) 2 cal.5th 494.) 7 b. defendant was informed he was required to advise the probation department of his location defendant questions the sufficiency of the record to show that he was advised of his probation conditions in open court because pt of the july 14, 2011 hearing and the existing record is ambiguous. we disagree. the minute order for july 14, 2011, lists the conditions of defendant this entry is sufficient evidence that defendant was advised of this probation condition. (see people v. dubon (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 944 [minute order qualified as a record showing defendant was given some immigration advisements]; in re ian j. (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 833, 839 [detailed minute order can be an adequate substitute for a verbatim record].) minute orders are presumed correct. (see people v. gaines (1877) 52 cal. 479, 480.) to the extent defendant claims the minute order here may not be correct in light of the probation report, defendant is mistaken. the last two pages of that report consist of a preprinted list of possible probation conditions. the boxes next to some of the conditions are checked. as defendant points out, the box next to condition number 11 is not checked. that condition reads: the probation officer advised of your work and home address and the last two pages of the report demonstrate that the report was merely preliminary. the line for restitution had ped in. the box for line 12 was checked, requiring defendant 8 probanothing elsewhere in the probation report to indicate that defendant had any dependents at that time. thus, nothing in these two pages calls into question the final conditions of probation. defendant further contends that even assuming the requirement to keep the probation department advised of his residence address and telephone numbers was accurately included in the minute order, that condition was not specific enough to inform him that he was required to keep the probation officer advised of his address if he were deported to mexico. defendant placed [defendant] on probation had apparently not addressed specifically what [defendant] should do if he was deported. taken in context, the the trial court found that the reporting condition was ambiguous. specifically addressed what [defendant] should do if he is deported. to do that, i will likely do that here, unless you wish to be heard in resentencing defendantna make it a condition of your probation that you not re we find the circumstances as a whole sufficient to inform defendant that he was required to keep the probation officer informed of his address no matter where defendant resided. defendant was in jail and subject to an immigration hold at the time of the original sentencing hearing. before defendant pled no contest, he was advised that if he was not a citizen, one of the consequences of conviction would be deportation. deportation was 9 a real possibilityof his contact information was broadly framedt and in the united states. accordingly, there was no reason for defendant to believe he would be excused from compliance with this condition were he deported. finally, we conclude that substantial evidence supported the probation. the supplemental probation report prepared for the 2011 summary revocation hearing disclosed that defendant did not advise the probation department of his residence address or telephone numbers; defendant did not offer any evidence demonstrating that he reported at any time thereafter. as set forth above, there was substantial evidence that defendant was aware of the requirement of his probation to provide the probation department with his residence address and telephone numbers and that defendant had access to means of communicating with the probation department while he resided in mexico. he just failed to do so. we conclude there was sufficient evidence to support the probation. c. the probation requirement was not futile defendant contends the probation condition had no utility because the probation officer had no jurisdiction over defendant in mexico, and defendant had no ability to comply with the conditions of his probation while in mexico. even if arguendo a probation officer would not have had jurisdiction over defendant while he was in mexico, defendant did not stay in mexico. once defendant returned to the united states, the probation department had jurisdiction and the trial court could 10 properly hold defendant accountable for his failure to comply with the terms of probation. nothing that prohibits the defendant, who has been given a grant of leniency through probation, who has been deported from finding a had defendant done so, the court further observed, arrangements could have been explored to do community service in mexico, to meet his financial conditions of probation, or to satisfy the anger management condition. instead, as it was, upon resentencing, the trial court took into account the possibility that defendant could be deported again in removing the anger management and graffiti conditions that had been part of the previous grant of probation. also, after defendant testified about his limited income, the trial court stated that it could not find a willful violation of defendant thus, providing the probation department with defend information would have served no purpose. 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j.* we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 