filed 12/12/18 p. v. alvarado ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david cruz alvarado, defendant and appellant. b281886 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka109802) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george genesta, judge. affirmed in part, modified in part, vacated in part, and remanded with directions. masor law group and caneel c. fraser, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. 2 xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ introduction a jury convicted appellant david cruz alvarado of transportation for sale of a controlled substance, possession for sale of a controlled substance, first degree residential burglary, and felony unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle. the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of 44 years and four months to life in state prison. on appeal, appellant contends: (1) the trial court abused its discretion and violated his right to due process by consolidating the drug and auto theft charges with the burglary charge; (2) the court abused its discretion and violated his right to counsel of his choice by denying his request to discharge his retained counsel; (3) his conviction for felony unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle must be reduced to a misdemeanor; (4) the court abused its discretion by refusing to strike either of his two prior strike convictions; and (5) the court attached two sentencing enhancements for prior serious felonies to the wrong charges. in a supplemental brief, appellant also argues that we should remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion 3 under senate bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) whether to strike the serious felony enhancements. driving or taking of a vehicle must be reduced to a misdemeanor, and thus vacate the sentence and remand for resentencing. at his resentencing, appellant may raise his arguments regarding the serious felony enhancements before the trial court. we otherwise affirm. factual and procedural background a. the charges and consolidation an information charged appellant with possession for sale of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11351), grand theft of an automobile (pen. code,  487, subd. (d)(1)),1 and transportation for sale of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a)). a separate information charged appellant with first degree residential burglary ( 459). subsequently consolidated the cases, and the prosecution then filed an amended information including all charges against appellant. as relevant here, the amended information also alleged that appellant had been convicted of 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4  667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12). the amended information further alleged, as to the burglary charge only, that appellant had been convicted of two serious felonies (the robbery convictions) for purposes of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). at the close of evidence at the charge of grand theft of an automobile and add a felony charge of unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)). b. evidence at trial 1. the burglary in april 2015, matthew okeyo, who lived with his parents in covina, left home to run errands. both his parents were at work. when he returned, matthew found the back door ajar, the rear window shattered, and the and many items were missing. officers later found two fingerprints on pieces of glass from the broken window. according to multiple fingerprint experts called by the prosecution, subsequent testing showed could not say whether the fingerprints were on the interior or exterior side of the window or how long they had been there. police also found a footprint in the backyard of the house but did not pursue it further. in his opening statement, defense counsel asserted that appellant was a plumber. trial testimony established 5 that workers would come to the house when something needed to be repaired and that during the year before the burglary, workers had been at the house to construct a wall. however, the last time any plumbing work had been done at the house was a few years before the burglary, and appellant was not the person who had done that work. joseph and and had never seen him at their house. 2. the drug and vehicle charges in may 2015, sandra mendoza left her work at a toys mazda pickup truck was missing from the parking lot. she returned to the store and viewed surveillance video of the parking lot. the video showed two men approaching door and proceeded to drive it out of the parking lot. about a week later, an officer conducted a traffic stop dominguez, and appellant, the only passenger. dominguez gave the officer the car key he was using. the officer defeat car locks. the officer then recovered a backpack from the truck. among other items, the backpack contained screwdrivers, flashlights, pliers, two-way radios, a ski mask, a pry tool, and gloves. the officer proceeded to search appellant and found a latex glove containing heroin. 6 during a recorded interview, appellant admitted that when asked how he had learned to steal cars, appellant -- admitted that he had been paid to deliver the heroin found in the glove. finally, he stated that the tools the officer found in the backpack were his. the recorded interview was played to the jury. c. verdict and sentence following trial, the jury convicted appellant of all charges. before sentencing, appellant admitted all prior conviction allegations. at sentencing, the court denied people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero) to strike either of his two prior strike convictions. thus, the court imposed a third-strike sentence of 25 years to life in state prison for the burglary. the court also imposed a total determinate prison sentence of 19 years and four months, to be served consecutively: eight years for the transportation of a controlled substance, one year and four months for the felony unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle, and two five-year enhancements for prior serious felonies under section 667, 7 subdivision (a).2 accordingly, the court sentenced appellant to a total term of 44 years and four months to life. appellant timely appealed. discussion a. consolidation of burglary charge with the auto theft and drug charges 1. background as previously noted, the prosecution moved to consolidate the two cases in which appellant was initially jection, the trial court granted the motion, and the prosecution filed an amended information incorporating all of the charges against the preliminary hearing transcripts for each of the two originally filed cases. the preliminary hearing transcript for the drug and vehicle charges established that appellant had confessed to stealing the truck and transporting the drugs for money. as to the burglary charge, the preliminary hearing transcript glass from the broken window, that the burglar had used that window to gain entry, and that there were no workers 2 sentence for the charge of possession for sale of a controlled substance. 8 particular window . appellant claims the trial court abused its discretion in theft and drug charges with his burglary charge. he also asserts that even if it were not an abuse of discretion at the unfair that he was denied due process. 2. governing principles different offenses connected together in their commission . . . or two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes such cases in the same court, the court may order them to be people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 36, quoting  id. at p. 37.) however, even if separate accusatory pleadings meet the statutory requirements for consolidation, the trial court 954.) discretion in . . . ordering consolidation [of eligible charges,] merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 37, quoting 9 alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1205, 1220 (alcalathe charges, but admitted in connection with another, will affect the verdict on the charge as to which it is people v. earle (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 372, 387 (earle underlying the charges in question would be cross-admissible, that factor alone is normally sufficient to dispel any suggestion of prejudice and to ju(people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 774-775 (soperthe jury will be exposed to evidence that is not cross-admissible, then the possibility of spillover effect is present and the court must proceed to evaluate the risk that the jury earle, supra, at p. 388.) (soper, supra, at p. make a stronger showing of potential prejudice than would be necessary to exclude other-crimes evidence in a severed people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 127 (arias).) we evaluate claims that the trial court abused its showings made and the facts known by the trial court at the merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 37. ruling is correct at the time it was made, a reviewing court must 10 people v. macklem (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 674, 698.) 3. analysis a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in consolidating the charges whether charges meet the statutory requirements for consolidation is a legal question subject to de novo review. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 188.) as to this issue, respondent argues, and appellant does not contest, that the burglary and the auto theft charges were statutorily eligible for consolidation because they involved offenses of the same class for purposes of section 954. we agree. burglary and auto theft are both crimes against property and are therefore of the same class and eligible for consolidation. (see people v. grant (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 579, 586 [burglary and receiving or concealing stolen nd therefore eligible for joinder].)3 3 while neither party addresses the inclusion of the drug offenses in the consolidated charges, we observe that appellant was apprehended with the drugs after being stopped in the stolen vehicle that was the subject of the auto theft charge. the drug offenses were therefowith the auto theft offense and thus properly joined. (see  954; merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 37 [drug offense properly (fn. is continued on the next page.) 11 appellant nonetheless contends that consolidation of discretion. specifically, he argues that consolidation created an unacceptable spillover effect, leading to an unfair risk that the jury would convict him of the burglary charge based on the evidence underlying the auto theft and drug charges. the parties disagree on whether the evidence underlying the charges against appellant was cross-admissible. we need not decide this issue, however, as even assuming the evidence was not cross-admissible, we conclude there was little risk that any spillover effect would have unfairly influenced the jury. as relevant here, two inquiries guide the evaluation of that risk: bolstered by the spillove (earle, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 388, quoting alcala, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 1220-of two broader variables: how likely is the spillover evidence to influence the jurors, and how susceptible is the charge to joined where stemming from defendanpeople v. johnson (1988) 47 cal.3d 576, 587 [joinder of an additional charge connected in its commission to one of several properly joined counts met the requirements of  954].) 12 ibid.) here, neither factor suggests a significant risk of unfair effect on the jury. i. nature of the charges appellant argues the evidence underlying the drug charges was unusually inflammatory. however, unlike people v. breault (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 125, 134.) appellant cites people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897 and people v. davis (1965) 233 cal.app.2d 156 for the involvement can be highly prejudicial. these cases, however, hold only that such evidence should be excluded if a material fact in the case . . . people v. cardenas, supra, at p. 906, quoting people v. davis, supra, at p. 161.) as noted, the standard governing challenges to consolidated trials is more demanding. (arias, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. simply not of the kind courts have found to be unusually inflammatory. (see people v. breault, supra, 223 cal.app.3d at p. 134.) 13 ii. strength of the burglary charge soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 781.) appellant contends that the agree with appellant that the evidence supporting the burglary charge was not as robust as that supporting the other charges. we do not, however, consider the burglary charge so weak as to require separate trials, particularly given that the other charges were not especially inflamma-tory. broken window of the burglarized house. in the preliminary hearing, the prosecution presented testimony that there had access to that particular window . . . in the weeks prior on the motion to consolidate, there was no indication of any plausible innocent explanation for the presence of there such indication at trial). evidence that appellant committed the burglary was therefore compelling. (see people v. gardner in re o.d. (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1001, 1003, 1010 [it was 14 used as point of entry].) in support of his contention that evidence of the burglary charge was so weak as to require separate trials, appellant cites coleman v. superior court (1981) 116 cal.app.3d 129 (coleman). there, the trial court denied the two minors from a murder charge. (id. at p. 133.) the only evidence connecting the defendant to the murder was his palm and thumb prints identified at the scene of the crime, a bungalow at a local high school. (ibid.) the court of appeal found the trial court had abused its discretion in denying severance because the evidence supporting the murder id. at p. 138.) the evidence here, however, was stronger than the evidence in coleman. thumb prints in coleman were found at the crime scene -- a high-school bungalow -- nothing connected those prints specifically to the murder that took place there. (see coleman, supra, 116 cal.app.3d at p. 133.) by contrast, window -- at the rear of the private residence -- that the burglar had used to gain entry, tying appellant more directly to the commission of the offense. moreover, the charges the defendant in coleman sought to sever -- sex crimes against 15 minors -- id. at given the lack of unusually inflammatory charges and the strength of the charges against appellant, based on the clear showing of prejudice. (see soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 780-781, 783 [no clear showing of prejudice where charges were not unusually inflammatory and evidence for each was strong].) accordingly, the trial court did not abuse consolidate. b. consolidation did not result in gross unfairness even when we conclude that the trial court acted within its discretiodemonstrate that (people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 129, italics omitted, quoting merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 46.) gross unfairness results only if there is a strong likelihood that without the joinder, the defendant would have obtained a more favorable result. (see people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 307, 308 (jackson) [no gross unfairness where [defendant] for . . . murder without evidence of [joined] sex 16 t defendant would have escaped conviction in the murder case without the joinder].) appellant contends that events following the trial influenced the jury. first, he argues that the evidence adduced at trial for the burglary was weaker than what was before the court at the time of its ruling. appellant notes testimony that workers would come to the house when something needed to be repaired and that workers had been at the house during the year before the burglary to build a acknowledgment they could not determine when appellant placed his fingerprints on the window or whether he placed them on its interior or exterior side. finally, appellant observes testimony that police had not followed up on a footprint in the backyard of the house. none of this evidence meaningfully impacted the strength of the burglary case. testimony that workers had been at the house before the burglary to construct a wall or do repair work had no meaningful tendency to exculpate appellant. defense counsel asserted in his opening statement that appellant was a plumber, but no evidence was introduced to support that assertion. nor was there evidence that appellant had done construction or repair work anywhere, let alone at the burglarized home. the evidence did show, however, that appellant was not the person who 17 had done plumbing work at the house, and that the owners did not know him and had never seen him there. as for the expert testimony about the fingerprints, regardless of whether they were on the interior or exterior direct contact with the window used to gain entry to the house. the had left his prints on the window was immaterial, given the absence of plausible innocent explanations for their presence there. (see people v. preciado (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 1244, 1247 [determination for the defendant, whose fingerprints were found on wristwatch box that had been in home for eighteen months].) as to the footprint appellant references, it showed only that someone had at some point been in the backyard of the house. appellant makes no attempt to explain how the footprint tended to undermine the evidence against him. he has therefore forfeited any argument in this regard. (see, e.g., sviridov v. city of san diego (2017) 14 cal.app.5th 514, 521 [arguments not developed are forfeited].) next, appellant contends that the jury heard unfairly prejudicial evidence, noting that the prosecution played the entire recording of his police interview at trial, including appelladamage caused by these admissions was exacerbated by the 18 charges separately under calcrim no. 3515.4 initially, we note that appellant neither objected to the introduction of this evidence nor sought an instruction under calcrim no. 3515. he has therefore forfeited any argument in this regard. (see people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, 80-81 [defendant forfeited claims that gross unfairness resulted from lack of instruction to consider each by failing to object or seek the instruction below].) moreover, regardless of forfeiture, appellant has failed to show prejudice. as discussed, the evidence that appellant committed the burglary remained strong at trial, as the evidence supported no plausible innocent explanation for the window of the burglarized home. thus, there is no strong likelihood that without consolidation of the charges, appellant would have avoided a guilty verdict on the burglary charge. (see jackson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 307 [no gross unfairness of the more serious charge].) accordingly, consolidation of the charges against him resulted in no gross unfairness. (see id. at p. 308.) 4 in this case is a separate crime . . . . you must consider each 19 b. denial of motion to discharge retained counsel 1. background appelmotion to discharge his retained counsel. in november his public defender and substitute a retained attorney as his counsel of record. due to multiple subsequent continuances, including five requested by the defense, the case was not called for trial until october 2016. in the morning of the first day of trial, defense counsel moved to bifurcate trial as ourt granted the motion. the court and the parties then discussed the jury agreement. after the conclusion of these preliminary discussions, a panel of prospective jurors was brought into the courtroom. over the next hour and a half, the court read the information to the prospective jurors and gave them preliminary jury instructions, and the parties began voir dire. at the beginning of the afternoon session, appellant addressed the court, indicating he wished to discharge retained counsel and receive representation by a public defender. appellant complained that counsel had not subpoenaed witnesses to testify in his defense. in response co20 counsel the previous week. the trial court emphasized the parties were already in the process of jury selection and explained that if it were to the new counsel would need time to prepare for trial. in response to a question by the court, the prosecutor indicated that she had already notified several witnesses to appear for the first day of testimony, four days later. the court then 2. analysis on appeal, appellant argues tdenial of his request to discharge retained counsel denied him his rights to counsel and a fair trial under the sixth and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution. -- subject to certain limitations -- guaranteed under the sixth amendment to the federal constitution. [citations.] in california, this right attorney, but also his decision to discharge an attorney whom he hpeople v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 310-311 (verdugo), quoting people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983 (ortiz).) the sixth amendment therefore affords a defendant the right to (ortiz, supra, at p. 983.) 21 not absolute. [citation.] the trial court has discretion to defendant [citation], or if it is not timely, verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 311.) his retained counsepeople v. keshishian (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 425, 429 (keshishian), quoting people v. lara (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 139, 153 (lara).) in so doing, the court must exercise its discretion reasonably: a myopic insistence upon expeditiousness in the face of a justifiable request for delay can render the right to defend with counsel an empty formality.lara, at p. 153, quoting ortiz, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 984.) appellant argues that his motion to discharge his retained counsel was timely. despite his complaint below that counsel had subpoenaed no witnesses in his defense, appellant does not contend that the delay that would have resulted from his request to obtain due to any he asserts that his request would not have disrupted the orderly processes keshishian is instructive. there, this court upheld the 22 and after numerous defense continuances had been granted. (keshishian, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at pp. 428-429.) concluding the court was within its discretion to deny this -for two and a half years, an indefinite continuance would have been necessary because appellant had not identified new counsel, and witnesses whose appearances had already been scheduled would have been further inconvenienced by an indefinite delay. (id. at p. 429.) a similar analysis applies here. as in keshishian, appellant made his request to discharge counsel on the first day of trial after his case had been pending for an extended period, due in large part to multiple defense continuances. (see keshishian, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at pp. 428-429.) as in keshishian, appellant did not have substitute counsel and thus would have needed an indefinite continuance. (see ibid.) and as in keshishian, an indefinite continuance would have inconvenienced witnesses who had already been scheduled to appear. (see ibid.) thus, the trial court did not discharge his counsel at that time. (see ibid.; see also people v. reaves (1974) 42 cal.app.3d 852, 856 [no abuse of discretion in denying motion for continuance to obtain matter has been pending for five months and the defendant has . . . successfully obtained numerous continuances 23 without indicating that there existed any reason to change appellant contends that he made his request to courtroom with his retained counsel at the start of the first day of trial, but rather than immediately inform the court that he wished to discharge his counsel, appellant allowed counsel to make a motion on his behalf and discuss various procedural matters with the court. appellant then allowed a panel of prospective jurors to be brought into the courtroom, read the information, given instructions, and examined by the counsel he wished to discharge, before revealing his desire to obtain different counsel. these circumstances, not present in keshishianruling. (see people v. blake (1980) 105 cal.app.3d 619, 623 diligence and may not demand a continuance if he is in support of his argument that his motion was timely, appellant cites lara, supra, 86 cal.app.4th 139 and people v. lopez (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 40 (lopez). in each case, the . (see lara, supra, at pp. 158-164; lopez, supra, at p. 50.) each case is readily distinguishable. in lopez, the defendant made his request to discharge counsel at a readiness conference the week before trial was 24 scheduled to begin. (lopez, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 44.) discharge [his counsel] before it was clear whether the trial id. at pp. 44, 48.) the lopez court noted that the defendant had not then retained his counsel id. at p. 48.) unlike in lopez, appellant made his request on the day of and willingness to proceed. in laraexpressed his dissatisfaction with his retained counsel prior supra, 86 cal.app.4th at p. 162.) the trial court applied the wrong the attorney/client relatidischarge, rather than considering whether the motion was timely. (id. at 148, 162.) on appeal, the respondent discharge retained counsel on the first day of trial was to consider the issue. (id. at 158-159, 162.) reversing, the was necessarily id. at 164, italics added.) unlike 25 in lara, appellant waited until after the start of jury selection to express dissatisfaction with his attorney, and the trial court here exercised its discretion to deny the motion as accordingly, we find no abuse of discretion in retained counsel. c. conviction for violation of vehicle code section 10851 appellant contends his conviction for felony unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle under vehicle code section 10851, subdivision (a), was for a form of vehicle theft.5 thus, he argues, under proposition 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act, the conviction must be reduced to a misdemeanor because the prosecution failed to prove the stolen vehicle was worth more than $950. respondent agrees. reduced the punishment for certain theft- and drug-related offenses, making them punishable as misdemeanors rather than people v. page (2017) 3 cal.5th 1175, 1179 (page).) among other changes, proposition 47 added section 5 person who drives or takes a vehicle not his or her own, without the consent of the owner thereof, and with intent either to permanently or temporarily deprive the owner thereof of his or her title to or possession of the vehicle, whether with or without intent to steal the vehicle . . . is guilty of a public offense 26 is petty theft and is to be punished as a misdemeanor if the value of the proppage, supra, at p. 1179, quoting  490.2.) courts of appeal disagreed on whether an offense under vehicle code section (see people v. van orden (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 1277, 1289.) either to permanently or temporarily deprive the owner thereof of his page, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1182, quoting veh. code,  10851, subd. (a).) a taking with intent to steal the property -- that is, the intent to permanently deprive the page, at p. 1182.) in page, our supreme court resolved the conflict among the courts of aof proposition 47, an offender who obtains a car valued at less than $950 by theft must be charged with petty theft and may not be charged as a felon under any other criminal page, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1183, quoting people v. van orden, supra, cal.app.5th at p. 1288.) proposition 47 does not, however, cover non-theft forms of the offense in vehicle code section 10851. (page, at p. 1182.) 27 vehicle code section 10851 was for theft, as it was based on appellant took the vehicle with intent only to temporarily no reasonable dispute he had permanent deprivation in mind. the parties also agree there was no evidence that the value of the vehicle -- a 1993 mazda pickup truck -- exceeded $950. absent such evidence, appellant could not be convicted of a felony. (see  490.2; page, supra, 3 cal.5th at under vehicle code section 10851 to a misdemeanor and remand for resentencing.6 (see in re d.n., supra, 19 cal.app.5th at p. 901 [reducing juvenile adjudication for theft under vehicle code section 10851 to misdemeanor where prosecution failed to prove value of stolen vehicle exceeded $950].) 6 because respondent agrees that reduction to a misdemeanor is appropriate, we need not decide whether appellant could be retried for felony violation of vehicle code section 10851. (compare in re d.n. (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 898, 901 [principles of double jeopardy preclude retrial after post-page reversal of adjudication for felony violation of vehicle code section 10851] with, e.g., people v. gutierrez (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 847, 857 [the people may choose between retrial and reduction to misdemeanor].) 28 d. denial of romero motion 1. background at sentencing, the court announced its tentative sentence and indicated it did not intend to exercise its discretion under romero, supra, 13 cal.4th 497 to strike noted discretion to strike either of the prior strike allegations. counsel acknowledged that appellant had a long criminal addiction was at the root of his unlawful activities. counsel added that even without a third strike, appellant, who was he contended that a third-strike sentence was dispropor-tionate to his current crimes. appellant also addressed the court. he stated that he was not a violent person and that he had a drug problem. appellant further stated that he had been trying to address his drug problem and managed to stay drug free for three elp the trial court responded that appellant was 29 choices. it proceeded to list appeoffenses, which included a large number of various drug and property offenses, as well as several violent offenses.7 the -year- . . allegations. 1. analysis appellant claims the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to strike either of his two prior strike allegations. under romero, a trial court has discretion pursuant to section 1385, subdivision (a), to strike a prior conviction allegation under the three strikes law. (romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 504.) in deciding whether to strike light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the 7 receiving stolen property, grand theft of money, disorderly conduct, possession of a dangerous weapon, possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, two assaults with a deadly weapon, escape from jail while charged with a felony, attempted escape from prison with force or violence, two robberies, burglary, and numerous drug offenses. 30 (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161 (williams).) prior strike allegation for abuse of discretion and will reverse williams, supra, 17 c-strates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of might have ruled differentpeople v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 310 (myers).) in support of his contention that the trial court abused its discretion, appellant observes: (1) his prior strikes were old; (2) his long criminal history was tied to his history of addiction; (3) most of his prior convictions were nonviolent; and (4) the circumstances of his current convictions were not egregious, as no one was harmed or even present when appellant committed the offenses. appellant also cites cases uphostrikes. (see people v. garcia (1999) 20 cal.4th 490, 493; people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 981; people v. bishop (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 1245, 1247.) the question here, however, is not whether striking an abuse of discretion. we conclude it was not. there is no indication the trial court failed to consider the circumstances 31 extensive and persistent criminal history. the court noted lwere multiple property offenses, numerous drug offenses, and a disturbing number of violent offenses. this criminal history might have addiction, but there was no sign that change was convictions involved separate and varied criminal activity. d] actions. under these circumstances, the record reflects not only an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the myers, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 310), but that (see people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 379). accordingly, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in romero motion. e. enhancements under section 667 and taking-of-a-vehicle offenses included two five-year enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a), for prior 32 serious felony convictions. appellant claims the court erred in imposing the enhancements as part of his determinate sentence for those charges, rather than as part of his indeterminate sentence for the burglary charge. respondent argues th in a supplemental brief, appellant contends that following the enactment of senate bill no. 1393, we must remand his case to the trial court, to permit that court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the two enhance-ments. he notes that under current law, which was in effect at the time of his sentencing, section 1385, subdivision (b), prohibits trial courts from striking enhancements under section 667. (see  authorize a judge to strike any prior conviction of a serious felony for purposes of enhancement of a sentence under bill no. 1393 will eliminate that prohibition, thereby permitting courts to exercise discretion to strike such enhancements. (see stats. 2018, ch. 1013,  1-2; people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 971 [senate bill no. 1393 allow a court to exercise its discretion to strike or dismiss a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing the parties agree that senate bill no. 1393 will apply to all matters not yet final when the law becomes effective. (see people v. garcia, supra, 28 cal.app.5th at p. 973 to all cases not yet final when 33 that senate bill no. 1393 is not yet effective, and thus as we are remanding the matter for resentencing due to the misclassificatiocontentions regarding the section 667 enhancements. after january 1, 2019, appellant will be able to raise all his claims as to these enhancements before the trial court. 34 disposition the conviction for felony unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle under section 10851, subdivision (a), is reduced to a misdemeanor, the sentence is vacated, and the matter is remanded for resentencing consistent with this opinion. all other convictions are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, p. j. we concur: collins, j. micon, j.* *judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution 