 filed 6/27/18 p. v. parker ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george parker, defendant and appellant. b281308 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066061) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, daviann l. mitchell, judge. affirmed. christine dubois, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne and nicholas j. webster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction defendant george parker appeals from a march 2, 2017 order revoking his probation and sentencing him to prison. defendant argues the trial court violated his due process right to an unbiased fact finder and improperly admitted hearsay and opinion evidence. we conclude defendant forfeited his due process argument; on the merits, there was no due process violation; and although there was evidentiary error, it was harmless. accordingly, we affirm the order. ii. background on june 1, 2015, defendant pled no contest to willfully inflicting corporal injury on a girlfriend. (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a).)1 he admitted he inflicted great bodily injury. ( 12022.7, subd. (e).) on june 22, 2015, the trial court imposed but suspended a six-year prison sentence and placed defendant on formal probation for five years. the court imposed a number of conditions on probation, including that defendant complete a 52-week domestic violence counseling program and pay fines, fees, and probation costs based on a schedule as determined by a financial evaluator. on october 19, 2015, the court revoked probation and issued a bench warrant because it had received a report that defendant had been dismissed from his domestic violence 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 counseling program. on october 28, 2015, the court reinstated probation and ordered defendant to re-enroll in counseling. on december 3, 2015, defendant appeared in court, provided proof of re-enrollment, and admitted that he had violated the terms and conditions of probation by failing to enroll in and timely complete his domestic violence counseling classes. the court revoked and reinstated probation. on june 3, 2016, defendant appeared in court for a progress report and provided proof that he had completed 18 of 52 required classes. as defendant had been on probation for nearly a year, he should have been close to completing his 52 domestic violence counseling classes. the court therefore classes, and ordered that if defendant were kicked out of his classes for an absence, he was to return to court the next business day. on august 30, 2016, defendant appeared in court for another progress report and provided proof that he had completed 22 of 52 domestic violence counseling classes. the court ordered defendant to return to court on november 30, 2016, at 8:30 a.m. on november 30, 2016, at 10:40 a.m., defendant had not appeared in court. the court therefore probation and issued a bench warrandefendant later appeared in court at 1:30 p.m. the court noted that completed only 23 of his 52 required domestic violence counseling sessions and had not made a single payment toward his financial obligations. defendant requested to be heard and stated that he earned approximately $200 to $300 a month. when asked by the court whether he could pay $10 a month, defendant st4 mean, i can he stated he had not made the payments because he had been on march 2, 2017, the court conducted a probation violation hearing. three witnesses testified: a superior court financial evaluator, gina l. rogmother, mary parker. the trial court asked questions of all three witnesses, which will be described further below. the trial court also considered a statement by an office manager at a domestic violence counseling program, which was included in a probation report. following the hearing, the court concluded that defendant had a domestic violence counseling program. by march 2, 2017, 20 months into his probation term, defendant had completed only 23 of 52 sessions. defendant was twice dismissed from the program, once for nonpayment of the $25 per session fee (september 2015) and once for poor attendance (september 2016). on both occasions, defendant failed to promptly re-enroll. defendant also failed to he pay specified fines and fees and the cost of probation services. defendant made no payments toward those financial obligations, even after his monthly payment was reduced from $25 to $10. the trial court found defendant had the ability to pay both the $25 per session cost of the domestic violence counseling program and the $10 per month installment toward his financial obligations. the trial court also found that defendant had violated the conditions of probation by: failing to obey a court order requiring him to appear in court on the next business day after being dismissed from his domestic violence counseling program; failing 5 to keep the probation department advised of his current contact information; being dishonest with a financial evaluator about his income; and failing to appear in court as ordered on november 30, 2016 at 8:30 a.m. substantial evidence supported findings. defendant does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence.2 2 although defendant does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to support the violation findings, he does not concede that the evidence was sufficient as to all of the trial authorities,some technical violations of probation (appearing at 1:30 p.m. on a scheduled court date instead of 8:30 a.m., a failure to come to court immediately to get reinstated after being kicked out of his [domestic violence counseling] program for non-payment and a miscommunication with probation as to a new telephone number) [defendant] argues that it is unlikely a neutral and unbiased tribunal would have executed his six-year prison sentence[] if those were his only violations. [defendant] had otherwise complied with the terms of this probation . . . . however, [defe-violence counseling program had been sporadic and he had paid nothing on his fines and fees. the issue at the formal hearing was whether this was deliberate, and therefore a violation of an important term of his probation or whether it [was] not a violation because his failure to regularly attend the [domestic violence] program and pay his fines and fees was based solely on 6 iii. discussion a. neutral and unbiased fact finder defendant argues that during the evidentiary hearing, the trial court demonstrated bias, prejudged the outcome, assumed trole, and cast aspersions and ridicule upon defendant. we conclude defendant forfeited this argument. on the merits, we have carefully reviewed the probation revocation hearing transcript and conclude there was no due process violation. 1. defendant forfeited this argument defendant forfeited his judicial misconduct claims by failing to raise them in the trial court. (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1220; people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 825.) defendant argues any objection would have been futile, hence there was no forfeiturewould an objection be futile, an objection under these authority and the result would be to push the court even further into an adverse position vis a vis an concerns and given the court an opportunity to respond. (people v. houston, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1220.) this is not a case where the trial court was clearly hostile or made extensive, numerous disparaging remarks such that an objection would have been pointless. (ibid.; people v. williams (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 644, 693.) 7 2. there was no due process violation a. applicable law defendant has due process rights under both the state and federal constitutions to be tried by an impartial speople v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 788; accord, marshall v. jerrico, inc. (1980) 446 u.s. 238, 242.) this right extends to probation revocation hearings. (people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 441.) a trial court may not aspersions or ridicule on witnesses. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 597; people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1305, disapproved on another point in people v. merritt (2017) 2 cal.5th 819, 831.) a trial court must treat litigants and witnesses with appropriate respect. (people v. carlucci (1979) 23 cal.3d 249, remain circumspect in its comments on the evidence, treating litigants and witnesses with appropriate respect and without ibid.) a trial judge in a court or jury trial also has the duty and the discretion to control his or her courtroom. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 78; people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1108.) that duty and discretion includes the undisputed right to examine witnesses in order to elicit material facts or to clarify confusing or unclear testimony. (people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 597; people v. carlucci, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 255; 8 see cal. const., art vi,  10.3) as the court in carlucci explained: between professional opponents, but a judicial officer entrusted with the grave task of determining where justice lies under the law and the facts between the parties who have sought the protection of our courts. within reasonable limits, it is not only the right but the duty of a trial judge to clearly bring out the facts so that the important functions of his office may be fairly and people v. carlucci, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 256.) it is not misconduct merely to examine witnesses at considerable length. (people v. rigney (1961) 55 cal.2d 236, 243; people v. corrigan (1957) 48 cal.2d 551, 559.) moreover, a judge may elicit evidence unfavorable to a defendant so long as questions are designed to fairly and impartially establish the truth. (people v. rigney, supra, 55 cal.2d at pp. 243-244.) b. standard of review the question before this court is whether, considering the entire record, defendant received a fair hearing. (people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 78, 81; see people v. peoples, supra, 62 3 pursuant to article vi, section 10 of the california and the testimony and credibility of any witness as in its opinion its experience and training in analyzing evidence to assist the jury in reaching a just people v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 542.) 9 cal.4th e review claims of judicial misconduct on the .) wheteven whether some comments would have been better left unsaid, denied [the defendant] a fair, as opposed to a perfect, trial. [citation.] (people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 78.) because this was a bench hearing, we are not concerned with the effect on a jury of c. application to the present case on the merits, we find no judicial misconduct amounting to a due process violation. the trial court asked questions of all three witnesses. the court properly did so to elicit and clarify testimony. the court attempted to draw out the evidence relevant to the question whether defendant was in violation of probation. appeal as evidence the court had predetermined the outcome of the hearing. during the financial evaluatordefense counsel commented that the court seemed to be having a mean, clearly [defendant has] got more than enough money to pay [for] the [domestic violence] classes. this on appeal [and] i want [the record] to be accurateadded.) defendant had appeared before the court on prior on probation and had reason to know 10 his financial obligations was central to the violation question. in defendant had violated his probation conditions. ( 1203.2, subd. (a).) moreover, the evidence to that point appeared not to support defenadmitted in november 2016 that he could pay $10 a month toward his financial obligations. rogers had testified defendant was able to pay for his domestic violence counseling sessions. in this context, the court properly expressed the need to create a comments reflected the existing evidence and were not an indication it had predetermined the outcome. the united states supreme court has explained in the related context of a judicial recusal motion: formed by the judge on the basis of facts introduced or events occurring in the course of the current proceedings, or of prior proceedings, do not constitute a basis for a bias or partiality motion unless they display a deep-seated favoritism or antagonism that would make fair judgment impossible. thus, judicial remarks during the course of a trial that are critical or disapproving of, or even hostile to, counsel, the parties, or their cases, ordinarily do not liteky v. united states (1994) 510 u.s. 540, 555comment defendant was likely to appeal did not amount to bias unfair. defendant also cites bias. defense counsel objected on foundation and hearsay gro11 counseling program reports and excepting only transcripts of court proceedings and a letter defendant had written to the court. when the trial court inquired about a document defendant filed the trial court and counsel furthecourt[] [defense counsel][] the court: submitted by your client. [] [defense counsel]: [] the court: so then i have no evidence that hich is [] [defense counsel]: he can testify to that. [] the court: pardon me? [] [defense counsel]: he can testify to that. [] the court: okay. was reasonable. whether and how often defendant had attended counseling sessions was significant to the question whether defendant was in violation of his probation conditions. we do not find that, as defendant asserts, the trial court displayed sarcasm [financial evaluation] witness using leading questions to obtain 12 because that was what her financial evaluation showed, not due was nothing improper about the trial court eliciting evidence unfavorable to defendant so long as the questions posed were designed to establish the facts. (people v. rigney, supra, 55 cal.2d at pp. 243-244.) impact her. at issue was whether defendant had additional disposable income in the form of rental receipts. defense counsel argued it could not be assumed the rental receipts were income to that money. the court cocan put her on the stand and have her tell us what the situation is. [] [defense counsel]: sure. [] the court: is she here? [] [defense counsel]: she is here. [] to say she recincome? [] know what g to say. [] wondering if that, in fact, she is receiving that income, if that has that much income s not claiming, that could be a problem for her. [] [defense counsel]: maybe she can sort it out for the (italics added.) these comments do not constitute witness intimidation. 13 first, there is no indication the witness was present in the courtroom at the time the court made the comment. indeed, this exchange occurred during the financial testimony and appears in the transcript six pages before defense counsel called defendants mother as a witness. fairly be characterized as an effort to intimidate her. rather, the court was expressing a concern that the witness might incriminate herself. (cf. people v. schroeder (1991) 227 cal.app.3d 784, 788 [when it appears that a witness may give self-incriminating testimony, the court has a duty to ensure that the witness is fully apprised of his or her fifth amendment rights].) morintimidate the witness since she testified at the hearing that she and defendant received rental revenue from sublessees, which exceeded the amount of rent due on the residence, and she and defendant used the excess rental revenue for bills. defendant had not disclosed to the financial evaluator that he was receiving rental revenue from sublessees. defendant takes exception to questions the trial court posed to him, and short some of once the question posed had been [the court]: were you here at 8:30 a.m.? [] [defendant] [] [the court]: i ant to hear anything. i just want to know if you were [here]out on redirect examination. the trial court also asked defendant three times whether defendant had evidence to support his position. 14 testimony he had complied with the court order requiring him to return to court the next business day after any dismissal from his counseling program. in light of the undisputed record of whether defendant had any evidence to support his testimony. the court also inquired whether defendant had any evidence to support his claim he had attended more than 23 domestic violence counseling sessions. there was no evidence to that effect before the court. hence the inquiry was appropriate and designed to develop an accurate factual record. even if the trial court expressed incredulity, there was nothing improper about hearing unfair. we have carefully reviewed the entire transcript of the probation revocation hearing. we conclude defendant received a fair hearing. there was no due process violation. ails defendant claims his attorney was ineffective because he of witnesses or other alleged misconduct. as discussed above, however, we conclude defendant received a fair hearing. therefore, we need not consider whetheficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies . . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient 15 (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697; accord, people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 982.) b. evidentiary objections defendant argues the trial court improperly relied on hearsay and opinion evidence to the effect he manipulated his excuses for not attending domestic violence counseling sessions and tampered with records.4 office manager at cedarwood counseling confirmed the ance. she strongly believes the defendant has been manipulating his attendance via medical excuses. [s]howed client the dates on paperwork how they appear that someone is writing over them. office manager let him know that we will not accept any more that appear tampered with. jk.5 4 court to hearsay statements in probation department and counseling program reports. counsel renewed the objection at the court to give appropriate consideration to any statements contained within domestic violence counseling reports of people who did not testify here 5 during his testimony, defendant admitted having this exchange with the office manager. 16 hearsay evidence is admissible in probation revocation proceedings provided it bears sufficient indicia of reliability. (morrissey v. brewer (1972) 408 u.s. 471, 489; people v. maki (1985) 39 cal.3d 707, 709, 716-717.) certain documentary hearsay evidence is deemed trustworthy and admissibleon a case-by-case basis. (people v. maki, supra, 39 cal.3d at p. 717 people v. johnson (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 1409, 1412-1413 [laboratory report analyzing rock cocaine].) documentary evidence that is a substitute for live testimony, however, is generally inadmissible at probation revocation hearings. (people v. arreola (1994) 7 cal.4th 1144, 1160-1161 [preliminary hearing transcript]; people v. shepherd (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1193, 1197-1202 [out-of-court statement by program administrator that defendant violated probation by consuming alcohol].) our colleagues in division eight summarized the applicable standards in people v. abrams (2007) 158 cal.app.4th 396, live testimony, such as statements to a probation officer by victims or witnesses, likely [is inadmissible]. [citations.] . . . [t]he rule is otherwise where the evidence involves more routine matters such as the making and keeping of probation appointments, restitution and other payments, and similar records of events of which the probation officer is not likely to rthiness determination and its decision to admit hearsay evidence for an abuse of discretion. (people v. abrams, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 400; people v. shepherd, supra, 151 cal.app.4th at pp. 1197-1998.) 17 s trustworthy rests with the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal people v. buell (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 682, 689.) here, the court impliedly admitted statements a counseling program staff member made and honesty. the staff member described defendant as manipulative and accused him of falsifying documents. the statements were quoted in written probation and counseling reports. this evidence does not fall into the category of reports on routine matters such as counseling program attendance or restitution payments. defendant was being manipulative and dishonest. the challenged evidence was a substitute for live testimony. under these circumstances, the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted and relied on the shonesty.6 although there was error, the failure to have the counseling program staff member testify was harmless under either the watson standard (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d. 818, 836) or the chapman standard (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24). the hearsay statement did not serve as a basis for violating probation; the court did not conclude that defendant violated the terms of probation by falsifying documents. instead, the court concluded that the hearsay statement was consistent with its own observations and 6 the attorney general does not argue that there was a showing of unavailability such that the statement should have been admitted. (see people v. arreola, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 1160; in re kentron d. (2002) 101 cal.app.4th 1381, 1393). 18 demonstrated defendant was not credible. but there was other evidence demonstrating defena description of paystubs that contradicted to the court that he earned approximately $200 to $300 a month, and described excess rental revenue that defendant had not disclosed to the financial evaluator. moreover, tviolation finding rested on substantial evidence unaffected by credibilityrecord, the counselin there is no possibility the trial court would have concluded defendant was not in violation of his probation absent the hearsay evidence accusing defendant of dishonesty. (see people v. arreola, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 1161.) the non-hearsay evidence established defendant had failed to comply with his court-ordered domestic violence counseling condition and, over the course of 20 months, had made not one payment toward his financial obligations. 19 iv. disposition the march 2, 2017 order probation and imposing sentence is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kim, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. baker, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 