filed 12/14/17 p. v. rojas ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. francisco nila rojas, defendant and appellant. b281169 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka094021) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed. kevin d. sheehy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * defendant francisco nila rojas appeals from the judgment following his conviction for first degree murder. defendant 2 contends that the trial court erred in not instructing the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on a theory of sudden quarrel or heat of passion. we affirm. factual background1 in february 2011 defendant and the victim, claudia tecuautzin, were living together in an apartment with d defendant and tecuautzin were a away. sanchez said tecuautzin was like a sister to him. they usually spoke on the phone at least once a day and saw each other three or four times a week. on february 18, 2011, tecuautzin called sanchez around 7:00 p.m. she was crying. she told sanchez someone had been withdrawing money from her bank account without her permission.2 she and sanchez arranged to go to the bank together the next morning. sanchez called tecuautzin later that same night at 9:00 p.m., but she did not answer. he tried several more times throughout the night without success. sanchez thought this was unusual. when he got off work at midnight, he went to erved from the outside that the 1 the recitation of facts is limited to those relevant to the issue on appeal. the defense presented no witnesses, so the facts are tak 2 sanchez initially testified that tecuautzin told him it was defendant who was withdrawing the money. the court struck this testimony as hearsay and instructed the jury to disregard it. this testimony does not factor into our analysis. 3 lights were off and the car shared by tecuautzin and defendant was in the carport. sanchez went home. the next morning sanchez called tecuautzin around 7:00 a.m., and she again did not answer. he went to her apartment, what 6:00 a.m. and reported tecuautzin missing. deputy sheriff jose vasquez took the initial missing persons report from sanchez. vasquez contacted defendant and met with him at a gas station later that same day. defendant said he and tecuautzin had argued the night before, and she had accused him of taking money from her bank account. he left the apartment to go eat, then went to a bar. he returned home around 2:00 a.m. he said tecuautzin was upset that he had returned so late, but they went to sleep without any further incident. the last time he saw tecuautzin was that morning at 6:00 a.m. 2011. she had been killed by a gunshot to the head. procedure a jury convicted defendant of one count of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)) and found the allegations regarding a firearm enhancement to be true ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the court sentenced defendant to 25 years to life for the murder conviction, with an additional 25 years to life for the enhancement. the court also awarded credits and assessed fines and fees. defendant timely appealed. 4 discussion defendant argues that the trial court erred by not giving lesser included offense . . . based on the theory of sudden we disagree. a court is required to instruct the jury sua sponte on any and all lesser included offenses supported by the evidence. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 160 (breverman).) any evidencjustify instructions on a lesser included offense, but such instructions are required whenever evidence that the defendant reasonable [persons] could . . . id. at p. 162, italics added.) employ a de novo standard of review and independently determine whether an instruction on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter should have been people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 584 (manriquez).) voluntary manslaughter on a theory of sudden quarrel or heat of passion is a lesser included offense of intentional murder. (breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at pp. 153- [t]he factor which distinguishes the heat of passion form of voluntary manslaughter from murder is provocation. the provocation which incites the defendant to homicidal conduct in the heat of passion must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct 5 reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victim. [citations.] the provocative conduct by the victim may be physical or verbal, but the conduct must be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 583-584.) put emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection. . . . [t]he anger or other passion must be so sed his thought process (people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 949, italics added (beltran).) the evidence must show not only that the provocation . . . actually, subjectively, kill[ed] manriquez, supra, at pp. 583-584.) emotionally explosive argument between [defendant] and a.m. the following accusation . . . supplied the necessary provocation. their resu plain and defendant claims thheighten-that night and the following morning raises an inference that 6 emotionally that sanchphysical well being at actually provoked is shown, defendant argues, by the fact that defendant apparently killed tecuautzin within a few hours after her call with sanchez, bepassions to cool.3 defendant also argues the evidence suggested that personal and business affairs and might even have been romantically involved with her during the convenient morning hours that he would visit her when she was alone at home. a reasonable trier of fact could also readily conclude that a (i.e., defendant)] would view sanchez as an intermeddler in the relationship between tecuautzin and [defendant], and as a tecuautzin/sanchez relationship could only aggravate the tensions between tecuautzin and [defendant] during their nighttime altercation o speculation that tecuautzin was romantically involved or otherwise inappropriately close with her cousin is totally unsupported by the evidence and does not merit further discussion. the only possible provocative conduct of which there was evidence was tecuautzin accusing defendant of taking money from her bank account without permission. this is not 3 [i]f sufficient time has elapsed for the passions of an ordinarily reasonable person to cool, the killing is murder, not manslaughter. (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 705.) 7 an ordinary person would simply react, (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 949, italics omitted.) while in some cases that determination is better left to a jury, a court may properly decline to instruct on voluntary manslaughter when cause an average person to become so inflamed as to lose reason manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 586 [trial court properly denied voluntary manslaughter instruction based taunted defendant to use his weapon].) such is the case here. there also was no evidence from which the court could c , kill[ed] under manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 584.) the evidence showed that tecuautzin was upset to the point of crying, and she shared this with her cousin with whom she spoke frequently. but the record is silent as to the nature of the not testify and there were no living witnesses to the argument. . . . provocation. (id. at p. 585.) nor can that inference be drawn from reasonable inference is that sanchez was concerned because tecuautzin uncharacteristically did not answer his telephone calls, not because he thought she had provoked defendant into a homicidal rage. and given the lack of evidence of provocation, 8 calm down is irrelevant. in the absence of substantial evidence of provocation, the trial court did not err in declining to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion or sudden quarrel. disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 