filed 2/13/19 p. v. douglas ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. davion douglas, defendant and appellant. b281579 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta140158) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kelvin d. filer, judge. affirmed. jared g. coleman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 appealing the judgment entered following his conviction for unlawful possession of ammunition, davion douglas argues there was insufficient evidence to support finding he had dominion over, or a right to control, the ammunition found in a bedside dresser in the home where he was staying. douglas also asks this court to independently review the sealed affidavit that supported the warrant issued to search the house, which led to the discovery of the ammunition. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information douglas was charged in an information with one count of unlawful possession of ammunition by a felon (pen. code,  30305, subd. (a)).1 it was specially alleged douglas had previously suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and had served three prior separate prison terms for felonies ( 667.5, subd. (b)). douglas pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 2. the motion to suppress evidence douglas moved to suppress the evidence (the ammunition) discovered during a search of house, where he had spent the night before his arrest. the warrant authorizing the search of the house was supported by the affidavit of los angeles was sealed to protect the identity of a confidential police informant. the trial court conducted an in camera review of the sealed portions of the affidavit, ruled there were sufficient 1 statutory references are to this code unless otherwise stated. 3 grounds to maintain the confidentiality of the informant and denied the motion, finding probable cause supported issuance of the warrant. 3. evidence at trial detective sumner testified that he and other law enforcement officers executed a search warrant at approximately 5:30 a.m. on may 13, 2016 at a house on killen court in compton. sumner knocked on the front door, announced he was directed that the door be opened. when there was no response, sumner knocked again. after another minute, the law enforcement team began to force entry. at this point a voice from w when the door opened, the officers saw douglas, his girlfriend, marqueshia thomp, anthony mosley. according to detective sumner, mosley was standing immediately at the doorway. thompson and douglas appeared to have come from a hallway leading to a bedroom. sumner told all three individuals to step outside the house, where they were detained in the driveway. there was no one else in the house. the search warrant was given to mosley, who indicated he was the owner of the house. undertaking the search, detective sumner found a 20-round box of live ak-47 bedroom. the same dresser drawer also contained a plastic bag with other types of ammunition.2 both the box and the plastic 2 the bag contained six .38-caliber handgun rounds, eight 30/30 rifle rounds and 13 shotgun shells. 4 the dresser was approximately two feet away. detective sumner walked outside the house to speak to thompson. as he did, he saw ear. sumner asked one of the assisting officers to put douglas into the back of a police vehicle and directed thompson to follow him inside the house, where he told her he had found ammunition in her bedroom, showed her the box of ak-47 bullets and asked her to whom it belonged. according to sumner, thompson appeared shocked by the question and seemed to try to look out the front door. she then said the ammunition belonged to her grandfather. thompson explained her grandfather had been dead for several years, and her mother had told her to safeguard the ammunition in her bedroom after it was discovered the previous week. as sumner and thompson walked back outside, douglas yelled from inside the police car that the ammunition in the bedroom belonged , not to him. testifying as a prosecution witness, thompson said douglas was her boyfriend and explained, although they did not live together, douglas had spent the night with her at her the next morning. according to thompson, douglas had stayed overnight in the year she had been living there and did not keep his clothing in the closet or the dresser in her bedroom.3 3 thompson t-clothing. 5 thompson confirmed that, when detective sumner asked week before the search. her grandfather had collected guns. following his death, one of her uncles had removed all the guns from the house. however, the ammunition was always stored separately from the guns. when thompson found the box of ammunition in the attic, she called her mother, who asked her to keep it in her bedroom dresser until her uncle picked it up, so none of her young cousins, who often visited the house, would find it. thompson told sumner that douglas did not know anything about the ammunition being in her room. according to thompson, douglas did not have full access to the house when he stayed overnight. she also testified that a number of her other relatives occasionally stayed at the house, as well. the people did not introduce any dna testing or fingerprint evidence suggesting douglas had ever handled the box of ammunition. no photographs were taken of the ammunition in the dresser drawer or the clothing found inside it. douglas did not testify or present any witnesses in his defense. 4. the verdict and sentencing the jury found douglas guilty of unlawful possession of ammunition. in a bifurcated bench trial douglas admitted the prior serious felony and prior prison term special allegations. the trial court dismissed the prior strike and two of the prior prison term enhancements and sentenced douglas to three years in state prison: the middle term of two years for 6 unlawful possession of ammunition plus one year for the remaining prior prison term enhancement. the court also imposed statutory fines and fees. discussion 1. standard of review verdict, a reviewing court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable jury could find the defendant guilty beyond a people v. hardy (2018) 5 cal.5th 56, 89; accord, people v. mora and rangel (2018) 5 cal.5th 442, 488 credible and of solid value, we must also view the evidence in the light most favorable to the jury verdict and presume the existence of every fact that the jury could reasonably have deduced from .) ce and people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 57.) same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial evidence. [citation.] although it is the duty of the jury to acquit a defendant if it finds the circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which must be convinced of the defenopinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant 7 a reversal (people v. ghobrial (2018) 5 cal.5th 250, 277-278, internal quotation marks omitted.) 2. governing law section 29800, subdivision (a)(1), prohibits any person who has been convicted of a felony under california law from owning or possessing any firearm. section 30305, subdivision (a)(1), the statute douglas was charged with violating, prohibited from owning or possessing a firearm [under specified provisions of the penal and welfare and institutions codes, including section 29800] shall own, possess, or have under the jury was instructed pursuant to calcrim no. 2591 that, to find douglas guilty of unlawfully possessing ammunition, hat: [] 1. the defendant possessed or had under his custody or control ammunition; [] 2. the defendant knew he possessed or had under his custody or control the ammunition; [] and [] 3. the defendant had previously been convicted of a felony. [] . . . [] a person does not have to actually hold or touch something to possess it. it is enough if the person has control over it or the right to control it, either for purpose of the jury trial, douglas and the people stipulated douglas had previously been convicted of a felony.4 4 as discussed, after the jury returned its verdict of guilty for violating section 30305, subdivision (a), douglas admitted at a bench trial that he previously had been convicted in 2012 of first degree burglary ( 459), a serious felony; in 2011 of second degree burglary ( 459); and in 2014 of grand theft ( 487, subd. (a)). 8 as the jury was instructed, unlawful possession of a firearm or ammunition may be established by actual or constructive possession. (people v. white (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 512, 524; see people v. spirlin (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 119, 130 people v. mejia (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 1269,1272 [defendant need not physically have the weapon on his person; constructive possession established where a person knowingly exercised dominion and control over an item].) possession may be shared with others. (people v. rushing (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 618, 622.) mere proximity to the weapon or ammunition, standing alone, is not sufficient evidence of possession (people v. sifuentes (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1410, 1417, disapproved on another ground in people v. farwell (2018) 5 cal.5th 295, 304 & fn. 6; see people v. land (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 220, 223-224 [possession cannot be inferred from mere presence or access]), but land, at p. 225, quoting people v. zyduck (1969) 270 cal.app.2d 334, 336.) 3. substantia conviction for unlawful possession of ammunition douglas effectively concedes, as he must, there was substantial evidence he knew there was ammunition in house since he called out, apparently unprompted, that the ammunition found by detective sumner belonged to to him. he also had access to the ammunition because he had just spent the night with thompson in her bedroom, where the ammunition was stored. he contends, however, there was no evidence he had any right to use or control 9 the ammunition found in the bedroom dresser, as required for a finding he had constructive possession of it. although there was no direct evidence of right to control the ammunition, the people presented sufficient circumstantial evidence to permit the jury to reasonably infer it was in his constructive possession. (see people v. williams (1971) 5 established by circumstantial evidence and any reasonable people v. white (1969) 71 cal.2d 80, 83 [same]; see also people v. singh (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 905, 911 [reasonable to infer appellant possessed firearm partially concealed by a pillow on the bed on which he was sitting at the time of arrest]; people v. land, supra, 30 cal.app.4th at p. 228 [reasonable inference passenger in stolen vehicle shared control with driver sufficient to support the possession turns on the unique factual circumstances of each people v. low (1983) 148 cal.app.3d 89, 92 [reasonable to infer driver of car had control of a loaded handgun located under dresser drawer where the ammunition was found, reasonably supporting the inference that douglas used the drawer to store his personal property.5 second, according to 5 thompson denied that douglas kept any clothing in the dresser belonged to anyone else. while douglas is correct that disbelief the contrary of the rejected statement (see, e.g., people v. loewen (1983) 35 cal.3d 117, 125; viner v. sweet (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 10 detective sumner, thompson appeared shocked when he showed her the ammunition and asked her whose it was, plainly implying thompson was unaware there was ammunition in her bedroom and had not placed the ammunition in the dresser drawer herself, as she claimed. third, sumner observed douglas whispering something to thompson while the two were being detained in the front driveway. shortly thereafter, in response to questioning by sumner, thompson explained the ammunition belonged to her deceased grandfather and insisted douglas knew nothing about it; yet douglas called out from the police car that sequence of events, and particularly the inconsistency between effort to absolve douglas of any knowledge of, or attempt to defend himself owner of the ammunition, reasonably suggests douglas told as the attorney general argues, the two did not have adequate time to coordinate their stories. although the evidence is by no means overwhelming, these circumstances are adequate to support his conviction for unlawful possession of the ammunition. (see people v. cordova (1979) 97 cal.app.3d 665 [conviction for unlawful possession of a firearm supported by substantial evidence; rifle was found in the locked trunk of a car owned by 1218, 1229-1230), persuasive force of the circumstantial evidence that douglas kept personal items in the bedroom where he spent nights with thompson. 11 w; people v. land, supra, 30 cal.app.4th at p. 228; see generally people v. ghobrial, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. the omitted].) people v. sifuentes, supra, 195 cal.app.4th 1410, relied upon by douglas, does not require a different result. in that case the court of appeal held the evidence was insufficient to support unlawful possession of a firearm that had been discovered by police officers under the mattress of the bed near his codefendant while sifuentes was lying on top of a second bed in the motel room. sifuentes claimed he did not know there was a gun in the room. the only evidence advanced to prove sifuentes had a joint right to control the firearm was a sifuentes and the codefendant belonged to the same gang and gang members at most times. (id. at pp. 1417-1418.) however, sifuentes and the codefendant were in the room with two women, and there was no evidence that they occupied the room for a gang-related purpose or that the firearm officers discovered in the room fell into the gang gun category. (id. at p. 1417.) nor did the expert testify all gang members had the right to control communal gang guns. (id. at p. 1419.) here, in contrast, it is undisputed douglas knew about the ammunition, and circumstantial evidence reasonably supports the inference he not only had access to the dresser 12 drawer where it was found but also jointly controlled personal property stored there. 4. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by declining to unseal portions of the search warrant affidavit or denying the motion to traverse and quash the search warrant a. governing law evidence code section 1041 codifies the common law privilege against disclosure of the identity of a confidential informant. (see people v. galland (2008) 45 cal.4th 354, 363.) evidence code section 1042, subdivision (b), provides that disclosure of an identity is not required to establish the legality of a search pursuant to a warrant or the admissibility of evidence obtained as a result of that search. a corollary rule provides, [i]f disclosure of the contents of [the statement would tend to disclose the identity of the informer, the communication itself should come within the (people v. hobbs (1994) 7 cal.4th 948, 961-962 (hobbs).) codified privileges and decisional rules together comprise an exception to the statutory requirement that the contents of a search warrant, including any supporting affidavits setting forth the facts establishing probable cause for the search, become a public record once the warrant is (id. at p. 962.) instead, a court may seal those portions of the search warrant affidavit that relate information that, if disclosed in the public portion of the affidavit, would reveal or tend to reveal a confidential informants identity. (galland, at p. 364; hobbs, at p. 963.) 13 when a defendant moves to quash or traverse a warrant where a portion of the supporting affidavit has been sealed,6 as here, the relevant materials are to be reviewed in camera by the trial court. (hobbs, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 963; see evid. code,  915, subd. (b).) the court first determines whether there are sufficient grounds for maintaining the confidentiality of the informants identity. if so, the court then determines whether the sealing of the affidavit (or any portion of it) necessary to avoid revealing the informants (hobbs, at p. 972.) if the affidavit is found to have been properly sealed, the court then must decide, if the defendant has moved to quash the warrant, whether, under the totality of the circumstances presented in the search warrant affidavit and the oral testimony, if any, presented to the magistrate, there was a fair probability that contraband or evidence of a crime would be found in the place searched pursuant to the warrant. (illinois v. gates (1983) 462 u.s. 213, 238 [103 s.ct. 2317, 76 l.ed.2d 527]; see people v. galland, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 364; hobbs, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 975.) question facing a reviewing court asked to determine whether probable cause supported the issuance of the warrant is whether the magistrate had a substantial basis for concluding a fair probability existed that a search would uncover wrongdoing. [citations.] task of the issuing magistrate is simply to make a practical, commonsense decision whether, given all the circumstances set forth in the affidavit before him [or her], 6 a motion to traverse challenges the truth of the affidavit; a motion to quash challenges the sufficiency of the affidavit (that is, assuming the facts are true, do they rise to the level of probable cause). (see people v. galland, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 364.) 14 including the and of of persons supplying hearsay information, there is a fair probability that contraband or evidence of a crime will be found in a particular (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1040-1041.) the determination of probable cause is entitled to deferential review. (id. at p. 1041; accord, gates, at p. 236.) if the defendant has moved to traverse the warrant, the issue is the general allegations of material misrepresentations or omissions are supported by the public and sealed portions of the search warrant (hobbs, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 974.) in order to prevail on such a challenge, the defendant must demonstrate that (1) the affidavit included a false statement made and intentionally, or with reckless disregard for the and (2) allegedly false statement is necessary to the finding of probable (ibid.) b. the necessity of sealing portions of the affidavit douglas acknowledges the trial court held an in camera hearing in accordance with hobbs, supra, 7 cal.4th 948 and does not challenge on appeal the propriety of the trial decision to maintain portions of the search warrant affidavit under seal to protect the identity and safety of the confidential informant. c. probable cause to issue the search warrant we have reviewed the sealed and unsealed portions of detective search warrant affidavit, as well as the in camera hearing transcript, which included testimony from sumner. our review confirms the affidavit provided a substantial basis for the probable cause determinationthat is, that the information from the confidential informant was reliable and there was a fair probability that contraband or evidence of a crime would be found 15 in the places searched pursuant to the warrant. (see hobbs, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 975.) d. material misrepresentations search warrant affidavits are presumed truthful. (hobbs, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 966.) in his moving papers douglas did not assert, even generally, that the affidavit supporting the search warrant included any material misrepresentations or omissions.7 neither the trial examination nor our own review of the affidavit and the in camera testimony disclosed anything that suggests the affidavit included any false statements, let alone a false statement made knowingly and intentionally or with reckless disregard for the truth. the motion to traverse the search warrant was properly denied. (see hobbs, at p. 974 [if the claims of material misrepresentation are not supported, court should simply report this conclusion to the defendant and enter an order denying the motion to 7 has been sealed in order to preserve the confidentiality of the red for an in camera hearing under [people v.] luttenberger [(1990) 50 (hobbs, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 972, fn. 6, italics omitted.) warrant under such circumstances, the court should treat the matter as if the defendant has made the requisite preliminary ibid . . to examine the id. at p. 973.) 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. feuer, j. 