 filed 3/26/19 p. v. hale ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. donald hale, defendant and appellant. b281805 (los angeles county super. ct. no. zm018109) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, terrance t. lewis, judge. affirmed. rudy kraft, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 donald hale appeals a judgment recommitting him to a state hospital following a bench trial at which he was found to be a sexually violent predator within the meaning of the sexually violent predator act. (see welf. & inst. code,  6600 et seq.) on appeal, hale contends the trial court committed evidentiary error by admitting documentary evidence that contained hearsay statements, and allowing expert witnesses to relate case-specific hearsay in violation of people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez). hale further contends that to the extent he forfeited any of his evidentiary claims by failing to properly object at trial, he received ineffective assistance of counsel. we affirm. overview of the svpa involuntary civil commitment of certain offenders following the completion of their prison terms who are found to be sexually violent predators [svp]. [citation.] an alleged svp is entitled to a jury trial, at which the people must prove three elements beyond a reasonable doubt: (1) the person has suffered a (2) mental disorder makes it likely the person will engage in future predatory acts of sexually violent criminal behavior if released people v. yates (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 474, 477 (yates); see also welf. & instit. code,  6600, 6603, 66041; people v. shazier (2014) 60 cal.4th 109, 126.) 1 unless otherwise noted, all further statutory citations are to the welfare and institutions code. 3 sseveral enumerated offenses, including, among others, rape and lewd acts on a child, force, violence, duress, menace, fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury on the victim or another person, or threatening to retaliate in the future against the victim or any other person. . . . section 6600, subdivision (a)(3) permits the people to prove he existence and details underlying the commission of the predicate offense[s] . . . documentary evidence, including, but not limited to, preliminary hearing transcripts, trial transcripts, probation and sentencing reports, and evaluations by yates, supra, 25 cal.app.5th at p. 477; see also people v. roa (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 428, 443 (roa).) condition affecting the emotional or volitional capacity that predisposes the person to the commission of criminal sexual acts in a degree constituting the person a menace to the health and people will have one or more experts evaluate the person, review documentary evidence (such as state hospital records, police and probation reports, and prison records), and render a diagnosis. [citations.]yates, supra, 25 cal.app.5th at p. 478.) released, the alleged svp will likely engage in sexually violent criminal behavior due to the diagnosed mental disorder. [citations.] the act requires proof of a clear link between the second and third elements; that is, the finding of future 4 diagnosed mental disorder characterized by the inability to yates, supra, 25 cal.app.5th at p. 478.) expert testimony is admissible regarding the dangerousness of the defendant and the likeliness of the defendant to reoffend. [citation.] such testimony is typically based on diagnostic tools that are used to predict future violent sexual behavior. a common diagnostic tool for predicting violent sexual behavior is the static-99, an actuarial instrument that allows an evaluator to place sexual offenders in different risk categories based on historical (static) factors such as age, marital status, the number of prior offenses, the relationship of the offender to the victims 2 (roa, supra, 11 cal.app.5th at p. 445.) factual background a. the commitment petition and probable cause hearing in 2011, the district attorney for los angeles county filed a petition to recommit hale as a svp. the petition alleged that in 1990, hale was convicted of committing a lewd act with a child under the age of 14 in violation of penal code section 288, subdivision (a) (case no. ma015458), and suffered a second conviction of that same statute in 1998 (case no. sc041169). the petition further alleged that two experts had evaluated hale, 2 penal code section 290.04, subdivision (b) designates the static-99 as the state-authorized risk assessment tool for sex offenders (saratso) for adult males required to register as sex offenders.roa, supra, 11 cal.app.5th at p. 445, fn. 8.) 5 and concluded that he met the criteria for commitment under the svpa. the trial court found probable cause to believe hale was likely to engage in sexually violent predatory criminal behavior upon his release. (see  66a judge of the superior court shall review the petition and shall determine whether there is probable cause to believe that the individual named in the petition is likely to engage in sexually violent predatory criminal behavior upon his or her releaseafter making its determination of probable cause, the trial court repeatedly continued the commitment proceeding at the request of defense counsel. in february 2017, hale waived his right to a jury trial, and the parties stipulated to a bench trial. b. witnesses for the people 1. casey b. casey b. testified that on february 9, 1979, she was babysitting a one-year-old baby when hale unexpectedly entered the home. casey, then 12 years olthat hale had come inside the home. as casey was playing with the baby, hale approached casey, pinned her to the floor and struggling with hale, casey was able to get away. at the time of the incident, casey had not started menstruating; she had not developed pubic hair and did not yet wear a bra. casey remembered being interviewed by the police regarding the incident, and confirmed that she had told the police the truth. 6 2. dr. mark miculian mark miculian, a licensed psychologist, testified that he regularly conducted svp evaluations for the department of state hospitals (dsh). miculian interviewed hale in april 2015. he also reviewed several documents related to the two criminal cases referenced in the : case no. sc 041169, which involved a seven-year-old victim named shayleen, and case no. ma015458, which then three-year-old daughter amber. the criminal documents that miculian reviewed included five police reports, two probation reports, two criminal complaints and the abstracts of judgment and commitment. miculian also reviewed state hospital records. a. summary of the predicate offenses miculian was asked to describe the elements of crime against shayleen that had informed his diagnosis. miculian stated that between october and december of 1989, hale had molested shayleen by testified that he believed conduct wshayleen and her mother had been living with hale at the time of the molestation: to me that is a predatory offense because he is using his relationship with his mother to gain access to her miculian further testified that he had asked hale how he became sexually attracted to shayleen. in response, hale stated that became sexually 7 heightening his sexual excitement and [shayleen] was there to do told miculian he had molested shayleen two to three times a week, and admitted that the police report of his crimes miculian also testified that one of the police reports stated that hale told law enforcement he had molested shayleen that pedoph miculian also described the circumstances of the crime hale had committed against his daughter amber. miculian stated that daughter to amber up thchild told her to stop because it hurt. amber then told linda that , miculian asked hale how the molestation with amber had started. hale stated that after putting amber into her bed, he decided to get into the bed with the child. hale said he started 8 touched her vagina. then he stuck his hand underneath her miculian further testified that a police report detailing the incident with amber stated that hale had admitted to a detective that he touched the on multiple occasions. hale promised the detective he would not engage in such conduct . . ., and that he was screwing up by doing sompolice report also stated that linda informed law enforcement that hale had told her he molested children. linda also said during sex he would often talk to her in . . . baby talk similar to prior incident involving casey b. miculian believed this incident was event that demonstrated b. diagnosis of pedophilic disorder miculian testified that hale met the criteria for pedophilic disorder set forth in the current edition of the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders because: (1) over a period arousing fantasies, sexual urges, or behaviors involving sexual activity with a prepubescent child . . . hale acted on these urges; and (3) hale was at least 16 years old, and at least five years older than the child or children in the first criteria. miculian also believed s pedophilic disorder caused it 9 this conclusion, miculian noted that hale had suffered a conviction for committing lewd acts on a child in 1990, and then perpetrated the same offense against his own daughter several years later. miculian testified that his diagnosis was also informed by [showed hale presented a] . . . serious and well- miculian explained that interdisciplinary notes that had been entered between may 2012 and june 2015. the behaviors described in those notes included, among other things, demanding more pain medication; throwing a trash can; spreading trash on the floor; breaking a fire cover after being told he would not be receiving any pain medication; knocking medication cups off a counter; and throwing hot liquid onto a staff member. miculian asserted that conduct demonstrated he was and . . . lower his ability to control his miculian also expressed concern that the hospital records showed hale had refused to participate in sex offender treatment. a necessary prerequisite to the treatment program, hale had never actually progressed to the treatment stage. miculian testified that he had also diagnosed hale with ,stopped using alcohol in the mid- 10 around . . . the time of his breakup with linda, and then around contributed to his molestation of amber. miculian noted that hale had also been involved in several alcohol-related incidents while in the hospital, the last incident occurring in january 2017, when hale told a staff member he was drunk. c. likelihood of future sexual offenses that hale was a future risk to reoffend and that any future sexual offense was likely to be predatory in nature. miculian explained that he had initially assigned hale a score of 5 on the static-99 test, but because hale had recently turned 60 years old, the score was adjusted downward to a 3, among sexual offenders. miculian, however, did not actually lowered his risk of reoffending because the records showed he continued to be angry and violent, continued 3. testimony of dr. robert owen robert owen, a licensed clinical psychologist, also evaluated hale. owen stated that his evaluation was based on his review of doc (police reports, probation reports, the complaints and abstracts of judgment), and . owen had also requested to interview hale, but hale declined. owen diagnosed hale with pedophilic disorder and alcohol use disorder. owen believed hale met the criteria of pedophilic disorder because the records showed he had engaged in 11 of [substantial sexual conduct] with children ranging in age from 12 years down to three years, and had d] to be deterred by consequences, indicating persistence in his sexual offending with children. disorder was severe, explaining: descending age from 12 to . . . three years old, certainly accords with a rather serious pedophilic disorder. most pedophilic men are not focused on three-year olds. . . . to have a sexual interest in a child that young is unusual, even amongst pedophiles. to reoffend with a childyour own childin a sexual way after experiencing consequences again indicates kind of this further concluded that hale appeared to be in denial about his condition as evidenced by the fact that he had blamed his seven-owen also noted that the hospital records documented several the point of intoxication, screaming inflammatory threats at staff and damaging property. owen explained that this conduct -founded manner if released into the community. in support of this at -year period of abuse stated that his concerns regarding here 12 hepatitis c, a sexually-transmitted disease. owen explained that -year- owen testified static-99 test score indicated that he presented an average risk of reoffending, the overall future risk, including his refusal to engage in treatment, his attitude toward his prior offenses, his substance abuse issues and his repeated and ongoing failure to cooperate with supervision. as with miculian, owen did not reased his risk of reoffending because he had not taken any steps to treat his condition or make any substantial changes to his life. c. defense witness dr. christopher fisher forensic psychologist who had evaluated hale under the standards set forth in the svpa. as part of the evaluation, fisher had conducted a two-hour interview of hale in february of 2016, and reviewed the same categories of criminal and hospital records that miculian and owen had identified in their testimony. fisher did not believe although fisher acknowledged hale had molested three prepubescent girls, he asserted that research had shown only about 50 percent of men who molest children qualify for pedophilic disorder. fisher further be the result of explaining that hale had molested shayleen as his relationship with smother was 13 deteriorating, and had molested amber shortly after separating from linda. fisher also testified that the records suggested drugs and alcohol had . . . to his spiral of negative fisher did not believe a pedophilic disorder diagnosis was appropriate because there was no data or information in the hospital records indicating that hale was currently experiencing es and fantasies about prepubescent children. . . . explained that although hospital records showed the records contained no evidence of any sexual misconduct, suggesting that hale was no longer experiencing any improper sexual urges. fisher further asserted that the range of tims, three, seven, and 12, suggested his particular age group, but rather reflected fisher also disagreed with a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder, explaining that while the diagnosis might have been appropriate [hale] was in the community, . . . regularly his alcohol use in the hospital was diagnosis of alcohol use disorder. fisher further stated that even if hale had alcohol use disorder, that diagnosis would not predispose him to commit sexually violent acts. during his hospital commitment. fisher explained that most of the outbursts appeared to involve not receiving enough pain medications. fisher opined that hale may have become addicted 14 to the medications, noting that withdrawal from some types of pain medications could cause increased irritability and hostility. fisher did not believe that any of the hospital incidents were suggestive of a future risk of committing a sexually violent act because none of the misconduct was sexual in nature. tatic-99 score suggested only an average risk of reoffendingage and the amount of time since his last offense (20 years) lessened the risk of re-offense. d. the trial cruling the court found the allegations in the svp petition to be true, concluding that the people established beyond a reasonable doubt that hale had a currently diagnosed mental disorder that made him likely to engage in sexually-violent, predatory criminal behavior. discussion hale raises numerous hearsay-based evidentiary claims that fall into three general categories. first, he contends the trial court should have excluded five police reports that described the predicate offenses he committed against shayleen and amber. second, he argues the court erred by failing to redact several hearsay statements contained in the documentary evidence. third, he asserts the expert witnesses violated sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, by relating case-specific hearsay that was not independently proven by competent evidence. s ruling on the admissibility of evidence, including one that turns on the hearsay nature of the evidence, is reviewed under roa, supra, 11 cal.app.5th at p. 442; see also people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 725.) 15 a. the police reports were properly admitted hale argues the trial court erred when it admitted several police reports describing the circumstances of the offenses he committed against shayleen and amber. during the trial court proceedings, defense counsel objected to the police reports on of the reports have] been testified to where necessary and where [,] and also that its in response, the people argued the police reports were admissible pursuant to section 6600, subdivision (a)(3), which he existence of any prior convictions may be shown with documentary evidence. the details underlying the commission of an offense that led to a prior conviction, including a predatory relationship with the victim, may be shown by documentary evidence, including, but not limited to, preliminary hearing transcripts, trial transcripts, probation and sentencing reports, and evaluations by the state department of state hospitals the people further asserted that the police reports were necessary because a substantial portion of the expert witnessestestimony regarding the predicate offenses was on those reports being received . . . 16 1. case law regarding the use of documentary hearsay in svpa proceedings a. people v. otto in people v. otto (2001) 26 cal.4th 200 (otto), the supreme court considered two issues regarding the admissibility of a probation report in a svpa proceeding: (1) whether section 6600, subdivision (a)(3) permitted the admission of multiple hearsay appearing in the report; and (2) if so, whether the admission of the probation report on the first issue, the court concluded that subdivision (a)(3) permits the use of multiple hearsay statements within a probation report that relate to the circumstances of a predicate offense: expressly permits the use of probation and sen[t]he details underlying the this provision implicitly authorizes the admission of hearsay statements in those reports. the legislature is undoubtedly familiar with the typical contents of such reports, [t]he facts and circumstances of the crimes statement or a summary thereof, if [citation.] the source of the details of the prior offense is not the author of the report, but the victims. [the california rules of court] contemplate[] that police reports will be used as a source of information for summarizing the crime in the presentence report. [citations.] by permitting the use of presentence reports at the svp proceeding to show the details of the crime, the legislature necessarily endorsed the use of multiple-level-hearsay statements that do not otherwise fall within a hearsay exception.otto, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 206-208.) 17 the court next considered that even if subdivision (a)(3) permitted the use of multiple hearsay in the probation report, [nonetheless] (otto, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 209.) the court explained that, to satisfy the due process protections afforded in a svp proceeding, a (id. at p. 210.) the court identified that trial courts may consider the reliability of hearsay statements in a presentence report, . . . including the context in which the statements appear[,] . . . any indicia the defendant challenged the accuracy of the hearsay statements at the underlying criminal proceeding[,] . . . . the circumstances surrounding the making of the statement, if known, such as spontaneity and consistent repetition, the mental state of the declarant, use of terminology unexpected of a child of a similar age, lack of motive to fabricate, and whether the hearsay statement was corroborated.id. at p. 211.) applying these factors, the court concluded the hearsay set forth in the probation report was sufficiently reliable. according he most critical factor demonstrating the reliability of the [statements in the report] . . . [was] that [the defendant] was convicted of the crimes to which the statements relate. this factor will nearly always be present in an svp proceeding because of a sexually violent offen[3] [citation.] thus, 3 prior to 2006, the svpa required that the offender have committed a qualifying offense against at least two victims. however, on november 7, 2006, voters passed proposition 83, which reduced the number of victims necessary for commitment 18 a prerequisite to considering the presentence report is a conviction for the crime to which the hearsay statements relate. as a result of such a conviction, some portion, if not all, of the alleged conduct will have been already either admitted in a plea or found true by a trier of fact after trial. (otto, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 211.) second, the court explained that consideration of hearsay statements contained in presentence reports is not unique to the svpa. a probation report is required following every felony conviction in this state. [citation.] rule 4.411.5 details the contents of presentence reports, and contemplates that police reports will be used to prepare crime summaries contained therein. [citation.] defendants are required by statute to have an opportunity to review and challenge inaccuracies in the presentence report. [citation.] [the defendant] does not contend he failed to receive such an opportunity in the underlying criminal prosecution. (otto, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 212.) third, the court noted that the defendant had never specifically challen statements in the underlying criminal proceeding. indeed, [the defendant] admitted to [an evaluator that] he [molested the victims]. (otto, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 212.) finally, the court explained that other safeguards were in diminish[ed] the risk of an erroneous deprivation of rights as a result of rel(otto, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 214.) the as an svp from two to one. (see historical and statutory notes, s ann. welf. & inst. code (2008 supp.) foll.  6600, p. ].) 19 opportunity to present the opinions of [his own] psychological experts, and cross-examine any prosecution witness who testified. moreover, the trial court retained discretion under evidence code section 352 to exclude unreliable hearsay, which acted as a further safeguard against any due process violation. (ibid.) b. subsequent applications of otto in people v. burroughs (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 378 (burroughs), the defendant in a svp proceeding argued that the trial court had erred in admitting two police reports that included statements describing the nature of his predicate offenses because the reports lack[ed] sufficient reliability to come within the section 6600, subdivision (a)(3) hearsay exception.(id. at p. 410.) the court disagreed, explaining: section 6600, subdivision (a)(3) and otto authorize the people to prove the s qualifying offenses with probation reports. otto explained that the sources of the details contained in those reports almost invariably are hearsay statements, either directly from victims or as related in police reports. the police reports underlying the qualifying offenses accordingly are the source of the admissible information in the probation reports, and therefore should be admissible themselves to prove the same information. (ibid.) in people v. carlin (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 322 (carlin), the court reached a different conclusion regarding an investigative report that the district attorney had compiled ten years after the defendant committed his predicate offense. the probation report that was prepared at the time of sentencing on the predicate offense, committed in 1990, stated that the defendant had attempted to fondle the victim inside his underwear while in a hotel room. after initiating an svpa 20 proceeding in 2000, the district attorneycontacted the victim, who admitted that he had withheld substantial details about the severity of the crime during the original investigation. according to the report, the victim said the defendant had raped him and forced him to engage in masturbation. at the svpa trial, the defendant objected to use of the 2000 report, arguing that it violated his due process rights. the trial court permitted the report. the appellate court reversed, concluding that even if the victim statements in the report the broad terms of [section 6600,] [s]ubdivision (a)(3)(carlin, supra, 150 cal.app.4th at p. 339), they were nonetheless inadmissible because they [necessary] (id. at p. 340.) the court explained that unlike the situation in otto district attorney investigator were not spontaneous, [we]re inconsistent with statements [about the offense, and ha[d] not been corroborated. additionally, the statements were not made in close proximity to the crime and were elis svp investigation(id. at p. 341.) the court also noted that the defendant had never admitted to the type of conduct set forth in the report, and did not have the oppor accuracy. (id. at pp. 341-342.) 2. the admission of the police reports did not violate hale argues that even if police reports generally fall within the broad terms of section 6600, subdivision (a)(3), in this case, the reports were nonetheless inadmissible because they lacked 21 court requires for this type of hearsay to satisfy the due process clause we disagree. several of the reliability factors the supreme court identified in otto are likewise present here. first, hale was convicted of the offenses to which the police reports relate. (otto, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 211.) as a result of the convictions, some, if not all, of the conduct described in the police reports has already been admitted in a plea, or otherwise found true by a trier of fact. second, as noted in otto and burroughs, prior to sentencing, a defendant is provided an opportunity to review and challenge the factual allegations set forth in the probation report, which are based in part on the information in the police report. hale has never claimed that he was denied the opportunity to challenge the probation reports in the underlying proceedings, nor has he claimed that there are any factual inconsistencies between the allegations in his probation reports and his police reports. third, hale corroborated a substantial portion of the factual information set forth in the police reports during his interview with mark miculian. dr. miculian testified that hale admitted he molested shayleen two to three times per week, and also admitted the details in the police report regarding the incident were admitted that he had , and that he had done so lp his given these admissions, we find no basis to conclude the statements in the police reports regarding the circumstances of the offense were not sufficiently reliable. hale, however, contends the police reports are no more reliable than the investigative reports that were found 22 inadmissible in carlin. there are, however, several obvious distinctions between the two types of reports: the police reports describing crimes were written shortly after he committed those offenses, not ten years after the fact; the police reports were not prepared for the purposes of the svp proceeding, but rather were written to support criminal charges of which hale was later convicted; there are no factual inconsistencies in the police records; and finally, unlike the defendant in carlin, hale has actually admitted that he had engaged in the very type of molestation that is described in those reports. b. hale has forfeited his other claims regarding the documentary evidence hale also argues the trial court erred by failing to redact several individual hearsay statements that appear in the documentary evidence that was admitted at trial. for the reasons discussed below, we find that hale has forfeited all of these claims. 1. statements within the police reports hale excluded statements within the reports that did not specifically relate to the circumstances of the predicate offenses. (see generally burroughs, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at p. 410 [section 6600, subd. (a)(3) does not apply to information unrelated to the circumstances of the predicate offense].) the statements that hale challenges include, for example, information regarding his criminal history, his prior failure to register as a sex offender and references to a polygraph test. 23 the retranscript shows that although the trial court de to exclude the police reports in their entirety, the court did invite the parties to redact any specific statements within the reports that they believed to be inadmissible[the police reports][.] i would certainlyit would need to be redacted. you guys can look at it to hale acknowledges that despite this invitation, his ionable portion cannot be reached by a general objection to the entire [evidence], (people v. harris (1978) 85 cal.app.3d 954, 957.) request redactions of the statements he now argues were inadmissible constitutes a forfeiture. 2. statements within the probation reports hale argues the trial court also should have excluded numerous statements within the probation reports that did not specifically relate to the circumstances of the predicate offenses. those statements include, among other things, his past drug and alcohol use, his criminal history and allegations of additional uncharged criminal conduct. again, however, the demonstrates that defense counsel was given an opportunity to redact any portion of the probation reports he believed to be inadmissible. during the the district attorney acknowledged that ne[to] . . . mark off the pages or areas where he believes it goes 24 agreed with this proposal, directing th defense counsel, however, failed to submit any redactions. we the admissibility of individual statements within the probation reports to be forfeited. 3. hale also argues the trial court should have redacted large portions of two state hospital records: a 90-day treatment plan (exhibit 19) and a monthly (exhibit 21). at trial, defense counsel objected to the admission of these documents, explaining that the basis of his . . . 4 the court, however, ruled the two exhibits (and several other hospital records) were admissible under the hearsay exceptions for business records and official records. (see evid. code,  1271; 1280.) hale concedes that portions of the two documents were properly admitted under the business and official records exceptions, but asserts that other portions of the documents should have been excluded. according to hale, the business and official records exceptions only permit the admission of statements within a record see evid. code,  1271; 1280.) hale contends large parts of the admitted hospital records did not meet those requirements, 4 defense counsel also objected on the grounds of foundation, but now admits the people did in fact provide a proper foundation for the records. 25 including sections that set forth the treating physiciansand diagnoses . (see generally people v. reyes s opinion that the victim suffered from a sexual psychopathology was merely an opinion, not an act, condition or event within the meaning of the statute as with ing the police and probation reports, we conclude that his objection to the hospital records was insufficient to preserve the 353, subdivision (a) allows a judgment to be reversed because of erroneous admission of evidence only if an objection to the evidence or a motion to strike it was timely made and so stated as to make clear the specific ground of the objection. (people v. demetrulias (2006) 39 cal.4th 1, 20.) under section 353, as admission of evidence [is limited] . . . to the stated ground for the objection. [citation.] the trial court, as well as the party offering the evidence, of the specific reason or reasons the objecting party believes the evidence should be excluded, so the party offering the evidence can respond appropriately and the court can make a fully informed ruling. . . . a party cannot argue the court erred in people v. abel (2012) 53 cal.4th 891, 924.) general to the hospital records did not fairly inform the people or the trial court of the argument he now raises on appeal, namely that specific statements within each record did not relate to an condition or event,ere 26 timeact, condition or event. (see evid. code,  1271; 1280.) c. hale has failed to establish any reversible error under sanchez hale argues we must reverse the judgment because the court failed to exclude several statements the expert witnesses made at trial that related case-specific hearsay in violation of sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665. 1. summary of sanchez prior to sanchez, expert witnesses were generally permitted to relate out-of-court statements to explain the basis for their opinions. the theory underlying this rule was that the out-of-court statements did not constitute hearsay because they were not offered for the truth of the matter asserted, [but rather] . . . for the purpose of ass opinion.burroughs, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at p. 405; see also people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 618-619; people v. dean (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 186, 193.) in sanchez, however, the court concluded that this long-standing sanchez, 63 cal.4th at p. 679): -specific out-of-court statements to explain the bases for his opinion, those statements are necessarily considered by the jury for their truth, thus rendering them hearsay. like any other hearsay evidence, it must be properly admitted through an applicable hearsay (id. at p. 684.) the court clarified that an may still rely on hearsay in forming an opinion, and may tell the jury in general terms that he did so. . . . [] what an expert cannot do is relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay 27 statements, unless they are independently proven by competent (id. at pp. 685-686.) case-specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants alleged to have been involved in the case being triedid. at p. 676.) nder sanchez, admission of expert testimony about case-specific facts [constitutes] errorunless the documentary evidence the experts relied upon was independently admissibleburroughs, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at p. 407; see also roa, supra, 11 cal.app.5th at p. court erred by allowing the experts to recite case-specific facts that were not independently proven by admissible evidencesubsequent cases have held that sanchez applies to svpa proceedings. (see yates, supra, 25 cal.app.5th at p. sanchez applicable to burroughs, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at pp. 406-407; roa, supra, 11 cal.app.5th at p. 428.) 2. hale has failed to establish any reversible error under sanchez hale identifies nine statements the expert witnesses made during trial that he contends should have been excluded under sanchez. a. hale has forfeited his sanchez challenge to three of the statements the hows that hale failed to raise a sanchez objection to three of the statements he is now challenging on appeal.5 prior to trial, hale filed a motion in 5 the three statements that hale failed to object to include: 28 limine seeking to exclude any expert testimony that related case-specific hearsay in violation of sanchez. the court declined to rule on the motion, and directed that the parties should raise any sanchez objections at the time the objectionable testimony was offered at trial. nent of the motion is required to (people v. ramos (1997) 15 cal.4th 1133, 1171.) by failing to object at the time the testimony was offered, as specifically directed by the trial court, hale forfeited his objections to these three statements. b. hale forfeited his challenge to dr. miculiconditional testimony regarding elizabeth hale argues that dr. mark miculian committed a sanchez hale asserts that because the people failed to introduce any independent evidence establishing that he committed the crime agaimpermissible case-specific hearsay. the record shows, however, that hale has forfeited this contention. pthe district attorney clarified to the court that . . . i was going to , 29 ask . . . very general questions about elizabeth. and it will be in response, defense counsel the court then permitted miculian to testify about elizabeth. ttrial, but testimony. strike, the motion to strike is mandatory. if it is not made, the objecting party waives its objections to admission of that people v. hill (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 16, disapproved of on another ground by people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, 582, fn. 5]; see also ault v. international harvester co. (1974) 13 it will be properly connected, subject to a motion to strike, and that motion is not subsequently urged, a party is deemed to have waived the objforfeiture of the claim. c. hale mischaracterizes the nature of testimony regarding additional qualifying offenses hale asserts that dr. robert owen violated sanchez when he which included not just the qualif hale appears to contend that testimony regarding nonqualifying offenses was improper under sanchez because the people failed to introduce any evidence that established those offenses. 30 the transcript, however, shows that the only offenses owen referenced in his testimony were the crimes hale committed against shayleen, amber and cynthia p. each of those offenses was demonstrated by other forms of competent evidence: the people introduced extensive documentary evidence to prove the offenses against shayleen and amber, and cynthia p. personally testified about the offense committed against her. we therefore find no sanchez error. d. to police was supported by documentary evidence hale argues that dr. miculian violated sanchez when he testified that one of the police reports prepared in the criminal case involving amber stated enforcement hale , and always asked linda to shave her pubic hair. however, the police report that statements was admitted into the evidence, thus allowing miculian to testify about her statements. (see burroughs, supra, 6 cal.app.5th at p. 407 [no sanchez documentary evidence the experts relied upon was independently although hale has challenged the admissibility of that police report (and certain statements within the report, ), we have rejected those arguments. testimony regarding lindaby documentary evidence, there was no sanchez error. 31 e. the trial court did not err in refusing to strike testimony that defense counsel elicited on cross-examination hale argues the trial court should have stricken a statement that dr. owen made about his static-99 analysis that referenced a prior mental evaluation conducted by another psychiatrist. during cross-examination, dr. owen explained that -99 score, he had placed hale in the high-risk sample group, sample group, which resulted in an increased recidivism score. defense ng hale in the high-risk group, rather than the routine group. owen responded that his decision was based in part on a score set forth in a prior recidivism assessment that dr. essres had performed on hale. defense counsel testimony regarding the content of recidivism assessment, contending the testimony amounted to - the district attorney opposed, explaining that owen was simply trying to answer the question defense counsel had asked. the court denied the motion to strike. we find no abuse of discretion in not to strike testimony that own counsel elicited through broad, unfocused questioning. regardless of whether statement amounted to case-specific hearsay, the record makes clear that defense counsel invited him to provide such testimony through his questioning. hale therefore has no basis for complaint. (see people v. reyes (1976) 62 cal.app.3d 53, 65 [court did not err in refusing to strike testimony regarding his own attorney elicited through open ended questions]; see also 6 witkin, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) reversible error,  35, p. [where a party by 32 his or her own conduct induces the commission of error, the party may be estopped from asserting it as a ground of reversal f. any error regarding the remaining statements was harmless hale argues the court should have excluded two additional case-specific hearsay statements made by dr. owen and dr. testimony that hale had been diagnosed with hepatitis c. second, he asserts that the court should have excluded dr. fishera medical evaluation by dr. essres stated that hale had denied he always touched shayleenmasturbating, clarifying that even if hale is correct that those statements should have been excluded under sanchez, we conclude the error was harmless because there is no reasonable probability that the trial court would have reached a result more favorable to hale if the statements had been omitted. (see people v. jeffrey g. (2017) 13 from the allowance of expert testimony in violation of sanchez under the standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 . . . , which favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the the people presented a substantial amount of evidence describing hale a twelve-year-old girl, his former seven-year-old daughter and his own three-year-old daughter. two experts also provided extensive testimony discussing why they believed hale presented a substantial risk of reoffending, which included the severity of his pedophilic disorder and his refusal to seek treatment for the condition. in light of 33 such evidence, we find no basis to conclude that the passing references to hhepatitis diagnosis and claim masturbating had any effect on the outcome of the case.6 d. s ineffective assistance of counsel claims are not appropriate on direct review finally, hale argues that to the extent his attorney forfeited any of the claims raised in this appeal by failing to properly object at trial, he received ineffective assistance of counsel. generally, reversed for ineffective assistance only if (1) the record affirmatively discloses counsel had no rational tactical purpose for the challenged act or omission, (2) counsel was asked for a reason and failed to provide one, or (3) there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. all other claims of ineffective assistance are more appropriately resolved in a habeas corpus (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009; see also people v. mayfield (1993) 5 cal.4th 142, 188 [when ineffective assistance of counsel claim involves choices that may have been tactical in nature o; in re wright (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 663, 674 [evaluating ineffective assistance claim in svp case raised in habeas corpus petition]).) there is no evidence in the record that defense counsel was ever asked why he did not object to the evidence hale now claims should have been excluded. nor can we conclude on this record 6 stimony regarding his hepatitis c diagnosis should have been excluded because it was irrelevant and unduly prejudicial. again, however, we conclude that any error in admitting that statement was harmless. 34 that defense counsel had no conceivable tactical reason for declining to object to the evidence at issue. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. feuer, j. 