filed 8/21/18 p. v. vasquez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tyshaun vasquez, defendant and appellant. b281178 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba432561 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bernie c. laforteza, judge. reversed. emry j. allen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction under california law, the trial judge in a criminal case must instruct the jury on all lesser-included offenses supported by substantial evidence. and under the federal constitution, a criminal defendant has the right to present a complete defense to the charged crime. that protection includes the right to instructions on the defense theory of the case. here, defense counsel requested an instruction on the lesser-included offense of involuntary manslaughteran unlawful killing without malice. counsel conceded that defendant tyshaun vasquez administered a beating that killed eddie ray smith, jr., but argued defendant was not subjectively aware his actions could be deadly because smith had a hidden spinal injury (metal rods had been placed in his neck in a prior surgery), the fatal injury was immediately adjacent to the metal relatively minor. defendant contends the trial court should have granted his instructional request because there was substantial evidence to support the instruction. we agree and reverse the judgment.1 procedural background by information filed january 6, 2016, defendant and codefendant jordan e. were charged with one count of special-circumstance first degree murder (pen. code,2  187, subd. (a), 190.2, subd. (a)(17); count 1) and one count of attempted second degree robbery ( 664/211; count 2). count 2 further alleged that 1 additional arguments. 2 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 jordan personally used a deadly weapon (a trash can) in the commission of the offense ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)).3 defendant pled not guilty and denied the special circumstance. trial was by jury. defendant did not testify, and the court denied his request to instruct on the lesser-included offense of involuntary manslaughter. the jury convicted defendant of second degree murder but acquitted him of first degree murder and attempted robbery and found the special-circumstance attempted-robbery allegation not true. defendant moved for a new trial, again arguing that the court should have instructed the jury on involuntary manslaughter. the court denied the motion and sentenced defendant to 15 years to life in state prison for count 2. the court awarded him 793 days actual custody credit and 0 days local conduct credit. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. factual background on november 30, 2014 at around 12:30 a.m., defendant and jordan were hanging out in the skate area of rancho la cienega park in los angeles. there, they encountered smith. according to angel t., the sole eyewitness at trial, defendant and jordan 4 3 not a party to this appeal. 4 angel nearly every question he was asked. the court labeled him a hostile witness. on march 18, 2015, angel had been interviewed by los angeles police department detectives. on december 8, 2015, angel testified at the 4 defendant and jordan approached smith and grabbed him. . it is unclear whether he took anything. jordan then punched smith around 15 times, knocking him to the ground. while smith was on the ground, defendant stomped on his torso and head approximately 20 times. smith, meanwhile, was yelling for help. as defendant was stomping on smith, jordan picked up a nearby metal trash can and threw it at smith, hitting him in the right side of the hip. eventually, defendant and jordan left the scene. soon after the incident, joel williams, then a firefighter with the los angeles fire department, responded to the scene after being flagged down by a woman in the park. williams saw that the man on the ground, whom he later identified as smith, needed medical attention. williams moved the trash can he found after performing a standard examination, determined that smith was dead. later that night, lapd detective brian calicchia responded to the scene. kevin young, a medical examiner for the los angeles county department of coroner, performed the autopsy. young noted a variety of external injuries to both sides of his head; abrasions on his forehead, temple, and cheek; lacerations on the side of his eye; a swollen right ear with a hematoma and blood and abrasions in front of and behind it; preliminary hearing in this case, where he answered questions more willingly than he did at trial. at trial, the jury was instructed with testimony as fact. (see evid. code,  1235 [prior inconsistent statements].) during deliberations, the jury requested a copy of the preliminary hearing transcript, and the court granted a read-back. 5 and other injuries. each of these injuries, considered alone, was nonlethal. all were premortem. young also found one significant internal injury: a neck fracture in the c2-c3 vertebrae, just below the jawline. this injury, which can be fatal because it restricts breathing, was likely caused by impact wounds to head: blunt force trauma was determined to be young noted that during a prior orthopedic surgery, metal rods had been inserted into neck directly adjacent to the fracture. that surgery and the rods compromised his neck strength and made him more susceptible to a neck injury in the area. indeed, because the break occurred right at the edge of the metal rod, the rod could have acted as a fulcrum and contributed to the break. still, it would take a high-impact event to cause a serious injury . getting punched in the neck would in addition, falling or getting punched in the face likely would not have created a high enough impact to fracture neck. but getting stomped in the headeither once or repeatedlyor being hit with a metal trash can could be enough to cause a fracture. the location of the impact would have affected the severity of the injury, since the rods neck weaker in some areas, such as at the c2-c3 vertebrae, but did not weaken his neck as much in other areas. and young testified that smith did not have any other serious head or neck injuries, such as a fractured skull, tooth damage, intracranial bleeding, or brain bruises. personal effects. smith had 12 cents, a wallet, a social security card, multiple credit cards, and a cell phone, but no jewelry. 6 discussion involuntary manslaughter as a lesser-included offense to murder violated his federal constitutional right to present a complete defense. the people argue the instruction was not supported by substantial evidence and overwhelming evidence rendered any error harmless. we agree with defendant and conclude the people have not proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the error was harmless. 1. instructional duty and standard of review s a trial court, sua sponte, to instruct fully on all lesser necessarily included offenses supported people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 148149, 154155, 162 (breverman).) the requirement applies when there is substantial evidence that the defendant committed the lesser offense instead of the greater offense. (id. at pp. 162, 177.) context, a court determines only its bare legal sufficiency, not its breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 177.) should not evaluate the credibility of witnesses, a task for the id. at p. 162), and uncertainty about whether the evidence is sufficient to warrant instructions should be resolved in favor of the accused (people v. tufunga (1999) 21 cal.4th 935, 944). thus, even evidence that is unconvincing or subject to justifiable suspicion may constitute substantial evidence and may trigger the lesser-included-offense requirement. (people v. turner (1990) 50 cal.3d 668, 690.) 7 when the defense requests the instruction, the refusal to instruct on a lesser-included offense may also violate the federal constitutiondefendant de crane v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 683, 690; people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 868, fn. 16 (rogers).) as part of this right, a evidence determine every material issue presented by the evidence people v. eid (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 859, 879; people v. cash constitutional right to have the jury determine every material failure or refusal to instruct on a lesser-included offense. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596.) 2. involuntary manslaughter is a lesser-included offense of murder. 187, subd. (a).) malice may be express or implied. ( 188.) express malice is the intent to kill, conscious disregard that the natural and probable consequences of [his] act or actions were dangerous to human life(people v. gonzalez (2018) 5 cal.5th 186, 197.)5 5 while felony murder does not require malice, the jury rejected that theory when it acquitted defendant of both first degree murder and 8 implied malice has both objective and subjective components. the objective consequences of which are dangerous to life . (people v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 143.) this means the act must carry (id. at p. 152.) the subjective test requires that the act be the life of another . id. at p. 143.) requires a defendants awareness of engaging in conduct that endangers the life of anotheribid.) an unlawful killing without malice is involuntary manslaughter. ( 192.) (rogers, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 884 [].)6 people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 1145.) accordingly, an there is substantial evidence indicating the defendant did not rogers, at p. 884.)7 attempted robbery and found the robbery-murder special circumstance not true. (people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 654.) 6 voluntary manslaughter, an intentional, unlawful killing in which certain mitigating circumstances negate the element of malice, is not at issue in this case. (see people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 460461.) 7 an unlawful killing may also amount to involuntary manslaughter under a misdemeanor-manslaughter theory ( 192, subd. (b)), but that rule is not at issue here. (see, e.g., people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 6061 [court erred in failing to instruct sua sponte on misdemeanor-manslaughter theory of involuntary manslaughter].) 9 3. instruction on involuntary manslaughter. after the prosecution rested, the court held a hearing to discuss jury instructions. defense counsel asked the court to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter based on lack of malice. testimony, it would have to acquit defendant of attempted robbery, felony murder, and the special circumstance. at that point, the only contested issue would be intent. defense counsel testimony that none of the [other] blows were fatal and given the fulcrum of where the neck was broken, there was no intent to blows, not knowing that the person had prior before, how would anybody know? again, again, rejects count 2 [attempted robbery] and the permutations of it, , for the jury to decide, the intent totally get where counsel is coming from. but someone lying on the ground being stomped on 20 times is evidence thatsee how a person is not aware that that behavior can result in death and disregard it, the likelihood of someone dying from that the following day, the court issued a written statement of decisio10 manslaughter instruction. the court made various factual court concluded the evidence did not support the instruction the court declined to give the instruction. (see breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at pp. 162, 177 [court may not weigh evidence or evaluate witness credibility when deciding whether substantial evidence supports instruction on lesser-included offense].) defense counsel urged the court to reconsider its decision. while the court might not have been required to give the instruction sua sponte, counsel argued, it was required to give it upon request. counsel explained anomaly, and that none of the injuries, internal or external, described by dr. young were fatal or life-threatening, [ ] the perpetrator would not know the natural and probable the significance of this evidence was the trier of fact to make the indeed, counsel revealed that if the court did give the involuntary manslaughter instruction, counsel would not ask the jury to acquit; he would instead ask the jury to convict of involuntary manslaughterfor what he did but to say that the jury should not even consider [involuntary manslaughter] because of the nature of the beating, that someone should know that the n11 me from arguing a defense that i laid out at the very beginning, during voir dire. i was that confident, given the nature of the after hearing further argument, the court again denied request for the instruction. 4. there was substantial evidence from which the jury could conclude defendant acted without malice. as discussed, a defendant acts without implied malice if he lacks a subjective awareness that his conduct carries degree of probability that it will people v. knoller, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 152.) when viewed in the light most favorable to defendant, there was ample evidence in this case from which a reasonable juror could conclude defendant was not subjectively aware that his actions could kill smith. (people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 1137 [sufficiency of the evidence supporting lesser-included offense instruction viewed in light most favorable to the defendant].) first, the jurors had reasons to be skeptical of the repeated claims that defendant stomped on smithead 20 times. the only eyewitness testimony offered at trial came from angel, who was thoroughly uncooperative, leaving jurors to glean their understanding of events from his preliminary hearing testimonytestimony they asked to hear during deliberations. but even at the preliminary hearing, angel, and his testimony was confusing and contradictory. for example, angel told the police that smith had 12 been beaten by four mennot twoand defendant was not one of the men who brought smith to the ground. furthermore, reasonable jurors could have concluded the circumstances of angelwere unreliable. in 2014, angel was only 14 years old. the beating occurred after midnight when it was dark out. angel was 20 feet away from the scene, his view was blocked at times, and he was distracted by carrying on two phone conversations. indeed, angel told the police he could only see smith from the waist down. angel could not remember how long the beating lasted. he could not confirm how many stomps occurredand when asked to estimate, he replied vaguely that there were 8 by the time he spoke to the police three and a half months after the incident. angelyouth, distractions, distance from the scene, reluctance to testify, vagueness and uncertainty about the nature and location of the blows, and inconsistency in recounting the events could have supported a reasonable conclusion that he was an unreliable witnessonly evidence that supported a finding of implied malice. second, smith was not a typical victim. a prior surgery had inserted metal rods into his neck and spine, making smith unusually vulnerable to a serious neck injury in the precise spot the break occurred. according to young, the medical examiner, 8 even the meaning of stomp was unclear. angel testified that after smith fell, he saw that what he meant, angel answered, when 13 the weakness and at a point immediately adjacent to the end of the metal rod, the rod could have acted as a fulcrum, thereby increasing the force on that area. third, that smith suffered only minor injuries to the rest of his body could have supported an inference that defendant did not use undue force for any of the blows. young testified that each of the injuries in this casetaken alonewas nonlethal. smith did not suffer a fractured skull, tooth damage, intracranial bleeding, or brain bruises, which might be expected from multiple high-impact blows to the head. indeed, show reasonably mild bruising and lacerations. a reasonable juror could have inferred that this evidence demonstrated that the blows were neither numerous nor severe, and further inferred that defendant believed beating up smith would injure him but kill him. after all, defendant had no apparent motivebut he liked to fight. california courts have long recognized that not all beatings are life-threatening. or feet does not constitute murder in any degree. [citations.] but if death the offense may be murder. [citation.] thus, to constitute murder there has to be either an intent to kill or such wanton and brutal use of the hands [or feet] without provocation as to indicate that they would cause death people v. teixeira (1955) 136 cal.app.2d 136, 150, italics added; accord, people v. cravens 14 [while] an assault with the fist and under such circumstances as to make the killing murder [citation] and there are no aggravating circumstances, the law will not raise the implication of malice aforethought, which must exist to .) based on this evidence, a jury could reasonably doubt that the prosecution proved defendant had employed hands [or feet] (teixeira, at p. 150.) the people cite two cases in support of their claim that no substantial evidence supported an involuntary manslaughter instruction here. both are inapt. in guillen, the manner and circumstances of a jail assault on a murder victim provided sufficient evidence, under an aiding and abetting theory, to defendant inmate was subjectively aware that the natural and probable consequences of his conduct were dangerous to life. (people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 934, 982992 (guillen).) in that case, the victim, a child molester, was escorted to one of the only places in the jail where deputies could not see an attack. (id. at pp. 985986.) between 30 and 50 inmates assaulted the victimby hitting him, kicking him, stomping on him, spanking him, spitting on him, urinating on him, spilling hot coffee on him, stripping off his clothes, and putting foreign items in his rectumand the victims injuries, which included 21 broken ribs, a punctured lung, and a hemorrhagic back, were consistent with a high-velocity car accident or a fall from multiple stories. (ibid.) the court concluded a reasonable person would have understood 15 that this type of vicious group assault could be fatal. (id. at pp. 988989.) unlike in guillen, in which the court assessed whether the evidence was sufficient to support the verdict, we must decide whether there was sufficient evidence to warrant an instruction on a lesser-included offense. thus, whereas guillen viewed the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, we must view that evidence in the light most favorable to the defense. (people v. millbrook, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 1137.) and while the guillen mortem injuries were consistent relatively minor. finally, unlike in guillen, the prosecution here did not argueand the jury was not instructedthat defendant acted in concert with or aided and abetted jordan. in evers, the other case cited by the people, the court concluded there was no error in the failing to instruct on involuntary manslaughter where the injuries suffered by the child victim were severe, and evidence of the defendantprior child abuse established he was aware of the risk of his actions. (people v. evers (1992) 10 cal.app.4th 588.) in that case, there was undisputed evidence the deceased child suffered physical injuries equivalent to those that would result from a 10-to-30-foot fall. (id. at p. 597.) the record established the defendant had used violent force against the child in the past, and he therefore must have been aware of the risk of death. (id. at p. 598.) here, however, there was no evidence defendant actually knew his not particularly severe. in sum, because there was substantial evidence in this case from which a reasonable juror could have doubted that defendant 16 was subjectively aware the beating could kill smith, the court was required to instruct on the lesser-included offense of involuntary manslaughter. 5. the error present a complete defense. in a non-capital case, the erroneous failure to instruct on a lesser-included offense is typically an error of state law. (rogers, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 867868.) but the erroneous denial of a federal due process right to present a complete defense. (id. at pp. 868, fn. 16, 872 failure to give a requested instruction (whether on a lesser included offense, or on some other subject) embodying the defense theory of the case and around which the defendant had built his or her defense, violated the defen; people v. eid, supra, 187 cal.app.4th at pp. 879884.)9 the rationale for requiring instruction on lesser included unwarranted all-or-nothing choice the charged offense even though one of the elements remains in doubt because some 9 of whether a killing was committed without malice, and if there is substantial evidence the defendant committed involuntary manslaughter, failing to instruct on constitutional right to have the jury determine every material issue. people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 596.) 17 (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 365; accord, people v. majors (1for requiring instructions on lesser included offenses is people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 196, 203 [ our courts are not gambling halls but forums for the discovery of truth. the -lesser included offens.) here, counsel structured the entire defense around one element: malice. in his opening statement, counsel explained that fights. okay? nothing to do with attempted robberies orjust he acknowledged smith was beaten. but none of his injuries were lethal. smith ultimately died from neck trauma. and, counsel explained, smith had prior injuries to his spine that had compromised the vertebrae in the very spot in which his neck broke. he therefore concluded his in fact an involuntary ma the cross-examination of the medical examiner was also structured around one element. for example, counsel asked young about them were potentially fatal. he intact, that his skull was not fractured, and that there was no trauma to his brain. then, counsel spent the bulk of cross-examination asking young about the relationship between neck injury and his death. he elicited testimony 18 that the break itself was right on the edge of the metal rods, and those rods could have acted as a fulcrum that helped cause the break. as he explained when he requested the instruction, this theory that there was no intent to kill. yet after asking the jury in his opening statement to convict of involuntary manslaughter, in his closing argument, counsel asked them to acquit entirely. he still conceded the other vasquez was involved in this case. [] the issue is a question of was there a crime committed and what is that and he still focused on intent: did defendant know that death was a natural and probable consequence of his actions? counsel made it clear, however, that he did not believe this was the right result. for example, he in this case, the that the prosecutor has in this case, but they chose to file murder. homicide. those are not issues. the issue before us is what the prosecutor chose to file, and you have to address that. you have to deal with that eople should be held has a lot of ways to charge homicide. in the end, without an instruction on involuntary manslaughter, dbased on what we have here and now, this case has not been proven beyond a reasonable doubt. it 19 tthe jury on the lesser-included offense of involuntary manslaughter placed defense counsel in the untenable position of arguing that his clientwho had plainly killed a manshould be set free. because the requested instruction embodied the defense theory of the case, the error federal constitutional right to present a complete defense. 6. the people have not proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the error was harmless. we assess federal constitutional errors under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). under chapman, we must reverse unless the people prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the error complained of did not contribute to the verdict obtained. (ibid.) (people v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 11651166.) the people insist the refusal to instruct on involuntary manslaughter was harmless case. at stomping on the cited authoritiesprovided without any discussion or analysisdo not support their position. in people v. moye, the court concluded any error in failing to instruct the jury sua sponte on a heat-of-passion theory of voluntary manslaughterin addition to instructions that were given on imperfect self-defense manslaughterwas harmless under state law. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 557558 (moye).) there, the jury heard and rejected defendants theories of self-defense and imperfect self-defense. (id. at p. 558.) once it did so, there was little (if any) evidence to support the claim that 20 he was acting in a subjecthe victim. specifically, d that the victim kicked his car and attacked him with a bat did not amount to legally sufficient provocation required for a heat-of-passion defense unrelated to the perceived need for self-defense. (ibid.) but the evidence did establish that after enlisting the help of two over a chain link fence and through a field, caught him and bludgeoned him to death with a baseball bat, after which defendant disposed of the bloodied murder weapon in a nearby storm drain.id. at p. 557) rejection of the self-defense claim, rendered the error harmless. in people v. flood, the trial court failed to instruct the jury that to convict the defendant of evading a peace officer, the prosecution was required to prove that the defendant evaded actual peace officers. (people v. flood (1998) 18 cal.4th 470, 505 (flood).) the court found the error harmless under chapman efendant never referred to this element of the crime during the trial and did not argue to the jury that the prosecution had failed to prove this element beyond a reasonable doubt; indeed, he did not ask that the issue even be considered by the jury. furthermore, defendant presented no evidence regarding the peace officer element, and failed to dispute the prosecutions evidence regarding the issue.(ibid.) these actions were tantamount to a concession (ibid.)10 10 we note that flood neder v. united states (1999) 527 u.s. 1, 1719 concerning the failure to instruct on an elopinion interpreting neder, people v. mil (2012) 53 cal.4th 400. (see people v. valenti, supra, 243 cal.app.4th at pp. 11651167 [discussing 21 moreover, the flood demonstrate[d] that the jury resolved every contested issue in favor of the prosecution and, in particular, credited the testimony of all of the witnesses who testified regardiissue that defendant actually contested, the jury rejected flood, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 505.) unlike moye, the case before us is not one in which the jury rejected other theories of guilt in favor of one requiring a more culpable mental state, indicating that if properly instructed, the jury would still have found defendant guilty of a crime greater than involuntary manslaughter. and unlike flood, this is not a case in which the jury demonstrably decided every contested issue in favor of the prosecution and fully credited every prosecution witness. to the contrary, acquitting defendant of premeditated murder, acquitting defendant of felony murder, acquitting defendant of attempted robbery, and finding the attempted-robbery special circumstance not trueindicate it rejected . furthermore, since angel provided the only evidence to support the attempted robbery count, the jury apparently rejected at least some nor is this a case in which the court failed to instruct on a peripheral issue, as in moye, or a conceded element, as in flood. neder and mil].) those cases established that the prosecution must make an even greater showing to prove harmlessness than is typically required for federal constitutional errors. (ibid.) 22 unlike the trial courts in those cases, the court here refused repeated defense requests to instruct on a lesser crime that embodied the entire defense. here, the court refused to instruct on a lesser crime that addressed the only element the defense contested. the necessity for instructions on lesser included offenses is based in the defendants constitutional right to have the jury determine every material issue presented by the evidence. [citations.] ... true, if the prosecution has not established beyond a reasonable doubt every element of the offense charged, and if no lesser offense instruction is offered, the jury must, as a theoretical matter, return a verdict of acquittal. but a defendant is entitled to a lesser offense instructionin this context or any otherprecisely because he should not be exposed to the substantial risk that the jurys practice will diverge from theory. where one of the elements of the offense charged remains in doubt, but the defendant is plainly guilty of some offense, the jury is likely to resolve its doubts in favor of conviction.(people v. tinajero (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 1541, 1547.) there is evidence here that the jury struggled with just this problem. as discussed, the defense did not contest identity and conceded that defendant killed smith. only claim was that he lacked malice. indeed, defense counsel acknowledged that ideally, defendant should be convicted of something and in such a difficult position. yet without an involuntary manslaughter instruction, the jury was left to decide between first degree murder, second degree murder, and it is unsurprising, therefore, that according to defense counsel, after trial, the foreperson told both attorneys that some jurors had 23 wished for a manslaughter instruction and that had one been given, hung up between manslaughter and second the prosecutor statement.11 (evid. code,  1350; see people v. engstrom (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 174, review den. feb. 29, 2012, s199153 [prosecution forfeited claim that court improperly relied on defense counsels information and belief declaration when granting motion for new trial motion based on juror misconduct].) instead, the prosecutor acknowledged that the jurors felt that way, but argued that because there was no substantial evidence to support the instruction, the fact that some jurors, given the chance, may have voted for involuntary [manslaughter] appropriate as we have discussed at length above, the error went to the heart of the defense case. the defense in this case was that would kill him. the jury agreedat least in part. jurors acquitted defendant of premeditated murder. they acquitted him of felony murder. and they acquitted him of attempted robbery. deliberated for two days, asked several questions, and received supplemental closing arguments. as such, the people have not established beyond a reasonable doubt that the error was harmless. 11 nor do the people argue on appeal that we should not consider this part of the record. 24 disposition the judgment is reversed, and the matter is remanded for retrial. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. kalra, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 