filed 8/3/18 p. v. robbins ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert robbins, jr., defendant and appellant. b281576 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta133510) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kelvin d. filer, judge. affirmed. alan s. yockelson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, colleen m. tiedemann and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted robert robbins, jr., (robbins) of possessing a controlled substance for sale and selling, transporting, or offering to sell a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11351, 11352, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced him to 16 years in state prison. roberts appealed, arguing, inter alia, that the trial court erred by denying his marsden1 motion to substitute appointed counsel without a hearing prior to imposing his sentence. we agreed that the trial court erred in denying the motion without a hearing and remanded the matter to the trial court with directions to conduct a marsden hearing. (see people v. robert robbins, jr. (july 28, 2016, b261609) [nonpub. opn.].) on remand, the trial court duly conducted a marsden hearing and then denied motion to replace his court-appointed attorney. on appeal, robbins argues that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion, because, with respect to one of his complaints against his attorney, the trial court purportedly into the merits of his claim. we disagree and affirm the judgment. background i. on may 24, 2014, the los angeles police department -project. as part of the operation, the lapd used a nonconfidential informant (nci) equipped with audio and video recording equipment and marked currency. after another drug purchaser directed the nci to robbins, the nci approached 1 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 3 robbins as he sat outdoors in a chair counting a large pile of money. robbins did not take the money offered to him by the nci, but, instead, directed the nci to two other individuals, l.c., who took a marked $10 bill from the nci, and r.s., who gave the nci a rock of crack cocaine. after completing the transaction with the nci, l.c. handed him the marked bill; robbins then disappeared into a nearby residential building. due to safety concerns, the lapd did not follow robbins into the building. on june 3, 2014, less than a week later, the lapd arrested robbins in the same area with $1,300 in small denominations. ii. marsden motion on july 23, 2014, the people filed a two count information charging robbins with the possession and sale of a controlled substance. the information also alleged a gang enhancement for both counts. after the gang allegations were dismissed, a jury found robbins guilty of both counts. on january 14, 2015, the trial court held a sentencing hearing. at the advised the court that, while speaking with his client earlier that day, he learned that his client wanted a marsden hearing held before being sentenced. the trial court denied the request, explaining to robbins . . . . and you have had your opportunities and your counsel has after denying the marsden motion, the trial court granted romero motion,2 striking a juvenile strike, and then sentenced him to 16 years in prison. 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 4 iii. robbins timely appealed from his conviction, arguing, inter alia, that the trial court erred by denying his request for a marsden hearing. the people agreed with robbins that the trial court had erred with respect to the marsden hearing. although we rejemarsden hearing. if the marsden motion is granted, the court shall hold a new sentencing hearing. if the marsden motion is not granted, the iv. the marsden hearing on march 3, 2017, the trial court conducted an in camera marsden hearing. at the hearing, robbins did not argue that there was an irreconcilable conflict between himself and his court-appointed counsel; instead, he based his request for a new at the hearing, robbins identified a number of alleged failings by his defense counsel during his criminal case. for example, robbins maintained that his counsel failed to have a purportedly exculpatory police video shown at trial. after hearing court asked defense counsel to respond. not only shown at trial but also that he had used the video to argue directing the nci to l.c. and r.s., the individuals who sold the nci counsel directed the trial court to a minute order which indicated that the video was admitted as 5 in addition, robbins asserted that during the trial his attorney improperly allowed the people and the police to he succeeded in getting the gang enhancement allegations dismissed. the trial court then explained to robbins thathe people believe are gang-related or have some relevancy for any other reason are routinely admitted in trials. and you have no expectation of privacy when you put a tattoo on your body. and so trying to object to that would have been futile on the part for his final complaint, robbins asserted that his counsel failed to act when the attorney representing r.s. conferred with his client near the jury box while the jury was present and stated cording to robbins, n the courtroom criminal history, bu when questioned by the trial court about the alleged no recollection of a conference between [r.s.] . . . and [his court-appointed attorney] prior to [r.srecollection that it was behind the jury deliberation room door see how that is something that i had anything to do with or any control over. complaining about my performance. it sounds like mr. robbins is dissatisfied with some statements that he believes the jury may have overheard that were made by the attorney that was 6 appointed to represent [r.s.] prior to him testifying. the trial follow-up questions of either robbins or his attorney regarding romplaint. during the marsden hearing, in addition to eliciting and exploring all of both robbins and his attorney on their working relationship. among other things, the trial court discovered that counsel had represented him from arraignment through trial and that in all that time robbins had never requested a marsden hearing until just before the sentencing hearing. at the conclusion of the marsden hearing, the trial court request . . . that [defense counsel] properly represented [mr. robbins] during [his] trial and marsden claim, and discussion on appeal, robbins contends that the trial court erred with respect to only one of his complaints at the marsden hearing, questioned counsel on some of the issues [he] raised, it failed to according to robbins, this alleged failure by trial court 7 below, we are not persuaded by a. guiding principles and standard of review marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118] are well settled. a] defendant is entitled to [substitute another appointed attorney] if the record clearly shows that the first appointed attorney is not providing adequate representation [citation] or that defendant and counsel have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that (people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 95.) marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118, imposes a number of specific requirements on a trial court. first, if a about the causes of (people v. eastman (2007) 146 cal.app.4th 688, 695 (eastman).) second, rec (id. at p. 696, italics omitted.) third, if any of s suggest ineffective assistance, tconduct an inquiry sufficient to ascertain whether counsel is in fact rendering effective (id. at p. 695.) in other words, question counsel as necessary to ascertain their veracity (ibid.) in sum, the trial court must (id. at p. 696.) 8 a defendant burden to prevail on a marsden motion. (people v. bills (1995) 38 the defendant must show that appointed counsel is not adequately representing him, and that the deficiency in representation is so great as to substantially s right to the effective assistance of counsel. [citation.] the defendant must give specific examples of s inadequacies, and cannot rest upon mere failure to get along with or have confidence in counsel.id. at p. 961.) once a defendant has been afforded an opportunity to explain and provide specific instances of inadequate performance, [t]hereafter substitution is a matter of judicial discretion. (people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1069, 1102.) denial is not an abuse of discretion unless the defendant has shown that a failure right to assistance of counsel. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 599.) b. no abuse of discretion here, the trial court met all of the marsden requirements. the court made sure that robbins had the opportunity to fully present his grievance regarding the purported comments by . (eastman, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 695.) after robbins raised that particular grievance, the trial court asked robbins a number of follow-up questions to clarify the nature of that particular complaint. after robbins answered the , the court asked robbins if he had on appeal, robbins does not contend that the trial court failed to allow him to either fully explain the his evidence regarding that particular issue. (see people v. 9 horton, supra, 11 cal.4th at pp. 1068, 11011103 [marsden motion properly denied after trial court provided defendant basis for complaints].) in addition, through its questioning of both robbins and his counsel, the trial court made a record sufficient to show the comments. (eastman, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 696.) on appeal, robbins does not contend that the trial court failed to create a sufficient record. (cf. people v. mendez (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1362, 1368 [reversing denial of marsden motion finally, the trial court allowed three striker grievance. (eastman, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 696; cf. people v. cruz (1978) 83 cal.app.3d 308, 317 [marsden error because trial court failed to ; people v. groce (1971) 18 cal.app.3d 292, 297 [marsden error because trial court not producing the physician or his hospital records.) on appeal, robbins does not deny that the trial court instead, he argues that issue. without identifying any specific questions that the trial court defense counsel, robbins nonetheless conduct any follow-up questioning was a prejudicial error. robbins is mistaken was not an abuse of discretion for two principal reasons. 10 the event and, in his response, suggested that it might never have occurred. any further questioning of defense counsel about why he did not respond to an event he did not recall and believed might not have occurred would have been futile and a waste of time for the parties and the trial court. in other words, no amount of follow-up questioning of defense counsel by the trial court would have ascertain[ed] the[ ] veracity (eastman, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 696.) second, robbins failed to meet his threshold burden of facts sufficient to raise a questioeffectiveness with respect to that particular grievance. (eastman, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 695.) although robbins time, he did not state at the marsden hearing that as soon as he heard those comments he immediately brought the issue to the attention of his defense counsel or ever raised the issue with his counsel at any time prior to the marsden hearing. moreover, although robbins assheard the comments, he offered no facts to support that assertion. his counsel, who had brought his trial notes to the hearing, had no recollection of the incident. and, despite having seven months3 to prepare for the marsden hearing by contacting others who were present in the courtroom at the time of the alleged staff, court reporters, and/or spectators) and obtaining their sworn testimony that such comments were in fact made in the 3 we issued our decision directing the trial court to hold a marsden hearing on july 28, 2016. the marsden hearing was held on march 3, 2017. 11 , robbins failed to provide the trial court with any supporting declarations. allegation[s] . . . a trial court to grant a marsden motion. (people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 489.) in addition, where, as seemingly occurred here, there is a credibility question between defendant and cous (people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1245.) in sumrecord demonstrates the court allowed defendant to explain the reasons for his dissatisfaction with counsel and permitted counsel to [adequately] respondabuse of discretion will be found . (people v. abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 488; people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 606608 [no abuse of discretion denying marsden motion where dy to ].) accordingly, we hold that the trial court conducted a proper marsden hearing as to the three striker grievance and did not abuse its discretion in denying motion. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 