filed 7/17/18 p. v. price ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vivian price, defendant and appellant. b281164 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya092334) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. reversed and remanded with instructions. richard b. lennon and suzan e. hier, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and chung l. mar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant vivian price fired gunshots into a fistfight between her boyfrie. one of the the nei and lodged in his brain. both victims survived. the trial court found defendant competent to stand trial, and a jury found her guilty of assault with a firearm and attempted voluntary manslaughter. it also found true allegations that defendant personally used a firearm and personally inflicted great bodily injury upon her victims. defendant contends the judgment must be reversed because the trial court failed to make an independent judicial assessment of her competency and violated her state and federal speedy trial rights. in the alternative, she requests that we remand the case for resentencing under recently amended penal code section 12022.5, subdivision (c).1 we are not persuaded by ents, but we agree that her competency hearing was deficient. we further agree that she is entitled to resentencing if a retrospective competency hearing demonstrates that she was competent to stand trial. we accordingly reverse, to allow the trial court to hold a retrospective competency hearing if feasible. if such a hearing is feasible, and the trial court finds that defendant was competent to stand trial, the court is directed to reinstate the judgment and resentence defendant in accordance with section 12022.5, subdivision (c). procedural history an amended information filed by the los angeles county district attorney on november 12, 2015 charged defendant and her boyfriend, lawrence mears, with two counts of assault with a 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)) and two counts of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder ( 187, subd. (a), 664). the information further alleged as to all counts that defendant and mears personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) and that defendant personally used a firearm ( 12022.5). defendant and mears proceeded to a joint trial on february 9, 2016. the trial was interrupted by the prolonged illness of attorney; the trial court declared a mistrial on february 24, 2016. on september 28, 2016, the trial court declared a doubt as criminal proceedings against her, and appointed an expert to evaluate her. the trial court ultimately found defendant competent based on defense ions about the expert forthcoming report and reinstated criminal proceedings against defendant on november 17, 2016. mears subsequently pled no contest to an added count of subd. (a)) and was placed on formal probation. defendant proceeded to jury trial on january 17, 2017. the jury found defendant guilty of both counts of assault with a firearm. it also found her guilty of two counts of attempted voluntary manslaughter, a lesser included offense of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder. the jury also found true the enhancement allegations that defendant personally used a firearm and personally inflicted great bodily injury on both victims. the trial court sentenced defendant to a total of ten years on the first count of assault with a firearm: the midterm of three years, plus the midterm of four years for the personal use 4 enhancement, plus three years for the great bodily injury enhancement, to be served consecutively. on the second assault count, the trial court sentenced defendant to a total of three years, four months: one year on the assault count (one-third the midterm), plus one year, four months for the personal use enhancement (one-third the midterm), plus one year for the great bodily injury enhancement (one-third the prescribed sentence). the court ordered this sentence to run consecutively to the sentence on the first assault count. the court imposed total sentences of ten years on each of the attempted voluntary manslaughter counts, but stayed them pursuant to section 654. court awarded defendant 739 days of custody credit, plus 110 days of good-time/work-time credit, for a total credit of 849 days. defendant timely appealed. factual background defendant lived in an apartment complex in south los angeles, next door to victim teneysia l. relations between the women were strained. teneysia testified that she and defendant had argued over trash cans, lawn watering, and other issues; defendant testified that teneysia played loud music and banged on their shared wall. on april 21, 2015, teneysia and her boyfriend, james g., left her apartment to take out the trash and run errands. defendant and mears were outside. mears exchanged words with james. mears threw a punch at james, and the two men began fighting. defendant retrieved a gun from inside her apartment and fired several gunshots into the scuffle. one bullet hit teneysia, 5 who was trying to separate the men. it traveled through her left arm and left breast before becoming lodged in her right breast. another bullet struck james on the bridge of his nose between his eyes; it remained lodged in his brain at the time of trial. defendant called 911 and reported that she shot her neighbor a responding deputy sheriff the fight and shooting were captured on surveillance was played for the jury. discussion defendant contends the trial court violated her due process rights by failing to make an independent judicial determination of her competency. she further contends that the trial court violated her federal and state rights to a speedy trial. we agree that the competency proceedings were deficient, but reject i. competency a. background on seal a letter from clinical and forensic psychologist dr. michelle margules and his own declaration. based on those documents, which are not in the record, defense counsel asked the trial court to declare a doubt as to wood to evaluate her. the trial court reviewed the submissions and stated that they reflected a concern that defendant was unable to assist counsel with her defense. the trial court suspended criminal proceedings and appointed dr. wood to evaluate defendant. the court set the next hearing for 6 november 17, 2016. on november 17, 2016, defendant and her counsel appeared before the court. the court asked if dr. wood had submitted her report. defense counsel said she had not. he continued: i spoke to dr. wood the other day. she will not have the report available to us until december 9th. however, i talked to her about the report, my representation. she will find ms. price competent. she says ms. price does suffer from severe memory issues which makes it difficult. and she indicated that it might have been a bit of a close call as to competency due to her memory loss, but she says she does find her to be competent, and the report will say that. she does not recommend any further evaluation. that was also a concern of mine as to whether we needed to have her see a neurologist because of these memory issues. recommending a neurologist. so once we receive the report, i would expect it to find her competent and be able to set it for trial. if the court and the people are willing to accept my representations, we can do that today. when the report arrives on the 9th, i will immediately bring a copy both to the people and 2 the trial court invited the prosecutor and defense counsel to sidebar, where they had an unreported discussion. when they 2 no report is in the record. it is not clear whether it was ever completed or filed. 7 sides will agree to the representations of mr. keenan [defense the trial court price is competent. criminal proceedings are reinstated, both b. analysis her federal due process rights. (cooper v. oklahoma (1996) 517 u.s. 348, 354.) the state constitution and section 1367 similarly (people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 194-195.) a defendability to consult with his [or her] lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational understanding . . . [or] a rational as well as [c (id. at p. 195.) when the trial court is presented with substantial evidence that a defendant is mentally incompetent, the trial court must provide the defendant with a hearing on the issue as a matter of right. (people v. mickel, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 195; people v. pennington (1967) 66 cal.2d 508, 518; see also  1368, subd. (b) competence is to be determined in a hearing which is held .) all criminal mental competence is determined. ( 1368, subd. (c).) once a doubt has arisen as to the competence of the defendant to stand trial, the trial court has no jurisdiction to proceed with the case against the defendant without first determining his [or her] competence in a section 1368 hearing, and the matter cannot be 8 (people v. hale (1988) 44 cal.3d 531, 541.) section 1369 to examine the defendant after a doubt as to his or her competency has been declared. ( 1369, subd. (a).) the appointed the nature of the criminal proceedings or assist counsel in the conduct of a defense in a rational manner as a result of a mental disorder and, if within the scope of their licenses and appropriate to their opinions, whether or not treatment with antipsychotic medication is medically appropriate for the defendant and whether antipsychotic medication is likely to restore the (ibid.) california rules of court, rule 4.130, which neither party cited, further clarifies the obligations of a court-appointed expert per that rule, which carries the force of law and is binding so long as it is consistent with constitutional and statutory law (r.r. v. superior court the defendant competency to stand trial. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.130(d)(2).) (ibid.)3 of 3 effective january 1, 2018, rule 4.130(d)(2) was amended to provide a detailed (see cal. rules of court, rule 4.130(d)(2)(a)-(g).) these rcompetency hearing. 9 expert reports demonstrated by the rule that a formal adversary hearing on the issue of competence is not required if the prosecutor and defense counsel stipulate that the competency determination be made by the court based on the written reports of the court-appointed (in re john z. (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 1046, 1058, citing people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 903-905.) here, the trial court did not receive a written report or even oral testimony from the appointed expert. instead, it received -unprepared report that allegedly was forthcoming. we have no reason to doubt the s to the court. (see holloway v. arkansas re when they address the judge solemnly upon a matter before the court, their declarations are virtually (people v. marks (1988) 45 cal.3d 1335, 1340; see also 5 witkin and epstein, california criminal law (4th ed. 2012)  828.) the trial court could not fulfill that obligation without at least receiving the expert report and s opinion. the trial court as finder of fact had an obligation to consider the rather than continuing the hearing to await the report, or taking oral testimony from the expert, the court essentially delegated its factfinding function to defense counsel. appeal argues that this was error. respondent disagrees. it points to section 1369, 10 defendant is mentally competent unless it is proved by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant is mentally defendant bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the (people v. mendoza (2016) 62 cal.4th 856, 871.) it contends defense counsel essentially conceded he could not meet that burden by informing ense (people v. maxwell (1981) 115 cal.app.3d 807, 812 (maxwell).) respondent argues that maxwell we conclude it is distinguishable. in maxwell, the trial court declared a doubt as to the defendand appointed two experts to assess his competence. (maxwell, supra, 115 cal.app.3d at p. 809.) at the section 1368 hearing, the trial court informed the parties that it in effect he went to the jail for the purpose of interviewing and (id. at p. 810.) defense counsel told the court he had no reason to (ibid.) to stand trial. the [penal] code provides that a defendant is presumed to be competent to stand trial, and i have no evidence to the contrary. i have observed his conduct in court, and while it seems to border on the bizarre, that may very well be calculated activity on the part of the defendant. so, i am going to adjourn the 1368 proceedings at this time and reinstate criminal p (ibid.) on appeal, the defendant argued that he 11 did not receive the hearing to which he was entitled. (id. at p. 809.) the appellate court concluded that the hearing the defendant received as th (id. at p. 812.) its own observations of defendant since its expression of doubt a month and a half before and the presumption of mental (maxwell, supra, at pp. 811-812.) the trial court in maxwell had very little before it, but it did have the letters from the experts. it was therefore able to consider their contents and credibility independently of defense the trial court thus exercised its judgment as factfinderand the experts discharged their duty to prepare reports and submit them to the trial court for its consideration. neither of these things occurred here. we reject respondent assertion sion as to the court was the at a minimum, it was required to receive and consider the expert assessment it was statutorily obligated to order and the expert was statutorily obligated to provide. while counsel may right to a jury trial on the question of competency (people v. masterson (1994) 8 cal.4th 965, 975), and may submit the question of competency on the expert report alone (people v. weaver, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 903-905), he or she may not waive 12 and determine competency. (people v. marks, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 1340.) defendant argues that the remedy for the procedurally improper competency hearing she received is unconditional reversal of her convictions. we disagree. in some circumstances, a limited reversal with remand for the trial court to determine the feasibility of a retrospective competency hearing is appropriate. (see people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 705-710 (lightsey); people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1217 fn. 16.) in lightsey, the supreme court explained that a limited reversal and remand may be appropriate where (1) the record indicates only that defendant might have been incompetent but was denied a fair opportunity to establish that fact; (2) the trial, while a significant concern, does not necessarily make it impossible for a fair and reliable retrospective competency (lightsey, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 709.) these factors are present here. first, nothing in the record definitively indicates that defendant was mentally incompetent to stand trial; to the contrary, she cogently participated as a witness on her own behalf and apparently persuaded the jury that she acted in imperfect self-defense or the heat of passion. thus, h a remand for a new trial on the criminal charges would impose severe costs on the justice system in remedying a violation that, while considered a miscarriage of justice in the context of the competency proceedings, might not have affected the guilt and penalty (lightsey, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 707.) second, even though the record does not contain an expert report, defense 13 had been assessed and a report was in process. such a contemporaneous report may have been filed, or may be able to be filed upon remand. finally, less than two years have passed based on their observations of [her] mental state at that time (ibid.) [citation.] if the trial court determines that conducting a retrospective competency hearing is not feasible,[4] or if a retrospective competency hearing is held at which defendant proves [s]he was incompetent by a preponderance of the evidence [citation], then the only permissible remedy would be to let stand our reversal, mentally competent to stand trial. if a fair and reliable retrospective competency hearing can be conducted, and at that hearing defendant fails to prove [s]he was incompetent, the (lightsey, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 709-710.) 5 4 feasibility in this context means sufficient evidence is at the time of her original trial. the focus of the cohearing will provide defendant a fair opportunity to prove incompetence, not merely whether some evidence exists by which (lightsey, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 710.) 5 as we discuss more fully below, this procedure is acceptable here because no other reversible errors occurred 14 ii. speedy trial a. background defendant and mears proceeded to a joint trial on february 9, 2016. retained counsel became ill. the trial was continued to february 18, 2016, and subsequently continued several more times until the trial court declared a mistrial on february 24, 2016. at a pretrial conference on retained counsel and appointed the alternate public defender to represent him. the court found good cause to continue the trial date and set a new trial date of june 21, 2016. on june 21, 2016, the court trailed the matter to june 22 on june 22, 2016, defendant made a marsden motion.6 at her marsden hearing, defendant explained that she wanted a new attorney because her current public defender was her fifth attorney and she wanted an attorney continued the case a number of times understand that you are waiting patiently and have been very patient. it must be extremely frustrating. how frustrating and stressful your situation is. many times that you want your matter to go forward to trial, but i also know that you want to have the attorney in the best position as possible to try to settle the case for you and get a good resolution for you, or go to trial and take your best shot at trial. . . . 6 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 15 at [defense counsel] is not doing his job. he - - defendant told the court she wanted a new attorney not the court explained that the case would be assigned to a new public defender and that he or she the court another attorney, apparently, pretty soon. but prior to that, ee if we can meet with everyone involved and try to resolve this case that -appointed it will be a state- the court informed defendant tstate-appointed attorneys. the court then confirmed with defense counsel that a new attorney would be taking over the case. after the marsden hearing, defense counsel informed the court that his transfer was effective july 5, 2016. after holding an off-the-record discussion with counsel, the court informed for pretrial and the date of august 4th for a the court asked defendant if she agreed to that; she when the court told her she did the . . . ble because your attorney, mr. ewell, is being transferred, and we have a new 16 the starting within three days of august 4th. tart trial [] do i the court consulted with counsel, and proposed calendaring the case for july 11, as day 7 of 10. remarked that he hoped his replacement could be ready that day, have an attorney who is not ready. case started as quickly as possible. if she wants to go to trial with an attorney who is prepared - - defendant interjected, ed to you to appoint a state- he is going to be appointed, not because you asked for it, but because - - so the 11th is the best i ca the court asked defendant if she the court then set the matter for july 12 to accommodate the , and told defendant that the prosecution it asked her if she understood and agreed. defendant again stated, defense counsel joined, and the court knowingly, intelligent hearing, at which deputy public defender keenan was appointed to represent 17 her. defendant appeared the following day, july 13, which was defense counsel moved for continuance to september 28, 2016. defendant said she would the court and defense counsel assured defendant that her new counsel would remain on the case through trial. defendant agreed to the continuance, and the court set the matter for trial on september 28, 2016, as day 0 of 10. on september 28, 2016, the court declared a doubt as to criminal proceedings. the court reinstated the proceedings on november 17, 2016, and informed defendant that she had a right to have the trial start within 60 days, by january 17, 2017. defendant said she understood and agreed to that. on january 17, 2017, the case was transferred to a new department of the court for trial. the following day, mears entered a no contest plea to an added charge of misdemeanor battery and the prosecution dismissed the felony charges against him. defendant rejected a plea offer and proceeded to trial as scheduled, on january 17. she now contends her state and federal speedy trial rights were violated. b. analysis the sixth amendment to the federal constitution, as applied to the states through the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment (klopfer v. north carolina (1967) 386 u.s. 213, 222-223 [ ]), guarantees a criminal defendant the right to a speedy and public trial. similarly, article i, section 15 of the california constitution guarantees an accused the right to a speedy public trial. the california legislature has re-expressed 18 and amplified these fundamental guarantees by various statutory enactments, including penal code section 1382. (people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 225.) section 1382 provides in relevant part that, in a felony case that resulted in a mistrial, the trial court must order the action after the trary ( 1382, subd. (a) & (a)(2).) it further provides, -day period by request or consent, express or implied, of the defendant without a general waiver, the defendant shall be brought to trial on the ( 1382, subd. (a)(2)(b).) to prevail on a federal or state speedy trial claim on appeal, a defendant must demonstrate not only a violation of the right but also that he or she was prejudiced as a result of the delay. (see barker v. wingo (1972) 407 u.s. 514, 530, 532 [federal]; people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 574 [state].) in be assessed in the light of the interests of defendants which the oppressive pretrial incarceration; (ii) to minimize anxiety and concern of the accused; and (iii) to limit the possibility that the (barker v. wingo, supra, 407 u.s. at p. 532.) of a defendant adequately to prepare his [or her] case skews the fairness of the entire system. if witnesses die or disappear during a delay, the prejudice is obvious. there is also prejudice if defense witnesses are unable to recall accurately events of the (ibid.) in the context of the state right to speedy 19 defendant t (people v. johnson, supra, 26 cal.3d at p. 574.) even if we assume for purposes of this opinion that followed the proper procedures to preserve her objection on appeal (see sykes v. superior court only duty placed upon an accused in protecting his right to a speedy trial is to object when his trial is set for a date beyond the statutory period and then move to dismiss once that period expires shown prejudice. year and a half appellant sat in jail before her second trial impedes ability to assist her own defense because her severe memory issues would have only worsened during that spending such a length of time in the stressful environment of the jail woumemory problems and decompensation. . . . thus, although appellant did not explicitly mention her memory loss, the long delay prior to trial potentially deprived her of her opportunity to tell the jury what happened in a these speculative assertions are insufficient to demonstrate prejudice. defendant does not point to any evidence in the record describing the nature or extent of her alleged memory problems. nor does anything the record suggest that she was prone to decompensation or actually decompensated while in custody. instead, the record shows that defendant was knowledgeable about her rights and spoke coherently to the court 20 in an effort to exercise them. it further shows that she testified about the fight, shooting incident, and her lengthy history of conflict with teneysia without any apparent uncertainty or memory lapse. she also clearly addressed her intent, the key issue for the jury to resolve given the video evidence of the shooting. she said she did not intend to kill teneysia or james, mears: is not always reflected in the record because what has been forgotten can rarely be shown. (barker v. wingo, supra, 407 u.s. at p. 532.) we further recognize that defendant, like many witnesses, admitted that she w yet, the evidence of guilt in this case was overwhelming, and there is no indication that bringing defendant to trial more expediently would have affected the result in any way. on the record before us, we cannot conclude that any delay deprived defendant of a fair opportunity to present her case to the jury. iii. section 12022.5, subdivision (c) the jury found true enhancement allegations that defendant personally used a firearm in the commission of her crimes ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). at the time it sentenced defendant, consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for 3, 4, or (ibid.) the trial court selected the midterm of four years (and, where appropriate, one-third the midterm of four years) on all four counts. senate bill no. 620, effective january 1, 2018, amended section 12022.5, subdivision (c) to give the trial court, for the first time, the discretion to strike or dismiss a section 12022.5 21 enhancement. the amendment applies to all cases, like effect. (see people v. chavez (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 971, 1020; people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080, 1090.) defendant contends that we should remand the case for the trial court to exercise its discretion under section 12022.5, subdivision (c). the attorney general concedes the amendment is retroactive but contends remand would be futile because the record shows the trial court would not have exercised discretion to strike the enhancement. specifically, the attorney general argues the trial court is unlikely to strike the enhancement t the low term based on her lack of criminal history (the court because defendant shot two victims. (see people v. gutierrez record shows that the sentencing court clearly indicated that it would not . . . have exercised its discretion to strike the .) we conclude that a remand for resentencing is appropriate, to the extent that the trial court concludes that defendantconvictions may stand after resolving the competency issue as outlined above. the courts comments at the sentencing hearing were brief and do not permit us to conclude categorically that the court would not exercise its discretion under section 12022.5, subdivision (c) to strike the enhancement. by remanding for this purpose, we are not suggesting that the court should exercise its discretion to reduce the section 12022.5, subdivision (a) enhancement or strike it entirely. we simply decline to presume that any exercise of discretion other than refusing to reduce the section 12022.5, subdivision (a) enhancement would be an abuse of discretion. 22 disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed. the trial court is directed to determine whether it is feasible to hold a retrospective competency hearing, and to hold one if feasible. if the trial court finds at such a hearing that defendant was competent to stand trial, the court is directed to reinstate the judgment and resentence defendant in accordance with section 12022.5, subdivision (c). not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 