filed 12/18/17 p. v. moore ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. malcolm joseph moore, defendant and appellant. b281598 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba445023) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dennis j. landin, judge. affirmed. alan e. spears, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 after trial, malcolm joseph moore was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1).) the trial court found true allegations he had suffered two prior pen. code,  667, subds. (a)(1), (b)-(i), 1170.12, subd. (b)) and served five prior prison terms (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)). the court dismissed one of the two prior strikes, stayed the prison term enhancements, and sentenced appellant to 11 years in state prison. appellant appealed the judgment. pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wendethis court review the record and determine whether any arguable issues exist on appeal. we have reviewed the entire record and find no arguable issue. we affirm. background around 8:20 a.m. on january 13, 2016, victim james lowers walked into a 7-eleven convenience store. he noticed appellant, who was complaining about the cost of lottery tickets. appellant appeared agitated and left the store without buying anything. lowers bought some items and exited the store. outside, he encountered appellant, who was turned away and talking into his cell phone. lowers tried to walk past him, first on the him. when lowers attempted to pass again, they bumped elbows. a confrontation ensued. appellant turned around and believing the comment was a threat, lowers turned back to 3 attention to what y appellant reached into his po back. lowers went to his car. appellant got into a green toyota parked directly next to him. lowers walked to the front drove forward and across a sidewalk to exit the parking lot. lowers relowers later identified appellant in a photographic lineup. the responding police officer interviewed lowers and photographed a cut on his neck. the officer testified cars did not typically drive over the sidewalk to exit the parking lot. in his defense, appellant testified he went to the 7-eleven that morning to buy cigars. inside the store, he picked up a coffee stirrer to pick his teeth. once outside, he made a call to see about a painting project. as he talked on the phone, he moved to allow someone to pass in front of him. when he moved, lowers bumped him. and throw him through a window. appellant tried to go around lowers, and lowers stepped in front of him. appellant 4 lowers continued to block appes neck to get him to move. appellant went to his car, but before he could get his keys out, lowers went you bumped me. i should be mad. why you mad? let me go. pounded on and kicked appellacar, and appellant drove away. appellant admitted he had previously been convicted of a number of felony burglaries involving breaking into cars, stealing wallets and purses, and using the stolen checks and credit cards. he claimed he had a drug habi discussion we appointed counsel to represent appellant on this -appointed counsel filed an opening brief asking this court to review the record independently pursuant to wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at page 441. on september 28, 2017, we advised appellant he had 30 days to submit any contentions or issues he wished us to consider. appellant did not file a supplemental brief. we have examined the entire record. we are satisfied no his responsibilities under wende. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 279-284; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441; see people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 123-124.) 5 disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p. j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. 