filed 6/19/18 p. v. bautista ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andre bautista, defendant and appellant. b281615 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la081744) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for los angeles county, gregory a. dohi, judge. affirmed. leonard j. klaif, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., john r. prosser and kristen inberg, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant andre bautista appeals from a judgment sentencing him to 13 years in prison after the trial court found him guilty of attempted murder (pen. code,1  664/187, subd. (a)) and assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), and found to be true allegations that he personally used a deadly weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) on the victim. defendanton appeal is that his waiver of jury trial was invalid because his attorney did not join in the waiver. the record did accordingly, we affirm the judgment. discussion2 article i, section 16 of the california constitution provides, in consent of both parties expressed in open court by the defendant and ur supreme court has instructed that requirement that a defendant and defense counsel personally and expressly waive the right to jury trial describes the manner in which a and constitutes the only method by which the constitutional right to jury people v. vera (1997) 15 cal.4th 269, 278.) 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 jury trial was valid, we need not discuss the facts of the crime. 3 defendant contends that the jury trial waiver in this case was invalid because even though he expressly waived his right to jury trial, his trial counsel did not. he is mistaken. on the day before the trial started, the following colloquy took place between the trial court, defendant counsel, barry f. hammond, and the prosecutor: the court: as you know, your attorney has a health issue which he has documented. and we are set to start jury selection no later than tomorrow. i understand that both sides are willing to waive the right to trial by jury and allow me to be the trier of fact. [] is that correct, mr. hammond? mr. hammondy recommendation, but based onit. the court: a jury waiver has to be done with your approval, so are you telling me that even though if you had your along with your mr. hammond: yes. the courtjury? [prosecutorauthorized it. the courthis time. [the court and the prosecutor advised defendant of his rights and possible sentence.] 4 the court: are you at this time giving up your right to trial by jury so that i would determine whether the evidence shows beyond a reasonable doubt that you were guilty? the defendant: yes, your honor. i do believe that with you. the court: does counsel join in the jury waiver? mr. hammond: join. defendant argues that because defense counsel stated that is insufficient to constitute consent to the waiver. we disagree. this is not a situation like that in people v. upshaw (1974) 13 expressly declined to concur in it, or in people v. peace (1980) 107 cal.app.3d 996, the advice of counsel. defense counsel in this case not only agreed to he expressly joined in it. thus, the 5 waiver satisfied the requirements of the california constitution, and the trial court properly accepted it.3 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. collins, j. 3 significant portions under the harmless error standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. in light of our conclusion that there was no error in this case, we decline to address these arguments. 