filed 11/28/18 p. v. morales ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rosie lisa morales et al., defendants and appellants. b281568 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma057518) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant rosie lisa morales. eric r. larson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant rudolfo alcantar. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy 2 attorney general, mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 3 in a joint trial before two separate juries, defendants and appellants rudolfo alcantar (alcantar) and rosie lisa morales (morales) were convicted of murdering christian bojorquez (bojorquez). mexican mafia directed defendants to kill bojorquez because he was a snitch. defendant defense was that even though she admittedly lured bojorquez to a remote location, she did not harm him herself and she believed defendant alcantar would do no more than beat him up. defendant defense was that he did not participate killing at all. the attorney general concedes some of motive evidence was improperly admitted in violation of people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez). we are asked to decide whether that asserted error and othersincluding the erroneous admission of related hearsay, the improper joinder of charges, the lack of sufficient evidence to support a special circumstance finding, and the dismissal of a juror on defendant require reversal of or aspects of the sentences imposed. i. background a. the death of bojorquez on march 5, 2012, john eldridge (eldridge) was riding his motorcycle on desert trails in the lake los angeles area when he came across 21-year-old bojorquez eldridge called 911 and told the operator ,talk,im left in his cara gray toyota camryabout thirty minutes earlier. when 4 eldridge asked bojorquez who shot him, he said it was two mexican men. soon after eldridge called 911. bojorquez told a deputy that two hispanic men shot him and took his car. bojorquez was transported to a hospital where medical personnel observed he had a gunshot wound to the side of his face and substantial lacerations to his scalp. bojorquez suffered no injuries below his neck. the bullet and left fragments lodged near his esophagus. the largest of his head wounds was rectangular shaped, consistent with being hit with the butt of a gun. two days after bojorquez was shot, a los angeles county nine days after bojorquez was admitted to the hospital, medical staff were preparing him for a diagnostic procedure when he developed breathing problems, went into cardiac arrest, and died. sequelathat is, conditions attributable to a gunshot wound. b. the criminal charges and the evidence presented at trial in an amended information, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendants in count one with 1  187, subd. (a)). in connection with that charge, the district attorney alleged two special 1 undesignated statutory references that follow are to the penal code. 5 circumstances, that defendants killed bojorquez while committing a carjacking ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)(l)) and by means of lying in wait ( 190.2, subd. (a)(15)), and further alleged a principal in the murder (i.e., one of the two defendants) personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(e)). count two of the information charged defendant morales with arson ( 451, subd. (d)) . each of counts three and four charged defendant alcantar with being a felon in possession of a firearm ( 29800, subd. (a)(1))with count three predicated on firearm possession on march 5, 2012, (the day bojorquez was shot) and count four alleging later possession of a firearm on august 5, 2012. gang enhancements ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)) were alleged in connection with counts one through three. the case against defendants was tried to two separate juries, one for each defendant, owing to the need to accommodate issues that would otherwise arise from a post-arrest statement defendant morales made to investigators. 1. testimony of defendant acquaintances on the day bojorquez was shot, defendants2 drove to the home of stephanie potter (potter), who had known defendant morales for many years and considered her like family. michael s home, 2 defendants were in a romantic relationship at the time of and defendant morales became pregnant with , i.e., in early 2012. morales was 17 years old and alcantar was in his mid-20s. 6 which was a hangout for methamphetamine users.3 potter had only seen defendant alcantar once before, but she disapproved of him because he was considerably older than defendant morales and because potter had heard rumors he had beaten defendant morales. when defendants defendant alcantar was driving a gray sedan potter had never seen before. when defendant morales entered home, she was she asked potter for some water and took a gallon container out to the car. potter saw defendant alcantar use the water to clean what looked like a smear of blood off the cook and wood testified they saw defendant alcantar pour gasoline from a gas can onto the car and wipe it down. defendant morales told potter she needed to talk. potter anything to do with [defendant alcantar]when defendant morales said yes, to hear it.soon thereafter, defendants left in the gray car, and defendant morales later told potter she was staying with a defendant morales returned alone to potter several days after first arriving in the bloodstained car. potter told 3 potter, wood, and cook were all later arrested and spoke to detectives. they testified at pursuant to grants of use immunity. wood and cook were relocated and given cash payments. all admitted to using methamphetamine at the time bojorquez was shot, with cook and wood further admitting to methamphetamine use when they spoke to detectives investigating the case. cook testified her methamphetamine use caused memory problems and wood testified he sometimes misremembered the order in which events occurred. 7 defendant morales person . . . whose car [defendants] were driving was beat up, hit, defendant morales claimed but admitted she defendant morales told potter an bojorquez be-year-old girl; defendant morales volunteered to go with defendant alcantar because he was her boyfriend. defendant morales told potter she needed help, and potter suggested she call wood. wood and cook drove defendant morales to an area not far home when they got to the car, defendant morales doused it with gasoline and lit it on fire. wood and cook both testified to hearing defendant morales talk shooting. the content of their testimony was generally consistent, but differed as to when defendant morales talked about the incident. cook testified defendant morales told her about the shooting after defendant morales according to cook, defendant morales said she planned the attack on bojorquez around with one of little girls.as recounted by cook, defendant morales said she and defendant alcantar took bojorquez into the desert and shot him, but the gun jammed after the first shot. after the gun jammed, defendant morales hit bojorquez on the head more than 20 times with a crowbar, defendant alcantar ran him over twice with car, and both defendants thought he was dead. wood testified defendant morales told him the car 8 she had killed, her and [defendant wood overheard defendant morales call defendant alcantar and tell him wood and cook were helping them out wood testified he did not hear additional details about the incident until a few days later, when he heard defendant morales talking at that time, he overheard defendant morales say that the gun jammed on the second shot, that she jack, and that defendant alcantar ran bojorquez over.4 wood also heard defendant morales say she knew bojorquez and lured him out because [he] was trying to mess around with some younger girl. according to wood, defendant morales said defendant alcantar had because he had been green lighted for dating defendant morales, who was then a minor.5 4 wood told police detectives that defendant morales said she was the shooter and wood thought defendant morales was trying i.e., as though she had executed the entire assault by herself. 5 s department dissued only by the mexican mafia, which had links to certain southern california gangs, and not by those gangs themselves. in placing a green light on someone, the mexican mafia authorizedbut did not mandatethat the person be assaulted or killed by another gang member having knowledge of the green light. occasionally, someone with a green light could buy or work their way out of that status. 9 2. defendant moralesstatement to detectives (presented to her jury only) defendant morales spoke with homicide detectives in an audio-recorded post-arrest interview. she initially denied any involvement , but she eventually told the detectives someone (she would not say who) told her to find a desert area and lure bojorquez there under the pretense of helping defendant morales participate in a drug deal. defendant morales said defendant bojorquez without any carjacking or anything else. she said they targeted five- or six-year-and, more importantly, because he went after the 15-year-old daughter of one of defendant morales friends. defendant morales told the detectives that when she, defendant alcantar, and bojorquez arrived at the desert area, she and defendant alcantar began talking to bojorquez about the 15-year-old girlas go after and . . . and he and defendant alcantar exited the vehicle and began fighting. defendant morales got out of the car to try to break up the fight and saw defendant alcantar had a gun in his pants. she went back to the car, heard a gunshot, and saw defendant -bojorquez managed to get into the car and begin driving, but defendant morales held onto the steering wheel so they drove in circles and defendant alcantar was able to pull bojorquez out of 10 the vehicle. defendant morales claimed she never struck or beat bojorquez, and she maintained he was not run over by the car. defendant morales did admit she retrieved pieces of the broken gun that she saw on the ground and gave them to defendant alcantar. she further car along with the clothes and shoes she and defendant alcantar had been wearing. 3. physical evidence close to the spot where bojorquez was discovered after the shooting, deputies observed: tire tracksthree sets of shoe prints; pieces of a semi-automatic weaponincluding parts of a magazine, the plastic grip of a gun handle, and a gun trigger; two rounds of ammunitionone live and one expended casing; and a water bottle new. one set of the footprints matched the water bottle and gun parts were tested for the presence of dna and compared to samples taken from bojorquez and defendants. of the two dna profiles recovered from the water bottle, defendant or contributor. the minor contributor did not match defendant morales or bojorquez. analysis of one piece of the gun magazine revealed dna consistent with dna and one other person, but there was not enough dna from the second contributor to prepare a profile. dna on the grip of the gun was a probabilistic match to bojorquez and one other person, but both defendants were excluded as possible contributors. 11 4. firearm in august 2012, after s killing on august 5, 2012, two lancaster police officers were driving by a motel when they saw defendant alcantar standing outside one of the rooms. defendant alcantar looked at the officers and , grabbing his waistband area,fled into a room. the officers knocked on the door and ordered everyone to step outside. defendant morales exited the room, as did another man.6 the officers entered the room and found defendant alcantar hiding in the bathtub. directly outside the tub was a backpack containing a loaded semi-automatic firearm, identification card, and a torn piece of paper -13 king written on it. 5. the p motive evidence on the murder charge against defendants was that they killed bojorquez because he was thought to be a snitch. the evidence presented in support of that theory was as follows. in november 2011, approximately four months before death, detectives edwards and rose of the los two men, one lopez and one padilla, standing on a palmdale road 6 apart from the fact that defendant morales was found in the same motel room (and not then arrested), police testimony describing this incident was presented only to defendant 12 near a honda and a bmw. the bmw was registered to bojorquezenger seat. the detectives saw lopez walk over to the bmw and hand something to a man sitting in the backseat. that man, whose last name was hyatt, unsuccessfully attempted to pass the object to bojorquez. the detectives approached and found a loaded, semiautomatic firearm on the floorboard below hyatt; they also found methamphetamine and a scale when searching padilla. the detectives arrested padilla, lopez, hyatt, and bojorquezpadilla for selling narcotics and violating probation, lopez for carrying a concealed weapon as a known gang member, and hyatt and bojorquez for carrying a loaded firearm. the detectives also detained and released at the scene another man who had been in the honda. the detectives interviewed all five men and memorialized their statements in a police report. bojorquez said lopez and the men in the honda were gang members and bojorquez had seen the gun lopez was carrying at the a couple weeks earlier. bojorquez also told the police that hyatt tried to get him to take the gun.7 lopez told the detectives he was a member of the varrio san vicente gang, he had obtained the gun earlier that day from a friend who owed him money, and he handed the gun to hyatt when he saw the officers. hyatt admitted lopez handed him the gun and he tried to pass it to bojorquez. the district attorney filed charges against padilla, lopez, and hyattbut not bojorquez. 7 bojorquez did not provide any information that might be 13 detective welle, the people, was asked if he knew of a woman named ssociated with, or a member of, the bryant street gang. detective welle answered affirmatively, asserting sic] for the the detective explained huera and other go-betweens, enabling imprisoned members of the mexican mafia to get information to the streets . . . 8 heidi honeycutt (honeycutt) had been dating bojorquez for six or seven months before his murder. after bojorqueznovember 2011 arrest with the other men near the bmw, honeycutt and bojorquez lived with huera for a short period. honeycutt testified that during this time she overheard huera tell someone understood to mean huera dead . . . 9 honeycutt believed huera was speaking to her boyfriend , who was apparently in jail at the time. honeycutt testified home and told bojorquez honeycutt additionally testified she knew defendant alcantar but not defendant morales. honeycutt never saw 8 the trial court overruled objections by defense counsel that this testimony violated sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, an issue we shall address post. 9 se attorneys as related by honeycuttas hearsay. the court denied the motion and later overruled renewed objections to the testimony during trial. we likewise address this issue post. 14 defendant or heard huera mention defendant alcantar until at some point after bojorquez died. at that time, huera spontaneously told honeycutt that although defendant ) killed bojorquez, that was with 6. the gang evidence defendant alcantar was an admitted member of the palmas 13 kings criminal street gang. he had tattoos that read detective welle opined defendant morales was certainly an associate of palmas 13 kings and maybe even an active member. he based his opinion on defendant moralesdefendant alcantar, seeing a photo of them together in which defendant alcantar was throwing a gang hand sign, seeing a photo in which defendant morales and a female friend appeared to throw gang hand signs, and seeing a photo of a tattoo on defendant moralest that included an image the detective thought might signify the number 13.10 there was no evidence defendant morales had a gang moniker nor was there evidence of when she obtained the tattoo on her wrist. detective welle testified hispanic gangs in the antelope 10 (defendant with a crown sitting atop three dots above three points of the crown. defendant morales 15 ] attention from law enforcement . . . detective welle testified palmas 13 kings was which meant it was associated with the mexican mafia. the detective further testified bryant street, vincent town, san fer, and los compadres varrio tres were also sureos gangs. (these were the gangs linked to huera, her time of his november 2011 arrest.) detective welle testified sureos gang members were bound by being they could t goes to the [mexican] or 11 violating these rules could result in a green light or in more lenient discipline, when asked about bojorquez specifically, detective welle testified . . . there was [never] an officially sanctioned green light from the [mexican] before defendant moralespresented with the following hypothetical: a bryant street gang member associated with the mexican mafia (i.e., huera) (i.e., bojorquez) be killed; the mexican mafia associate tells a 17-year-old woman (i.e., defendant morales) who is dating a 26-year-old palmas 13 11 the detective testified that having a relationship with a minoreven if not a childthe age gap and looked at in . . . a similar light, if not the same 16 kings gang member (i.e., defendant alcantar) that the target is a kings gang member agrees to agrees to help by setting up the victim; the palmas 13 kings gang member and his girlfriend shoot the victim, beat him up, leave him for dead in the desert, and drive away in his car; the girlfriend burns the car and the clothing they were wearing; the girlfriend brags about the incident to friends; and the girlfriend then begins living with the mexican mafia associate who wanted the victim killed. detective welle opined, based on these hypothetical facts, that the killing and the burning of vehicle were both performed at the direction of the bryant street gang and the mexican mafia, and both acts were committed for the benefit of and in association with palmas 13 kings. detective welle also theorized the gang member (i.e., defendant alcantar) agreed to kill the alleged child molester as a way of removing a green light (i.e., defendant morales). the prosecution presented detective welle with a similar hypothetical in front of defendant the detective was asked to assume that a palmas 13 kings gang member had a green light on him because he was dating a minor who was ; a member of the bryant street gang who was connected to the mexican mafia believed someone was a snitch after that person was arrested with three other gang members but was the only one not charged; the bryant street gang member wanted the snitch killed and told the palmas 13 kings gang member and his girlfriend that the snitch was a child molester; the palmas 13 kings gang member 17 and his girlfriend agreed to take care of the target and killed him; and after the murder, the girlfriend began living with the bryant street those hypothetical facts, detective welle opined the killing was done at the direction of the bryant street gang and for the benefit of and in association with bryant street, palmas 13 kings, and the mexican mafia. c. the guilty verdicts and sentencing defendant amurder and both alleged felon in possession of a firearm offenses. the jury found both alleged special circumstances true, as well as all the alleged sentencing enhancementsincluding the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) gang enhancement and the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) firearm enhancement. defendant moralesund her guilty of second degree murder and arson. the jury also found the firearm and gang enhancements alleged against her to be true. the trial court sentenced defendant alcantar on the special circumstance first degree murder conviction to life without the possibility of parole, plus 25 years to life for the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) discharge of a firearm finding. the court additionally imposed an eight-year sentence for one of the felon in possession of a firearm convictions while staying imposition of sentence on the other felon in possession charge pursuant to section 654. the court sentenced defendant morales to 15 years to life for her second degree murder conviction, plus 25 years to life for the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) firearm discharge true 18 finding. the court additionally imposed a consecutive eight-year prison term for the arson conviction, a term that included an enhancement gang allegation. ii. discussion defendants contend multiple errors require reversal of their murder convictions and, failing that, at least certain associated sentencing enhancement findings. they present a convincing case that the trial court erred in admitting hearsay testimony from honeycutt and detective welle that linked a low persuasive value of that motive evidence and the strength of other evidence establishing guilt of the substantive crimes, the evidentiary errors do not require reversal . the errors do, however, require reversal of the gang enhancement findings, as well as the firearm enhancement findings that, as argued, were predicated on the truth of the gang enhancement findings. defendant a decision to allow the august 2012 felon in possession of a firearm charge to be joined for trial with the murder charge, plus his attack on the carjacking special circumstance, both lack merit.12 the trial court appropriately found that the evidence in support of the felon in possession charge would not have a significant spillover effect on trial of the murder charge and that any possibility of prejudice was outweighed by the benefits of joinder. 12 he does not challenge the other lying in wait special circumstance the jury found true. 19 with respect to the carjacking special circumstance, the evidence relating to the planning and execution of the attack on bojorquez supports a reasonable inference that the carjacking was concurrentlyand therefore independentlyintended, and that defe insufficient evidence supports the special circumstance finding. further, not only was the evidence sufficient on that score, but statements to the jury by the prosecution and the court regarding the carjacking allegation were not improper and did not prejudice defendant alcantar. defendant claim that the trial court erroneously discharged a juror during deliberations is, frankly, an argument with some force. as prior decisions have observed, a trial judge conducting a juror misconduct inquiry faces a task (people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466, 484 (cleveland)), and despite the here, aspects of the cold appellate record renders the judge vulnerable to the criticism that he too quickly discharged a holdout juror who simply had a good faith disagreement with his colleagues. but discharged juror ultimately could not provide assurances he would follow the law as given by the trial judge rather than be guided by his pre-existing views of the criminal justice systemand we are convinced for that reason that the discharge of the juror was not an abuse of discretion. finally, while all parties agree the matter should be remanded in order for the trial court to exercise discretion in striking the firearm enhancements levied against both defendants, our finding that the firearm findings must be vacated for hearsay error renders any need for a remand moot. 20 defendant alcantar and the attorney general separately agree certain minor mistakes were made in the imposition of defendant ; we agree and trust these mistakes will be rectified upon resentencing. a. improper admission of testimony regarding requires vacatur of the gang and firearm enhancements defendants contend the following testimony regarding the statement overheard by honeycutt about bojorquez being a snitch . the attorney general concedes was federal constitutional error under sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, but argues the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. we conclude the erroneous admission of hearsay testimony from detective welle and honeycutt requires reversal of the gang enhancement findings, as well as the firearm enhancement findings that were alleged and argued in a manner that depended on the truth of the gang findings. 1. honeycutt testimony about the s statement before trial began, defendants moved to exclude under the as overheard by honeycuttthat bojorquez was a snitch the prosecution admitted it was offering the statement for its truth but contended the testimony was admissible as the statement of a co-conspirator (evid. code,  1223), namely huera. 21 in ruling on the motion to exclude, the trial court opined the statement was admissible because it was not being offered for the truth of the matter asserted but rather to show of mind. the court believed the statement was non-hearsay because what was relevant was not whether bojorquez was actually [he was a snitch], and this was the motive additionally (and alternatively) ruled the statement was admissible under evidence code sectiosome point there was conspiracy regarding the harm and murder to [bojorquez] foundational facts for substantial evidence and its decision to admit or exclude (people v. selivanov (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 726, 774, citing people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 132.) we take up the co-conspirator issue first. statements made by co-conspirators are not subject to the hearsay rule if they meet the requirements of evidence code section 1223. to admit a co-conspirator statement against a defendant, the people must present establish prima facie the existence of . . . [citationpeople v. thompson (2016) 1 cal.5th 1043, 1108 (thompson); people v. leach (1975) 15 cal.3d 419, 430, fn. 10 (leach) [independent evidence requirement derives from evidence code section 1223, subdivision (c)].) the evidence presented must [ ] an inference that the parties positively or tacitly came to a mutual understanding to commit a crime,such an inference conduct, relationship, interests, and activities of the alleged 22 conspirators before and during thpeople v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 562, citations omitted (clark).) a statement that is offered under the co-conspirator exception to the hearsay rule cannot itself be used to establish the prima facie existence of a conspiracy. (leach, supra, 15 cal.3d at p. 430, fn. 10; see also people v. herrera (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 46, 6of the conspiracy be established by evidence independent of the .) nor can statements or conduct that occurred after the alleged conspiracy ended serve as the requisite independent proof. (clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 562 [independent proof of conspiracy must be based on evidence of acts before or during the conspiracy].) once there is independent evidence of a conspiracy, the proponent of the evidence must additionally establish: (1) that the declarant was participating in a conspiracy at the time of the declaration; (2) that the declaration was in furtherance of the objective of that conspiracy; and (3) that at the time of the declaration[,] the party against whom the evidence is offered was participating or would later participate in the conspiracythompson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 1108; evid. code,  1223, subds. (a)-(b).) the honeycutt testimony was not admissible as a co-conspirator statement because the prosecution did not adduce independent evidence of a conspiracy between huera, defendant alcantar, and defendant morales to kill bojorquez. there was certainly evidence of a conspiracy between defendants, but there was insufficient evidence connecting huera to that conspiracy while it was operative. as to defendant alcantar, no evidence linked him to huera prior to or during the conspiracy. rather, 23 the only connection between the two is inferable from testimony that hueraafter of his vehiclepurported to provide an alibi for defendant alcantar (). that post-conspiracy evidence is not cognizable independent proof of the conspiracy. (clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 562.) as to defendant morales, the sole piece of evidence connecting her to huerathat defendant morales was living with huera at some point after the shootingis unclear as to precisely when that occurred. theoretically, it could have taken place while the alleged conspiracy was operative if defendant morales stayed with huera in the two days between the shooting and the arson. but even if that were the case, that single piece of evidencethat defendant morales knew and stayed with huera soon after the shootingis not enough to show the existence of a conspiracy between defendants and huera to kill bojorquez.13 in addition, overheard statement was not admissible as nonhearsay. the court correctly reasoned that whether or not bojorquez was actually a snitch was beside the point. but the statement in question included the declaration huera believed him to be a snitch, and the full statement was relevant only because of its truth, i.e., that huera wanted bojorquez dead. a statement by a 13 bec who had to gostatement was not admissible as the statement of a co-co-conspirator statements. 24 under the hearsay rule. (evid. code,  1200.) to be admissible, statements by nonwitnesses must either not be offered to prove the truth of the assertion or must be subject to an exception to the hearsay rule. satisfies neither condition. insofar as the court admitted the statement as evidence of that too was erroneous. or physical sensation (including a statement of intent, plan, motive, design, mental feeling, pain, or bodily health) is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when: [] (1) [t]he evidence is physical sensation at that time or at any other time when it is itself an issue in the action; or [] (2) [t]he evidence is offered to statement was not admissible under evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a) because her state of mind was neveitself an issue in the action and her statement was not (see people v. ruiz (1988) 44 cal.3d 589, 607-were not admissible under evidence code section 1250 because ruiz).) the prosecutionhuera but rather to explain the state of mind and conduct of defendantswhich is presumably why the prosecution (incorrectly) argued the statement should be admitted as a co-conspirator declaration beliefs. 25 -of-court statement was admissible . but the fact that a statement may demonstrate motive does not render the hearsay rule inapplicable. would be admissible as motive evidence only if there were evidence the defendants knew of the statement and had reason to act on it without regard for its truth. (see, e.g., people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 427-statement that the gang was not killing enough people was admidetectives shortly thereafter because there was evidence defendant attended the meeting; whether or not the gang was actually killing enough people was irrelevant]; people v. cleveland (2004) 32 cal.4th 704, 728 [out-of-court statement accusing defendant of being weak was admissible to show defendant acted to prove he was not weak; whether or not defendant was actually weak was irrelevant].) that evidence, however, was lacking. the scant evidence suggesting defendants were acquainted with huera after shooting is insufficient to show they knew or believed huera wanted bojorquez killed, and relying on evidence that defendants actually killed bojorquez to show a link with huera would be improper bootstrapping. having reviewed and rejected the proffered grounds for admissibility, the conclusion is inescapable statement was offered for its truth and was erroneously admitted. (people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 117 [out-of-couimproperly admitted to show 26 ruiz, supra, 44 cal.3d at pp. 608-609 to kill because admitting the statements for justified, 2. expert testimony linking huera to the mexican mafia in sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th 665, our supreme court held: when any expert relates to the jury case-specific out-of-court statements, and treats the content of those statements as true id. at p. 686.) -specific facts are those relating to the particular events and participants alleged to have been id. at p. 676.) if case-specific hearsay is testimonial in nature (such as a statement primarily to memorialize facts relating to past criminal activity, ) and given under circumstances showing some measure of formality, the statement is generally inadmissible unless a historical exception applies. (id. at pp. 686, 689.) detective welle testified for the who worked as a go-between for imprisoned mexican mafia members. when asked, he revealed the basis for his testimony was out-of-court statements made by paid informants, other law enforcement officers, and other gang members. the attorney general concedes testimony that huera was a seniora for the mexican mafia was testimonial[, case-specific] hearsaywe accept the concession. (people v. martinez (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 853, 859 [attorney 27 general conceded, and the court of appeal agreed, a gang membership of an uncharged party who was with the defendant at the time of the crime violated sanchez].) we therefore turn to the dispositive question of whether admission of the hearsay testimony of honeycutt and detective welle requires reversal of any jury determinations. 3. prejudice the erroneous admission of evidence does not warrant reversal unless the error is prejudicial. (cal. const., art. vi,  13; evid. code,  353, subd. (b).) to establish prejudice arising from evidence improperly admitted under state evidentiary rules, a defendant must show, considering reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the [defendant] would have been reached in the absence of the error.(people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson); see also people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 91 [watson standard ordinarily governs review of errors in applying state evidentiary rules].) where the erroneous admission of evidence amounts to federal constitutional error, reversal is required unless the reviewing court is convinced the reasonable doubt.chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman); see also sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 671, 698-699 [applying harmless beyond a reasonable doubt standard to admission of case-specific testimonial hearsay].) a. the erroneous admission of does not require 28 reversing the homicide-related convictions (counts one and three) no matter whether we apply the chapman or watson standard for prejudice. the prosecution offered the testimony regarding which is not an element of proving murder. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 816.) as the trial court correctly instructed jurors in this case, pursuant to calcrim no. 370, could consider motive evidenceor the lack thereofin determining whether each defendant was or was not guilty. considering the strong evidence guilt and the weak persuasive value we are confident the hearsay evidence did not verdict on the substantive criminal charges. we elaborate as to each defendant separately, taking defendant morales first. the evidence establishing her guilt was quite strong. defendant morales confessed to police detectives that she lured bojorquez into the desert under false pretenses, was present when defendant alcantar shot bojorquez, prevented bojorquez from getting away, and later burned his vehicle and other evidence that would have incriminated her and defendant alcantar. although defendant morales denied some greater involvement in the crime when speaking with the detectives, she provided specific details about the murder that were consistent with and corroborative of other evidence in the case: defendant grabbing the steering wheel when bojorquez got back into the car explained patterns and the door; defendant morales picking up parts of the 29 broken gun explained why only a few pieces were found at the scene; and defendant attack was defendant morales also told both cook and wood that she and defendant alcantar shot and beat bojorquez, and that the gun jammed on either the first or second shotwhich would explain the ammunition (one live round and one expended casing) found at the scene. by contrast, the huera motive evidence for the shooting added little, if anything, to proving defendant defendant morales repeatedly told others that she and defendant alcantar targeted bojorquez not because he was a snitch who had to go but because he was preying on underage girls. the prosecution argued that explanation lacked supporting evidence and made little sense considering defendant relationship with defendant alcantar, but theory of motive was no better from an evidentiary perspective. the prosecution adduced no evidence that bojorquez actually was a snitch, and one of the testifying law enforcement witnesses stated bojorquez did not provide any incriminating information against the others who were arrested with him near the bmw. gang expert welle testified he had no evidence the mexican mafia placed or attempted to place a green light on bojorquez. and the evidence of a green light on defendant alcantarthe supposed reason why defendant alcantar agreed to kill bojorquezwas neither corroborated nor compelling.14 14 the only evidence suggesting a green light had issued to lighted him 30 the prejudice analysis convictions leads to the same conclusion. even though he did not confess involvedid defendant morales, the evidence of his guilt was still strong. defendant jury had evidence that (1) his dna was found at the remote scene of the crime; (2) potter, wood, and cook all saw defendant car shortly after the shooting; (3) defendant morales told both wood and cook that she and defendant alcantar had beat and shot bojorquez; and defendant alcantar (while in custody) threatened to kill wood if he testified against defendant alcantar. defendant alcantar resists the strength of the evidence, emphasizing that after bojorquez was shot, he (bojorquez) told first responders that two hispanic men were the culprits, not defendants (a man and a woman). considering defendant alcantar is a hispanic man, however, that evidence would only really serve to assist defendant , not defendant (especially with his dna found at the scene). defendant alcantar also attacks the reliability of wood and , pointing to history, and perceived inconsistencies or implausibilities in their accounts. but the testimony of wood and cook was consistent where it counted. inconsistencies with respect to who heard what when, and evidence that defendant morales may have embellished the extent of the assault on bojorquez, do not meaningfully detract from the bottom line conclusion that testimony that green lights could only be placed by the mexican mafia. 31 defendant alcantar was a full participant in killing bojorquez. defendant alcantar additionally seeks to wave away the dna evidence, arguing it correct though that may be, it was strong evidence placing defendant alcantar in the desert where bojorquez was shot, which, when combined with the other incriminating evidence, made for a formidable case of his guilt. defendant alcantar further protests we do not disagree, which is in significant part why we are confident the admission of the motive evidence except as enhancement finding that depended on it)as we next explain. b. the gang and firearm sentencing enhancements although we are convinced the motive hearsay evidence did not contribute to the guilty verdicts obtained, we are far less sanguine about whether the inadmissible evidence influenced the . the watson standard applies to oand the chapman testimony. applying those standards, the hearsay testimony was not harmless when it comes to the gang enhancement, and because the gang findings fallfall with them. a defendant is subject to an additional prison term if direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal 32 conduct by gang members . . . 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) for section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) to apply, the prosecution must provisiwith a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) includes members who either individually or collectively have engaged in commit, or soliciting two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so- sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 698.) section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) does not require proof that the defendant be a member of the gang in question, or of any gang for that matter, although evidence of gang membership may help . . . (id. at pp. 698-699.) focusing on the chapman inquiry for hearsay testimony, we cannot say we are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury would have returned true findings on the gang sentence enhancements absent that testimony. defendants participated in for the benefit of palmas 13 kings was chiefly predicated on the hypothetical facts that a liaison to the mexican mafia directed defendants to kill bojorquez because he was a snitch.15 before defendant for instance, detective 15 because the evidence at trial identifies the pertinent subdivision (b)(1) as the palmas 13 kings, we consider the basis of detective 33 welle testified the killing benefited the palmas 13 kings because (1) getting rid of defendant ] making palmas 13 kings appear weaker; (2) defendant lling; and (3) [mexican] defendant kings not only in the local community but in the overall community, especially with the mexican mafia.and before defendant rid of the asserted green light on defendant alcantar benefited as essentially harboring a member [who is in an inappropriate relationship with a minor], treated more poorly by the mexican mafia. the detective further testified, as he had regarding defendant the palmas 13 kings. if the inadmissible evidence regarding huera and the mexican mafia is removed from analysis, this is the gist of what is left: a 26-year-old palmas 13 kings gang member and his 17-year-old girlfriend killed someone who was not proven to be a gang member in order to remove a green light allegedly placed on the palmas 13 kings member because he was dating a woman under 18.16 without foundational evidence as to 16 overheard statement was also inadmissible, a hypothetical that defendants were acting upon the personal direction of huera (who was not a 34 why killing bojorquez might remove the green light defendant alcantar was supposedly facing, and given the tenuousness of the green light evidence in the first place,17 is insubstantial evidence of a gang-related murder.18 the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) true finding must therefore be vacated. the trial juries returned firearm use/discharge true findings under section 12022.53 in connection with their guilty verdicts on the murder charges. a true finding under that statute normally requires proof that the defendant in question personally and intentionally( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d).) as alleged against defendants, however, the section 12022.53 firearm enhancements were predicated on subdivision (e) of the statute that dispenses with the need for proof of personal use of a firearm when gang-related crimes are at issueprovided in this section shall apply to any person who is a principal in the commission of an offense if both of the following member of the palmas 13 kings) would also be prejudicial error under the watson standard of prejudice. 17 without admissible evidence as to why the mexican mafia might want bojorquez killedor why defendants would believe that to be the casethere would be no basis for jurors to conclude defendants killed bojorquez as some sort of penance to the mexican mafia. 18 together as gang memberspeople v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 62) to kill bojorquez, which would be necessary for a finding that the murder was committed in association with the palmas 13 kings gang. 35 are pled and proved: [] (a) the person violated subdivision (b) of section 186.22 [the gang enhancement statute]. [] (b) any principal in the offense committed any act specified in subdivision there was conflicting evidence at trial as to which of the two defendants used the gun and shot bojorquez. but the way the firearm use enhancement was alleged, the prosecution did not need to take a position on who the actual shooter was because both defendants were principals in the crime and both would therefore be subject to the enhancement if the jury found the murder was gang-related. the prosecution told the juries just that in closing argument, explaining that the question of whether the firearm enhancement should be found true was therefore 19 we have found it necessary to vacate the gang enhancement findings for evidentiary error, and because the gang findings are invalid, there is no basis to affirm firearm findings that depended on the truth of those findings to dispense 19 . . . you may all agree that [defendant alcantar] pulled the trigger, and that he was the principal, and he pulled that trigger. . . . [] [but] even if you think that [defendant that [defendants] are both principals and one the prosecution similarly told defendant . . . bojorquez was shot, one of them shot him. and one of them is a principal that personally discharged that firearm leaving this bullet jacket in . . . 36 with the need for the prosecution to prove which of the defendants personally used or discharged the firearm. (see people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1203.) we must therefore vacate the firearm findings as well. b. joinder of the august 2012 felon in possession charge against defendant alcantar was proper the district attorney initially filed the august 2012 felon in possession of a firearm charge against defendant alcantar (count four) as a separate case. over defendant tion, the with those arising from killing several months earlier in march 2012. defendant was erroneous and requires reversal of his convictions on counts one (murder) and three (the other felon in possession charge). under section 954, a single accusatory pleading may contain their commission . . . or two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses . . . the trial court has discretion, however, to order that charges properly joined under the statute shown . . . . 954.) there is no dispute that count four was properly joined under section 954 because it alleged a violation of the same statute as count three. (people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, soper).) where the statutory requirements for joinder are satisfied, request to sever charges is reviewed for abuse of discretion, which requi 37 (people v. armstrong (2016) 1 cal.5th 432, 455-456 (armstrong), citation omitted.) we consider the record before the trial court at the time it ruled. (soper, supra, at p. 774.) in undertaking our analysis, we first consider whether evidence of the charges proposed to be severed would be cross-admissible in separate trials. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 774.) a showing of cross-sever properly joiid. at p. 775.) if cross-the benefits of joinder were sufficiently substantial to outweigh the possible --the jury in itibid.) this cost-benefit analysis requires us to consider of the charges are particularly likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (2) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the totality of the evidence may alter the outcome as to some or all of the charges; or (3) whether one of the charges (but not another) is a capital offense, or the joinder of the charges converts the matter into a ibid.) after considering these the potential for prejudice to the defendant from a joint trial ibid.) here, the prosecution asserted count four should be jointly tried with the bojorquez murder charge because evidence underlying the august 2012 incident was cross-admissible to show defendant alcantar was guilty of the march 2012 offenses. specifically, the prosecution contended that evidence defendant 38 with defendant morales connected him to bojorqueshooting five months earlier. defendant alcantar disputed the cross-admissibility of evidence and asserted that joining count four would prejudice him because the evidence in support of his guilt on that charge was quite strong compared to the evidence defendant alcantar believed he could present a strong defense in the murder case because the evidence implicating him was dna found on a transportable water bottle at the scene (which also contained the dna of at least one other person), statements made by defendant morales to third parties whose credibility was suspect, and evidence those same third parties saw defendant alcantar ooting. defendant alcantar additionally contended the evidence of the count four august 2012 incidentwhich established his gang membership and suggested he regularly carried a gunwould unduly inflame the jury against him with respect to counts one and three. the trial court granted the people to jointly try count four with the charges against defendant alcantar arising from weigh[ing] and consider[ing] the prejudicial effect of the joinder joinder, . . . the court [did] not find that the prejudicial effect court weak that the adding of [count four would] cause a jury to overlook any weaknesses in the case and convict [defendant alcantar] of a homicide because he had a gun five months later, as we shall explain, that 39 thargument on cross-admissibility was weak and the trial court appropriately looked to the other relevant factors. none of the charges subjected defendant alcantar to capital punishment,20 leaving only two factors to assesswhether one or both of the joined cases were weak and whether joinder was likely to inflame the jury. the trial court was right to reject the contention that the homicide case appeared weak (recall we evaluate the exercise of discretion at the time the trial court ruled, i.e., before trial). although the evidence of defendant alcantinvolvement was circumstantial, it was strong. dna evidence strongly suggested defendant alcantar was at the scene of the crime and multiple witnesses were expected to testify they either saw defendant alcantar concealing evidence of the crime or were told by defendant morales that defendant alcantar shot bojorquez. the fact that evidence of might not quite as strong as the evidence of guilt on count four carries little weight soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 781; see also ibidbetween any two charges, it always is possible to point to individual aspects of one case and argue that one is stronger than . . . will not the benefits of joinder and warranting severance of properly 20 although special circumstances were alleged, the prosecution did not seek the death penalty. 40 nor did the court err in rejecting defendant argument that count four was likely to inflame the jury. neither the offense of being a felon in possession of a firearm, in itself, or the particular evidence underlying that charge in this case was inflammatory. (see, e.g., people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, 78 [evidence of attack and weapon possession unlikely to inflame fact that evidence of two violent crimes might lead a jury to infer that a defendant is violent does not establish that any of the (landry); people v. gomez (1994) 24 cal.app.4th 22, 29 [felon in possession of a firearm charge not inherently inflammatory].) the concern with inflammatory evidence is but inflammatory crime might be used to bolster a weak [citation.](people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 124 (simon).) here, the evidence underlying count four was not inflammatory, and the evidence in support of the murder case was not weak. importance to our legislature of judicial efficiency. (landry, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 75; soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 782 [oined charges are severed, the burden on the public court system of processing the charges is substantially increased].) because the trial court reasonably found that count four was not likely to inflame the jury and the homicide case was not weak, it did not abuse its discretion in determining the benefits of joinder outweighed the potential for prejudice to defendant alcantar. [t]he benefits of joinder are not outweighedand severance is not requiredmerely because properly joined charges might make it more difficult for a defendant to avoid conviction 41 compared with his or her chances were the charges to be soper, supra, at p. 781.) even though we have determined the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying severance based on the record at the time of its ruling, we still must consider whether the actual defendant of due process of law during trial. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 783.) no gross unfairness is apparentevidence offered to prove [defendant t [defendant people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 553.) if charges arising from the march 2012 incident and the august 2012 incident had been separately tried, strong evidence of guilt in each case would have warranted defendant all charges. (simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 130.) c. substantial evidence supports the carjacking special circumstance, and statements to the jury on how to apply the special circumstance do not warrant reversal defendant alcantar contends the carjacking special circumstance must be reversed because there was insufficient evidence to support a true finding on that allegation, because the prosecution misstated the applicable law during closing argument, and because the trial court improperly responded to a jury question regarding how to apply that law. each of these contentions is unconvincing. 42 1. evidence supporting the jury finding a defendant convicted of first degree murder may be sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole if the jury finds true one or more of the special circumstances enumerated in section 190.2, subdivision (a). defendant jury found true two special circumstances subjecting him to that sentence: he intentionally killed bojorquez by means of lying in wait ( 190.2, subd. (a)(15)) and he killed bojorquez during the commission of a carjacking ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)(l)). we consider a claim that insufficient evidence supports a special circumstance finding by reviewing the record in the light most evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable jury could find the [special circumstance true] beyond [citation.](people v. hardy (2018) 5 cal.5th 56, 89 (hardy).) tak[es] . . . a motor vehicle in the possession of another, from his or her person or immediate presence, . . . against his or her will and with the intent to either permanently or temporarily deprive the person in possession of the motor vehicle of his or her 215, subd. (a).) for the carjacking special circumstance to apply, the jury [citation.]people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 992 (johnson).) a carjacking is not incidental to a murder if the [carjacking] apart from (hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 89.) in other words, or at least concurrentmotivation . . . .johnson, 43 supra, at p. 992, citation omitted; see also hardy, supra, at p. 90 concurrent intent to commit an eligible felony will support the .)21 if the only reasonable inference from the evidence is that defendant alcantar carjacked special circumstance does not apply. (people v. andreasen (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 70, 81; see also hardy, supra, at p. 89 [referring to rule established in people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 61 that an independent-felony special circumstance will not apply if the sole object is to facilitate or conceal the primary .) substantial evidence supports the jury finding that defendant alcantar independently intended to carjack bojorquez. pursuant to defendant defendant alcantar drove out into the desert in bojorquez car. the jury could reasonably infer defendant alcantar had the intention to take bojorquezvehicle before contemplating murderfor example, if defendants initially planned to leave bojorquez in the desert after merely beating him up.22 there was no evidence 21 the court instructed defendant with calcrim no. 730, which provides tcarjacking] special circumstance to be true, the people must prove that the defendant intended to commit carjacking t only part of or incidental to the commission of that murder . . . 22 the trial juries need not have been convinced defendants planned to kill bojorquez before ever setting out for the remote 44 defendant merely to obtain a reminder or tor to give a false impression about his actual motive for the murder . . . (people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 554.) nor were jurors compelled to conclude defendant facilitate or conceal the killing [citat (ibid.) even though the carjacking had the practical effect of helping to conceal the identities of the killers, jurors could reasonably conclude the carjacking was not committed solely for that purpose. (see johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 971, 989 [jury could have concluded the car in addition to killing her because he lacked a vehicle after crashing his own car while being chased by police]; see also id. at kes substantial property from the victim, a reasonable jury can ordinarily find the killing was .) have properly found he formed a premeditated and deliberate intent to kill on the way to, or perhaps even after arriving in, the desertand independent of a plan to commit a carjacking. (people v. cage (2015) 62 cal.4th 256, 275-276 [although first degree murder requites a deliberate and premeditated intent to he process of premeditation and deliberation does not requihoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly . . 45 2. statements by the prosecution and the trial court during closing argument, the prosecution told the jury that if it found defendant alcantar committed first degree murder, the commission of this murder [he] intended and [he] did commit a prosecution stated that in order to find the carjacking special circumstance truenot only did [defendant alcantar] intend the murder, but that [he] then they ended up committing a carjacking. . . . they only intended the murder but never intended the carjacking, the prosecution argued that because defendants went out with bojorquez in only one car, leaving must have intended to take them to also remove a large piece of evidence at that scene and defense counsel did not object to any of these statements. during deliberations, defendant requested applying the instruction that the people needed to prove trial court responded in a note 46 defined in these instruction[s] are to be applied using their wrote furtherhe does not have a specific legal meaning; therefore, meaning23 defendant alcantar argues the prosecution misstated the law during closing argument by (1) stating the special circumstance would apply if jurors found the carjacking was committed during the murder rather than the other way around; (2) implying that the truth of the special circumstance was established by the fact that defendants and bojorquez all went out in bojorque(3) failing to mention that the special circumstance would not apply if the carjacking were merely incidental to the murder. defendant alcantar contends the trial court compounded the prosecu error by failing to adequately respond to th request for clarification. tements during closing argument or to a forfeits an appellate challenge to either. (people v. solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 828 [a defendant forfeits a claim that the prosecutor misstated the law during closing argument by failing to object and request an admonition]; people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 798-799 [a defendant forfeits a claim that the court gave an erroneous response to a jury question where the approved the response given].) defendant 23 a minute order indicates counsel for both sides were contacted when the court received the jury question, but the record contains no discussion of the question among the court and counsel before the court responded. 47 objection, and they lack merit in any event.24 a. the prosecution s statements to the jury violate the federal ] the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the trial court or the jury. furthermore, . . . when the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44 (morales).) ase may have lacked some of the nuance of carjacking special circumstance law, no outright misstatements were made. evidence a defendant concurrently intended to commit both a carjacking and a murder is sufficient to support a carjacking special circumstance finding concurrent intent theory. put more concretely, telling the jury it must decide whether a carjacking was intended and committed during the commission of the murder is consistent with a concurrent intent finding, as is the statement that the special 24 because we opt to address the claims on the merits, we is trial attorney was constitutionally ineffective for failing to object. 48 circumstance would apply if defendant alcantar intended to argument that defendant vehicle as a getaway car prior to the killing was just thatan argumentand it did not prevent the jury from finding that defendant attack or that defendant alcantar formed a premeditated intent to kill only after getting in the car with bojorquez and intending to carjack him. the prosecution made that clear by stating the and the prosecution was not obligated to use characterizing the law. insofar as the statements did not fully reflect the complexity of the law, however, we do not see (morales, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 44). nor did the prosecution (ibid.) in arguing to the jury. furthermore, even assuming was inaccurate at the marginson the instructions, not the arguments, in convicting [defendant morales, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 47.) the court here instructed the jurors comments on the law conflict[ed] they wethe court correctly instructed the jurors they could only find the carjacking special circumstance true if they found defendant alcantar the jurors must not find the special circumstance true if they 49 commission of carjacking was merely part of [or] incidental to the commission of that murder . . . .defendant alcantar has not shown the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion (id. at p. 44). b. response to the jury question section 1138 requires the trial court to respond to jury questions during deliberations on rel . . . .a claim the court erred in responding to a jury question is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. tate (2010) 49 cal.4th 635, 707.) defendant alcantar does not response was erroneousrather, he argues the court should have gone further by providing more clarification of what means for purposes of applying the carjacking special circumstance instruction. defendant alcantar suggests the court could have (and should have) instructed the jury by quoting from decisions of our supreme court in this areastating, for example, that the occur[red] during the commission of the [carjacking], not when (people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 182 (mendoza)) or if the jury finds primaryor at least concurrentmotivationjohnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 992, citation omitted). we doubt that the quoted statement from mendoza should useful to the jury, and we are skeptical it could have been 50 delivered to the jury in non-argumentative fashion on the facts here. but even if we set these doubts still was not an abuse of discretion. the principles it elaborate on the standard instructions. where the original instructions are themselves full and complete, the court has discretion under section 1138 to determine what additional explanations are sufficieinformation. [citation.] indeed, comments diverging from the people v. beardslee (1991) 53 cal.3d 68, 97.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion by taking a conservative approach twhere the court merely repeated the special circumstance instruction, even though that may have been an appropriate response. (see people v. noguera (1992) 4 cal.4th 599, 642.) instead, the court reasonably decided to inform the jury that therefore, be given its ordinary meaning. if jurors remained confused after receiving that response, they could have submitted another question.25 (see, e.g., people v. mclain (1988) 46 cal.3d 25 we also find no reasonable probability that further clarification would have resulted in a more favorable outcome to defendant alcantar. (people v. lua (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 1004, 1017 [section 1138 error is subject to review for watson prejudice].) the evidence permitted the jury to find the carjacking was pre-planned or was a concurrent motivation for the killing and the jury was instructed not to find the special circumstanc 51 97, 117 & fn. 4 [after jury asked for definition of terms and was told to give them their ordinary meaning, the jury asked forand receivedthe dictionary meaning of those terms]; people v. lua, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. court need not give the d. the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it 1. background after defendant approximately two hours, the foreperson (juror no. 6a white man) apprised the court of potential juror misconduct. the foreperson said juror no. 2 (a 70-year-old black manall about when asked to elaborate, the fori.e.[his] people in the past, how all of this is rigged . . . by way of example, the foreperson said juror no. 2 ring discussions about whether there was intent , and juror no. 2 separately theorized, during discussions of incriminating post-arrest statement, that the statement could 52 have been orchestrated by the police turning the recorder off, telling defendant morales what to say, and then turning the recording back on and having defendant morales say it. the foreperson added that juror no. 2 said ople have been enslaved for hundreds of years, and most of them are in prison ve never done, and the foreperson revealed totally the foreperson told the after hearing from the foreperson, the trial judge remarked a]t this point i think i have no choice but to conduct an the judge then examined several of the other jurors, starting with juror no. 1 and proceeding sequentiallyincluding juror no. 2to inquire whether there were concerns with the deliberation process. juror no. 1 (a hispanic female) revealed the jurors took a with everything that was presented in the courtroom, but [felt] that there were things that hethat trust . . . like the unknown or reading between the lines or the trial judge inquired whether juror no. 2 appeared to be basing his views on the evidence or something side er, explaining that articulated without regard to the evidence or the jury instructions. juror no. on an emotional a 53 the trial judge next engaged in a lengthy colloquy with the juror in question, juror no. 2.26 when the court asked him whether there was an issue regarding deliberations, juror no. 2 [w]ell, correct me the defendant is innocent until proven guilty. juror no. 2 added that he had trial judge said he simply wanted juror before coming to a decision, but that was disagreed with t . . . the trial judge asked juror no. 2 what he was referring to the right thing or . . . trial judge said he was unsure why juror no. 2 was being earlier statements. the juror could] be receptive to the explanation. hypothetical. but in my personal opinion, we are supposed to go 26 in the course of examining juror no. 2, the trial judge s other issues that are coming into play regarding deliberations 54 through all the facts one by one and have a discussion about it, and then hopefully we can come to a decision and reference [sic]. t continuing the examination, the trial judge asked juror no. 2 if his outside of the evidence . . . nothing about this particular citizen . . . juror no. 2 if he newspaper about the criminal justice system or anything else and decide this case based upon . . . evidence that [he had] heard . . . and just generally based upon [his] own life experiences . . . judge to excuse him from the jury. juror no. 2 said he felt as adhere to and thought the court wanted him something without having any reference or having any the trial judge then asked juror no. 2 if he had any family members who had been arrested. the juror said one of his sons was arrested and went to jail for a period of time for having a gun in his car even though the gun belonged to someone else who was also in the car. the juror said he believed law enforcement treated his son fairly and he had disclosed both the arrest and his ring voir dire.27 27 the prosecution confirmed juror no. 2 disclosed during voir dire fair treatment. 55 the judge re-read to juror no. 2 some instructions on deliberating, and the juror said he understood them and believed he was following them. the court again asked what juror no. 2 had read in the newspaper. the juror responded he never said he had read anything in the newspaper or heard anything on the news; he was referring earlier, rather, to having read . . . after his son was was juror no. 2 said he felt as a juror he weigh eciated in that when the trial judge asked if juror no. 2 could apply the law as instructed even if he disagreed with it, the juror said he ng and judge asked whether juror no. 2 could apply the law as the court instructed and disregard anything he had read. juror no. 2 again asked to be excused. the trial judge then put the question to juror no. 2 once more, . . . whether or not you can disregard what you had read about real issues when you were ow juror no. 2 went on to explain he did not know if he could erase he stated he thought he had understood the law as instructed but now was all become very 56 felt as if after this colloquy, the trial judge permitted defendant question juror no. 2. defendant mordefense counsel asked if juror no. 2 believed all the jurors were [fleshing] out all [n]defense counsel additionally asked if juror no. 2 would follow the law, and the juror said he the court then heard from three additional jurors. juror no. 3 (a white woman) said juror no. 2 was applying bias, sympathy, and prejudice to this case based on past experiences. juror no. 4 (a hispanic man) said juror no. 2 made two comments indicating he was biased: his son was wrongfully ] put in jail for no juror no. 5 (a white woman) believed juror no. 2 had [his] people have been wrongly imprisoned . . . after hearing from juror no. 5, the trial judge decided to remove judge stated he believed juror no. 2 set aside that information and simply follow the instructions the court ha[d] judge further found that despite juror 57 enforcement, statements by the other jurors indicated juror no. 2 the court selected an alternate juror at random to replace juror no. 2. the court instructed the jury that deliberations were to commence enabling the as reconstituted deliberated for approximately two-and-a-half hours before returning with its verdicts. 2. analysis a trial court may discharge a juror at any time if the court . . . ( 1089.cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 480.) while we apply an abuse of discretion standard to our process and armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 450, citations omitted.) under this (ibid[t]he reviewing court must be confident reviewing 58 court must arrive at that determination by considering not only the evidence itself, but also the record of reasons the court 28 (id. at p. 451.) defendant morales contends the trial court abused its discretion both in its discharge of juror no. 2 and the manner in which it questioned him. the question on the former score is a close one under the governing standard of review, but we believe remained within the bounds of his discretion. the trial court determined juror no. 2 could not perform his duties because he could not follow tinstructions or evaluate the case without regard to extrinsic considerations. the record shows these findings were a demonstrable reality. s asking him to comply with a standard he could not meet because it would require him , which the trial judge properly considered (people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1051-1053; people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 898), confirmed . . . experiences through which he was evaluating specific items of trial evidence (compare people v. allen and johnson (2011) 53 28 the typicali.e., not heightenedabuse of discretion manner in which the e.g., by being inordinately coercive or intrusive. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 712 (fuiava).) 59 cal.4th 60, 78 & fn. 13) but pre-existing views about the justice system that prevented him from agreeing he could apply the law as instructed by the court. there are, to be sure, elements of the colloquy between the trial judge and juror no. 2 that leave open the possibility that the juror was simply approaching his duties in conscientious fashion and his dismissal was attributable to, as the juror himself remarked at one point during the exchange with the court, something getting [l]ost in translation between the two of them. but the bottom line is that when asked the straightforward question of whether he could follow the law as given by trial court, juror no. 2 gave an equally straightforward answer: in our viewestablishing discretion. (fuiava, supradispute that a juror who because of a personal bias should be discharged under section people v. williams hin the meaning of . . . sion to discharge juror no. 2, defendant morales also challenges the manner in which the court conducted its inquiry. specifically, defendant morales contends especially because the court knew all the other jurors were in agreement that defendant morales was guilty. assuming the issue is cognizable notwithstanding our conclusion that there was no error in dismissing the juror, we still reject the contention because the 60 did not place pressure on juror no. 2 to agree with his fellow jurors or reach any particular verdict. the ] the people v. johnson (2015) 61 cal.4th 734, 769.) in this case, juror no. 1unsolicited by the courtindicated the jury agreed 11-to-1 in 2 was influenced by its knowledge that juror no. 2 was the lone dissenting vote. the trial judge encourage [juror no. 2] to abandon [his] independent judgment and acquiesce in a verdict simply because the majority had people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 164.) rather, the court was focused on determining whether juror no. 2 was relying on extrinsic information or disregarding the law in his assessment of the evidence.29 in our view of the record, the court sought assurances from juror no. 2 that he would apply the 29 for example, when juror no. 2 initially asked to be excused hing. how you choose to emphasized its concern was whether or not [juror no. 2 could] disregard what [he had] read before and follow the law that [the 61 law as instructed to the evidence presented, without regard for whether juror no. 2 ultimately reached the same conclusions as his fellow jurors. that is not coercion. (people v. russell (2010) 50 cal.4th 1228, 1252 [no coercion where the constrain [the juror suspected of misconduct] or the jury except to russell).) in the same vein, we do not believe the questioning of juror no. 2 was unduly aggressive under the often repetitive derived not from any ostensible intent to pressure juror no. 2 but from several instances in which the juror did not give direct answers to s and from some apparent misunderstandings or misinterpretations on the part of both the court and juror no. 2 regarding what each was saying. no. 2 was intended only to determine whether the juror could perform his duty and not for any improper purpose. (russell, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 1252 could not permit her feelings of pity and sympathy for [the] not suggest nor do we conclude that the trial no. 2 signaled to the remaining jurors that the court believed defendant morales was guilty or coerced the replacement juror to agree with the other members of the jury. (see, e.g., people v. carter (1968) 68 cal.2d 810, 816.) as defendant morales points out, her jury had not been deliberating for long when juror no. 2 was replaced. nothing in the record suggests the jury failed to follow the s to begin (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 716; see also people v. thomas 62 (1990) 218 cal.app.3d 1477, 1487) or that the replacement juror people v. thomas (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 1328, 1333). e. cumulative error defendants contend that even if the errors at their trial were not individually prejudicial, the cumulative effect of those errors denied them a fair trial. because of the overlap between the two evidentiary errors we have identified in this caseboth pertaining to inadmissible hearsay linking to the motive our analysis necessarily considered their collective prejudicial effect and found no justification for reversal apart from the gang and firearm sentencing enhancements. because defendants have established no further errors that would necessitate cumulative analysis, we reject the cumulative error claim. (people v. woods (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 461, 489.) f. undisputed sentencing issues 1. newly-conferred firearm sentencing discretion each of sentences included a consecutive 25-years-to-firearm discharge findings under section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e). at the time of sentencing, those prison terms were mandatory. after defendants, senate bill no. 620 took effect. (sen. bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) [effective january 1, 2018].) senate bill 620 amended section 12022.53 to give trial courts discretion, in the interest of justice, to strike a firearm enhancement finding made under the statute. ( 12022.53, subd. (h), as amended by stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2 the court may, in the interest of justice pursuant to section 63 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise require for reasons already described, we shall vacate the true findings on the section 12022.53 enhancements imposed on defendants and remand for a new trial on those enhancments if the people so elect. the issue of whether a remand is necessary under the newly added subdivision (h) of section 12022.53 is therefore moot. 2. defendant alcantarrevocation fine the trial court imposed a $10,000 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)) on defendant alcantar, as well as a restitution fine in the same amount 1202.45, subd. (a)). as defendant alcantar correctly asserts, the parole revocation restitution fine was improper because he received a life sentence without the possibility of parole. (people v. jenkins (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 805, 819.) it will be necessary to resentence both defendants, and the new judgment of conviction entered for defendant alcantar shall not include a parole revocation restitution fine.30 30 by way of an apparent clerical error evident in the minute order, the abstract of judgment describes this fine as a probation revocation restitution fine under section 1202.44. the new abstract of judgment that must issue should reflect the imposition of a single restitution finethat imposed pursuant to section 1202.4, subdivision (b). 64 3. defendant count four conviction defendant the felon in possession conviction on count four as a serious felony. count four was not alleged or proved to be a serious felony. at resentencing, the error must be corrected. 65 disposition defendants convictions are affirmed. as to defendant carjacking special circumstance finding associated with the murder charge is affirmed. the gang-related findings ( 186.22, (b)(1)(c)) and firearm discharge true findings ( 12022.53, subds. (d), (e)) against both defendants are vacated and remanded for retrial. if, after issuance of the remittitur, the people elect not to retry these enhancements as to either defendant, or both, within the time limit set forth in section 1382, subdivision (a)(2), the trial court shall resentence that defendant, or defendants, without imposition of these enhancements and thereafter deliver corrected abstracts of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports baker, acting p. j. we concur: kim, j. seigle, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 