filed 7/27/18 p. v. ollie ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. harry lee ollie, defendant and appellant. b281466 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba450246) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed. patricia s. lai, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and kristen j. inberg, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________ 2 introduction appellant harry lee ollie appeals from a 35-year-to-life prison sentence following his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon. he contends his conviction should be reduced to simple assault, as there was insufficient evidence to support the finding that he used a deadly weapon. he further contends the trial judge committed reversible error when the judge instructed the jury that it could consider the lesser offense of simple assault only after it determined he was not guilty of the greater offense of assault with a deadly weapon. for the reasons stated below, we conclude that substantial evidence and that any instructional error was harmless. accordingly, we affirm. procedural history a jury convicted appellant of assault with a deadly weapon. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1).)1 in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found true allegations that appellant had suffered two prior strikes within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), two prior serious felony convictions ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and one prior conviction resulting in a prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court strikes under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. it sentenced appellant to a total term of 35 years to life in state prison, consisting of 25 years to life for the assault with a 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 deadly weapon conviction, plus a five-year term for each of the two prior serious felony convictions. appellant timely appealed. statement of the facts a. the prosecution case uty jacklyn artiga testified that on august 29, 2016, she was on duty at the mcentral jail. she was conducting a security check when she observed two men -- later identified as appellant and dion anthony -- who appeared to be wrestling. artiga called for backup, and with the assistance of other deputies, separated and handcuffed the two men. artiga noticed that anthony was bleeding from his forehead, but appellant had no visible injuries. artiga opined, based on her experience, was consistent with stabbing injuries. a search was conducted for the weapon used in the assault, but no weapon was ever recovered. john galindo, a registered nurse at the jail, testified he was on duty at the time of the incident. when anthony was brought into the clinic for treatment, galindo noticed a forehead wound that had stopped bleeding. galindo determined that the superficial. based on his experience, the wound was inflicted by a sharp object; a punch would not leave such a wound. galindo also observed multiple and upper back. the lacerations were consistent with wounds caused by a sharp object, such as a knife. los angeles detective jason ekins testified he investigated the assault of anthony. when ekins 4 interviewed anthony on september 9, 2016, he noticed a long healing laceration wounds throughout his face. ekins testified that inmates often fashioned weapofrom within their cell[s]. they will take apart the sinks, the toilets, pieces of the bed the weapon used to assault anthony was never recovered. however, he testified that inmates can dispose of an impromptu weapon within their bodies, destroying it, cutting it into pieces, grounding as] giving iafter reviewing a video-recording of the incident, ekins opined that it appeared a video of the entire incident was played for the jury. the video showed appellant approaching anthony from behind and making stabbing motions. b. the defense case appellant did not testify or present an affirmative defense. discussion a. substantial evidence supported appeconviction for assault with a deadly weapon. appellant contends that the evidence supported a conviction only for simple assault, and was insufficient to support his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon. when a defendant challenges the suffavorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses 5 substantial evidence -- that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- such that a reasonable trier of fact people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1224.) section 245, subdivision (a)(1), punishes assaults ument other than a physical contact with the person of the victim; because the statute focuses on use of a deadly weapon or instrument . . . whether the victim in fact suffers any harm is immateripeople v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 1028, italics omitted.) as used in section 245, subdivision (a)(1), a any object, instrument, or weapon which is used in such a manner as to be capable of producing and likely to produce, death or great bodily injury.id. at pp. 1028-1people v. brown (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1, 7 (browninflicting significant injury, neither physical contact nor actual injury is required to support a conviction. [citation.] however, if injuries do result, the nature of such injuries and their location are relevant facts for consideration in determining whether an object was used in a manner capable of producing and likely to ibid.) here, the evidence showed that appellant approached the victim ee brown, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 8 [bb gun used as a deadly weapon where it sustained wounds to his scalp, forehead and upper back. (see 6 people v. washington (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1042, 1047 [physical pain or damage, such as lacerations, bruises, or deputy artiga testified she observed that the victim was bleeding from a long wound on his forehead, and opined that the wound was similar to other stabbing wounds she had seen. nurse galindo testified that based on his experience working at the caused by a sharp object, such as a knife. (see people v. urrutia (1943) 58 cal.app.2d 468, 470 (urrutia) [finding that appellant used deadly weapon supported by expert testimony from two bad lacerations instrumentfrom the appearance of the wound a sharp instrument of some sort was used to make the cut; on this record, a jury could reasonably find that appellant committed the assault with a deadly weapon. (see id. at ptogether with the direct testimony was sufficient to prove that the assault was committed with a deadly weapon, even if there had been no direct testimony that a knife was seen in the hand of eliance on in re brandon t. (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1491, is misplaced. there, the juvenile used a butter throat, but could not penetrate the victiwelts. no evidence that the knife drew blood or that the juvenile aimed at the eye. (id. at pp. 1496-1497 & fn. 5.) the appellate court concluded that the butter knife was not used in such a manner that it would have resulted in great bodily 7 injury. (id. at p. 1497.) in contrast, here, the victim was bleeding from multiple wounds caused by the assault. in sum, b. any instructional error was harmless. appellant contends the trial court prejudicially erred in instructing the jury that it could consider the lesser offense of simple assault only after it acquitted appellant of the greater offense of assault with a deadly weapon. 1. relevant background the judge instructed the jury before the parties gave their closing arguments. after instructing the jury on the elements of assault with a deadly weapon, if you are not convinced that the defendant is guilty of assault with a deadly weapon, you shall consider whether he is guilty or not guilty the court then instructed on the elements of simple assault before spoke about the lesser crime. now, you only consider the lesser crime if you unanimously find the defendant not guilty of the greater crime. if you find him guilty of the greater crime, it stops there. you do not consider the lesser. if you cannot make a decision with respect to the greater crime -- deadly weapon -- nsider the lesser it stops there. do you understand that? you only move on to it if you unanimously find him not guilty of the greater, then you move on to consider the lesser. all r defense cimpromptu statements. in closing argument, defense counsel conceded that an assault had occurred, but argued that the evidence was insufficient to find that a deadly weapon was used. 8 counsel noted that no weapon was recovered and that the victim suffered only superficial injuries. counsel concluded by saying assault, but you will find him not guilty of assault with a deadly after closing arguments, the jury was provided with written instructions, including an instruction that if the jury was not convinced that appellant was guilty of assault with a deadly the lesser charge of extemporaneous statements about considering the lesser offense. they further provided, you are to be governed only by the instruction 2. analysis under california law, a jury must acquit a defendant of the greater offense before returning a verdict on the lesser included offense, but it may consider and deliberate on greater and lesser included offenses in any order. (see people v. kurtzman (1988) 46 cal.3d 322, 330-331 (kurtzman).) under cacquittal-ha[s] id. at p. 335.) such instructional error is subject to harmless-error analysis under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (see kurtzman, supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 335; accord, people v. olivas (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 758, 775.)2 2 respondent argues that in light of the written instructions, the jury understood thhow it was to return its verdict after deliberating on all charges. 9 here, the instructional error was harmless. as an initial matter, we note that in discussing kurtzman error, our supreme court has observed that conjecture whether the instruction had any effect, whom it affected, and what the effect was.(people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048, 1077-1078, fn. 7, overruled on other grounds in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823.) here, the jury was provided with correct written instructions and told that it was to instructions. those instructions did not preclude the jury from deliberating on the lesser included offense of simple assault at and stated that the sider the lesser included offense if not convinced that appellant was guilty of the greater offense. as the jury presumptively followed the written instructions, it was not constrained from considering the lesser offense. (see people v. wilson (2008) 44 s instructions. [citation.] to the extent a discrepancy exists between the written and oral versions of jury instructions, the second, the whole record indicates that the jury considered both the greater and lesser included offenses. (see kurtzman, jury instruction found erroneous in kurtzman. there, the court concluded that the trial court erred when it instructed the jury kurtzman, supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 328, italics omitted.) 10 supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 335 [no prejudicial error where despite erroneous acquittal-first instruction, the jury deliberated on both the greater and the lesser offenses].) the key issue at trial was whether appellant used a deadly weapon. in both their opening statements and their closing arguments, the prosecutor and defense counsel focused on evidence of the use of a deadly weapon. in closing argument, defense counsel argued that the evidence was insufficient to establish that appellant used a deadly weapon. as the only difference between the lesser offense of simple assault and the greater offense of assault with a deadly weapon assault was the use of a deadly weapon, the jury was asked to consider and determine whether appellant committed the lesser or the greater offense. as we concluded above, used a deadly weapon in his assault on the victim. in sum, it is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to appellant would have been reached in the absence of instructional error.3 3 on appeal, appellant contends the trial court should have discretion to choose the order in which you evaluate each crime and consider the evidence pertaining to it. you may find it productive to consider and reach a tentative conclusion on all however, trial counsel never requested that caljic no. 17.10 be given. more important, any error in not giving caljic no. 17.10 is harmless for the reasons stated above. 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. micon, j.* *judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 