filed 10/10/18 p. v. luqman ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mikail luqman, defendant and appellant. b281557 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba432404) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall. affirmed. susan l. ferguson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and colleen m. tiedemann and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 introduction mikail luqman was convicted of making a false bomb threat and placed on probation. he judgment after an order finding he violated probation by making another bomb threat. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. luqman pleads no contest to making a false bomb threat in los angeles from october 2014 to january 2015. on april 14, 2015, after the people had charged him with making a criminal threat, luqman pleaded no contest to maliciously informing another person that a bomb or explosive device has been or will be placed or secreted in a public or private place, in violation of penal code section 148.1, subdivision (c). the transcript of the preliminary hearing in that case indicates luqman approached a nurse who worked at near a parking structure i am going to blow all of you up, and am going to get you the court in that case suspended imposition of sentence and placed luqman on formal felony probation for three years with various terms and conditions. probation required him not to own, use, or threaten to use any dangerous or deadly weapons, not to use or threaten to use force or violence against any person, and to stay at least 200 yards away from and have no contact on the 3 threat count. b. luqman makes another bomb threat several months later, on july 21, 2015, carolyn drummond where she had been working for 17 years. at approximately 10:00 a.m. she received a telephone call that caused her to call security. am very upset with you guys. . . . so i am going to plant a bomb in full carnage of this hospital to beto go of the caller said the bomb would explode at 1:30 p.m. life drummond tried to connect the call with security so that security personnel could register the call, but the caller hung up before she could make the transfer. drummond immediately recognized the voice as the voice of a man who had called three or four times a day about a patient in the hospital. although she did not remember when these calls occurred, acquainted withoice. drummond voice, because it was a call that, like i say, called every day, maybe three or four times a day requesting this particular patient. so i was very familiar with the she stata hispanic pers was aggr miguel gonzalez, director of support services and a member for drummond a recording of a voicemail message luqman had left on the phone of the manager of security. drummond recognized the voice as 4 the same voice who threatened to put bombs in the hospital. los angeles police department detectives played for drummond a recording of a police interview with luqman. drummond listened to the recording twice, on headphones. she again immediately recognized the voice as belonging to the same person who had previously called to speak to a patient and the same person who threatened to bomb the hospital. when asked whether she knew it was the same voice or just thought it might was the same the detectives calls. they did search luqmans pursuant to a warrant, but they did not find any information linking luqman to the crime. to blow it up. when asked if he ever made any bomb threats to wit hospital after december 2014, when the hospital banned him from the premises and precluded him from visiting his son there. luqman said the hospital staff treated him rudely and disrespectfully. luqman stated that, while his son was in upset: i was distraught because they told me that my son had a hole in his head. they said he they said he would never function. they asked us to abort him, and they told us that he would have a hole in the back of his head and some kind of thing growing out of the back of his ne ying to kill his son. 5 c. the trial court finds luqman violated the terms of his probation the trial court stated that the burden of proof was a preponderance of the evidence and that standard. indeed, the court stated that, if the standard were beyond a reasonable doubt, the court would not have found a violation of probation. but because the standard was a preponderance of the evidence, the court found the people had met their burden of proving luqman had violated his probation. the court found drummond credible. the court stated she unsure when the clear that the bomb threat she received was from the same with which ms. drummond was able to lay out why it was she . . . was pretty convincing and was very compelling and established very strongly that it was mr. the court also noted that drummond testified she had not received and did not know of any other telephone calls to the hospital involving bomb threats. rummond was unable to transfer or somewhat aware of the fact that these calls could be with mr. 6 pletely truthful with the court tthe court found luqman made the court also stated luqman was very concerned about his child situation at the hospita the court acknowledged there were weaknesses in the from calls occurred was not good, and the dates in her version of the facts did not quite match. at one point during closing arguments, the court stated it understood drummond testified that period where the bomb threat was mad the court then asked: seven months before that, how could he be the one who was 1 together, i think that the standard that is required for a probation violation, that is, the evidence of violation has more convincing force than the evidence against violation, that that violation of probation base the trial court 1 the court indicated at this point in the proceedings it was inclined to find a probation violation, but the court asked counsel to find out the dates luqmanson was a patient at hospital. after a recess and a few telephone calls, the attorneys returned to court and stipulated that luqon was a patient at the hospital from october 2014 to january 2015. 7 refused to reinstate luqman to probation and sentenced him to three years in jail. luqman timely appealed. discussion luqman contends substantial evidence does not support that he violated the terms of his probation. inferences . . . were unsupported by the evidence and clearly a. applicable law and standard of review revoke probation if the interests of justice so require and the court, in its judgment, has reason to believe that the person has violated any of the conditions of his or her probation. [citation.] when the evidence shows that a defendant has not complied with the terms of probation, the order of probation may be (people v. urke (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 766, 772, fn. omitted; see people v. leiva (2013) 56 cal.4th 498, 504- in a probation revocation proceeding is proof by a preponderance of urke, at p. 772; see pen. code,  3044, subd. (a)(5) people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d pursuant to section 1203.2(a) may be made by a preponderance of in re miller (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 1228, 1234-eged 8 parole violation must meet the preponderance of the evidence s for substantial evidence. (people v. urke, supra, 197 cal.app.4th at p. 773; people v. kurey (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 840, 848.) on review for but an act of clemency, the granting and revocation of which are entirely within the sound discretion of the trial urke, at p. 773; see kurey, at pp. 848-determination of whether, upon review of the entire record, there is substantial evidence of solid value, contradicted or uncontradicted, which will support the trial cour [o]nly in a very extreme case should an appellate court interfere with the discretion of the trial court in the matter of denying or revoking probation . . . urke, at p. 773.) b. ord the trial court recognized, drummond was the most important witness, and the court believed her. in making this credibility finding, which we have no authority to second guess (see people v. reed (2018) 4 cal.5th 989, 1006-1007 we cannot reconsider on appealthe credibility of testimony and its weight]; people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1215 [w]e do not reweigh evidence or reevaluate s credibilitypeople v. moore (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 937, 940 e have no power to reweigh the evidence or judge the credibility of witnesses, the trial court recognized drummond was an independent witness 9 and emphasized that her aural identification was unhesitant, certain, and emphatic. she stated without qualification that the voice she heard making voice and why she believed it was. the court found her identification was made the call. conversely, tdenials. the trial court did exactly what a trial court, acting as a trier of fact, is supposed to do: consider and carefully weigh the strengths and weaknesses of the evidence, make credibility determinations, and apply the correct legal standard to the evidence. (see keating v. superior court (1955) 45 cal.2d 440, 444 t is the duty of a judge when acting as the trier of the facts to pass upon the credibility of witnessespeople v. williams (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 949, 959 [same].) luqman points to two statements by the court he claims were erroneous: (1) luqman, when making the bomb threat, hung up because he knew calls to the hospital could be transferred and recorded, and (2) luqman made his prior bomb threat over the phone. luqman asserts that, had the court ost likely be as noted, the court stated that the fact luqman hung up the phone before drummond could transfer or record his luqman made the call. phone system was not capable of making recordings at the time of the underlying case or when the ph it is a common misconception, however, perhaps from movies or television shows, that authorities cannot trace telephone calls on 10 old telephone systems if the calls do not last long enough.2 the court reasonably could have found that luqman ended this telephone call with drummond before she could transfer his call to avoid detection, even if luqman did not know whether the calls. in any event, even if the court misspoke, there was still primari and the trial court credited her testimony and recognition the court also stated, erroneously according to luqman, that making a telephone bomb threat was parties dispute which case the court was referring to by using the phrase 2 s a hollywood plot device as old as the princess phone: the good guys receive a call from the kidnapper/mad bomber/drug lord, they need to string him along for 60 seconds to s wise to their time constraint and hangs up just short of the one-minute mark.acdonald, can police really trace a phone call in 60 (but not 59) seconds? (april 21, 2011) fox business, par. 1; see application of united states of america, etc. (3d cir. 1979) 610 f.2d 1148, 1152 [for a telephone n-progress trace must be completed before the caller hangs upecause typing the program into the equipment takes less than one minute, in-progress traces generally present no difficultiessee, e.g. people v. nelson (ill.app.ct. 2013) 2 n.e.3d 613, 615 stayed on the phone long enough to trace the numberwilliams v. state (tex.ct.app. 1993) 850 s.w.2d 784, 785 [] deputies told [the victim of telephone harassment] to stay on the line and they would attempt to trace the call 11 qman argues the court was referring to the april 2015 case in which he pleaded no contest, which was based on threats made to a nurse outside the hospital near a parking structure, not on the phone. the people argue s related to the bomb threat [lubecause the court we need not resolve which proceeding the trial court meant to reference because, even if the court misspoke, there was substantial evidence whether luqman made the two bomb threats in the same medium does not change the fact that he made two bomb threats, both of them both instances and not the method [luqman] used to carry out his thre people v. eckley (2004) 123 cal.app.4th 1072, cited by s reliance, in its sentencing and probation decisions, on factually erroneous sentencing reports or other incorrect or unreliable information can constitute a denial of due process(id. at p. 1080.) the trial court in eckley, in denying the defendant probation and sentencing her to prison after a jury trial, relied on facts in a probation report whose author did not have access to the trial transcript and that contained statements that were unsupported by, or inconsistent with, the evidence at trial. (id. at p. 1078-1079.) here, the court relied on evidence the court received , evidence the court found credible. there was evidence the trial court 12 discredited or did not use as a basis for its ruling, and, in the , there was one potentially inaccurate statement about but the evidence at the hearing was not factually erroneous, and it was sufficient to support the trial luqman also her converscall, and her recollection was incomplete and lacked . . . independent c these arguments, however, go to the credibility and weight of her testimony, not whether her testimony, credited as it was, constituted substantial evidence. (see people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585 nconsistencies in [the w] initial descriptions of the perpetrator and any suggestiveness in the lineups or photo arrays they were shown are matters affecting the witnesses credibility, which is for the jury to resolvepeople v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1052 ven when there is a significant amount of countervailing evidence, the testimony of a single witness that satisfies the [substantial evidence] standard is sufficient to uphold the finding; people v. white (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 305, 319, fn. under the principles governing review for the existence of substantial evidence, the testimony of a witness is ordinarily seven if it is contradicted by other evidence, inconsistent or false as to other portions].) finally, the product of an unduly suggestive 13 whom she knew in advance was the person that officers linked to luqman, however, does not provide any authority on the issue of unduly suggestive voice identifications. identification of his voice, thus forfeiting the argument it was the product of an unfair procedure. (see people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 989 [failure to timely object to photographic identification forfeited the argument the identification was impermissibly suggestive]; people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 753 [failure to object that the forfeited the argument on appeal]; see also people v. elliott, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 585-586 nsofar as defendant is asserting that unduly suggestive pretrial identification procedures tainted the courtroom identifications, so that the witnesses should not have been permitted to identify defendant in court, defendant has forfeited the claim by failing to make a timely objection or motion to exclude in the trial court 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. wiley, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 