filed 2/16/18 p. v. cordova ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. saul angel valenzuela cordova, defendant and appellant. b281121 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba440176) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted saul angel valenzuela cordova (valenzuela) of five sex offenses involving a child 10 years old or younger based on evidence that included his own statements to police. the trial court sentenced valenzuela to state prison for a term of 80 years to life. he appeals, claiming the trial court prejudicially erred by admitting his statements because psychological pressure rendered his confession involuntary. having reviewed the videotape and transcript police interview and interrogation, we conclude his confession was voluntary under the totality of the circumstances. valenzuela also argues his conviction must be reversed because his counsel provided ineffective assistance at the hearing on the motion to exclude his confession. finding no merit to these arguments, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. the information valenzuela was charged with one count of continuous sexual abuse of a child (pen. code,1  288.5, subd. (a); count 1), two counts of oral copulation or sexual penetration of a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.7, subd. (b); counts 2 & 5), and two counts of sexual intercourse with a child 10 years old or younger ( 288.7, subd. (a); counts 3 & 4). 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 b. prosecution evidence at trial, r.o. (then 17) testified she had known valenzuela, always called saulfor as long as she could remember. when she was six years old, she regularly spent the night at her , on occasion, would also spend the night at the house. one night when was out of the room, valenzuela grabbed r.o. and put her on his lap. anthony was in the room, but he was watching television. with r.o. on his lap, valenzuela placed her hand on his genitals and exposed his penis. she felt uncomfortable, jumped down, and went over to sit with her cousin. when she was seven, valenzuela pushed her into the bedroom, told her to sit on the bed, and removed her pants and underwear. he saidand inserted his penis into her vagina. he also put his mouth on her vagina and moved his tongue back and forth. after a noise made him stop, valenzuela left the room. r.o. went into the bathroom and cried. when she was nine, r.o. walked into the kitchen, and valenzuela pulled her over to the corner. he put his hand under the back of her shirt, then moved his hand around to the front, and touched her breasts. he also rubbed her vagina over her clothing. r.o. told valenzuela she heard her aunt coming which caused him to stop, and she walked away. when she was between eight and 10, valenzuela penetrated her by placing his penis in her vagina. she was too afraid to scream. valenzuela told her also put his finger in her vagina. when he tried to use two 4 , told her to put on her pants and he left the room. on different occasions before she turned 10, valenzuela touched breasts, buttocks and vagina over her clothing. valenzuela also kissed her on one occasion, but she could not remember how old she was when that happened. there were at least three times when r.o. touched his exposed penis with her bare hand. two of those instances happened in the bedroom; she could not remember where the third instance occurred. she recalled she was about seven at the time. when she was in fifth grade, she watched a video that explained she should tell someone if anyone touched her inappropriately; but she did not tell anyone at the time because she did not want to be judged or talk to a stranger about such things. instead, she avoided being alone with valenzuela. she see valenzuela, however, at family gatherings. later, when she was in sixth grade (and 12 or 13 years old), r.o. got a cell phone. valenzuela called her and asked her to touch her vagina with her fingers. she refused and hung up. he continued to call, but she would not answer. she did not tell her parents about what had happened with valenzuela because she believed she would be blamed for it. she started to isolate herself and, as she got older, began cutting her wrists. when r.o. was 16, her mother noticed her hesitation in filling out a questionnaire at a her about it. r.o. would not answer, but, in july 2015, she told her older brother. because r.o. and her brother had grown very close, mother asked him if he knew why r.o. was hurting 5 herself. he told his mother all he could say was that it had to do with valenzuela. when r.o.r.o. again, r.o. began to cry and told her mother valenzuela had been touching her since she was very small, and valenzuela had told after telling father, they went to the police to make a report, and valenzuela was arrested on september 26, 2015 (a saturday). on september 28, after reading the police report, detective robert smey spoke with valenzuela. the investigating officer, irma castillo, acted as a spanish interpreter. the interview was videotaped. the jury watched the video recording and received a transcript of the conversations. as we will discuss in greater detail below, valenzuela said he was sorry for having sex with r.o., admitted multiple instances of sexual conduct with her, and wrote her an apology, asking for her forgiveness. when the officers stepped out of the room, valenzuela prayed out loud, stating he knew he was guilty. c. defense evidence valenzuela denied committing the offenses. he testified that when he was arrested, he thought the arrest had to do with his driving tickets. by the time he spoke with the detective two en the door. he said he had not bathed or brushed his teeth, his tooth was hurting, and he did not think . . . he testified the detective and interpreter attacked him, talked non-stop and would not let him speak. . he believed the interrogation lasted almost an hour. 6 d. officer castillo testified that neither she nor detective smey was arrest) or september 27. she explained that whenever a suspect arrives at the station, before the booking process can begin, it is commander who asks three questions: (1) are you sick, ill or do you have any questions for me? it is also mandatory for the jails to provide food for arrestees. arrestees are provided with a toothbrush, access to showers, and the opportunity to use the telephone. the holding tank where arrestees are placed after booking has a phone with instructions explaining how to make three free calls within a certain radius of the jail. e. verdict and sentencing the jury found valenzuela guilty as charged on all five counts. the trial court sentenced him to a term of 80 years to life in state prison, calculated as follows: 25 years to life on count 3 ( 288.7, subd. (a)), 15 years to life on count 2 ( 288.7, subd. (b)), 25 years to life on count 4 ( 288.7, subd. (a)), and 15 years to life on count 5 ( 288.7, subd. (b)), with sentence on each of these counts to run consecutively. the court sentenced valenzuela to the middle term of 12 years on count 1 ( 288.5, subd. (a)), but stayed the execution of sentence on this count. ( 654.) 7 discussion a. t 1. statements made prior to miranda2 advisements detective smey and officer castillo entered the interview room with valenzuela. detective smey immediately removed , and they sat down.3 detective smey asked valenzuela for basic background information, such as his some detail. valenzuela told them he worked in construction: plumbing, electrical, tiling, flooring, and painting. he was born in el salvador and came to the united states in 2001. his sister lived nearby him, but his son lived in el salvador. detective smey told valenzuela about his career and family, and said it was good to meet valenzuela because he mostly talked with drug dealers, gangsters, prostitutes, and people who beat their wives. he could tell valenzuela was a different p valenzuela described his family and their plans, and began . . . . valenzuela cried quietly as he continued to talk about 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s. ct. 1602, 16 l. ed. 2d 694]. 3 the transcript the jury received included the certified translation of spanish to english. 8 his son who was about to turn 15, and how he wished he could be with him in el salvador for his party. he had not seen his son for over 10 years because he did not have immigration papers. the detective told him he was not an immigration agent, and he did not care about immigration issues. detective smey told valenzuela he could see valenzuela was an honorable mana family man and a hard worker. detective smey said valenzuela was the type of person with whom he could share a beer and relax. valenzuela responded the detective would be welcome at his house. at this point, about 13 minutes into the interview, detective smey advised valenzuela of his miranda rights. 2. statements after miranda after acknowledging he understood each of his miranda rights, valenzuela continued speaking with detective smey. detective smey asked if valenzuela believed in god. valenzuela day, when we stand before god[, w]e have to answer [for] the detective smey said his father used to tell him, honest and get it the detective told valenzuela he was going to show him anything the detective explained that it has valenzuela had known a girl named r.o. oh, yeah, ed [her father] a the detective told valenzuela that a long time ago, when r.o. was 9 or 10 years old, she told her parents a stranger had 9 grabbed her in an alley, and he was violent with her, hurt her and had sex with her. her parents did not tell anyone at the time, but they took her to the hospital and retrieved dna evidence. the detective asked valenzuela if he knew what dna was. valenzuela said he had heard about it. the detective then told valenzuela the police did not know who the dna belonged to [u] valenzuela said nothing. the detective said he talked to r.o., and she told him she had been so afraid at the time that she lied and made up the story about a stranger. she cried when she told the detective it was valenzuela who would go detective smey told valenzuela, detective smey then recounted how the police collected the dna evidence. he explained that when the officers in on the handcuffs and compared his dna to the dna from vagina. detective smey also told valenzuela that after he shook hands with valenzuela, he sent the dna samples to the lab. the dna tests results dna was found in vagina. detective smey put a cd in front of valenzuela and said the dna results were all on the cd. detective smey told valenzuela he knew r.o. had a phone when she was little, and valenzuela called to computer. detective smey suggested he had listened to the recordings and [valenzuela was] talking about sex to detective smey continued and said he knew that, about a year ago, valenzuela went to house and kissed her on the 10 mouth. r.o. recorded everything on her cell phone. she recorded the detective said, , and pointed to another cd. detective smey told valenzuela to think about all of these agine a train coming down a mountain with no brakes, and at the bottom there is a sharp turn, and right there, there is a little house with all of the people you love insidethe people who love you and rely on you to be honest and to have integrity. he said the only thing know. the detective said the evidencethe audio recordings and dna evidencedid not lie.4 detective smey told valenzuela he was the one who writes the detective said he morning with the priority of kidnapping a girl, raping her and like my father used own up, be honest. and start clean and 4 detective smey, however, lied about the evidence on the cds. in fact, the police did not have any dna evidence or audio recordings. 11 again. r.o. valenzuela if not, the detective continued, that would mean you moment . . . he told the officers he wanted to change his life. [i]want to change, like you said our father would say all of that, . . . detective smey responded, r.o. were sitting here her right in front of you right now, what would you say to the asked what he was sorry about, valenzuela answered, he said it was tradition in his country to give money to buy sweets, but ctiv at the time, of the house and he thought r.o. liked the room because her toys were there. the girl and the boy would get inside 12 detective smey related that r.o. said valenzuela started by touching her private parts over her clothes. valenzuela said, her and . . . the detective recounted that r.o. said valenzuela had touched her vagina, buttocks and breasts over her clothing. valenz . . . all of that. arous when the detective asked valenzuela if he remembered the first time he had sex with r.o., valenzuela . . . told me that you had sex with her. . . . [b]ecause she told me. the detective asked where was the first time he had sex with the last . . . detective repeated that he was asking about the first time, rear bedroom at his sist valenzuela said everyone would always go there and cook . . . always go and do things, but . . . i re things [he] would . . . in a normal way, but r.o. would lower her pants and underwearthe detective asked if that was when valenzuela put his penis in . . . stop, 13 [y]ou told me with me . . . her vagina. so i know you put your penis i be honest, tell me the then he asked again, in her vagina, yes, his own words, acknowledged he had put his penis in vagina. always, the detective asked how many more times valenzuela had sex with r.o. he said he did earlier, in the backyard of house, and described what had happened in great detail. valenzuela explained that father had a house with a stone statue of michelangelo in the back that he was restoring and painting. r.o. knew valenzuela was working there, and she would come over. he said she was older at that time, and he . . . her to feel the trust, like the normal trust of an adult person . . . [t] he was working on [m]ixing the colors and [y]felt alone because he did not have his son with him so he did not 14 said n valenzuela said when it was almost dark, he and r.o. had explained . . . something . . . he said she knelt down and put herself in a sexual position was behind her and put his penis in her vagina. detective smey thanked valenzuela for telling him everything, and asked if valenzuela had put his mouth on her b]ecause and licked her vagina on a sofa in the living room at her house detective smey asked valenzuela if he remembered calling r.o. on her cell phone, and he said he did, adding that they person when he would see her without her phone. the detective next the detective asked if valenzuela remembered what had happened the year before when he went to house and kissed her. valenzuela explained father owed him money, when he saw r.o. the last time, he asked her how she had been, but she was quiet. he told her she was a young woman and she was going to be able 15 to study. he went to the liquor store and starbucks to get juice and coffee for r.o. and her younger brother. when he returned, she was watching television. when her father arrived, to her write out an apology to her, wou valenzuela told him valenzuela said, . the interpreter/investigating officer told the detective handed valenzuela a form valenzuela began writing and started sobbing. after about two minutes, the detective asked valenzuela why he was crying, valenzuela answerfeel awful. i never meant to hurt her. i wish i could just sometimes i pinch myself and valenzuela continued writing for a few more minutes, and when he stopped, the interpreter asked if she could read the statement so the detective could know what he had written. [r.o.], i want to ask for your ashamed, i feel like the worst living being. forgive me. never done it. because of my, my foolishness. i want to ask for your forgiveness 16 from the bottom of my heart. [r.o.]name of my son whom i love so much, and i wou valenzuela then signed and dated his statement. been a priest. i have a lot of friends who are enzuela for telling the truth. shortly thereafter, detective smey and officer castillo said they would be back, and left the room. after sitting in silence for a minute, valenzuela began to , father, and get me out of here. i know guilty. get me out . . . father . . . . . . . forgive me, 10 minutes before continuing: hen, a few holy father. . . . i know . . . but why with these feelings and thoughts, sir? what for? . . . forgive me, lord. . . . i am your pure creation too, my lord jesus. love me, sir, for feeling your light. be big in my heart. . . . forgive me, sir. your forgiveness, [r.o.], guillermo. . . . me . . . . forgive me, out loud and silence until the detectives returned and removed him from the room. b. trial court proceedingsto exclude valenzuela moved to exclude his statements from trial on the following grounds: (1) his statements ; (2) he did not understand his miranda rights; and (3) 17 to the point that he did not understand what was occurrin the motion was based entirely on the contents of the videotaped and interrogation. the trial court reviewed the audio and visual recording, along with the transcript. the court found valenzuela was advised of his miranda appeared to freely and voluntarily engage in a discussion with detective smey. unsophisticated to the point that he was incapable of comprehending the overall situation of his interview.: it appears that the defendant throughout gave rational responses to questions that were being posed.he fact that . . . detective smey was being friendly, pleasant, or at one point apologetic to the defendant regarding having to handcuff him does not equate to coercion. similarly, the fact that the detective engaged the defendant in conversation regarding other topics, such as the t-shirt the defendant was wearing, his family, or was touching the defendant in order to soothe the on behalf of the police. likewise, the fact that the detective, after mirandizing the defendant, advised the defendant of his ethical and/or religious obligation to be truthful does not amount to police misconduct. . . . additionally, it is not inappropriate for police officers to utilize a ruse as a tactic during an interrogation. 18 based on the totality of circumstances, the court denied the motion.5 c. standard of review and general legal principles 1. standard of review generally, review independently a trial courts determinations as to whether coercive police activity was present and whether the statement was voluntary. [citation.] we review the trial courts findings as to the circumstances surrounding the confession, including the characteristics of the accused and the details of the interrogation, for substantial evidence. [citation.] to the people i (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1093, disapproved on another ground in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) however, when t]he facts surrounding an admission or confession are undisputed to the extent the interview is tape-recorded, . . . the issue [of voluntariness is] subject to our people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1177, citing people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 346 when, as here, the interview was tape-recorded, the facts surrounding the giving of the statement are undisputed, and the appellate court may independently review the trial courts determination of voluntariness]; see also people v. wall (2017) 5 ruling that he knowingly and voluntarily waived his miranda rights. 19 factual findings to the extent they are supported by substantial confession are undisputed to the extent the interview is tape-].) because valenzuela relied exclusively on the audio-video recording and transcription of his statements as the basis for his motion to exclude, we conduct an independent review of the recording and the ruling. 2. applicable law involuntary confession. [citation.] (people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 480.) the prosecution bears the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that a confession was voluntary depends upon a totality of the circumstances. (ibid.the capacity for self-people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 436 (williams); accord, people v. cunningham (2015) 61 cal.4th 609, 645 (cunningham) [a statement is made involuntarily when the so disabled that he [or she] was incapable of free or rational choi, quoting in re cameron (1968) 68 cal.2d 487, 498; see also mincey v. arizona (1978) 437 u.s. 385, 398 [98 s.ct. 2408, 57 , quoting townsend v. sain (1963) 372 u.s. 293, 307 [83 s.ct. 745,754 l.ed.2d 770].) 20 when evaluating the voluntariness of a statement, courts consider (1) the nature and extent of police coercion, (2) the length, location, and continuity of the interrogation, as well as (3) the maturity, education, physical condition, and mental health of the defendant. (cunningham, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 642-643; williams, suprathe crucial element of police coercion [citation]; the length of the interrogation [citation]; its location [citation]; its continuity as well as maturity [citation]; education [citation]; physical condition [citation]; and mental healthsee schneckloth v. bustamonte (1973) 412 u.s. 218, 226 [93 s.ct. 2041, 36 l.ed.2d 854] [voluntariness turns on both the characteristics of the accused and the details of the people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 296.) no single factor is dispositive. (williams, at p. 436.) have prohibited only those psychological ploys which, under all the circumstances, are so coercive that they tend to produce a statement that is bot (williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 436; accord, people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 501.) a confession is not involuntary unless the coercive police conduct and the williams, at p. 437; accord, cunningham, 61 cal.4th at p. 643, citing people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 814 [the police misconduct must be . . . the proximate cause of the statement in question, and not merely a cause in fact rights, he [or she] may be questioned freely so long as the 21 questioner does not threaten harm or falsely promise benefits.(people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 170.) investigators are permitted to ask tough questions, exchange information, summarize evidence, outline theories, confront, contradict, and even debate with a suspect. (ibid.) they may accuse the suspect of lying (people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 755) and urge him or her to tell the truth (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 994). necessarily render a statement involuntary. deception does not undermine the voluntari people v. hensley or exhortation by the police that it would be better for the accused to tell the truth when unaccompanied by either a threat or a promise does not render a subsequent confession involuntary.people v. belmontes (1988) 45 cal.3d 744, 773, overruled on another ground in people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 118.) d. valenzuela argues his statement to the police should have been excluded because his interrogation was the product of the same type of psychological coercion criticized in in re elias v. (2015) 237 cal.app.4th 568 (elias v.). valenzuela rests his entire argument on the application of elias v. to the present case. strikingly different from elias v. 22 elias v. involved the interrogation of a 13-year-old juvenile whose uncorroborated statements suggested his culpability in a lewd and lascivious act on a child under the age of 14. (elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 570.) in elias v., the school principal escorted elias out of class and brought him to a small room where the detective was waiting. elias had no prior experience with the police. the detective directed elias to sit across from her, next to the principal. a second police officer stood behind him, and a third officer was stationed at the door. three-year-old sister. (id. at pp. 574, 581.) id. id. at p. 582.) the detective rejected his repeated denials and ignored his explanation that while he was playing a video game with his friend he had simply helped unzip her pants. (ibid.) the detective confronted elias with false evidence, telling ibid.) the detective also threatened to subject elias to a lie detector test against his will. (id. at p. 584.) at the end of her questioning, the detective employed the -elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 586). she presented elias with two possible explanations for the sexual touching: he touched the alleged victim id. at pp. 584-585.) the detective said both were completely understandable.id. at 23 p. 584) elias agreed to the more acceptable alternative that he was merely (id. at p. exclude, emphasizing the fact that elias had asked questions a couple of times very short-give and take in the conversationtrial court to conclude the appropriate.id. at p. 575.) the court of afailed to prove by a elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 600). the court reached its decision based upon the combination of three factors: rendered him most susceptible to influence [citation] and outside pressures [citation]. [citation]; (2) the absence of any the likelihood that [] use of deception and overbearing tactics would induce involuntary and untrustworthy id. at pp. 586-587.) 1. valenzuela is not a juvenile valenzuela was 47 years old at the time of his arrest. no evidence suggests he was immature or unsophisticatednothing close to 13-year-old elias. 2. confession because a statement obtained by physical or psychological coercion may lead to a false confession, elias v. examined whether the statements. the court pointed out that corroborative evidence 24 can come from many sources: statements, and information from the suspect that only the perpetrator would know. (elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. that a suspect may simply repeat. (elias v., at p. 592 tion to a suspect of known details about a crime is discouraged because it creates the possibility a confession may in elias v., corroborating evidence was lacking. (elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 591 [manner in which elias allegedly touched the child came from , and no evidence corroborated his ].) the mother did not see elias touch her daughter. instead, when she walked in the room and asked what had happened, the child asked him to help her take off her pants because she wanted to go to the bathroom. (id., at p. 571.) in the present case, 17-year-old r.o. testified in great interview, he provided facts only the perpetrator would knowfacts that were not provided to him by the detective. for example, he specified locations where the sexual conduct at house near the michelangelo statue. unlike elias, elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 592), valenzuela not only admitted 25 his offenses in great detail but also demonstrated physically one of the sexual positions he used. 3. statements involuntary or unreliable nd overbearing tactics rendered his statements involuntary. valenzuela argues three considerations compel this conclusion: (1) -; (2) valenzuela was ; and (3) detective maximization/minimizationhis confession. a. pre-interrogation interview6 valenzuela argues that because detective smey did not engage in a pre-deploy a critical safeguard to ensure that a false confession was (elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 598 [[a]bsent a life-saving circumstance the investigator should conduct a non- 6 [h]is statements involuntary and unreliable because the detective failed to conduct a pre-interrogation interview. this missing pre-interrogation interview, however, is the very same interview valenzuela soften[ed] him up. accordingly, that a pre-interrogation interview did not take place lacks merit. 26 informatiit . . . . 7 (ibid.) --interrogation interview before advising valenzuela of his miranda rights and commencing the interrogation. at the start of their exchange, the detective took notes as he asked valenzuela for his address, date of birth and work at some length. the tone was conversational, and the detective listened to valenzuela as he spoke freely without cutting him off or behaving aggressively in any way. detective smey told valenzuela he liked his bob marley t-shirt, which prompted valenzuela to volunteer information about his fianc (elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at pp. 598-the investigator can establish rapport with the suspect, assess their credibility, develop investigative information and establish a behavioral baseline 7 environly when the investigator is reasonably certain of the suspects guilt, any notes until after the suspect has told the truth and is fully elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 598.) 27 b. valenzuela vulnerable state next, valenzuela argues that because he was already in a , his confession was not voluntary. valenzuela argues he was vulnerable because he had been in custody for two days without being informed of the reason for his arrest.8 valenzuela does not cite any authority for the proposition that two days in custody without being told the reason for his arrest constitutes coercive prolonged detention nor does the videotape of the interrogation demonstrate valenzuela was in a vulnerable state. there is no indication valenzuela was injured, hungry, sleep-deprived, confused, or disoriented. no evidence suggests or supports the conclusion valenzuela was in a vulnerable state. 8 relying on his trial testimony, valenzuela suggests the following factors added to his vulnerability: lack of food, and lack of access to a shower or a phone. valenzuela did not raise these factors as part of his motion to exclude, and consequently, these factors are forfeited. (williams, supradefendant ordinarily forfeits elements of a voluntariness claim people v. rundle, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 121 [the defendant forfeited the claim that the length of the interrogation and of an interview with a state-appointed psychiatrist rendered statements involuntary because he failed to raise these claims in the trial court], disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. ray (1996) 13 cal.4th 313, 339 [because defendant did not mention the asserted ground in his motion or at the hearing, and the trial court had no opportunity to resolve material factual disputes and make necessary factual findings. under such circumstances, a claim of involuntariness generally will not be 28 moreover, there is no evidence these factors (being held in custody for two days without knowing the basis for his arrest) between the alleged coercive police conduct and vincriminatory statements exclusion is not warranted. in williams, the california supreme court addressed a similar prolonged custody, pointing to the period between his arrest and his interrogation three days later. (williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 446essential connection between the illegal detention and the confession . . . . there is no evidence indicating that his eventual willingness to make admissions was caused by prolonged (ibid.; see also people v. turner (1994) 8 cal.4th 137, [a] defendant must show that the delay produced his admissions or that there was an essential connection between the illegal detention and admissions nothing in the videotape suggests his detention or lack of knowledge concerning the basis for his arrest played any part in his decision to admit his involvement in the crimes. c. the maximization/minimization technique finally, valenzuela argues detective smey employed the in elias v. and contends use of this technique was coercive. however, valenzuela does not cite any authority for the proposition that elias v.s criticisms apply in the same way with respect to 29 adults.9 to be sure, courts must consider the effect of such techniques when evaluating the voluntariness of a confession, but the ultimate inquiry turns on all the surrounding circumstances both the characteristics of the accused and the details of the interrogation. (schneckloth v. bustamonte, supra, 412 u.s. at p. 226.) simply because detective smey either intentionally or in effect used the maximization/minimization technique does not necessarily 10 in response to a similar argument challenging the use of maximization/minimization techniques as being coercive, the california supreme court in williams wrote: however, that [the officers] coerced his statements during the first interview by engaging in practices assertedly disapproved by the united states supreme court in [miranda]. he refers to the 9 in elias v. the court noted its concern about the use of the in cases involving juveniles, not adults. (elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at pp. 579, 587, 593 [the detective in elias v. used the reid technique, . . . quoted extensively . . . in miranda employed in the custodial interrogation of adultsconsensus . . . about the need for extreme caution in applying [the ].) 10 maximization tactics include: overriding objections, and citing evidence, real or manufactured, and communicat-solid belief that the suspect is guilty and that all den (elias v., supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 583.) by contrast, techniques are designed to provide the suspect with moral justification and face-saving excuses for having committed the crime in question. (ibid.) 30 high courts discussion of potentially coercive conduct such as threatening a defendant, using deception, displaying confidence in the suspects guilt and directing questions solely at confirming . . . details [citation] minimizing the accuseds responsibility for the crime, and employing a good cop, bad cop interrogation tactic. [citation.] the miranda decision, however, suggested that the advisements required by the opinion in that case would serve as a counterweight to the coercive pressure that may be exerted by the noted interrogation tactics. [citations.] as we have explained, [the] defendant was advised of and waived the rights set out in (williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 442.) the same miranda warnings given in this case supply the same counterweight to the coercive pressure of the maximization/minimization techniques. nor does the fact detective smey used deceptive tactics as part of the maximization technique confession involuntary and unreliable. detective smey certainly lied to valenzuela when he claimed the police had matching dna evidence and inculpatory audio recordings. such deceptions, however, do not undermine the voluntariness of of a type reasonably likely s (williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 443; people v. jones, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 299 [the detective implied at various times that he knew more than regarding the ].officers are thus at liberty to utilize deceptive strategems to trick a guilty person into confessing. the cases from california and federal courts validating such tactics are legion. [citations.] 31 (people v. chutan (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 1276, 1280; see also people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 993 [telling the defendant witnesses identified him when that was not true did not render his statements involuntary]; people v. smith, supra, 40 cal.4th at pp. 500, 506 [subjecting the defendant to a fake test described as a neutron proton negligence intelligence test and informing the defendant the test proved he recently fired a gun did not render his statement involuntary]; people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 182 [telling the defendant his fingerprints render his confession involuntary]; people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 1241 [telling the defendant his fingerprints had been lifted from the when that was not true did not render his statements involuntary ]; people v. mays (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 156, 166 [fake polygraph exam conducted at the was unlikely to produce a false confession].) deceptive, did d. additional considerations demonstrate was voluntary in addition to the examination of the crucial element of police coercionwilliams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 436), courts must also consider the length, location and continuity of the interrogation as well as the maturity, education, physical condition and mental health of the defendant. (cunningham, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 642-643). here, the length of the interview was relatively short roughly one hour from the start of the interview until valenzuela wrote his apology to r.o. (see cunningham, at p. 644 [four-hour interview not coercive]; people 32 v. hill (1992) 3 cal.4th 959, 981 [eight hours of questioning over a 12-hour period not coercive], overruled on another ground in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) while the interview and interrogation took place in a small room, there was nothing particularly coercive about the environment. valenzuela was not handcuffed and moved about freely. given the short duration of the questioning, breaks were not necessary. attack him, talk non-stop, or bombard him with questions. the video demonstrates quite the opposite. the officers were polite and empathetic. they never raised their voices or badgered valenzuela. they were neither aggressive nor threatening. condition and mental health, none of these factors suggests valenzuela was impaired or immature. valenzuela was a man of mature years47. he graduated from high school in el salvador and had lived in the united states for over a decade. he worked construction and did not demonstrate any physical ailments.11 a spanish interpreter translated the conversation. valenzuela did not have any trouble following and participating in the conversation, and nothing suggests valenzuela suffered from any mental health issues or that the detective exploited any psychiatric problems in order to produce the incriminating abilities to reason or comprehend or resist were in fact so disabled that he was incapable of free or rationale choice. (see cunningham, supra, 61 11 at trial, valenzuela testified he was trained as an electrician and plumber in el salvador. he continued his trade in the united states and was familiar with building codes and the technical requirements needed to perform his jobs. 33 cal.4th at p. 645.) while valenzuela cried and was emotional at several points, his emotional responses were appropriate given the revelations about his sexual crimes. his distress was clearly attributable to his own actions, in recognition of the gravity of the harm he had caused, rather than any police conduct. during the interview, valenzuela did not complain about his well-being or treatment. he never asked to stop the interview. he never asked for a break. he volunteered information. no threats or promises were made by the officers. no physical force was used. he wrote out his own statement, in his own words, which he read out loud for the officers. six times. he described his behavior as a compulsion similar to that of problem. ultimately, the question is not whether detective smey used a maximization/minimization technique or employed deceptive tactics; he did. the question is whether under the totality of circumstances, voluntary; it was. the psychological ploys utilized by detective smey were not so coercive to produce an involuntary and unreliable statements were corroborated by r.o. testimony and contained information only the perpetrator would know. as such, his statement was both externally and internally reliable. while valenzuela confessed, in every sense of the word, he did not do so overborne and his capacity for self-determination critically impaired (williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 436.) the people established by a preponderance of the evidence that 34 made voluntarily. the trial court did not err by admitting his statements at trial.12 e. lacks merit valenzuela argues his counsel failed to present evidence in support of his motion to exclude that, prior to his interrogation, he had been deprived of food, denied access to a shower, and denied use of a phone.13 he argues these additional factors rendered coercive tactics, and had the trial court known of these facts, the court would have granted his motion. anticipating correctly these arguments would be forfeited on appeal because they were not raised below, valenzuela posits the failure to present these arguments constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. 1. general principles and standard of review objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing e was prejudicial, i.e., there is a reasonable probability that, but for [citation.]people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 12 valenzuela argues reversal is required because the erroneous admission of his confession was prejudicial. because valenzuela has failed to demonstrate error, we need not address this argument. 13 although valenzuela testified to these matters at trial, defense counsel did not renew the motion to exclude. 35 966, 979-980; accord, in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674].) ineffective representation is upon the defendant. the proof . . . must be a demonstrable reality and [citation.]people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 656; accord, people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 875.) there is a mstances. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689; accord, people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391; people v. carter of ineffective assistance of counsel, we give great deference to people v. johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 980.) in addition, on a direct appeal a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance of counsel only when the record demonstrates there could have been no rational (gamache, at p. 391; people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674-675 s performance fell within the wide range of professional competence and that counsels actions and inactions can be explained as a matter of sound trial strategyhen the record on direct appeal sheds no light on why counsel failed to act in the manner challenged, [the] defendant must show that s act or omission; people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 569.) 36 2. performance was not deficient because there was a conceivable tactical purpose for not deficient performance fails. the evidence valenzuela was not provided with food, access to a shower or a phone was equivocal, at best. during the trial, valenzuela initially testified he did not remember what he had eaten after his arrest. later, he testified more than two days. valenzuela testified he was never offered a shower and that hfianc but was never able to do so. the people called officer castillo to impeach valenzuela on these very points. she testified the jails were required to provide food to inmates, indeed it was . she testified arrestees were provided with the opportunity to shower and to use the telephone, and the holding tank where arrestees were placed after booking had a phone with instructions explaining how to make three free local calls. in his closing argument defense counsel tried to regain by had been provided with food, even if he d is a rational tactical purpose for all valenzuela as a witness at the hearing on the motion to exclude. defense counsel may well have decided the videotaped interview presented the strongest case for exclusion. by calling valenzuela as a witness, defense counsel risked exposing valenzuela to cross-examination and to o. had defense counsel called valenzuela at the hearing, he may well have found 37 himself in the position of explaining to the court, instead of the jury, that he was sure valenzuela had been provided food. 3. valenzuela has not shown prejudice valenzuela bears the burden of showing a reasonable probability that but for the asserted errors of counsel, the result would have been differentmeaning a reasonable probability the trial court would have granted his motion to exclude. (people v. mayfield (1993) 5 cal.4th 142, 175-is no reasonable probability that the court would have granted a motion to [exclude] the taped evidence on grounds of valenzuela fails to make such a showing. even if re added to the mix of available factors for the courts consideration, there is no reasonable probability the would be any different. this is so because there is no indication any of these factors motivated valenzuela to confess; the causal connection is therefore lacking. (people v. cunningham (2015) 61 cal.4th 609, conducas captured on the videotape, valenzuela never mentioned he was hungry and never stated he had been deprived of food or a shower or access to a phone. he did mention he wanted to speak with his fianc, but, nonetheless, continued talking with detective smey. there is no indication these factors had any impact upon decision to speak with the officers. without this causal connection, valenzuela fails to establish prejudice. 38 valenzuela has not demonstrated deficient performance or prejudice. as a result, his claim of ineffective assistance of counsel fails. disposition the judgment is affirmed. bensinger, j.* we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 