 filed 11/14/18 p. v. gomez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. samuel eugenio gomez, defendant and appellant. b281785 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba422780) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig e. veals, judge. affirmed. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant samuel gomez of willful infliction of corporal injury upon a spouse or cohabitant and making criminal threats. (penal code,  273.5, 422.) gomez argues his judgment of conviction must be reversed because: (1) the trial court erred in concluding that certain statements the victim made to a police officer were admissible under the hearsay exception for prior consistent statements; (2) defense counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to test whether there was blood on the knife that was allegedly used to commit the domestic abuse offense. we affirm. factual background a. investigation and filing of the information on march 20, 2014, los angeles county deputy sherriff manuel navarro responded to an incident at a restaurant located in the city of commerce. when navarro arrived, security personnel directed him toward a woman, later identified as militza m., sitting in the kitchen area. navarro observed blood hands, . . . feet [and] dress, and . . . a towel militza was ,and appeared to be in pain. injuries, which included a two-inch cut on her forearm, and a small puncture wound in the area of her abdomen. militza told navarro her boyfriend, samuel gomez, had cut her, and then driven away in her car. militza received on-scene treatment from paramedics, and was then transported to a hospital. during an interview at the hospital, militza informed navarro that she and gomez had driven to the restaurant together to celebrate her birthday. several hours after they arrived, a male patron bumped into gomez, who had consumed 3 numerous alcoholic drinks, and the two men got into a dispute. militza tried to calm gomez, and then went outside to her car. gomez followed her outside, and entered the passenger seat of the vehicle. gomez then grabbed phone out of her hand, and started to search for numbers of other men. when militza tried to take the phone back, gomez slapped her, pulled her hair and then told her he was going to cut her. militza suddenly felt a sharp pain in her arm and abdomen, and saw blood. militza told navarro she suspected gomez had stabbed her with a foldable pocketknife he frequently carried with him, but clarified that she had not actually seen the object that caused her injuries. militza got out of the car, and screamed for help. gomez drove away in her vehicle. after the interview, navarro called gomez on a cell phone number that militza had provided. when navarro asked gomez what occurred at the restaurant, gomez stated that happened, that he got in an argument, that he tried to have [militza] leave with him, but she refused so he left. gomez also stated that militza did not have any injuries when he left the restaurant parking lot. the next morning, police officers apartment, took , which had substantial amounts of what appeared to be blood on -side door, the steering wheel, the central console and the passenger seat. inside the apartment, gentified a backpack that belonged to gomez. officers found a pocketknife in the backpack that made a clicking noise when the blade was opened. during a subsequent custodial interrogation, gomez acknowledged that he got into an altercation at the restaurant, 4 and then followed militza outside. gomez claimed he had little memory of what occurred after he left the restaurant because he was drunk. although he remembered arguing with militza and driving away in her car, he could not recall assaulting her. throughout the interrogation, gomez repeatedly stated, on may 22, 2014, the district attorney for the county of los angeles filed an information charging gomez with one count of willfully inflicting corporal injury on a spouse or cohabitant (see pen. code,  273.51), and one count of making criminal threats. ( 422, subd. (a).) as to count one, the information further alleged gomez had personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon, (see  12022, subd. (b)(1)), and had personally inflicted great bodily injury under circumstances involving domestic abuse. (see  12022.7, subd. (e).) b. trial 1. witness testimony a. testimony of militza m. at trial, militza m. provided testimony that was substantially consistent with the statements she had made to navarro shortly after the attack occurred. according to militza, gomez was drunk when he got into a dispute with two other men at the restaurant. after trying to calm gomez, militza decided to leave the restaurant. gomez followed her outside, approached the driver-side window of the vehicle and asked whether she was really going to leave him there. when militza responded yes, he entered the passenger side of the vehicle and 1 unless otherwise noted, all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 5 grabbed her cell phone. she attempted to take her phone back, and gomez then slapped her in the face. militza began crying and asked why he had done that. she then heard gomez pull out what she believed was a pocketknife. she clarified that she had not seen the weapon, but heard a that was similar to the sound gomezpocketknife made when the blade was opened. gomez told her he would stab her and kill her if she tried to run. militza immediately opened the car door, yelling for help. gomez called stupid bitch,and then pulled her hair. militza then felt something press against her abdomen. she saw blood on her body, and began running from the car. shortly thereafter, militza observed a small cut on her abdomen, and spla from a cut on her left forearm. she was transported to a hospital, where she received stitches. militza also testified about a prior assault gomez had committed against her in october of 2010. according to militza, gomez came home extremely drunk, and began urinating on the bedroom floor. he then attempted to get into bed with militza and her daughter. when militza would not let him enter the bed, he tried to take her pillow. gomez then struck her in the mouth with a closed fist, resulting in injuries to the interior of her mouth and lips. the following morning, militza called the police, and an officer came to the home. militza confirmed that several photographs the police had taken on the day of the incident accurately showed the injuries inside her lip and mouth. on cross-examination, militza acknowledged she was currently applying for a type of nonimmigrant visa available to 6 victims of domestic abuse known as a .2 militza also admitted that she knew about this type of visa before the incident at the restaurant occurred, but had never previously applied for one. b. testimony of tibor naray the prosecution also called tibor naray, the officer who had responded to the domestic violence incident that occurred in october of 2010. before naray took the stand, defense counsel moved to exclude as hearsay had made to naray regarding the 2010 incident. the prosecutionstatements were admissible under the hearsay exception for prior consistent statements. (see evid. code,  791, 1236.) the prosecution explained the exception applied because the defense had previously implied militza fabricated or exaggerated her testimony about to aid her application for a u visa. the court granted the motion, explaining that although the defense had clearly challenged the accuracy of more recent restaurant incident, the defense had not yet challenged the truthfulness of her description of what occurred during the october 2010 incident. naray testified on direct examination that he had responded to a domestic abuse call at 2 congress created to provide legal status for noncitizens who assist in the investigation of serious crimes in which they have been victimized. (see 8 u.s.c.  1101(a)(15)(u); people v. morales (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 502, 506; fonseca-sanchez v. gonzales (7th cir. 2007) 484 f.3d 439, 442, fn. 4.) 7 residence in october of 2010. naray stated that when he arrived at the premises, militza appeared disheveled and afraid, and had multiple injuries inside her mouth. naray stated that he took gomez into custody, and then questioned him. according to naray, gomez admitted he had come home drunk and slept on the floor, but could not recall whether he hit militza. gomez claimed that when he woke up, militza started yelling at him on cross-examination, defense counsel asked naray whether gomez had denied urinating on the floor and striking militza. naray confirmed gomez had specifically denied committing either of those acts. naray also acknowledged that gomez had said he tried to avoid getting into a physical altercation with militza, and that she had prevented him from leaving the home. following the defense-examination, the prosecution renewed its request to ask naray about the statements militza had made to the officer about the october 2010 incident. the court agreed to the request, noting that the defense had now elicited testimony from gomez implying that militza had not been truthful when she testified that he had urinated on the floor and struck her in the mouth. on re-direct examination, the prosecution asked naray what militza had told him when he arrived at the residence. naray testified that militza told him gomez had come home drunk, urinated on the floor and then, after she refused to give him her pillow, struck militza in the face with a closed fist.3 3 the prosecution called several additional witnesses during its case-in-chief, including officer navarro, a second police officer who had interviewed gomez, an officer who had searched 8 c. testimony of defendant samuel gomez gomez, testifying in his defense, stated that on the night of march 19, 2014, he had traveled to a restaurant with militza, and then gotten into a dispute with her because she had been talking to another man. militza became upset and decided to leave. gomez then went outside to have a cigarette, and saw militza sitting in her car writing a text on her phone. gomez approached vehicle, and asked whether she was really going to leave him there. she allowed him into the passenger side of the vehicle. gomez asked to see her phone, and she complied. as gomez began to open her messages application, militza suddenly hit him in the forehead with a closed fist. he then slapped her omez claimed militza retrieved a metal-colored object from the center console that appeared threatened to stab gomez if he did not return her phone. gomez struggled with militza, trying to get the object away. she then opened the door, exited the vehicle and started gomez moved , and tried to convince militza to get into the car. when she refused, he drove away. gomez asserted that he did not possess a knife at the time of the incident, and had not seen any blood in the car. gomez acknowledged that he had told interrogating officers he could not recall what happened in the restaurant parking lot. gomez claimed, however, that he had denied any recollection of what had occurred because he was trying to protect militza, who . gomez further 9 stated that he had decided to testify as to what really occurred because he for something [he] gomez also claimed he had made that statement in reference to taking without her permission. he also admitted that when another officer showed him pictures of the injuries, he put his head in his hands and said, this is regarding the october 2010 incident, gomez testified that he had not urinated on the floor or struck militza, and asserted that she had claimed militza was responsible for starting the fight, and had not allowed him to leave the house. he also stated that he was uncertain how militza had sustained the injuries inside her mouth. c. closing argument and sentencing at closing argument, the defense posited that militza had either fabricated or exaggerated her testimony about the march 2014 and october 2010 incidents to strengthen her case for a u visa. the defense argued that if gomez had actually struck militza in 2010, she could have applied for a u visa at that time. the fact that she had failed to do so showed her current the jury found gomez guilty of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse or cohabitant ( 273.5, subd. (a)), and making criminal threats. ( 422.) with regard to the corporal injury count, the jury further found that gomez had personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon during the commission of the offense, and had inflicted great bodily injury under circumstances involving domestic violence. (see  12022, subd. (b)(1)12022.7, subd. (e).) 10 the court sentenced gomez to an aggregate term of 10 years in state prison.4 discussion a. statements to officer naray were admissible under the prior consistent statements exception to the hearsay rule gomez argues describing the statements militza made to him regarding the october 2010 domestic violence incident constituted hearsay, and should have been excluded. the attorney general, however, contends the admissible pursuant to the hearsay exception for prior consistent statements. s decision to admit prior consistent statements for an abuse of discretion. (people v. waidla an appellate court applies the abuse of discretion standard of review to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence, including one that turns on the hearsay nature of the evidence in question any out-of-court statement made by a testifying witness, offered to prove the truth of the matter asserted, is inadmissible hearsay unless the statement falls within one of the recognized exceptions to the hearsay rule. (evid. code,  1200, subds. (a) & (b); people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 185.) evidence code 4 the ten-year sentence consisted of the upper term of four years for the infliction of corporal injury count ( 273.5, subd. (b)), plus a one-year enhancement under section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), and an additional five-year enhancement under section 12072.7, subdivision (e). the court imposed a term of three years in state prison for the criminal threats count ( 422), but stayed that portion of the sentence under section 654. 11 sections 791 and 1236 set forth an exception for a testifying prior consistent statements.5 be admissible as an exception to the hearsay rule [under section 791], a prior consistent statement must be offered [(a)] after an inconsistent statement is admitted ts credibility, where the consistent statement was made before the inconsistent statement, or [(b)] when there is an express or s testimony recently was fabricated or influenced by bias or improper motive, and the statement was made prior to the fabrication, bias, or improper mo (people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 802 (riccardi) [disapproved on another ground in people v. rangel (2016) 62 5 evidence code section 1236 provides, in relevant part: evidence of a statement previously made by a witness is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is consistent with his testimony at the hearing and is offered in compliance with section 791. made by a witness that is consistent with his testimony at the hearing is inadmissible to support his credibility unless it is offered after: (a) evidence of a statement made by him that is inconsistent with any part of his testimony at the hearing has been admitted for the purpose of attacking his credibility, and the statement was made before the alleged inconsistent statement; or (b) an express or implied charge has been made that his testimony at the hearing is recently fabricated or is influenced by bias or other improper motive, and the statement was made before the bias, motive for fabrication, or other improper motive is all 12 cal.4th 1192, 1216].) statements were admissible under subdivision (b) because the cross-examination of militza and naray impliedly charged that militza had fabricated her testimony regarding the october 2010 incident. we find no abuse of discretion in the trial . as summarized above, militza testified on direct examination that in october 2010, gomez came home drunk, urinated on the floor and then struck her in the mouth after she refused to give him her pillow. on cross-examination, defense counsel elicited testimony in which militza admitted she was currently applying for a type of visa available to victims of domestic abuse. she further admitted that although she previously knew about this type of visa, she had not tried to obtain one after the october 2010 incident. when cross-examining officer naray, defense counsel elicited testimony that gomez told naray he did not urinate on the floor or strike militza during the 2010 incident, which directly contradicted trial testimony about that event. considered together, the cross-examination of militza and naray raise an implied charge that militza fabricated her testimony about the october 2010 incident to support her recent visa application, a motive that arose long after she had made the statements to naray.6 the trial court was therefore justified in admitting section 791, subdivision (b). 6 during closing argument, the defense explicitly raised this the 2010 incident. 13 in his appellate brief, gomez does not directly refute that the cross-examination of naray and militza contained an implied charge that militza had fabricated her testimony regarding the 2010 incident. he argues, however, that the exception for prior consistent statements is nonetheless inapplicable because his -examine naray about what gomez said to him regarding the octsupport, gomez cites evidence code section 773, which sets forth the permissible scope of cross-examination.7 thus, gomez appears to contend that testimony elicited through questions that fall within the permissible scope of cross-examination cannot give rise to an implied charge of fabrication for purposes of the consistent prior statement exception. gomez cites no legal authority in support of that position. the case law is replete with decisions affirming the application of the prior consistent statement exception under circumstances where the implied charge of fabrication arose through cross-examination testimony.8 indeed, our supreme court has 7 evidence code section 7a witness examined by one party may be cross-examined upon any matter within the scope of the direct examination by each other party to the action in such order as the court directs 8 see, e.g., riccardi, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 802-803 [prior consistent statement admissible after defense counsel suggested on cross-examination that the witness had failed to tell the police [disapproved on another ground by people v. rangel, supra, 62 cal.4th 1192]; people v. kennedy (2005) 36 cal.4th 595, 614 [prior -examination . . . 14 emphasized that evaluating the admissibility of prior consistent statements,focus . . . on [the] . . . inducement suggested by cross-examination as supporting the s improper motive(crew, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 843 [emphasis added.]) simply put, nothing in evidence code section 1236 or section 791 suggests the prior consistent statement exception is inapplicable when the evidence giving rise to a charge of fabrication was elicited through permissible cross-examination. b. ineffective assistance claim is more appropriately resolved in a habeas proceeding gomez argues his attorney provided ineffective assistance in his appellate brief, gomez asserts that post-conviction testing showed there was no blood on the blade. he helped the defense case, even if that fact was not completely [that] sought to impeach [witness] by . . . suggesting that her statements implicating defendant were the result of threats of on another ground by people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405]; people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 843-844 (crew) [prior consistent statement admissible based on cross-examination raising inference of fabrication based on an people v. williams (2002) 102 cal.app.4th 995, 1011 [video-taped statements defense counsel implied during cross-examination that [the witnesses] had fabricated portions of their trial tes 15 s of ineffective assistance of trial counsel, we consider whether counsel's representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence (people v. johnson (2016) 62 cal.4th 600, 653 (johnson).) discretion in choosing the means by which to provide (ibid.) s ability to determine from the record whether an attorney has provided constitutionally deficient legal representation is in the usual case severely hampered by the absence o [citation.] for this reason, [the supreme court] long ago adopted the rule failed to act in the instance asserted to be ineffective, unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation, the claim must be rejected on appeal. [citations.] [citations.] the merits of such claims are more appropriately resolved, not on the basis of the appellate record, but rather by way of a petition for (johnson, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 653; see also people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1051; people v. hung thanh mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009.) in this case, the record does not reveal trial counsel chose not to test the knife. moreover, gomez has failed to show there is no conceivable satisfactory explanation for the decision. (see people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 675 [hen the record on direct appeal sheds no light on why counsel failed to act in the manner challenged, the defendant must show 16 there was no conceivable tactical purposes act or omission].) given that the prosecution did not introduce any evidence that blood was found on the knife, defense counsel may well have concluded that testing the knife for blood was unnecessary. inappropriate for resolution on direct appeal.9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. feuer, j. 9 gomez additionally argues that if we conclude his trial -examination of militza and naray record does not reveal why trial counsel chose to cross-examine militza and naray in the manner that he did. moreover, gomez has not shown there is no conceivable satisfactory explanation for the decision. we therefore conclude this claim is more appropriately resolved by way of a petition for writ of habeas corpus. 