 filed 3/1/19 p. v. singleton ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. cleveland singleton, defendant and appellant. b281821 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba443512 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed as modified. patrick j. hoynoski, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant cleveland singleton of second degree robbery and felony false imprisonment by violence. on appeal, singleton urges us to extend the daniels1 rule applicable to aggravated kidnapping cases to the crime of false imprisonment. singleton asks us to refuse to follow california cases on this issue in favor of new york law. we facts and procedural background 1. the events of january 21, 2016 around 11:00 p.m. on january 21, 2016, andrew boch was playing poker with four other men in front of a market in the skid row area of downtown los angeles. one of the men was singleton. pocketsomewhere between $290 and $300. boch has a wheelchair; sometimes he uses it as a walker and sometimes he sits in it. boch went into the market and bought an energy drink. as soon as boch opened the door of the market to come back out to the street t his whole weight on boch tried to cover his face hit [him]. asses came off at some point and he never found them. boch recognized the two men who took the 1 people v. daniels (1969) 71 cal.2d 1119 (daniels). 3 boch went across the street to the police station. he spoke with los angeles police department officer luis alcala. a video camera captured the events outside the market. the prosecutor played the video footage for the jury. we have watched it. boch can be seen walking from the left into the frame, pushing a wheelchair.2 a large man wearing a hat approaches boch and punches him in a hook with his right fist. boch immediately falls to the ground; the wheelchair rolls away. the large man drags boch several feet, away from the direction from which boch emerged (presumably, the exit of the market). the large man continues to bend over bochit is difficult to make out if he is hitting boch, holding him down, or both. within seconds, two men standing a few feet away approach boch, one wearing a greenish-gray hoodie, the other wearing a gray hoodie. both bend over boch. with the two hoodie-wearing men in the foreground, it is difficult to see what the large man is doing to boch, but he remains bent over boch as well. the large man does not look up at the two other men. the man in the gray hoodie then stands, turns toward the camera, and begins to walk away from boch, holding a roll of something in his hand. the large man also stands and follows the first man. the man in the greenish hoodie walks next to the large man, their shoulders nearly touching. boch staggers to his feet. 2. the charges and trial the people charged singleton with kidnapping for robbery, second degree robbery, and false imprisonment by violence. the 2 boch testified at trial that he recognized himself in the video. 4 people alleged five prison priors under penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b).3 the court dismissed the kidnapping count on a motion under section 995 and the case proceeded to trial on the two remaining counts. singleton testified on his own behalf. according to -4 the cards in the singleton told boch he had to replace the cards. singleton testified boch went to the market and singleton singleton said he waited outside the market for boch to come out; when boch did, singleton asked him where the cards were and boch 5 singleton said he punched boch in the face and boch went down with the first punch. singleton testified, when asked why he continued to punch boch once boch e i 3 statutory references are to the penal code. 4 5 no audio can be heard on the surveillance camera videotape. 5 singleton testified he did not know the men who singleton statedadmitted having seen in the video thof singleton admitted the large man seen dragging and punching boch in the videotape was him. the jury convicted singleton on both counts. at a post-trial hearing, singleton admitted his five prison priors. the trial court sentenced singleton to seven years in the state prison. the court chose the high term of five years on the robbery count (count 2), plus two one-year prison priors. the court sentenced singleton to the midterm of two years on the false imprisonment count (count 3), to be served concurrently with the robbery count. the court struck the remaining prison priors. discussion 1. false imprisonment and robbery ( 236.) for the crime of false to go (people v. von villas (1992) 10 cal.app.4th 201, 255 (von villas).) it is the restraint of a of false imprisonment embodied in section 236. (people v. bamba (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1113, 1120-1121.) the wrong may be committed by acts or by words, or both, and by merely operating 6 upon the will of the individual or by personal violence, or both. people v. fernandez (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 710, 717.) violencemenace,. ( 237, subd. (a); accord people v. straight (1991) 230 cal.app.3d 1372, 1374 (straight).) the exercise of physical force used to restrain over and above the force reasonably necessary to effect such restraint. (people v. matian (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 480, 484 (matian) a threat of harm express or implied by word or act.ibid.) a defendant may be convicted of both robbery and false imprisonment when he restrains the victim as part of the robbery. in people v. reed (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 274 (reed), a jury convicted the defendant reed of the robbery of one victim as well as the false imprisonment of that victim and two additional victims. (id. at p. 277.) reedwith two accomplicesburst into ordered the victims to get on the ground. the gunman put the weapon against one victimhead with it. the perpetrators took food stamps and some coins. (id. at pp. 278-279.) on appeal, reed argued the evidence was insufficient to convict her of both robbery and felony false imprisonment (reed, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 279.) the court of appeal rejected that argument. appellant erroneously believes she cannot be convicted of two offenses based on the same conduct. the court continued, imprisonment confirms they are different offenses even though 7 they may, on occasion, share some elements (i.e., the use of force (reed, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at pp. 281-282.) the court cited von villas. to equate the right of freedom of movement or mobility with the right to retain personal belongings.von villas that both crimes involve a violation of personal liberty ignores the specific freedoms the two crimes were designed to protect. . . . a robbery can be committed without subjecting a person to false imprisonment. . . .id. at p. 282, quoting von villas, 10 cal.app.4th at p. 256.) here, singleton did not merely hold boch down while the other two men took all of his money from his pocket. according after boch was on the ground because he was angry and wanted to teach boch a lesson. of boch, b compell[ing him] to remain where he [did] not wish to remainvon villas, supra, companions to approach and rob the incapacitated boch. people v. williams (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 644, 672.) 2. california courts have declined to extend the daniels rule to false imprisonment singleton implicitly concedes that substantial evidence supports his convictions for false imprisonment by violence and robbery under existing california law. but singleton asks us to people v. daniels to false imprisonment when the restraint or movement of the 8 victim was merely incidental to the commission of another crime in that case, a jury had convicted daniels of aggravated kidnapping for robbery. (daniels, supra, 71 cal.2d 1119.) the california supreme court not of the scope intended by the legislature in prescribing the (id. at p. 1134.) in particular, movement from one room to another within a home into another part of the same county.id. at p. 1140.) accordingly, to prove kidnapping for robbery, the prosecution must establish that the defendant moved the victim a substantial distance, a distance beyond that merely incidental to the commission of the robberymore t must have increased the risk of physical or psychological harm to the person no. 1203.) the court of appeal in reed, discussed above, rejected precisely the argument singleton makes here. there, reed her contention that movement of a victim done solely to accomplish the robbery cannot support convictions for both noted rsubstantial movement requirement for simple kidnapping onto reed, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at id. at p. 282.) the reed court discussed several cases, including cotton v. superior court, in and for imperial county (1961) 56 cal.2d 459, the precursor to daniels; daniels itself; people v. stanworth 9 (1974) 11 cal.3d 588, 596-601 (stanworth), holding that daniels does not apply to simple (as opposed to aggravated) kidnapping; and people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225, 237, holding that the fact finder may consider the totality of the circumstances in determining whether the movement of the victim was incidental to the commission of an associated offense. the reed court concluded, advancing her claim is that our high court has movement only as it pertains to the asportation element of kidnapping. while the definition of that element has changed considerably over time, the above referenced cases show that kidnapping, be it simple or aggravated, requires a degree of asportation not found in the definition of false imprisonment. indeed, false imprisonment can occur with any movement or no movement at all. accordingly, (reed, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 284.) olds some appeal, it is not for us to add elements to a statutorily defined crime. that task is best left to ibid.) division one of this court cited reed with approval in people v. williams, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at pp. 666-674 [reversing convictions for kidnapping to commit robbery and simple kidnapping because moving victims to back of stores did not result in increased risk of harm and was merely incidental to robbery, but affirming convictions for felony false imprisonment because defendants used threats constituting menace to make 10 victims go to back room and stay face down on the floor while robberies took place]. singleton contends the reed to apply daniels relies on dictum in a 48-year-old california appellate court case, people v. moreland (1970) 5 cal.app.3d 588 (moreland), and on a 53-year-old new york case applying new york law, people v. levy (1965) 15 n.y.2d 159 (levy). in the california case, the defendant moreland was charged with two counts of kidnapping for robbery as well as heroin possession. (moreland, supra, 5 cal.app.3d at p. 590.) moreland and another man had approached the victimswho were in a drivewaywith guns and ordered them to go into the adjacent house and to lie down on the floor and a bed. while moreland went through the house looking for money. (id. at p. 591.) at their court trial, the defendants claimed one of the victims was a heroin dealer and they had gone to demand he (id. at p. 592.) the trial court concluded the defendants had gone to the house to steal heroin but the court thought (erroneously) that contraband could not be the subject of theft. (id. at pp. 592-593.) the trial court therefore found the defendants guilty only of the lesser crime of simple kidnapping. (ibid.) -recent decision in daniels, issued (moreland, supra, 5 cal.app.3d at p. 593.) the court reversed about affirming these convictions on a rationale never tested in the trial court. the question whether under particular circumstances the forcible movement of the victim substantially 11 increases the risk of harm otherwise present, is primarily a id. at p. 594.) the court continued, the victims was not kidnapping in the daniels sense it certainly was false imprisonment, in that their personal liberty was unlawfully violated. . . . [] there are, however, several problems with the suggestion. first, much of the reasoning which supports daniels, would also negat[e] the possibility that a false imprisonment which is merely incidental to some other crime, is a separate offense. second, we doubt that the people wish to settle (moreland, supra, 5 cal.app.3d at pp. 594-595.) the moreland the court seemed to assume daniels would apply to simple kidnapping (the crime of which moreland was convicted). but in stanworth, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 58that the rule announced in daniels had no application to section 207 convictions for simple reed, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 283.) indeed, the sixth district court of appeal rejected the moreland dictum, citing stanworth. in straight, supra, 230 cal.app.3d 1372, a jury convicted the defendant straight of assault with intent to commit rape and felony false imprisonment. on appeal, straightciting danielsargued was improperly convicted of false imprisonment because the confinement was incidental to and did not significantly increase 12 the risk of harm to the victim over and abo (straight, at p. 1373.) the court of appeal found moreland morelanddaniels was dictum and made before people v. stanworth . . ., clarified that the daniels rule did not apply daniels rule to felony false imprisonment,whichlike simple kidnappingcan occur in the absence of any other crime. (straight, supra, 230 cal.app.3d at p. 1375; see also 1 witkin and epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) crimes against the person,  275.) in any event, as discussed above, . singleton exercise[d] physical force . . . to restrain [boch] over and above [both] the force reasonably necessary to effect [that] restraintpeople v. matian, supra, 35 cal.app.4th at p. 484) cash. levy, supra, 15 n.y.2d 159, is misplaced. there, two men, both armed, they took jewelry from the female victim and cash from her husband. (id. at p. 162.) the court of appeals of new york held levy was guilty only of robbery, not of kidnapping. the ha[d] been drafted (id. at p. 164.) 13 levy does not mentionmuch less discussfalse imprisonment. we find reed to be on point and correct. finally, in his reply brief singleton argues we should apply the daniels ed just twenty- but there is no temporal requirement for the crime of false imprisonment. in people v. fernandez, supra, 26 cal.app.4th 710, our colleagues in division six affirmed a conviction for false imprisonment by violence where the defendant had restrained the victim long enough for him suffer over 20 restraint of the victim, though short in time, was real.(id. at p. 718.) that language comes from people v. riddle (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 222. there, the defendant entered a trailer home, pointed a gun at the occupants, and ordered them out of restraint was short in time (id. at pp. 228-230.) 3. the parties agree the sentence on the false imprisonment count must be stayed under section 654 singleton assertsand the attorney general concedesthat his sentence for false imprisonment in count 3 should be stayed because it is based on the same conduct underlying the robbery in count 2. we agree. to stay the concurrent term imposed on count 3. (see people v. alvarez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 999, 1007.) 14 disposition we affirm cleveland we modify the judgment to stay the sentence on count 3 under penal code section 654. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment reflecting the modification and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j. 