filed 2/11/19 p. v. jackson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. janzen glynn jackson, defendant and appellant. b281578 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba416362) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bernie c. laforteza, judge. affirmed. mark r. feeser, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 boyfriend, frank herrera, during an altercation. he was charged with murder (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a)), but convicted by the jury of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced jackson to the upper term of 11 years in state prison. ( 193.) jackson contends the trial court erred in denying his batson/wheeler2 peremptory challenges to two black jurors. jackson also asserts the trial court erred in admitting for impeachment the statements police officers obtained from jackson in violation of his miranda3 rights, failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of involuntary manslaughter, and denying his motion for a mistrial based on spectator misconduct. we affirm. factual background a. prosecution 1. jackso jackson, who was a professional football player, lived outside california, but periodically came to los angeles to visit his family. during his visits, jackson usually stayed with his uncle, mark williams (mark),4 and his cousin, emeka williams (emeka), 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 2 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 89 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 276-277 (wheeler). 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 4 because some of the family members share the same last name, we refer to them by their first names in order to avoid confusion. 3 because he and emeka were the same age. sometimes jackson stayed for a couple of days with his mother, tesra jackson (tesra). tesra lived with her boyfriend, herrera, and her 16-year-old son, royalle bernstine, in an apartment in santa monica. jackson generally got along with herrera, but bernstine frequently got into arguments with both herrera and tesra. on september 9 or 10 jackson came to stay with tesra, herrera, and bernstine. on the morning of september 11, 2013 bernstine left the apartment early to go to school. tesra woke up at about 7:00 or 7:30 a.m., and got ready to leave for work. she told jackson she between 8:00 and 8:30 a.m., jackson was in the shower and herrera was still asleep in their bedroom. emeka testified jackson arrived with his belongings at 11. emeka and jackson spent the afternoon playing video games and watching television. 2. on september 11 tesra arrived home between 3:00 and 3:30 p.m. no one was home. she sent a text message to herrera rera did not respond. bernstine returned home at around 7:00 or 8:00 p.m. that night or the following day. it was not unusual for herrera to be out of contact for days at a time, but by september 13, tesra began to worry about him. she tried calling and texting him, but his cell phone was disconnected. she called his work, but herrera 4 september 10. tesra did not call jackson; she assumed he was at 3. on the evening of september 14, 2013 tesra took bernstine apartment building. when tesra asked emeka about herrera, emeka said he was not there. tesra went outside and approached it was getting dark and she could not see inside the car. but she noticed flies buzzing inside the car and a strong odor of decomposition coming from the open sunroof. she ran back into the apartment and telephoned mark, who was not home. when mark returned, he looked inside the car using a flashlight. he saw of ings request, he called the police. los angeles police officer ramon barajas and his partner arrived at the scene shortly after 8:30 p.m. using a flashlight, they looked inside the car and saw a pile of clothing on the back seat. they began removing items from the back seat. when they saw a pair of hands near the floor behind the front passenger seat, they secured the scene and called for backup. los angeles police detective michael ventura arrived around midnight. he determined the car had not been driven recently based on the light coating of dust on the car. when the paramedics arrived, detective ventura directed them to check for curled in a fetal position in the back seat with his face down. 5 4. removal of herre in the early morning of september 15, 2013 coroner investigator kristy mccracken arrived at the scene, and observed arms were bent at the elbows, with his hands resting behind the front passenger seat. his legs were bent at the knee, with both feet resting on the rear passenger seat. a blanket and sheet were tied with a data cord around his legs. three cords were wrapped tied in a half knot around his neck. in addition, an electrical cord attached to a lamp was wrapped three times around his neck. a second data cord was tied in a double knot from the car, took photographs, and transported the body to the list removed the identified herrera from his fingerprints. the coroner, dr. kevin young, conducted an autopsy on september 16, 2013. dr. young noted herrera had a hemorrhage on his right temple, an abrasion above his right eyebrow, and a hematoma under his scalp, which were consistent with blunt force trauma. herrera had abrasions on both elbows. his neck had a tightly around his neck. he also had a fractured hyoid bone in his neck, which occurs in about 13 percent of ligature strangulations, although the bone also could have been fractured during the autopsy. dr. used by ligature strangulation. dr. young acknowledged the cords could have been placed 6 caused by a chokehold. moreover, the ligature furrow could have with the head lower than the body. 5. los angeles police detective david torres obtained security 11, 2013. footage from a security camera in the building garage showed jackson enter the garage at 12:44 p.m., pulling a long returned to the parking garage elevator without the object. at 1:29 p.m. jackson walked out of the garage elevator wearing a hat and a backpack, and carrying what appeared to be clothing. parking garage at 1:31 p.m. detective torres also obtained security camera footage from a business located across the stre p.m. on september 11. the person who exited the car wore a hat and a backpack, and had a striped shirt that matched what jackson wore in the camera security footage from the apartment building. on september 16, 2013 detective torres arrested jackson at apartment on september 19 and found no signs of a struggle. b. defense case 1. jackson testified he came to los angeles on august 19, 2013 while on a break from playing football. jackson initially stayed at 7 to stay for a few days. he had not had any issues with herrera prior to this time, but he had not spent much time with him. he knew his mother had been having issues with bernstine, who was a rebellious teenager. jackson observed bernstine and herrera did not have any type of relationship. that evening, jackson was home alone with bernstine. bernstine told jackson about an incident that occurred with tesra and herrera. bernstine said tesra gashed her hand, and herrera then attacked bernstine and tried to get him arrested. jackson asked tesra about the incident the next day. she told him to talk to herrera. jackson was upset about the incident. later that night jackson and herrera briefly discussed bernstine, then jackson and herrera played video games before jackson fell asleep on the couch. on the morning of september 11, 2013 jackson asked tesra er. jackson told tesra he would try to get a ride with herrera. he took a shower and went back to sleep. a short time later jackson saw herrera in the kitchen. jackson grabbed his backpack from era inquired whether jackson still wanted to talk about bernstine. jackson told herrera what bernstine told him, and jackson and herrera argued about the incident. jackson told herrera he was going to tell mark and report the incident to the police. herrera became agitated. jackson told him to calm down, but herrera to 8 off his shirt. herrera swung a punch at jackson, but only grazed his chin. jackson moved backwards, and herrera charged at him. jackson threw punches, as herrera attempted to punch him. fighting continued, and they both fell down. jackson then kicked herrera to get herrera off him. jackson did not want to fight bedroom. herrera started running, so jackson chased after him. herrera tripped over his feet and ran into a wall. jackson then chased herrera into the kitchen. he thought herrera was reaching for a knife on the kitchen counter, so he grabbed herrera by the back of his shirt and punched him on the side of his head. next jackson placed his right arm around arm braced his right arm. he put one foot on the counter to push down sideways onto the kitchen floor. when they fell, jackson had the wind knocked of him, but managed to wrap his legs around herrera. jackson testified he continued to maintain the herrera to stop while herrera tried to scratch his eyes and face. jackson estimated he held herrera in a [m]aybe a minut after herrera stopped moving, jackson slid out from underneath him because jackson was tired and out of breath from eyes were closed and he appeared unconscious. jackson did not check to see if herrera was still breathing. after jackson got up, 9 he went to the bathroom and threw up. he then rested on the couch before leaving. as jackson was leaving, he noticed herrera was still on the floor. jackson checked on herrera, who did not appear to be breathing. jackson shook herrera, but he did not know how to but no one answered. jackson returned to the apartment and son was unable to call anyone, and was scared and frantic. jackson did not intend to harm or kill herrera. because he did not want tesra or bernstine to come home and find the body. jackson could and rolled the body up in it. he grabbed the ankles and neck. then he tapartment building. jackson did not contact the police because he wanted mark to help him when he talked to them. but when mark came home later that day, jackson did not tell mark what happened because he was scared. he also did not tell tesra, but acknowledged he should have done so. he thought tesra or someone else would ask him about it. jackson stayed at ys, and no one noticed the car. on september apartment to watch a boxing fight. tesra came running through the apartment door and asked jackson and emeka about 10 of relieved at that point, but i was still a little scared because i was going to he testified he was not responsible for killing [herrera], and he had been outside in the car for three days, and i just ba when bernstine came into the living room, jackson went outside and sat on a bench. he heard the ambulance or fire truck maybe an hour and 30 minutes before he returned to the apartment. emeka and bernstine were there, but he did not tell them what happened to herrera. jackson was arrested a couple of days later and taken to the police station.5 2. tesra testified as to several violent confrontations with herrera. in 2011 or 2012, herrera accused her of cheating, slapped her, and broke her cell phone by throwing it against the wall. tesra thought herrera had been drinking. in june 2013, pushed tesra to the floor and choked her. another time, herrera came home from work with blood on his shirt and told tesra he had stabbed someone with a screwdriver. herrera also told tesra he previously stabbed another person, had been in and out of a gang. tesra 5 jackson testified about the interrogation by detectives at the police station, which we discuss below in the context of whether his statements were voluntary. 11 drinking. he quit drinking, but started again several months before his death. on the night of september 10, 2013 tesra came home late, and herrera, who had been drinking, yelled and cursed at her. herrera left, but returned later that night. tesra opined herrera my opinion that [herrera] was somewhat unstable emotionally, and when he drank, it wou patricia wootensanford, who was previously in a romantic relationship with herrera, testified that on december 27, 2011, after the relationship had ended, herrera showed up at her home. herrera grabbed her cell phone and ran out of her apartment. her date arrived but left when he saw herrera with her. before wootensanford returned to her apartment, herrera grabbed her by the throat and choked her for five to 10 seconds. she eventually called the police after herrera passed out because he was drunk. she declined to press charges, and they continued dating on and off until 2013. conviction on march 21, 1990, which included two counts of robbery, one count of kidnapping for the purpose of robbery, and gun enhancements on all three counts. c. rebuttal testimony detective torres testified about his interrogation of jackson, and the prosecutor played portions of the audio recording of the interrogation. detective torres searched arrest and gang records, but he did not find anything indicating herrera was a gang member or affiliated with a gang. herrera had a juvenile arrest, but it did not lead to a sustained petition. 12 discussion a. batson/wheeler motion 1. applicable law jackson, who is black, contends the trial court erred in denying his batson/wheeler motion, arguing the prosecutor failed peremptory challenges to excuse two black prospective jurors was based on race, and deprived him of his federal constitutional right to equal protection (batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 88) and state constitutional right to a trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-ase included only one black juror. peremptory challenges solely on the basis of race offends the guaranty of the equal protection of the jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community people v. smith (2018) 4 cal.5th 1134, 1146 (smith); accord, people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 433 (winbush) [federal constitutions prohibit the use of peremptory challenges to remove prospective jurors based on their race or membership in a people v. hardy (2018) 5 cal.5th 56, 76 (hardy); accord, people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1158 (gutierrez13 prospective juror for reasons impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural error, a three-step procedure governs the analysis of batson/wheeler claims. (smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1147; winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. first, the defendant must make a prima facie showing that the prosecution exercised a challenge based on impermissible criteria,smith, at p. 1147; accord, hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 75; winbush, at p. he trial court finds a prima facie case, then the prosecution must offer nondiscriminatory reasons for the smith, at p. 1147; accord, winbush, at p. the showing is made, the burden shifts to the prosecutor to demonstrate the challenges were exercised for a race-neutral not support a cmay be excused based upon facial expressions, gestures, hunches, winbush, at p. 434; accord, hardy, at p. 76.) credible and whether, in light of all relevant circumstances, the smith, at p. 1147; accord, hardy, at p. 75 [same]; gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. ant must show it was [discriminatory] motivation rests with, and never shifts from, the smith, at p. 1147; accord, winbush, at p. 433.) 14 here, the trial court found jackson made a prima facie showing the prosecutor exercised the peremptory challenges based on race, which the people do not challenge. when a trial court adequacy of the prima facie showing becomes moot [citations], and the reviewing court skips to the third stage to determine whether the trichallenging the prospective jurors in question [citations](smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1147; accord, winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 434.) in the third batson/wheeler the issue comes down -neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can be measured by, reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted trial (smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1147; accord, winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. the inquiry is focused on whether the proffered neutral reasons are subjectively genuine, not on how objectively reasonable they are.hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 76; accord, gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. . . . inquiry focuses on the subjective genuineness of the reason, not the objective r ial evidence that is relevant, but not necessarily dispositive, on the issue of intentional [e]vidence of comparative juror analysis must be considered . . . even for the first time on appeal if relied upon by the defendant [if] the record when, as here, a defendant wait[s] until appeal to argue 15 our review is necessarily panelists or seated jurors other than those identified by the smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at pp. 1147-1148; accord, hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 77 arguments are made for the first time on appeal, . . . the reviewing court must keep in mind that exploring the question at trial might people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 607 (lenixanalysis is evidence that, while subject to inherent limitations, must be considered when reviewing claims of error at wheeler/batsons third stage when the defendant relies on such evidence and the record is adequate to demeanor and credibility lies (smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1147; accord, lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 627-628 [same]). prosecutor uses peremptory challenges in a constitutional manner winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 434; accord, hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. has made a sincere and reasoned attempt to evaluate each stated reason as appboth inherently plausible and supported by the record, the trial court need not question the stated reasons are either unsupported by the record, inherently implausible, or both, more is required of the trial court than a 16 make explicit and detailed findings for the record in every instance in which the court determines -hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 76-77; accord, smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. , we gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. batson/wheeler motion, it ordinarily reviews the issue for substan 2. the challenged jurors the prosecutor exercised peremptory challenges to excuse two of three prospective black jurors seated in the jury box at the time of his challenges, r.w. and deloris g. a. prospective juror r.w. r.w. was a teacher and single mother of a three-year-old boy. she had some family members who had been arrested or served time. her brother had been arrested for domestic violence against his girlfriend eight or nine years earlier. r.w. stated the though both were at fault. however, that situation would events that have been occurring recently in america over the last couple years, i am starting to [lose] faith in [the impartiality] in our system. . . . [o]ne of the situations that bothered me the most 17 -american woman who kind of like me, working, educated and got arrested and never seen her family again. and that could trial court asked r.w. whether she could set aside her views and be fair and impartial, she rehappening in the world would affect her impartiality. r.w. are abusing their power in this day and age. and it makes me sad especially with me having an african-american son who i have to explain this to . . . . she when the prosecutor inquired of r.w. whether there were any other cases that made her feel the justice system was not asked whether she could be fair in listening to police officers enforcement involved, . . . the prosecutor asked r.w. whether it would be difficult for her to be fair and impartial toward the prosecution, she responded, probably . . . . -starting to feel . . . even in more shock. b. prospective juror deloris g. deloris g. married to a truck driver, and had one adult son who previously worked in construction. deloris g.18 and sent to prison for drugs. her stepson went to prison for attempted murder, and a second time for transporting drugs across state lines. deloris g.for driving under the influence and went to jail once for domestic violence. he was currently in jail for allegedly pimping and deloris g. the police had contacted her to request she pursue a probation violation instead of the prosecutor filing new charges against the son. the deloris g. believed her son was not treated officers. i mean, their job is to protect and serve, and then if w, only protect and serve certain peopleminorities, and itit just kind of bothers me. [] and then with me having a sonit justit bothers me and worries deloris g. on the news right now; you know the incidentwhere the guy wasthe police that stopped him andran, but the police shot him five times in the back. and he dropped a taser over by him sois particular juror is very emotional about the fact that there was a hung jury where the officer is the one that was being prosecuted. [] deloris g. hat you deloris g. would make an effort 19 3. batson/wheeler motion and the trial the prosecutor initially challenged prospective juror r.w. for cause. the trial court denied the challenge. the prosecutor later used his fourth peremptory challenge to excuse r.w. defense counsel did not at this time make a batson/wheeler motion. deloris g. was later seated in the jury box. following her voir dire, the prosecutor challenged her for cause. after the trial court denied the challenge, the prosecutor exercised his 10th peremptory challenge to excuse her. at this point, defense counsel brought her batson/wheeler motion with respect to both r.w. and deloris g. the prosecutor stated two reasons for excusing r.w. first, r.w. had family members who had been arrested or served time, including her brother who was charged with committing domestic violence against his girlfriend. second, he raised her inability to be fair and impartial in light of the sandra bland incident and events in america. he also argued she could not be fair with law enforcement. the prosecutor next gave three reasons for challenging deloris g. the prosecutor noted that she believed her son was unfairly treated by the police; she was emotional that there was a hung jury in the trial against the police officer who shot a black man in his back as he ran from the officer; and her stepson had been sent to prison for attempted murder. the prosecutor argued, ors that she fair towards the 20 defense counsel responded as to both r.w. and deloris g. never get any african- the trial court denied the mreasons given to the court are race-neutral . . . and sincerely a black female juror remained on the jury and defense counsel previously excused a juror who appeared to the court to be a black male. 4. he challenges were race-neutral and sincerely made riking r.w. and deloris g. were based solely on an assumption that as black jurors they would be biased against the prosecution due to media coverage of police misconduct. however, both r.w. and deloris g. believed their family members had been treated undomestic violence eight or nine years earlier. she felt both her brother and his girlfriend were at fault, but only he was time for various crimes. deloris g. likewise had multiple family members who had been incarcerated. her brother was incarcerated for a drug-related offense. her stepson went to prison for attempted murder, and a second time for transporting drugs across state lines. deloris g.times for driving under the influence and went to jail once for domestic violence. he was currently in jail for allegedly pimping 21 and pandering. significantly, she felt her son was not treated fairly after hearing from his probation officer that the police wanted her to pursue a probation violation, but she declined because she felt the officers did not have enough evidence to arrest police officlately with police officers and minorities, and itit just kind of deloris g.law enforcement are valid bases for striking them. (hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 82; winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 441.) in addition, both r.w. and deloris g. were distrustful of the criminal justice system. r.w. described law enforcement as [lose] faith in [the impartiality] in black woman covered if this would affect her impartiality, . . . i have to figure out a way to move past would be difficult for her to be fair and impartial toward the deloris g. similarly expressed concern about police misconduct reported in the news, describing an incident where a police officer shot a black male five times in the back after he was stopped by the police and ran. she emotionally stated as to the . . . 22 fair, deloris g. stated, i deloris g.the criminal justice system to indigents and racial minorities has . . . been recognized as a valid race-neutral ground for winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 439; accord, smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1153 [challenge to juror who stated the system is not always fair, [and] sometimes race-neutral reason]; hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. justice system is a race-neutral basis for his [or her] excusal.people v. calvin (2008) 159 similar [skeptical] attitudes are held by many other african-intentional race-6 jackson contends a comparative juror analysis of four other 6 on december 7, 2018 jackson submitted a letter citing to people v. douglas (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1162, 1172-1176 (douglas) in support of his batson/wheeler contentions. in douglas, the prosecutor exercised his peremptory challenges to excuse two openly gay prospective jurors. (id. at pp. 1166-1167.) although the court observed the prosecutor had facially valid reasons for challenging the jurors, it concluded explanation that he excused the jurors based on his assumption they might be biased against the closeted victim (the main witness) reflected invidious sexuality discrimination, where both prospective jurors said they could be fair and did not express concerns about closeted homosexuals. (id. at pp. 1170-1172.) unlike the two prospective jurors in douglas, r.w. stated it would be difficult for her to be fair and impartial to the prosecution. deloris g. had hesitation about whether she could be fair, and harbored a distrust of the criminal justice system. 23 deloris g. were not credible. he argues juror no. 01817 indicated her father had been falsely arrested and questioned about a murder, but the prosecutor did not excuse her. however, the father was not charged with murder, and when the prosecutor asked the juror whether that experience would affect her ability to be fair and im. i just thinksometimes i think jackson also points to juror no. 4010, who stated she and her family members were arrested for driving under the influence. but jackson concedes the juror stated the arrests would not affect her in the trial. juror no. 3059 indicated his uncle had been arrested for domestic violence, but he stated he would not harbor violence arrest. as to juror no. 6116, whose ex-boyfriend had been arrested and was on probation, when asked whether there was anything about the ex-jackson also acknowledges the prosecutor struck three other potential jurors who had been arrested or whose family members 7 we refer to the jurors in the comparative juror analysis by the last four digits of their badge numbers because the parties refer to them by different juror numbers. although the trial court referred to the jurors by assigned numbers, each time a juror was excused, the next prospective assumed the number of the juror who was excused. 24 had been arrested. unlike r.w. and deloris g., these four jurors did not raise concerns about police misconduct against minorities or express skepticism of the fairness of the criminal justice system. neither did they believe their family members were treated unfairly by the police. in addition, these jurors stated they would be fair and [p]would be difficult for her to be fair and impartial toward the prosecution, and deloris g. made clear her concerns would remain in the back of her head. as the supreme court explained in winbush . . . when the compared jurors combination of responsewinbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 443 [although prosecutor accepted some jurors who, like those he struck, believed the criminal justice system was unfair to minorities, this did not support an inference of discriminatory motive where the prosecutor gave reasonable explanations for why the seated jurors were more favorable than the excused jurors]; accord, hardy, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 77 [compared signhere there were significant differences between the two challenged prospective jurors and the four jurors who remained on the panel. finally, relying on gutierrez, jackson contends the trial court failed to make a sincere and reasoned evaluation of the the trial court should have explained [a] sincere and reasoned evaluation of the require the court to make detailed comments on every such smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1158; accord, gutierrez, 25 supra, 2 cal.5th at p. are sufficiently self-evident, if honestly held, such that they require litt in gutierrez, the prosecutor explained he excused a hispanic prospective juror who lived in the city of wasco because she was not aware of gang activity in the area. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at pp. 1168-1169.) the record of voir dire did not show why the unawareness of gang activity in wasco would indicate a bias against [the prosecution witness who was] a (id. at p. 1169.) further, the prospective who would be testifying. (id. at p. 1170.) here, as discussed deloris g. were supported by specific reasons based on their distrust of the criminal justice system and police officers. the trial did not err in concluding the reasons were race-neutral and sincerely held. (smith, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 1158.) b. as impeachment evidence 1. applicable law although statements obtained in violation of miranda cannot be introduced by the prosecution in its case-in-chief, they may be used as impeachment evidence, provided the statements are not obtained by coercion. (people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1076-107interrogation after he requested an attorney could be used for impeachment even though police officer deliberately elicited 26 ; people v. peevy (1998) 17 cal.4th 1184, 1193-1196, 1204-1205 [voluntary statement was admissible as impeachment evidence even though officer deliberately violated miranda by intentionally continuing to interrogate defendant after he invoked his right to counsel]; cf. people v. neal (2003) 31 cal.4th 63, 67 (nealconfessions inadmissible for all purposes where detectives intentionally continued interrogation of defendant despite his nine requests to speak to an attorney, badgered him, and held him in custody overnight without food, water, or toilet facilities before he confessed].) ntary if, based on the totality of the circumstances, his or her will was overborne by coercive police conduct. (people v. spencer (2018) 5 cal.5th 642, consider the totality of the circumstances to see if a defendanessentially freewinbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. oppressive, invocations of his or her miranda rights were spencer, at p. 672.) statements obtained in violation of miranda do not show coercion unless the police deliberately continue to question the defendant after the defendant has invoked his or her miranda people v. case (2018) 5 cal.5th 1, 24-25 (case); accord, neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. overcoming of his resistance, we may infer that defendant received 27 the message that [the officer] would not honor d[a] confession may be found involuntary if extracted by threats or violence, obtained by direct or implied promises, or secured by the exertion of improper influence. (people v. wall (2017) 3 cal.5th 1048, 1066 (wall); accord, neal, at p. 84 the people have the burden of establishing the statements were voluntarily made by the defendant. (wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066; people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 740.) we people v. wall, at p. 1066; winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 452; neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. of voluntariness, we apply an independent standard of review, all the surrounding circumstancesboth the characteristics of the . . . .neal, at p. 80.) 2. the interrogation at 3:30 p.m. on september 16, 2013 los angeles police detectives torres and calzadillas began interrogating jackson at the police station. during the first interview, the detectives advised jackson of his miranda rights. jackson indicated he [the] presence of an attorney understood his miranda rights, detective torres asked him how long he had known herrerae 28 but i [want to] exercise my right. my . . . told the detectives that chris darden was his attorney. detective jackson explained he, his mother, and his uncle went to the wanted to my mom and jackson told the detectives his uncle said he did not have to because, you know, [herrera [herrera] and then any time you want to stop talking you stop talking. but if to talk about [herrera]. tha [herrera] jackson indicated he had not seen herrera for a couple of days since herrera went missing. after some more , man. just hang tight for a [p]29 provide jackson with a telephone, instead leaving him in the interview room. the interview room did not have water, a toilet, or a telephone. as the trial court later found, after an hour and a half passed, jackson knocked on the glass where detective calzadillas was working, and stated he wanted to talk to the detectives. the detectives then conducted a second interview at 5:02 p.m. over and said that i was out reviewing paperwork waiting for your mom to get here. he said that uh . . . you knocked on the door and you wanted us to come back and guys but . . . makin detective tor . . . really i h . . . and uh . . . but . . . anyways . . . getting an upset stomach? . like, i jackson then immediately changed the subject and stated, . . . i was thinking that an attorney was different ment that uh . . . that i should say that i need to talk to my attorney but . . . . . . you want to talk to us without an attorney right? jackson 30 earlier when we were talking to you . . . resp at tdetectives he last saw herrera the previous wednesday or thursday at tetesra said he could wait for her or he could have herrera take him there. tesra left with bernstine to take him to school. after herrera woke up around 11:30 a.m. and used the bathroom, he asked jackson if he was ready and they left the apartment apartment building garage. herrera drove them to a gas station and got jackson a deli sandwich. afterwards, herrera dropped detectives told jackson they knew his story was not true and informed him that herrera was dead. jackson repeatedly denied knowing what happened to herrera. jackson did not again raise a concern about using the bathroom until the end of the second interview, at which time jackson repeat[be] the detectives continued brief additional happened to frank, l31 [] detective calzadillas asked two more questions, something totally diffepoint the detectives ended the second interview, at 6:05 p.m., and jackson left the interview room to use the bathroom. after jackson used the bathroom, the detectives conducted a third interview at 6:10 p.m. the detectives showed jackson a still photograph from a surveillance video depicting him dragging a large bundle with a fan wrapped around it. jackson said he was pulling a large suitcase with weights inside as a leg workout. shortly after, jackson requested to speak with his attorney. the detectives then concluded the interrogation. 3. ruling prior to trial, jackson moved to exclude his statements made to detectives torres and calzadillas on the basis the statements were obtained in violation of his miranda rights. the trial court nts in the -in-obtained in violation of his fifth amendment rights pursuant to miranda[jackson] unambiguously invoked his right to counsel; therefore, allowed the prosecutor to use the statements for impeachment 32 blatantly disregarded mirandafacts of this case are not similar and not as egregious as those in neal 4. at trial, jackson testified on direct examination that, after he was arrested and taken to the police station, he told the detectives he wanted were going to get him a phone, but he waited in the interview room for what seemed like a long time. he needed to use the bathroom, so he knocked on the door and told them, but they did not let him use -all to talk to me. tal i was just answering their questions, and i ended up telling them eing allowed to leave the room. at the close of the defense case, the trial court heard the door to introduction of portions of the audio recording of the interrogation to show whether the interrogation was coercive. the trianything that he said to the police officers was involuntary and were voluntary and not coerced. the trial court explained truth because he wanted an attorney and wanted to use the bathroom, it shows co 33 estimony, the prosecutor played the portion of the interrogation that showed the detectives advising jackson of his miranda his right to counsel during the first interview. the jury also heard the beginning of the second agreement to speak with the detectives without an attorney present. detective torres testified that about an hour and a half after the first interview ended, he was doing paperwork when jackson knocked on the door. he also acknowledged there was no bathroom in the interview room. the second interview lasted a little more than an hour. 5. jackso jackson contends the statements he made during the september 16, 2013 interrogation were involuntary, and he was prejudiced by their admission as impeachment evidence.8 his of him after he invoked his right to counsel was similar to the conduct of the police officers the neal court concluded was coercive. in neal, a police officer interrogated the defendant while in miranda repeated invocation of both his right to remain silent and right to counselindeed . . . defendant nine times requested to speak with 8 although the trial court did not allow the prosecutor to play the portion of the taped interrogation in which jackson stated falsely that hwas alive when jackson last saw him, jackson admitted he lied to only after the trial court ruled his statements could be used for impeachment. 34 an attorney. furthermore, the officer . . . not only continued the questioning improperly but badgered defendant, accusing him of help himself and that . . . , the system is going to stick neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. intentionally continued [the] interrogation in deliberate violation of miranda in spite oremain silent and right to counsel . . . in order to obtain a impeachment at trial . . . if [id. at p. 74.) further, in neal, after the first interrogation ended, the officers placed the defendant in a jail cell overnight with no food, drink, or toilet facilities. neither did he have access to an attorney. (neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 73.) the following morning, the defendant asked to speak with the detective, and he provided two confessions at the two interviews that followed. (id. at pp. 74-75.) it was only after the third interview that the defendant was provided food24 hours after he was taken into custody and more than 36 hours since his last meal. (id. at p. 76.) surrounding circumstancesviolation of mirandaeducation, and low intelligence; the deprivation and isolation imposed on defendant during his confinement; and a promise and a threat made by the officercontact with the officer was involuntary, and his two subsequent confessions were involuntary as well. as a result, we conclude not -in-chief because they were obtained in violation of [edwards v. 35 arizona (1981) 451 u.s. 477], but also that they were inadmissible for any purneal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 68.) jackson acknowledges that, unlike the detective in neal, detective torres did not expressly admit he was attempting to evade miranda to obtain impeachment evidence. however, he cona bathroom or food was an attempt to coerce jackson into making a confession they could use for impeachment despite his earlier invocation of his right to counsel. it is true the trial court in its written findings found the detectives questioned jackson in violation of miranda, and they left him in the interview room for about an hour and a half without access to a toilet, food, drink, or a telephone. it was after this time period that jackson knocked on the glass to tell detective calzadillas he wanted to talk to the detectives. after detective torres advised jackson that he was previously read his rights and he said he did not want to talk to the officers, jackson said he wanted to talk because he had an upset stomach. jackson topic by stating he thought an attorney was different from a lawyer, and that he did not see a reason to talk to an attorney because he had not done anything wrong. then, in response to eah the detectives proceeded to question jackson for about an hour. at no time did the detectives tell jackson he could not use the bathroom unless he talked to them. as the trial court found, it was only toward the end of the second interview that jackson again said his stomach really hurt and he needed to use the 36 bathroom. at this point, questioning briefly continued, then the detectives took jackson to the bathroom. when jackson returned, he answered some questions, then invoked his right to an attorney. the detectives asked two final questions, then the questioning stopped. the facts here stand in contrast to those in neal. in neal, the detective deliberately continued to interrogate defendant notwithstanding his repeated invocation of his miranda rights, conveying the message that the detective would not honor his requests until he gave a confession. (neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 82; cf. case, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 25 [finding no coercion where cate to here, nothing about the interrogation communicated that the miranda rights unless he confessed. although jackson stated he had an upset stomach and wanted to use the bathroom, he then immediately changed the subject. before the interview resumed, the detectives confirmed jackson wanted to speak with them without an attorney. after jackson stated he did, the detectives reminded him it was his choice whether to talk with them. detective calzadillas stated, i in total, jackson was without a toilet or water for two and a half hours while he was in the interview room; by contrast, the defendant in neal was kept in jail overnight without food, drink, or toilet facilities. (neal, at p. 68.) jackson also contends his statements were involuntary because the detectives threatened him that if he did not tell the truth, it would look bad if he later claimed self-defense. a statement is involuntary if it is the result of express or implied 37 threats or promises. (wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066; neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. e is nothing improper in pointing out that a jury probably will be more favorably impressed by a confession and a show of remorse than by case, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 26.) during the second interview, the detectives told jackson they knew hererra was dead, and his story that herrera drove comes back to why did this happen? cause . you snapped. whatever it was. if he pissed you off. whatever it was. you were mad because he did something to your mom. whatever it was not going to mean a hill of beans. why? because you lied about it. you know what i mea hortation to jackson to tell the truth. he explained if jackson lied in the threats or promises, law enforcement officers are permitted to urge case, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 26; people v. holloway (2004) 33 [m]ere advice or exhortation by the police that it would be better for the accused to tell the truth when unaccompanied by either a threat or a promise does not render a subsequent confession involuntary.contrast, in neal the detective made both a promise and a threat that defendant would be moved closer to home if he cooperated, but he could be charged with first degree murder if he did not. (neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at pp. 81, 84-85.) 38 criminal justice system. (winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 452; neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 84.) at the time of the interrogation, jackson was 22 years old, four years older than the defendant in neal. (neal, at p. 84.) jackson did not know a lawyer was the same as an attorney, showing a lack of experience with the legal system. however, he knew he had an attorney. in addition, his uncle and mother had advised him that he did not have to talk to the detectives and he could ask for his attorney. there was no evidence jackson was of low intelligence or uneducated, or that he was unable to understand his rights. by contrast, the defendant in neal had no knowledge of the legal system, had not graduated from continuation high school, was severely neglected as a child, and had low intelligence. (ibid.) finally, throughout the interrogation jackson steadfastly maintained his innocence, which tends to undercut his contention interrogation after he invoked his miranda rights. (case, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. [s]ignificantly, throughout the interrogation defendant steadfastly maintained that he was innocent, which tends to undercut the notion that his free will was overborne by .people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th . . . defendant did not incriminate himself as a result ocontinued to deny responsibility in the face of the officers ].) sufficiently voluntary under the totality of the circumstances such that their admission for impeachment was not in error. (people v. spencer, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 672; winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 452.) 39 c. the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter when a defendant is charged with murder, the trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on lesser included offenses, including involuntary manslaughter, if substantial evidence has been presented at trial to support a jury finding of the lesser included offense. (people v. gonzalez (2018) 5 cal.5th 186, 191; people v. smith (2013) 57 cal.4th 232, 239 (smith) [even included offenses when the evidence raises a question as to whether all of the elements of the charged offense were present [citation], but not when there is no evidence that the offense was possible verdictsnot limited by the strategy, ignorance, or mistake of the parties . . . ensure[s] that the verdict is no harsher gonzalez, at p. 196; accord, smith, at p. whether by design or inadvertence, from forcing an all-or-nothing choice between conviction of the stated offense on the one hand, or any not justify instructions on a lesser included offense, but such instructions are required whenever evidence that the defendant is people v. wyatt (2012) 55 cal.4th 694, 698; accord, people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, stantial evidence in this context is evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that the defendant committed the lesser, but not the greatertestimony of a single witness, including that of a defendant, may suwyatt, at 40 p. the evidence without evaluating the credibility of witnesses, for that is a task reserved ibid.) review whether a trial court people v. trujeque (2015) 61 cal.4th 227, 271; accord, people v. nelson (2016) 1 cal.5th 513, 538), considering the evidence in the light most favorable to the defendant (people v. cortez (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 807, 811; people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 30 (brothers)). the trial court instructed the jury on complete self-defense (calcrim no. 505), voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion (calcrim no. 570), and imperfect self-defense (calcrim no. 571), but not involuntary manslaughter. the victim in a chokehold; or as was placed between the crook of his elbow and significant force was applied by [jackson] to disable the victim and until the victim could not move and became unconscious. in addition, [jackson] floor. placing the victim in a chokehold is an assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. [citation.] indeed, here the coroner testified that [herrera] died by strangulation. [] [jackson] intentionally used violent force against the victim until the victim no longer struggled and became unconscious. based on these actions, it cannot be said that he acted without realizing the risk of death or serious bodily injury jackson contends the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter. there are four bases for 41 involuntary manslaughter. involuntary manslaugnot amounting to a felony; or in commission of a lawful act which might produce death, in an unlawful manner, or without due caution and circumspectiopeople v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1227; accord, people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 515.) in noninherently dangerous felony may properly support a conviction of involuntary manslaughter, if the felony is committed without people v. burroughs (1984) 35 cal.3d 824, 835 [trial court should have instructed jury on -convinced a cancer patient to undergo alternative treatments that caused his death because practicing medicine without a license is not an inherently dangerous felony], overruled on another ground in people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 88-91; accord, people v. bryant (2013) 56 cal.4th 959, 970 (bryant); brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 31.) finally, involuntary manslaughter may be based on an unlawful killing in the course of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony without malice. (brothers, at pp. 33-34; see bryant, at p. 970 [killing commission of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony . . . cannot be voluntary manslaughter because voluntary manslaughter requires either an intent to kill or a conscious disregard for life.].) jackson contends the trial court should have instructed the jury on involuntary manslaughter based on the theory he committed a lawful act (self-defense) with criminal negligence or the theory he committed an inherently dangerous assaultive felony without malice. we disagree. 42 1. involuntary manslaughter based on the commission of a lawful act with criminal negligence the standard for involuntary manslaughter based on the commission of a lawful act in an unlawful manner without due caution and circumspection criminal negligence. (people v. penny (1955) 44 cal.2d 861, 879 [criminal negligence standard applied to unlicensed to remove wrinkles]; people v. luo (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 663, 670 (luo) [defendant acted with criminal negligence supporting involuntary manslaughter conviction where he supervised construction site, violated safety regulations, and directed victim to work in dangerous work site after city ordered construction to stop].) departure from what would be the conduct of an ordinarily prudent or careful [person] under the same circumstances as to be incompatible with a proper regard for human life, or, in other words, a disregard of human life or an indifference to [the] in terms of objective foreseeability, that is, one acts with criminal prudence would foresee that the act would cause a high degree of risk of death or great bodily luo, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at p. 670; accord, people v. butler (2010) 187 had a subjective, good faith belief that his or her actions posed no risk, involuntary manslaughter culpability based on criminal butler, at pp. 1008-1009; accord, luo, at p. 671.) 43 jackson contends the trial court should have instructed the jury on involuntary manslaughter based on his commission of a lawful actself-defenseundertaken with criminal negligence, citing to people v. villanueva (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 41. villanueva is inapposite. in villanueva, the defendant was charged with attempted murder after he brandished a gun at the victim who was sitting in a van, out of fear the victim would harm him, then the defendant fired the gun and injured the victim. (id. at p. 47.) the court of appeal concluded there was sufficient evidence the defendant intentionally shot the victim out of fear the victim would hit him with his van, supporting an instruction on self-accidentally shot the victim. (id. at pp. 49, 51.) the court also concluded the trial court should have instructed the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter by means of imperfect self-defense. (id. at pp. 52-53.) jackson points to a footnote in wdone in a criminally negligent manner, the homicide is involuntary id. at p. 54, fn. 12.) however, the court in villanueva did not reach whether the facts supported an instruction on involuntary manslaughter because, as the court explained, there is no crime of attempted involuntary manslaughter given that an attempt requires a specific intent to commit the crime. (ibid.) here, the trial court instructed the jury on both complete and imperfect self-defense. (see calcrim no. 505 [complete self-defense]; calcrim no. murder is reduced to voluntary manslaughter if the defendant killed a person because he acted in imperfect self-jackson asserts the death of herrera was an unintentional killing, relying on his testimony he did not intend to hurt or kill herrera. 44 but a homicide based on imperfect self-defense is voluntary manslaughter even when it is an unintentional killing if the defendant defendant, acting with conscious disregard for life, unintentionally kills in unreasonable self-defense, the killing is voluntary, not involuntary, people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 88-89.) had the jury found jackson acted in reasonable self-defense, it would have acquitted jackson, rather than convict him of involuntary manslaughter. (people v. casares (2016) 62 cal.4th 808, 846, citing people v. minifie (1996) 13 cal.4th 1055, 1064-1065 -defense is established when the defendant has an honest and reasonable belief that bodily injury is about to be inflicted on him, provided he uses force no greater than that defendant is not guilty of murder or manslaughter if he was justified in killing someone in self-defense. . . . 2. involuntary manslaughter based on commission of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony without malice in bryant, the supreme court held voluntary manslaughter based on a killing in the commission of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony requires either an intent to kill or a conscious disregard for life. (bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 970.) in brothers, we reasoned if an unlawful killing committed in the course of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony without malice is not voluntary manslaughter under bryant, it must be involuntary manslaughter. (brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at pp. 33-34.) luntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense must be given when a rational jury could entertain a reasonable doubt that an unlawful killing was accomplished with implied malice during the course of 45 id. at p. 34.) we [w]hen the evidence presents a material issue as to whether a killing was committed with malice, the court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense, even when the killing occurs during the commission of an aggravated assault. [citations.] however, when . . . the defendant indisputably has deliberately engaged in a type of aggravated assault the natural consequences of which are dangerous to human life, thus satisfying the objective component of implied malice as a matter of law, and no material issue is presented as to whether the defendant subjectively appreciated the danger to human life his or her conduct posed, there is no sua sponte duty to instruct on involuntary manslaughter. [citations.] otherwise, an involuntary manslaughter instruction would be (id. at p. 35.) jackson contends there was substantial evidence from which the jury could have concluded he committed an inherently dangerous felony assault by placing herrera in a chokehold, but he acted without express or implied malice. jackson relies on his testimony he did not intend to hurt or kill herrera, instead only intending to subdue herrera. but intent to kill is an element of express, not implied, malice. ( 188, subd. (a)(1) express when there is manifested a deliberate intention to ; accord, bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 964, 970.) [m]alice is implied when the defendant engages in an act the natural consequences of which are dangerous to life and acts with conscious disregard for brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 34; accord, bryant, at p. 965.) 46 here, there was evidence of implied malice because jackson engaged in an inherently dangerous assault (the chokehold), the was no evidence jackson did danger to human life his . . . brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 35.) at the time of his death, herrera was five feet nine inches tall and weighed 220 pounds. jackson was six feet one inch tall and weighed approximately 185 pounds. jackson recently played professional football and was more physically fit than herrera. jackson testified that after he chased herrera into the kitchen, he thought herrera was reaching for a knife on the kitchen counter, so he grabbed herrera by the back of his shirt and punched him on the side of the head. next, jackson placed his while his left arm braced his right arm. when they fell sideways onto the kitchen floor, jackson managed to wrap his legs around herrera. jackson testified he continued to maintain the estimated he applied the chokehold for about a minute, and he squeezed herrera with his arms during the chokehold.9 he did not 9 the people coforce he must have subjectively appreciated the danger to but it is unclear whether the fracture was caused by the chokehold, the elremoval of the neck organs during autopsy. dr. young testified he could not say whether the hyoid bone fracture occurred before or strangulation cases have hyoid bone fractures, but he admitted he 47 release herrera from the chokehold until herrera stopped moving and became unconscious. although jackson testified he did not intend to hurt or kill herrera, there was no evidence he did not subjectively appreciate attorney never argued that jackson did not understand the risk. -defense. moreover, jackson showed a conscious disregard for life when he left herrera unconscious on the floor and did not immediately summon help. jackson did not check on herrera until after he noticed herrera was still lying on the ground as he passed through the kitchen to leave the apartment. under these circumstances, the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter based on the commission of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony without malice. (brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 35.) d. the trial court did not err in denying the motion for a mistrial based on spectator misconduct 1. applicable law character as to prejudice the defendant or influence the ver(people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 368-369 (chatman); accord, people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 965 [same]; people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1215 (myles), quoting holbrook v. flynn (1986) 475 u.s. 560, 572 before or after his death. in addition, he stated the bone could have fractured during the autopsy. 48 10 [b]ecause a spectator does not wear the same cloak of official authority as a prosecutor, most instances of spectator misconduct will likely be more easily curable than those of a chatman, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 369.) whether nuanced, fact-id. at pp. 369-assumed that such errors are cured by admonition, unless the record demonstrates the misconduct resulted in a miscarriage of (people v. hill (1992) 3 cal.4th 959, 1002, overruled on another ground in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13; accord, people v. zielesch (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 731, 745 (zielesch) [no error where court admonished jury to disregard spectators wearing commemorative buttons depicting fallen sympathy for the officer]; people v. houston (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 279, 311, 316 (houston) admonishments cured any inherent prejudice caused by spectato(houston, at p. 312.) based on spectator misconduct for an abuse of discretion. (people 10 the united states supreme court has not addressed whether prejudicial spectator courtroom conduct violates a carey v. musladin (2006) 549 s fair-trial rights of the spectator conduct to which musladin objects is an open question in our jurisprudence 49 v. trinh (2014) 59 cal.4th 216, 251; chatman, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 369.) myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1215; accord, trinh, at p. 251 [trial court has broad discretion 2. misconduct before the trial court instructed the jury, it notified counsel at sidebar that the clerk had asked the bailiff to exclude people picture used in the spectators were wearing the tee shirts. ten of these spectators walked into the courtroom while the trial court was giving an unrelated jury admonition. at this point the bailiff excused the audience members with the tee shirts. the trial court then heard argument outside the presence of the jury on what action the trial court should take as to the asserted spectator misconduct. the trial court stated its tentative ruling was to exclude audience members wearing the tee shirts unless they took the shirts off or turned them inside out. defense counsel contended the spectator conduct was inherently prejudicial, and these spectators were trying to get the jury to base its verdict on sympathy for the victim rather than the evidence. the message on the shirts was larger than the buttons at issue in houston, supra, 130 cal.app.4th 279. defense counsel said she was not asking for a mistrial, but was requesting the spectators what they 50 did was so bad, turning the shirt now inside out does not remedy the trial court stated its intent to admonish the jurors, noting the bailiff had promptly excused the spectators wearing the tee shirts. in addition, the trial court noted most of the jurors were looking at the courtnot the spectators who walked in to the courtroombecause the court was giving the jury an admonition at the time the spectators entered. the court then informed the audience members about the local court rule for courtroom [p]ersons in the courtroom, including parties and counsel, shall not indicate by facial expression, shaking of the head, gesturing or shouts, or other conduct, disagreement with or approval of testimony or other want to admonish all of you, this is a rather emotional trial. if you haveyou violate any of these rules with regard to your conduct you from our proceedings. . . . after the jury returned to the courtroom, the trial court the audience were wearing shirts that appeared to depict the it. [] gave to you at the beginning of the trial, and which i will give you at the end of this trial in just a few moments that: [] evidence is the sworn testimony of witnesses, the exhibits admitted into evidence, and anything else i tell you to consider as evidence. the fact that members of the audience were wearing those [tee] shirts is not evidence. i order you to disregard that, and you must not consider this incident in any way during your delib 51 after the noon recess and outside the presence of the jury, defense counsel moved for a mistrial based on spectator misconduct. the trial court denied the motion. the court agreed include a statement that the spectators engaged in intentional misconduct. after the jurors returned to the courtroom, the trial you are not to be influenced by anything you observed this morning nor by any spectators who are allowed to be present for the remainder of this case. if any of you feel that the spectator display did in fact influence you in any way or that the continued spectator presence will influence you in any way, you are to let me 3. mistrial was not an abuse of discretion the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying for frank herused during the trial, so the jury had already seen this image. the court clerk noticed these spectators and notified the bailiff, who promptly excused the spectators from the courtroom. the trial court noted most of the jurors were looking at the court, and not the spectators who walked into the courtroom. these spectators were allowed to return to the courtroom only if they removed the tee shirts or turned them inside out. before the jury returned to the courtroom, the court looked at the audience, and did not see any one wearing the tee shirts. further, the court gave the jury two admonitions. in the first admonition, the court ordered the jury to disregard the 52 audience members wearing the tee shirts and reminded them this was not evidence. the court also instructed not consider this incident in any way in second admonitionproposed by defense counselinstructed the jurors that they were not to be influenced by the presence of the spectators, and that they were to notify the court if the continued spectator presence influenced them in any way. as in zielesch and houston, these admonitions were sufficient to cure any prejudice from the asserted spectator misconduct. (zielesch, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at p. 745; houston, supra, 130 cal.app.4th at pp. 311, 316.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. feuer, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. 