filed 3/27/18 p. v. fernandez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. luis fernandez, defendant and appellant. b281624 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na104384) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jesus i. rodriguez, judge. affirmed. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, idan ivri and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 luis fernandez (fernandez) appeals from a judgment sentencing him to three years in state prison for willfully inflicting a corporal injury on a cohabitant resulting in a traumatic condition (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a)1). fernandez complains that his due process rights under the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution were violated when police failed to preserve a digital audio recording of the pursuant to arizona v. youngblood (1988) 488 u.s. 51, 58 (youngblood), that there was no due process violation because supolice did not act in bad faith. background via an information, the people charged fernandez in count 1 with willfully inflicting a corporal injury on a cohabitant resulting in a traumatic condition ( 273.5, subd. (a)) and in count 2 with dissuading a witness from reporting a crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)). i. evidence at trial a. maribel s 911 call on june 12, 2016, maribel r. called 911. she told the operator multiple times that a man who lived in her house was hitting her. she pleaded with the operator three times to send help. the recording of the 911 call was played for the jury. b. maribel r.s testimony on june 12, 2016, maribel r. lived with fernandez, her fianc, in her home. as she was getting ready to go to work that 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 night,2 fernandez slapped her once on the face, resulting in a bloody nose. she viewed two pictures of her face taken by police on the night of the attack, and testified that the pictures depicted fernandez hitting her. she acknowledged that she had blood around her mouth as a result of the slap but none around her nose, and that the blood on maribel r. called the police after the attack. when the police officers arrived, she was crying. she did not recall telling the police that fernandez punched her, grabbed her by the throat, or pushed her to the ground. she denied that fernandez hit her multiple times with a closed fist. she denied that fernandez grabbed her keys from her with force that injured her thumb. however, when shown a picture of her thumb taken on the night of the attack, she admitted that her thumb had become swollen. maribel r. denied that fernandez took the phone away from her when she tried to call 911, and denied that he threatened to kill her if she called the police. the people showed maribel r. a picture of her throat taken at the scene of the crime and she acknowledged that it depicted her on the night of the attack. when asked if the discoloration to her cheek and jawline was a result of her being hit that night, she responded, maribel r. looked at a picture of fernandezt-shirt taken on the night of the attack, which was covered with small stains. when asked if the stains were a result of the blood from her mouth, maribel r. 2 maribel r. worked at harbor ucla medical center. her shift started at 11:00 p.m. 4 c. officer garrion orrs testimony los angeles police department (lapd) officer orr and his partner drove to maribel r.receiving a radio call reporting domestic violence. as officer orr approached the residence, he heard screaming and yelling. as he and his partner were about to approach the door, maribel r. came running out to them. she was crying and appeared very scared. she told the officers that her boyfriend had beaten her up, had a knife, and was threatening to kill her. fernandez came to the door, and the officers stopped him and detained him; he appeared angry and agitated. officer orr observed no wounds or marks on his face or body. the officers separated maribel r. and fernandez; officer orr had a further conversation with maribel r. maribel r. disclosed that, as she was about to leave for work, fernandez became upset and forcefully snatched her keys out of her hand, injuring her right thumb. maribel r. was in pain and was concerned that fernandez had broken her thumb. she reported that fernandez punched her in the face with a closed fist, grabbed her by the neck, threw her to the ground, and continued punching her. maribel r. tried to call 911 but fernandez took the phone away, threatening to kill her if she called the police. fernandez told her that since he is not a united states citizen, he could get away with killing her by going back to nicaragua. maribel r. told officer orr that fernandez had committed acts of domestic violence against her in the past. maribel r. had a swollen lip with dried blood around her mouth and a swollen thumb. to document her injuries, officer orr took pictures of maribel r.took pictures of fernandez to document the spots of dried blood 5 on his white t-shirt. fernandez did not have any observable injuries that would have caused blood to appear on his shirt. officer orr never saw a knife and concluded that no weapons were used. maribel r. did not have a black eye, old bruising, or any abrasions other than the bloody lip. the officers offered maribel r. medical attention but she declined. officer orr wrote a report on the night of the incident. he based the report on his personal observations, diagrams he had prepared documenting maribel r.ries, and on a recording of his conversation with maribel requipped with a digital in-car camera video system (dicvs), which captured the audio portion of his conversation with maribel r. in his report, officer orr documented complaints of pain, a swollen lip, blood around maribel r.her neck, and a swollen right thumb. officer orr personally observed maribel r.accurate reflection of what he heard maribel r. say and the content of the audio recording. outside the presence of the jury, officer orr explained that the dicvs system is automatically activated whenever a patrol car responds to a high priority call. officers are equipped with recording devices attached to their belts that record audio within a certain range of the patrol car after the officer exits the vehicle. when an officer completes his or her shift and drives the patrol car within a certain proximity of the station, the dicvs recording uploads to an lapd database through wireless receivers placed at several points in the station.3 as a matter of 3 it is unclear from the record whether the officers themselves perform a specific act to initiate the upload, other 6 routine, when an officer returns to the station at the end of his or her shift, he or she relinquishes the recording device; the device is then assigned to another officer. officer orr wore this recording device on his belt when he conducted his investigation at maribel r.recorded their conversation. he listened to the recording in the patrol car before returning his equipment to the station and before the dicvs material uploaded to the lapd database. defense counsel requested a copy of the audio recording of maribel r.the people informed the court that, according to the lapd, there was no audio documenting the investigation inside maribel r.only video of the officers approaching maribel transporting fernandez to the station had been uploaded to the database. proceedings resumed two days later. defense counsel informed the court that the people had provided her with a disc of all material recovered from the database and that the audio which officer orr listened to in his squad car and used to prepare 4 when trial resumed, officer orr end of [their] shift, [they] upload all [their] he subsequently testified, however, that the dicvs material uploads wirelessly once the patrol car is within a certain range of the station, which suggests the process is automatic. 4 the record is silent as to how long the recording remained on the device worn by officer orr or in the dcivs system in the patrol car. there is nothing in the record indicating when or how the recording would have been either erased or re-recorded in accordance with lapd policy. in addition, dicvs recordings are not saved on tangible items such as a disc or thumb drive that officer orr could have removed and booked into evidence. all 7 testified that aspects of the dicvs system occasionally fail, including instances when the audio recordings have only partially uploaded. as a consequence of these known problems, and until the system was repaired,5 officers had been instructed at roll call to listen to the audio in the car before uploading it to the database. d. fernandezs testimony fernandez testified on his own behalf. at the time of the incident, he and maribel r. were romantically involved. they were generhad her house; each time, he returned to nicaragua but she would contact him, apologize, and convince him to come back. on june 12, 2016, fernandez was sitting on the couch in maribel r.him of cheating. she threw something at him that he could not identify. she then attempted to hit him, but he ducked and she missed. maribel r. then entered another room. when she returned to where fernandez was sitting, she told him that she that can be gleaned from the record is that the portion of the the scene of the offense was not preserved due to a glitch in the database for preservation. in other words, there is no way to determine from the record how long the recording would have remained either in the patrol car or on the recording device worn by officer orr. 5 the record is silent as to whether the lapd has since repaired the dicvs uploading system. 8 had hurt herself somehow and showed him that her mouth was bleeding. he tried to help her, but she refused. she sat on the couch and they talked; she was not crying. only when the police arrived did she begin screaming and yelling for help. ii. motion to dismiss defense counsel filed a motion to dismiss for failure to disclose exculpatory evidence, arguing the prosecution committed a brady6 violation by failing to uncover and disclose the audio recording of maribel r.the court denied the motion. at the hearing on the brady motion, the people argued that the missing evidence, which documented the statements maribel r. [fernandez] in a defense counsel argued that the lost audio recording of maribel r.exculpatory, but also would have been useful to impeach maribel r.statements on the 911 call suggesting she had been struck multiple times. defense counsel twice pointed out that there were issues of [spoliation] and lost potential impeachment evidence but because the evidence no longer existed. the trial court reminded counsel that maribel r. had called 911of her own free will and under the threat of injuryto report that fernandez was attacking and injuring her. the court 6 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady). 9 noted that the statements in the 911 call, combined with the fact that no one else was at the residence besides fernandez, supports have been exculpatory. in denying the motion, the trial court found the erasure or destruction of the recording not intentional, but negligent at worst. the court stated that there was nothing to indicate that maribel r.-inflicted, and noted that maribel r. and fernandez were the only two people in the home on the night of the attack. the court stated it was audio recording does not reach brady, and that the absence of the evidence does not amount to a mistrial.7 iii. verdict and sentence on february 9, 2017, after approximately one hour and five minutes of deliberation, the jury returned a guilty verdict on count 1, finding that fernandez willfully inflicted an injury on a cohabitant resulting in a traumatic condition. the jury acquitted fernandez of dissuading a witness from reporting a crime. on march 7, 2017, the trial court sentenced fernandez to three years in state prison. on march 24, 2017, fernandez filed a notice of appeal. 7 although defense counsel filed a motion to dismiss for a brady violation, she stated in court that she was seeking a dismissal or, in the alternative, a ruling granting a mistrial. 10 discussion i. standard of review dismiss for substantial evidence.8 (people v. duff, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 549.) on review, the appellate court must that there was no violation of due process notwithstanding the loss or destruction of evidence. (people v. roybal (1998) 19 cal.4th 481, 510; people v. griffin (1988) 46 cal.3d 1011, 1022.) substantial evidence is people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) 8 fernandez suggests we review the motion de novo, citing people v. velasco (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1258 for the proposition evidence is or is not sufficiently exculpatory under california v. trombetta (1984) 467 u.s. 479, 488 (trombetta) is unsettled. (velasco, at p. 1262.) fernandez further supports his request for de novo review by claiming that the california supreme court applied a de novo review standard to a trombetta/youngblood claim in people v. beeler (1995) 9 cal.4th 953. first, the court in beeler never articulated which standard of review they applied in evaluating the trombetta/youngblood claim. second, velasco was decided in 2011. the california supreme court has since established that a denial of a trombetta motion is reviewed for substantial evidence. (people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 549.) 11 ii. merits a. the audio recording was only potentially useful to fernandez under the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment, law enforcement has a duty to preserve evidence trombetta, supra, 467 u.s. at p. 488.) the threshold have been violated is to determine whether the destroyed youngblood, supra, 488 u.s. at pp. 5758.) lost or destroyed evidence is materially exculpatory when it arent before the (trombetta, supra, 467 u.s. at p. 489.) if a defendant is able to make this showing, he or she need not demonstrate law enforcement acted in bad faith. all that is a nature that the defendant would be unable to obtain comparable evidence by ibid.) here, we find that substantial evidence supports the trial audio recording of maribel r.statements to officer orr did not possess an exculpatory value that was apparent before it was lost. officer orr testified that maribel r. told him that fernandez punched her multiple times, grabbed her by the neck, threw her to the floor, and threatened to kill her. these statements are inculpatory, not exculpatory and supported by the photographs of maribel r.the jury. furthermore, the court determined the recording was not exculpatory after listening to maribel r.911 operator that fernandez was attacking her. only maribel r. 12 and fernandez were at home at the time of the attack, and there is no credible evidence in the record that her injuries were accidental or self-inflicted. although fernandez testified that maribel r.court clearly did not credit his version of events; we find no reason to second-guess judgment. since the evidence possessed no exculpatory value evident before it was lost or destroyed, our inquiry now turns to whether the lost audio recording fernandez. (youngblood, supra, 488 u.s. at p. 58.) under youngblood, evidence is potentially useful said than that it could have been subjected to tests, the results of which might have exonerated the defendant.id. at p. 57.) fernandez relies on people v. alvarez (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 761 (alvarez), to argue that the lost audio recording was potentially useful. in alvarez, a destroyed surveillance video may have shown that two defendants in a three defendant robbery case were either not involved or were only minimally culpable. the victim in alvarez testified that it was the third defendant that snatched a gold chain from around his neck, and that the other two defendants had made threatening statements. (id. at p. 766.) alvarez and the second codefendantcisnerosclaimed they had nothing to do with the robbery, and alleged that the officer who questioned the victim repeatedly asked him in several different ways whether alvarez and cisneros provided back up for the third defendant. (ibid.) according to cisneros and alvarez, the victim eventually succumbed to the false notion the officer had plaalvarez and cisneros. (id. at p. 774.) the fourth district court of appeal found that the surveillance videowhich was erased 13 and recorded over before anyone had the opportunity to review itwas potentially usefubecause it had the potential to either exonerate or considerably reduce their culpability. (id. at p . 775.) they may have been liable as aiders and abettors, for example, or the video may have demonstrated that the crime was a theft rather than a robbery. (ibid.) while the court could not conclude the evidence met the trombetta standard of possessing an exculpatory value that was evident before it was destroyed, division three find that the video was potentially useful within the meaning of youngblood. (alvarez, at p. 776.) fernandez claims that his case is similar to alvarez because the audio establishing a reasonable doubt that [he] struck maribel r. repeatedlould have persuaded the jury that maribel r. spoke the truth at trial, and that [fernandez] conclude that had the audio recording corroborated maribel r.fernandez slapped her once and gave her a bloody nose, it may have been potentially useful to the extent that it might have reasonable doubt that fernandez possessed the required mens rea to injure maribel r., i.e., that he willfully or purposefully inflicted a physical injury. while we do not agree that the audio recording could have led to an acquittal, we cannot say that it would not have led to fernandez being charged with or convicted of a lesser crimesuch as misdemeanor batteryhad it corroborated maribel r.. we therefore conclude that the lost audio recording was, at best, only potentially useful to 14 fernandez. as a result, our inquiry turns to whether the lapd acted in bad faith. b. there was no bad faith by the police the audio recording of maribel r. not support a finding of bad faith. (youngblood, supra, 488 u.s. at p. 58 [failure of police to merely negligent].) as youngblood suggests, the defense must demonstrate something akin to calculated effort to circumvent the disclosure requirements established by brady v. maryland and its progeny. (trombetta, supra, 467 u.s. at p. 488; accord people v. angeles (1985) 172 cal.app.3d 1203, malice and absence of design to fernandez relies on alvarez, supra, 229 cal.app.4th 761 and u.s. v. zaragoza-moreira (9th cir. 2015) 780 f.3d 971 (zaragoza)) to argue that the police acted in bad faith when they lost the audio recording that captured maribel r.misplaced. in zaragoza, supra, 780 f.3d 971, the defendant was charged with bringing drugs through a port of entry into the united states. the defendant asserted she acted under duress because two drug cartel members told her that, unless she taped the drugs to her stomach and brought them through the border, they would harm her family. (id. at p. 976.) while being detained by a government agent, she repeatedly asserted that she did not want to commit the offense and attempted to make 15 herself obvious while in the pedestrian line by making noises, wiggling around, g her stomach, and throwing her passport on the ground. (id. at pp. 975976.) she did not directly alert border inspectors because one of the cartel members shoulder to shoulder id. at p. 974.) the video footage of the pedestrian line at the port of entry was automatically recorded over despite a defense request to preserve any and all videos in the custody of the government. (id. at pp. 976977.) the ninth circuit held that the destroyed video was potentially usestatements that she made efforts to attract the attention of border agents, but because it may have shed light on the extent to which the cartel member accompanying her oversaw and controlled her. (id. at p. 978.) in both alvarez, supra, 229 cal.app.4th 761 and zaragoza, supra, 780 f.3d 971, law enforcement officials knew that video camera surveillance existed that would have documented the crimes in real time yet they never made any attempts to preserve or even view the videos before they were destroyed. (alvarez, at p. 777; zaragoza, at p. 980.) eadily distinguishable. here, law enforcement did at least attempt to preserve the audio recording. the record shows that the lapd developed a system to preserve any video or audio recordings of police investigations by wirelessly uploading them to a database. the record does show, however, that police were aware that uploading the recording was an unreliable means to preserve evidence, as fernandez contends. the trial court heard testimony that, in 2016, there were instances in which the 16 system failed to properly upload all the recorded material. fernandez suggests that, knowing of these failures, officer orr should have booked the audio recording into evidence. the record suggests, however, and fernandez does not argue otherwise, that this would have been impossible. officer orr testified that the recordings to the dicvs system are not in a tangible form such that they can be copied to a cd or thumb drive. and, the record is silent on recording devievidence to the contrary, we cannot presume that officer orr had the capability of preserving the evidence other than by uploading it to the database. the lapd failed to preserve evidence that was potentially useful to fernandez. there is no evidence, however, that this failure rises to the level of a calculated effort to circumvent brady. nor does it reveal any official animus or intent to seek an unconscionable advantage over fernandez. despite its known glitches, the lapd attempted to preserve the recordings of furthermore, video portions were in fact recovered from the database and copied to a disc for defense counsel to review. nothing in the record, however, suggests that the missing portion of the recording was intentionally destroyed in order to disadvantage fernandez at trial. accordingly, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the trial finding, we find there was substantial evidence that the police did not act in bad faith. iii. forfeiture finally, we dispose of the peoplefernandez forfeited appellate review on his 17 trombetta/youngblood claim because he only asked the court to consider the lost evidence as a brady violation at trial. declining to consider on appeal a claim that merely restates, under alternative legal principles, a claim otherwise identical to the one that was properly preserved by a timely motion that called upon the trial court to consider the same facts and to apply a legal standard similar to that which would also determine the people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, -established principle that a reviewing court may consider a claim raising a pure question of (id. at p. 118, citing people v. hines (1997) 15 cal.4th 997, 1061; hale v. morgan (1978) 22 cal.3d 388, 394; ward v. taggart (1959) 51 cal.2d 736, 742.) here, the facts adduced at trial regarding the content of the lost audio recording and the circumstances surrounding its loss are not in dispute. in determining whether the loss of evidence right to a fair trial, we need not consider any additional facts beyond those already presented to the trial court. having determined that all the facts necessary to evaluate a trombetta/youngblood error were adduced at trial, we must brady legal standard similar to to relief under trombetta/youngblood. (people v. yeoman, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 117.) we find that it did. the record strongly suggests that defense counsel and the trial court viewed the lost evidence not just through the lens of brady, but with an eye toward the implications of lost or 18 destroyed evidence within the meaning of trombetta and youngbloodto the fact that law enforcement had destroyed the evidence. and, the court exceeded the scope of a brady analysis when it evaluated whether the police acted in bad faith; the trial court explicitly articulated on the record that the actions of the police were negligent at worst. although the trial court did not explicitly articulate a finding under youngblood, supra, 488 u.s. 51 whether the lost evidence was find that the evidence was not sufficiently exculpatory or impeaching within the meaning of brady. the court based its finding on the evidence from the 911 recording in which maribel r. statesof her own free will and under the threat of injurythat fernandez was attacking and injuring her. this evidence also supports a finding that the lost audio recording of maribel r.were only potentially useful within the meaning of youngblood. exculpatory and impeachment value of the lost evidence and the finding that police did not act in bad faith, are sufficient to preserve the issue for appeal. 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 