 filed 3/1/19 p. v. luis r. ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. luis r., defendant and appellant. b282148 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ze039994) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, charles lee, judge. affirmed. rudy kraft, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller, and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury found that defendant luis r. qualified for a lanterman-petris-short (lps) act (welfare and institutions code section 5000 et seq.1) conservatorship. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred when it advised the jury of the one-year duration of an lps conservatorship. according to defendant, that error was structural, and therefore reversible per se, because it relieved the prosecution of the burden of proving one or more elements of its case. in the alternative, defendant contends that the error was prejudicial, under both the federal chapman and state watson standards2 for determining harmless error. the attorney general concedes the that it was not structural or prejudicial under either standard for determining harmless error. we hold that although the trial court erred in advising the jury about the one-year duration of the lps conservatorship, such error was neither structural nor prejudicial. we therefore affirm. 1 further statutory references are to the welfare and institutions code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 (chapman) and people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 (watson). 3 ii. background a. conservatorship petition on july 21, 2016, the los angeles county public guardian filed a petition under section 5008, subdivisions (h)(1)(a) (lps conservatorship) and (b) (murphy conservatorship)3 for reappointment as conservator of the person and estate of defendant. b. trial 1. preliminary instructions on december 1, 2016, jury trial commenced on the petition. prior to reading the preliminary instructions, the trial court 3 established for criminal defendants who have been found incompetent to stand trial under penal code section 1370; have a pending information or indictment for a felony involving death, great bodily harm, or a serious threat to the physical well-being of another person; and are presently dangerous. (welf. & inst. code,  5008, subd. (h)(1)(b); conservatorship of hofferber (1980) 28 cal.3d 161, 176-177 . . . conservatorship of lee c. (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 1072, 1077.) for purposes of proving the murphy conservatorship, the parties stipulated that defendant was under criminal indictment in case number ba435244 for making serious criminal threats to the physical well-being of another person, that defendant had been found incompetent to stand trial in that proceeding, and that the indictment had not been dismissed and was still pending. 4 advised the jury as follthey last [a] request any clarification or limitation concerning it. the trial court then gave, among others, the following [of] the evidence and have discussed it thoroughly with your fellow are in this case only from the evidence you see [and] hear during the trial. sworn testimony, documents, or anything else may be evidence presented. you must carefully evaluate the evidence and resist any urge to reach a verdict that is influenced by bias for or against any party or witnetrial only if the facts and information on which you base your decisions are presented to you as a group with each juror having the same opportunity to see, hear, and evaluate 2. a. dr. tumu dr. phani tumu, a psychiatrist with a background in general and forensic psychiatry, was appointed by the court to evaluate defendant to determine if he qualified for lps and murphy conservatorships. dr. tumu had evaluated defendant 5 three times at the metropolitan state hospital4 between april 2015 and september interdisciplinary progress notes prepared by staff members who interacted with defendant on a regular basis. included a commitment at atascadero state hospital5 from 2010 to 2012. prior to that commitment, defendant had received treatment in a full service partnership program (fsp), in which clinicians visited patients in their homes or shelters and provided them with needed medication. schizophrenia. defendant had suffered from that mental illness oms: auditory hallucinations, delusional thinking in the form of paranoid and grandiose delusions, and thought disorganization. when dr. tumu first examined defendant in 2015, all three of sympthe was a home owner, a fighter pilot, and a usc graduate. he also talked about having millions of dollars in the bank. during . . . being poisoned by the police, using chloroform, having his hair 4 metropolitan state hospital treated persons with mental illness who had been charged with crimes. 5 atascadero state hospital, like metropolitan state hospital, treated persons with mental illness who had been charged with crimes. 6 and eyeballs changed out, [and] various staff members . . . doing with the according to dr. tumu, defendant was currently taking three different medications to treat his symptoms: clozaril, an anti-psychotic used specifically to treat schizophrenia; lithium, a mood stabilizer; and haldol decanoate, a longer lasting anti-psychotic medication. defendant, however, did not believe he had an illness and therefore did not believe he needed medications. defendant also told other members of his treatment team that he did not want to be on medications. the fact that defendant previously had been in a fsp program suggested to dr. tumu that defendant had been chronically noncompliant explained that if defendant did not believe he had schizophrenia, he would not have any motivation to take his medication. based on his interviews of defendant and his record review, dr. tumu opined that defendant could not provide food, shelter, and clothing for himself due to his mental illness. defendant prompting for his activities of daily living while in the hospital. he . . . needed encouragement by staff to get up and attend groups . . . . he [also] need[ed] a significant amount of w when defendant was first admitted to metropolitan state incidents for which he was placed in five-point restraints and seclusion due to paranoia about various staff members and some of his symptoms improved; but in june 2016, he was involved in new incidents, 7 including, when he became angry, clenched his fist and tried to strike another patient, that required multiple injected and oral doses of prn, or emergency as-needed, medications to treat agitation and anxiety. later that same month, defendant became verbally aggressive with staff. in august 2016, defendant reported to staff that he was hearing voices that his current medications could not control and which required doses of prn medications. dr. tumu believed that if defendant was no longer under a conservatorship, he would not be able to obtain the prn medications required to control his symptoms of aggression. defendant told dr. tumu that if he were released from commitment, he would use the money he had in the bank to take care of himself, but he could not elaborate about the money or d not have any contact with family members who could help him provide for himself. if defendant were discharged from the hospital without a conservatorship, dr. tumu believed he would not continue taking his medication. defendant lacked insight into his illness, had a history of noncompliance with his his medications. defendant did not understand that he needed to take psychotropic medications for the rest of his life. dr. tumu opined that defendant was unable to accept voluntarily meaningful treatment for his illness. he therefore concluded that there was no viable alternative to a lps conservatorship for defendant. 8 b. dr. sibal dr. nerissa sibal, a staff psychiatrist at metropolitan state november 2015 through september 2016. her unit, the lps 6 7 during the time defendant waparticipated in the available group programs. she and her treatment team encouraged him to participate in the groups, but not have a mental illness. dr. sibal and her team would have a formal meeting with defendant once a month, and every time they met, he asked her to discontinue his medications because he did not want to take them anymore. defendant would also approach dr. sibal informally when she was in the unit and ask her to discontinue his medications. in response, dr. sibal would repeatedly tell defendant that he needed to take the medications because he had an illness; but he would consistently deny he had an illness.8 6 [a] 7 history of criminal charges and that he had been committed to committed to patton hospital. 8 defenbeat him updid not take his medications. 9 dr. sibal diagnosed defendant as suffering from e for himself. dr. sibal confirmed that defendant did not have insight into his illness. she spoke to him about his illness almost every day while trying to convince him to take his medications. according to dr. sibal, defendant needed prn medications regularly to control episodes of aggression and agitation. for ant to hit some[one] . . . -behavior. on some of those occasions, the prn medications were muscle twitching. like dr. tumu, dr. sibal confirmed that defendant would be unwilling or unable to accept voluntarily meaningful honestly believe[d that] the minute he walk[ed] out [of the unit], he [would] not take his she therefore believed there was no alternative to commitment. c. dr. diaz dr. selene diaz, a staff psychiatrist at metropolitan state trial. defendant had been transferred to her unit because it housed patients who were under a murphy conservatorship. 10 dr. diaz confirmed that defendant suffered from schizophrenia. like dr. tumu and dr. sibal, dr. diaz noted that prior to being prescribed clozapine, defendant exhibited aggression toward peers and staff. dr. diaz stated that if a patient was released from a conservatorship, left the hospital, and then discontinued clozapine abruptly, he or she would suffer seizures. and, if that patient did not voluntarily submit to regular blood tests, the pharmacy would not dispense the needed medication, which would lead to seizures. from dr. diaza conservatorship and discharged from the hospital. she [would] quickly decompensate and that would put him at risk for take his medication in the hospital setting. dr. diaz concluded that defendant did not have insight into his mental illness and would be unwilling or unable to accept voluntarily meaningful treatment. she also did not believe that defendant could provide for his basic needs, such as food, shelter and clothing because of his illness, and she did not know of any acceptable alternative to conservatorship.9 3. defense case defendant testified on his own behalf. he believed it would 9 dr. diaz did believe that if defendant continued to improve, she could refer him to a locked institute for mental disease (imd). 11 the conservatorship terminated, defendant would live at his defendant was aware of his diagnosis, clozapine and believed those medications were helpful. he would continue to take them if the conservatorship terminated. defendant believed his current medications were better than the ones he had previously taken. he also believed that if he were released to a lower level of care, he would comply with orders and the structure of that setting. on cross-examination, defendant asserted that he was aware he had a mental illness. he had been taking medication for his illness since 1999. he did ask dr. sibal and dr. diaz to lower the dosage of his medications, but did not tell the doctors that he did not have a mental illness or that he did not want to take medication. defendant stated that he was 37 years old10 and that he 1980, defendant stated that he did not remember when he graduated from high school. defendant went through school to become an astronaut by obtaining a ph.d. in mathematics in 2007.11 before he went to usc, he studied at el camino college. 10 defendant was 27 years old at time of trial. 11 12 defendant denied being homeless before the incident in 201312 and insisted that he had been living in a house that he owned. he was able to purchase the house because he worked at commercial airline pilot for delta and continental airlines. he t was also an was under the influence. [he] dropped out and started smoking because his father owned continental airlines and gave him $250 million. he had three bank accounts at wells fargo and chase. before the 2013 incident he was able to withdraw money from the bank, which was how he was able to purchase his house. but he did not know who currently lived in his house. defendant also owned an apartment complex comprised of four houses. he tried defendant denied that he currently experienced auditory hallucinations, but admitted he had them in the past. he last [he] had . . . medical insurance. . . . [h]e went to the pharmacy and . . . picked up 12 in context, it appears defendant was referring to events that led to the filing of the criminal indictment pending against him. 13 4. jury instructions and argument after the parties presented their evidence, the trial court instructed the jury, repeating many, if not all, of the preliminary instructions it had delivered. on the issue of the lps conservatorship, the trial court gave the following specific rdian acting through the district attorney claims that [defendant] is gravely disabled due to a mental disorder and therefore should be placed in a conservatorship. [] in a conservatorship, a conservator is appointed to oversee, under the direction of the court, the care of persons who are gravely disabled due to a mental disorder. to succeed on this claim, the district attorney must prove beyond a reasonable doubt all of the following: one, that [defendant] has a mental disorder; two, that [defendant] is gravely disabled as a result of a mental disorder; and, three, that [defendant] is unwilling or unable to voluntarily . . . accept meaningful conservatorship . . . means that a person is unable to provide for his or her basic needs for food, shelter, and clothing because of a mental . . . gravely disabled, you must not consider or discuss the type of treatment, care, or supervision that may be ordered if a conservatorship is e during closing argument, defense counsel specifically informed the jury not to consider the treatment defendant might [you will] get, and [has] been read to [you] . . . talks about . . . into consideration what sort of treatment somebody was going to 14 judge to . . . prosecutor thereafter voiced his agreement with defense counsel concerning the relevance of the treatment defendant might to consider [treatment] and . . . pointed out the jury instruction [the] consequences of . . . 5. jury questions and mistrial motion during deliberations, the jury submitted three handwritten questions to the trial court: 13 reviewed for lps and murphy again? [] 2. does our decision pertain to a one-year period for [defendant] and then he is up for review again? [] 3. if [defendant] stays on murphy by jury decision and shows improvement is he eligible for re-asses[s]ment in response to the jury questions, defense counsel moved for a mistral and the trial court and counsel engaged in a lengthy questions were problematic because they showed that the jury was under the conservatorship and] how long it would be, that sort of according to defense counsel, those considerations violated caci no. 4004 which admonished the jurors not to 13 judge charles lee presided over the trial but, due to judge bianco presided while the jury deliberated. 15 mistrial was warranted, counsel argued, because if the jurors that [is] more of an indication they could be doing anything back them to even engage in a [discussion] related to the treatment. the court denied the motion for mistrial and expressed tentative views on the appropriate response to the notes. after further colloquy between and among court and counsel, the trial court took a recess to consider the issue further. upon return from the recess, the trial court reiterated that simply be the statement that lps and murphy conservatorships should be simply to reread jury instruction [caci no.] 4004. [] jury, please. [] . . . [] the court: good morning, ladies and him. . . . but i have discussed your questions both with the as to questions 1 and 2, lps and murphy conservatorships last whether [defendant] is gravely disabled, you must not consider or discuss the type of treatment, care, or supervision that may be ordered if a conservatorship is established. that applies to both types of conser 16 6. jury verdict on december 6, 2016, the jury found that defendant qualified for an lps conservatorship under section 5008, subdivision (h)(1)(a) and a murphy conservatorship under section motions for judgment notwithstanding the verdict or new trial, the trial court granted defendant a new trial on the request for renewal of the murphy conservatorship only. following the new trial on the murphy conservatorship in march 2017, the jury again found that defendant qualified for a murphy conservatorship. defendant filed a notice of appeal from the orders imposing the conservatorships. iii. discussion a. any instructional error was harmless defendant contends that the trial court committed reversible error when it advised the jury that the duration of ervatorship would be one year.14 according to defendant, the recent decision in conservatorship of p.d. (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 1163 (p.d.) confirms that informing the jury about the duration of an lps conservatorship and types of treatments available was in 14 defendant challenges on appeal only he qualified for an lps conservatorship. he does not challenge the subsequent finding on retrial in march 2017 that he qualified for a murphy conservatorship. 17 decision in people v. blackburn (2015) 61 cal.4th 1113, 1134 (blackburn), defendant argues that the error in this civil commitment case was structural, as it would be in a criminal case where the error effectively relieved the prosecution of the burden of proving one or more of the necessary elements of its case. in the alternative, defendant contends that the error was prejudicial under the federal harmless error standard in chapman, supra, 386 u.s. 18, as well as under the less rigorous state standard in watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818. advisement that the lps conservatorship would last one year was error under p.d., supra, 21 cal.app.5th 1123. nevertheless, the attorney general maintains that the error was not structural and was harmless under either the chapman, supra, 386 u.s. 18 or watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818 standards. we agree that the trial court erred in advising the jury about the length and potential for renewal of the lps conservatorship. (p.d., supra, 21 cal.app.5th 1163, 1168-1169 whether, as a result of a mental disorder, he is unable to provide for his basic personal needs for food, clothing, or shelter. ( 5008, that error structural requiring reversal per se; and, if not, (2) was that error prejudicial. in p.d., supra, 21 cal.app.5th 1163, the court noted that the concept of structural error may not apply in a civil case: of its burden to prove every element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt, the error is structural and reversal is required. 18 (sullivan v. louisiana (1993) 508 u.s. 275, 281-282, . . . .) but this is a civil case. (conservatorship of john l. [(2010)] 48 id. at p. 1169.) the court continued, chapman[, supra,] 386 u.s. 18 . . . , on the theory that the special instructions invited the jury to consider irrelevant information and thus undermined p.d.(see bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123, 131, fn. 6 . . . ), we would find ibid.) contrary to the suggestion in p.d., supra, 21 cal.app.5th 1163, defendant contends that the structural error doctrine applies in this case, citing blackburn, supra, 61 cal.4th 1113 and people v. tran (2015) 61 cal.4th 1160 (tran). we disagree. although both of those cases did find structural error in the civil commitment context, they did so under procedural circumstances that were far different from the jury advisement at issue here. in blackburn, supra, 61 cal.4th 1113, the court found that it was error for the trial court not to personally advise and obtain a waiver from a defendant of his right to a jury trial under the mentally disordered offender act, penal code section 2960 et seq. (blackburn, supra, at p. 1122, 1125.) the court also held that the failure to obtain a valid personal waiver of the right to a failure to obtain a required personal jury trial waiver as tantamount to (see people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th a criminal proceeding (for example, the complete denial of the right to a jury, or to an impartial judge), it may be impossible, or 19 beside the point, to evaluate the resulting harm by resort to the trial record, and a miscarriage of justice may arise regardless of people v.] cahill [(1993)] 5 cal.4th [478,] 491 [in some contextsfor example, the erroneous denial of a alan error may result in a miscarriage of justice, and require reversal, regardless of the id. at p. 1134.)15 even assuming the structural error doctrine applies in the context of this civil lps conservatorship proceeding, we conclude constituting structural error. here, unlike in blackburn, supra, 61 cal.4th 1113 and tran, supra, 61 cal.4th 1160, the error in question did not result in the to a jury trial on the entire cause in the commitment proceeding. therefore, the authority upon which defendant bases his structural error contention is inapposite. in this case, defendant was afforded a jury trial on the commitment issue during which 15 similarly, in tran, supra, 61 cal.4th 1160, the trial court failed to personally advise and obtain a waiver from the defendant of the right to a jury trial under penal code section involuntary commitment after he had been found not guilty by reason of insanity. (id. at p. 1164.) the court in tran held that an invalid jury trial waiver under [penal code] section 1026.5[, subdivision] (b)(4) may be deemed harmless, we hold for the reasons set forth in blackburn, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 1132-1137 that such errorresulting in a complete denial of the commitment proceedingis not susceptible to ordinary harmless error analysis and automid. at 1169.) 20 limited issue before it, whether defendant was gravely disabled. ordinarily, such errors are not considered structural and are instead reviewed for prejudice under the watson, supra, 46 correctly states a principle of law which has no application to the people v. sanchez (1947) 30 cal.2d 560, 572 . . . .) yet such an error is usually harmless, having little or no id. at p. 573.) there is ground for concern only when an abstract or irrelevant instruction creates a substantial risk of misleading the jury to the people v. rollo (1977) 20 cal.3d 109, 122-123; see also solgaard v. guy f. atkinson (1971) 6 cal.3d proper language it is improper, if it finds no support in the evidence, and the giving of it constitutes prejudicial error if it is determining whether the giving of an irrelevant instruction constituted prejudicial error, the reviewing court must consider all of the circumstances of the case, including the evidence and butigan v. yellow cab co. (1958) 49 cal.2d 652, 660-giving of a confusing or misleading instruction is, of course, error . . . . [] the determination whether, in a specific instance, the probable effect of the instruction has been to mislead the jury and whether the error has been prejudicial so as to require reversal depends on all the circumstances of the case, including the evidence and the other instructions given. no precise formula 21 based on the foregoing authority, we find no merit in n did not completely deprive defendant of his right to a jury trial. moreover, whether we review the error for prejudice under either watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818 or chapman, supra, 385 u.s. 18, we conclude it was harmless. the evidence against defendant was overwhelming. the independent psychiatric evaluator, dr. tumu, explained that defendant suffered from long-term schizophrenia, had been noncompliant in the past in voluntarily taking needed medication, and would be noncompliant in the future if the conservatorship was terminated and defendant was released from the structured setting of the hospital. dr. tumu therefore concluded that defendant was unable to accept voluntarily meaningful treatment for his mental disorder and was otherwise unable to provide for his basic needs for food, opinions based on their percipient and frequent observations of ed in their units. and, rather the jurors that defendant suffered from the serious and multiple delusions identified by each of them in their testimony. to the jury the three elements that the prosecutor needed to prove renewed request for an lps conservatorship, including the need for proof that defendant was unwilling to accept voluntarily 22 meaningful treatment for his mental disease.16 those instructions also clearly defined the term gravely disabled, i.e., that defendant was unable to provide for his basic needs for food, final instructions to the jury repeatedly emphasized that the jurors were to decide the foregoing issues based solely on the evidence presented at trial, and not based on any other extraneous considerations. given all the circumstances of the case, the error in answers to those questions merely repeated that the 16 there is a split in authority as to whether the district not appear in the lps ( in which a person, as a result of a mental health disorder, is unable to provide for his or her basic personal needs for food, clothing, or shelteconservatorship of early (1983) 35 cal.3d 244, 256 [declining to reach the issue of whether trial appellant was not gravely disabled if he voluntarily accepted treatment]; compare conservatorship of symington (1989) 209 conservatee is unable or unwilling to accept treatment is conservatorship of davis (1981) 124 cal.app.3d 313, 322-323 [concluding trial court properly instructed jury that it must find conservatee was gravely disabled as a result of mental disorder and was unwilling or incapable of accepting treatment voluntarily].) in light of the e need not address this split in authority. 23 conservatorship was one year, subject to renewal, and the jury was required to follow the mandate in caci no. 4004, but did not otherwise suggest or imply that the one-year duration of the conservatorship or the potential for its future renewal were prono. 4004 and its other instructions and conclude that the erroneous advisement was not prejudicial under either the state or federal standard. 24 iv. disposition the judgment renewing the lps conservatorship is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kim, j. we concur: baker, acting p. j. seigle, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 