filed 2/1/19 p. v. miller ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raymond miller, defendant and appellant. b282284 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma066786) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles, shannon knight, judge. affirmed. edward j. horowitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant raymond miller struck david simington with a wooden pole during an argument. subsequently, defendant, who was accompanied by another man, threatened to take simington to the desert to kill him to prevent him from testifying at an anticipated trial of the criminal charges against defendant arising from the earlier assault. at the later encounter, simington was separated from his car keys when defendant tripped and tackled him in the alley behind his apartment building. simington involved one of his roommates, marc lawson, in the encounter, and lawson persuaded based on these two events, the people charged defendant with several crimes including robbery, kidnapping, and criminal threats. the jury found defendant guilty of theft, among other crimes. the trial court sentenced defendant to a prison term that included three one-year prison enhancements.1 defendant challenges his conviction on two grounds. first, he argues that the trial court erred in overruling his hearsay testimony, which repeated statements made by simington hearing testimony itself was admissible as former testimony of an unavailable witness because lawson died before trial. we admissible under the 1 we describe the charges and jury verdict in the procedural background section, and sentence and challenges to the prison enhancements in subsection c. 3 mental state was at issue because the robbery, kidnapping, and second, defendant contends that the theft conviction was not supported by substantial evidence. we conclude that the prosecution introduced sufficient evidence from which the jury could have drawn a reasonable inference that defendant intended to deprive simington of his car keys. defendant challenges his sentence on the ground that the trial court erroneously applied three 1-year prison term enhancements and defendant did not waive jury as to prior convictions added to the information after the trial court discharged the jury. we conclude there was sufficient evidence to support imposition of the enhancements and defendant forfeited his objection to a court trial on the prior convictions added to the information after the jury was discharged. we thus affirm. factual background a. august 21, 2015: defendant attacked simington with a wooden pole, causing a head injury and broken arm defendant and simington first met in prison. thereafter, on august 21, 2015, simington was fixing his car at the lot where john schumann kept his motor home. simington served as ause schumann had a heart condition. at some point while simington was fixing his car, defendant, accompanied by an unidentified man, arrived at the lot and got into an argument with simington possibly over drugs. schumann heard the commotion from inside his motor home, went outside, and hollered that defendant was not supposed to be 4 on the lot. defendant struck simington with a four-foot wooden pole on the back of his head and right arm. simington saw defendant strike his arm but not the back of his head. the blows simington then attempted to move behind schumann, at which fled. the paramedics and police arrived. simington told officer james clark about the argument and attack. simington received treatment for his injuries at a hospital. defendant was arrested and charged with assault and battery. after being released from the hospital, simington testified about the aforementioned events at the preliminary hearing on the assault and battery charges. we observe that at the preliminary hearing, simington testified he did not see who hit his arm, but at trial, he testified he saw defendant hit his arm with a wooden pole.2 about two weeks after the attack and sometime after the simington at the gas station where he was working. she asked him out for a drink and how he was feeling. simington put her off and said he would call her later, although he never did. about a week later, toni approached simington at work again and asked him if he planned to testify against defendant; simington 2 at trial, on redirect examination, simington testified he was mistaken when he testified at the preliminary hearing that he did not see who hit his arm. 5 contact with toni. b. november 1, 2015: defendant threatened to take simington to the desert to kill him and schumann, but lawson intervened and helped simington regain possession of his car keys in the early morning of november 1, 2015, at about 2:00 a.m., simington arrived home from work to his apartment building and parked his car in the back alley carport. someone -side window, looked into the car, and walked off. upon exiting his car, simington saw defendant3 and another man, different from the one who had peered into his car, moving quickly toward him. simington ran. defendant fall to the ground. simington believed he lost his car keys when he fell and that defendant or the other man then picked them up. defendant then picked up a 15-inch knife that had fallen on the ground. defendant and the other man grabbed simington. simington attempted to run away, but could not escape defendants and now the other masimington he was going to kill him, raised the knife, and pointed the blade toward simington while the other man continued to r simington attempted to flee again, and the other man said, ,[l] defendant said no, became angry, walked away, and got on his phone. defendant 3 simington believed defendant had been released on bail. 6 and the other man then walked simington southward down the alley while holding on to him. defendant told the other man to get the truck. the other man walked down the alley southward, in the direction of where the truck would eventually arrive. endant also told simington that (1) he was going to take him to the desert; (2) they were going to talk schumann into the car and take him to the desert too; (3) simington was going to dig a hole in which in right simington convinced defendant to allow him to go to his apartment ostensibly to say goodbye to his son. actually, although simington had two sons, they were not then at his apartment, and he created this ploy to attempt to seek refuge in his apartment where his two roommates, lawson and eddie peterson, would be. eventually, defendant and simington went defendant still had the knife. simington knocked on the apartment door and lawson opened it. ,defendant and the other man were going to take him to the desert to kill him, and he had lost his car keys. lawson intervened, causing defendant to release simington from his grip. defendant whistled, and the other man arrived and pulled a set of keys from his pocket. the keys did not belong to simington. 7 lawson then went to the alley with defendant and the 4 simington stayed in the apartment. other man left the scene. about five or 10 minutes later, simington went to the carport to inspect his car and found it had been ransacked. simington also noticed a pickup truck idling at, and then the same end toward which the other man had forcibly walked simington after he and defendant had initially apprehended simington in the alley. the police arrived, and simington gave a statement to deputy benjamin casebolt. defendant was arrested. procedural background based on the august 21, 2015 attack, the people ultimately charged defendant with two counts of assault with a deadly weapon, one count concerning simington (count 1) and the other, schumann (count 14). (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1).) based on the november 1, 2015 events, the people charged defendant with attempted murder of simington (count 3) (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a)); assault with a deadly weapon (count 4) (id.,  245, subd. (a)(1)); dissuading simington as a witness from testifying by force or threat (count 5) (id.,  136.1, subd. (c)(1)); making criminal threats against simington (count 6) (id.,  422, subd. (a)); kidnapping simington (count 7) (id.,  207, 4 in subsection b below, we set forth additional facts about this event -of-evidence challenge to the theft verdict. 8 subd. (a)); two counts of conspiracy to commit murder (counts 8 and 9) (id.,  182, subd. (a)(1), 187, subd. (a)); conspiracy to kidnap simington (count 10) (id.,  182, subd. (a)(1), 207, subd. (a) (count 11) (id.,  211); and first degree burglary (count 13) (id.,  459).5 the people initially brought two cases against defendant, one based on the august 21, 2015 events and the other, the november 1, 2015 events. the trial court subsequently granted at the preliminary hearing on the charges based on the november 1, 2015 events, lawson testified simington said that he was in trouble and needed help because defendant and the other man were going to take him to the desert to kill him. lawson also testified that he aided simington in repossessing his car keys from defendant and the other man. between the time of that preliminary hearing and trial, lawson died. thus, the parties stipulated that lawson was unavailable under evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(3). at trial, the prosecution called simington as a witness, where he recounted the aforementioned facts. defense counsel burglary and theft convictions, and preliminary hearing testimony that simington did not see who struck his arm. defendant also tried to discredit simington with his failure to tell 5 the people charged defendant with two other crimes that they ultimately did not bring to trial: battery with serious bodily injury (pen. code,  243, subd. (d) (count 2) and conspiracy to dissuade a witness from testifying by force or threat (id.,  136, subd. (c)(1), 182, subd. (a)(1)) (count 12). 9 deputy casebolt that defendant had threatened to take him to the desert. defense counsel also tried to elicit testimony from simington to the effect that he did not see the person who struck his head. hearing testimony as prior testimony of an unavailable witness statements regarding the november 1, 2015 events. testimony on several grounds; the only ones relevant on appeal that the prove the truth of the matter asserted. for instance, they were questions or requests or directives. those are not hearsay. or if they were offered for the truth of the matter, they fell under an exception to the hearsay rule. for the most part they were either excited utterances of mr. simington or they were statements of the . . . defendant. schumann, peterson, and several police officers also testified. defendant reasserted his hearsay objection when the jury, the jury found defendant guilty of three counts of assault with a deadly weapon (counts 1, 4, and 14), dissuading a witness from testifying (count 5), criminal threats (count 6), attempted kidnapping (count 7),6 conspiracy to kidnap (count 10), 6 the jury found defendant not guilty of the greater crime of actual kidnapping. 10 petty theft (count 11),7 and burglary (count 13). the jury found defendant not guilty of conspiracy to commit murder (counts 8 and 9). the trial court declared a mistrial on attempted murder (count 3) because the jury could not reach a unanimous verdict on that charge. the trial court sentenced defendant to serve an aggregate 20-year prison term, including three 1-year prior prison enhancements, and to pay certain monetary fines. defendant timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not err in overruling preliminary hearing testimony that repeated admissible under the former testimony of an unavailable witness and state of mind exceptions mental state was at issue defendant argues that the trial court erred in overruling preliminary hearing testimony. defendant characterizes -of-court statements made by simington that themselves repeated -of-court statements. more specifically, defendant argues that the trial court erred insofar as the people used 7 the jury found defendant not guilty of the greater crime of second degree robbery. 11 support of four of the charges. dissuading a witness (count 5) suade a witness from testifying against him. (people v. pettie (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 23, 68.) criminal threats (count 6) required the people to prove that defendant intended his statement to be taken as a threat. (pen. code,  422, subd. (a).) for conspiracy to kidnap simington (count 10), defendant must have intended to (1) kidnap simington and (2) agree with another person to kidnap simington. (people v. vega-robles (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 382, 419.) to establish burglary (count 13), the people had to show that defendant intended to commit larceny. (pen. code,  459.) in response, the attorney general argues testimony was admissible under the former testimony and state of mind exceptions to the general rule that out-of-court statements are inadmissible for the truth of the matter stated.8 as (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 201.) evidence of an out-of-court statement that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated is inadmissible unless it comes within an established exception. (evid. code,  1200.) two exceptions to this rule are relevant to this appeal. one arises where an r testimony, which is itself hearsay, is offered against a party in an earlier proceeding. (id.,  1291.) the other arises where the hearsay statement is offered to prove 8 given our ruling, we do not address the attorney generalments were also admissible as prior consistent statements. (evid. code,  791, 1236.) 12 (id.,  1250, subd. (a)(1).) here, defendant identifies the following five out-of-court statements as inadmissible hearsay.9 each statement presents hearsay within hearsay, because in each statement, lawson recites statements simington made.10 we address the two levels of hearsay each in turn. 9 answers about statements by simington, peterson, [defendant,] and another man, who had entered the apartment and who was etc. . . . and . . . take schumann and simington to the desert and kill schumann -vague description of the purported statements does not allow us to identify any particular testimony that might be in the record. defendant has thus forfeited his claim of error with respect to these vaguely referenced statements. (keyes v. bowen (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 647, 655-656 (keyes) [appellant has burden to prove trial court erred with legal authority and factual analysis supported by appropriate record citations].) 10 defendant characterizes these statements as containing three levels of hearsay: defendant. we perceive no statements by defendant repeated in the above-quoted statements. accordingly, we analyze the statements as containing only two levels of hearsay. 13 . what else did [simington] say? [] a. that this gentlemen here [defendant] and someone else was going to take him out. they were trying to tak [t]hey want to take me out in the desert . . . and i . what did [simington] say? [] a. he said they that they even got my car keys. testimony. as previously noted, the parties do not dispute that this level of hearsay is admissible as former testimony under evidence code section 1291.11 lawson had died after the preliminary hearing and was therefore unavailable for trial, and the testimony was proffered against defendant, who was represented in that proceeding. (see people v. gonzales (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 767 [preliminary hearing transcript admissible under evidence code section 1291].) statements that lawson repeated. we conclude that these statements were admissible under the state of mind exception to 11 by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and . . . [] [t]he party against whom the former testimony is offered was a party to the action or proceeding in which the testimony was given and had the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an interest and motive similar to that id. code,  1291, subd. (a)(2).) 14 to prove an element of at least three of the crimes asserted against defendant. evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a)(1) excepts from existing state of mind, emotion, or physical sensation (including a statement of intent, plan, motive, design, mental feeling, pain, or 12 here, the people charged defendant with at least three (pen. [stealing, taking, holding, detaining, or arresting person by force thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her ow simington perceived himself as being in trouble, needing help, and imminently being taken to the desert against his will and killed there by defendant. thus, the statements tended to prove simington then felt fear, which was an element of at least three 12 evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a) is subject to evidence code section 1252, which renders a statement such as to indicate its lack of trustworthiness.recites this requirement, but does not argue that any such circumstances were present regarding evidence he challenges on appeal. accordingly, defendant has forfeited this contention. (keyes, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at pp. 655-656 [issues unsupported by factual or legal analysis are forfeited].) 15 of the crimes charged against defendant. the trial court did not err in admitting the statements under evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a). defendant asserts that the state of mind exception is -existing state of mind, e.g.assembly committee comment on evidence code section 1250 stating that, under subdivision (b),13 hearsay statements narrating threats made by another person are admissible as evidence of fear but are inadmissible as a basis for inferring that the defendant actually made the threats. (assem. com. on judiciary comment on evid. code,  1250; see, e.g., people v. atchley (1959) 53 cal.2d 160, 172 [letter introduced by defendant claiming self-defense, written by decedent stating defendant state of mind of fear, not that defendant threatened her, where defendant asserted decedent was the aggressor in a struggle for a fear was at issue. limitation such as that the admissible hearsay could not be used defendant raises this claim of error for the first time in reply and has therefore forfeited it. (hurley v. department of parks & recreation (2018) 13 statement of memory or belief to prove the fact remembered or  1250, subd. (b).) 16 20 cal.app.5th 634, 648, fn. 10 obvious reasons of fairness militate against consideration of an issue raised initially in the reply brief of an appellant he also failed to request a limiting instruction in the trial court. (evid. code,  355 [trial court required to give limiting people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 824-825, abrogated on other grounds by people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192 [trial court under no sua sponte duty to provide limiting instruction]; people v. snchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 460 [argument that trial court provided insufficiently detailed limiting instruction uncognizable on appeal because defendant did not request limiting instruction with such details].) o the did not even then request a limiting instruction. because the trial court did not err in admitting the statements, b. substantial evidence supported the theft verdict verdict on the petty theft charge (count 11) was insufficient because there was no evidence that defendant intended to steal that the other man who accompanied him would steal the keys, or anyone took the keys from simington. ency-of-the-evidence challenges is well established and applies . . . to convictions . . . . [citations.] in reviewing a claim for sufficiency of the evidence, we must 17 determine whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstance beyond a reasonable doubt. we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses sufficient evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesupporting the decision, and not whether the evidence proves guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we neither reweigh the evidence nor reevaluate the credibility of witnesses. [citation.] we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury reasonably could deduce from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the findings made by the trier of fact, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 638-639 (jennings).) the elements of theft are: the defendant (1) took possession of property owned by someone else; (2) took the taking the property, intended to deprive the owner of it permanently or to that the owner would be deprived of a major portion of the value or enjoyment of the property; and (4) moved the property, even a small distance, and kept it for any period of time, however brief. (calcrim no. 1800.) lawson testified at the preliminary hearing about the read back at trial, as follows. when simington first arrived at 18 imington went into the apartment, he and simington were asking defendant then whistled, the other man came, and defendant produced keys but nother man went outside to the carport area in the alley behind one of the carport stalls and returned about a minute later with at trial, simington testified about the events concerning the keys as follows. simington arrived home from work in his car, which he parked in the alley behind his apartment building. after defendant initially tackled simington in the alley, brandished a knife, and with the other man, grabbed simington and walked him down the alley, simington could not find his keys. simington then persuaded defendant to let him go to his apartment, and lawson appeared. when the other man came to the apartment, lawson gra[g]lawson, defendant, and the other man retrieved his keys from the carport. lawson events support a reasonable inference that simington dropped his keys when defendant initially chased him down the alley, and that defendant himself or through the other man then took ical altercation, the threats to kill simington that defendant made in the alley, 19 an inference that simington never consented to defendtaking his keys. that evidence also supports a reasonable inference that defendant intended to deprive simington of his keys permanently or for an extended period so as to deprive simington of a major portion of the value or enjoyment of his keys. this inference is especially true because by taking the keys, defendant impeded simington dropped them, and (2) simingtoinference that defendant moved the keys and maintained possession of them for some time. therefore, the evidence adduced at trial was sufficient to support each element of theft. defendant also argues that the evidence of his intent to deprive simington of his car keys was insufficient because (1) keys, (2) the other man shortly thereafter returned the keys to simington, and (3) defendant and the other man had their own cars and were without a third accomplice who could have simultaneoudefendant asks us to draw inferences contradicting those the jury drew. the substantial evidence standard of review does not permit us to do so. (jennings, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 638-639.) 20 c. there was sufficient evidence to support the penal code section 667.5 enhancements and defendant forfeited his argument that he was entitled to a jury trial on post-jury-discharge alleged prior convictions after discharging the jury, the trial court permitted the prosecutor to amend the information to add two prior convictions for violating vehicle code section 10851, which criminalizes the amendment but identified no basis for the objection. the trial court permitted the amendment and then found that defendant suffered six prior convictions within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) imposes a one-year enhancement for a prior, separate prison term served on a felony conviction. [penal code] section 667.5 requires proof that the defendant: (1) was previously convicted of a felony; (2) was imprisoned as a result of that conviction; (3) completed that term of imprisonment; and (4) did not remain free for five years of both prison custody and the commission of a new offense resulting in a (people v. kelly (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 886, [t]he enhancement is not imposed if the defendant is free of both felony convictions and incarceration in prison for five (ibid., italics omitted.) on appeal, defendant argues the court erred in its penal code section 667.5 findings because (1) his penultimate felony conviction was not supported by substantial evidence, and (2) he did not waive jury trial on prior conviction allegations 21 added after the jury was discharged. the penultimate conviction, conviction was reduced to a misdemeanor. the trial court correctly concluded it could not consider the misdemeanor burglary conviction for purposes of the penal code section 667.5 enhancement. (see people v. kelly, supra, 28 cal.app.5th at pp. 892-893.) it is undisputed that although defendant was convicted of unlawfully taking a vehicle in 2006, his parole for that conviction was revoked in april 2010 and he was sentenced to an eight-month term. it also is undisputed that the relevant question is whether he remained in custody on august 21, 2010 or later based on the parole revocation. 1. sufficient evidence supported the conclusion that defendant did not remain free of prison custody for a five-year period preceding his current offense defendant argues that no substantial evidence supported the finding that he did not remain free of custody for a five-year period preceding his current offense. a trial court cannot impose a penal code section 667.5, subdivision if a defendant is free from both prison custody and the commission of a new felony for any five-year period following discharge from custody or release on parole. people v. buycks (2018) 5 cal.5th 857, 889.) as noted, the critical question is whether defendant was incarcerated for the parole violation on august 21, 2010. that defendant did not remain free from prison custody for a five-was revoked on april 7, 2010, and he was sentenced to 22 eight months. the department of corrections projected was not released on that day. a subsequent parole intake audit conducted on april 22, 2010 projected a july 9, 2011 release date. caused his projected release date to become march 3, 2014.) conclusion that he remained incarcerated after august 21, 2010 based on his parole violation. in urging a different result, defendant focuses only on the evidence favorable to him and fails to summarize the evidence in defendant fails to present us with all the relevant evidence, or fails to present that evidence in the light most favorable to the people, then he cannot carry his burden of showing the evidence was insufficient because support for the jurys verdict may lie in people v. sanghera (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1567, 1574.) when the entire record is considered, the evidence original projected release date (july 9, 2010), but ignores the evidence that the department of corrections later amended the projected release date to july 9, 2011. moreover, although defendant cites penal code section 3057 for the proposition that he was entitled to credits, he ignores penal code section 3057, subdivision (c), which authorizes additional confinement beyond the initial projected release date for incidents of misconduct. defendant also ignores the incidents of misconduct documented 23 in the record.14 defendant cites no evidence supporting his claim that he was released prior to august 21, 2010 and the record belies any such contsufficiency of the evidence lacks merit. 2. defendant shows no other cognizable error defendant correctly points out that the trial court allowed the prosecution to add two penal code section 667.5 enhancements after the trial court had discharged the jury. based on this fact, defendant argues that the trial court erred in holding a court trial on these enhancements because defendant would have merit if defense counsel had objected on the ground that defendant was entitled to have the same jury decide guilt as well as the truth of the prior conviction allegations. (people v. tindall (2000) 24 cal.4th 767, 777-778 (tindall).) by failing to lodge such an objection, defendant forfeited it. (id. at p. 782.) forfeiture flows from the fact that there is no constitutional right to a jury trial on a prior conviction allegation. (people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, 172.) more specifically, the right to a jury trial on penal code section 667.5 enhancements as alleged in this case is statutory. (people v. vera (1997) 15 cal.4th 269, 278 (vera) the prior prison term allegations does not implicate the state or , moreover, does not argue that he did not receive a fair court trial. thus, his challenge to the failure to receive a jury trial on the sentence enhancement allegations in the amended information is not 14 for example, defendant fought with other inmates on december 1, 2010 and in february 2011. 24 preserved for appellate review.15 (vera, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 281.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: johnson, acting p. j. weingart, j.* 15 was untimely because the jury had long-since rendered its verdict and had been discharged. (see [tindall, supra,] 24 cal.4th [at p.] 782 [because a jury cannot determine the truth of the prior conviction allegations once it has been discharged [citation], it follows that the information may not be amended to add prior conviction allegations after the jury has been discharged.]) * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 