filed 10/19/18 p. v. miles ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffrey berton miles, defendant and appellant. b282723 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba437493) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. heather e. shallenberger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, noah p. hill and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted appellant jefferey berton miles of two robberies, an attempted robbery, two attempted murders and three assaults with a firearm, all in connection with a string of robberies occurring on three consecutive days. the jury also found multiple firearm-enhancement allegations to be true. the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of 66 years and eight months to life in state prison. on appeal, appellant contends that the court abused its discretion and violated his right to present a complete defense by: expert using a certain federal report; (2) excluding the proposed testimony of his ballistics expert; and (3) excluding the proposed testimony of an eyewitness identification expert. appellant also contests the sufficiency of the evidence to support his convictions in connection with one of the robberies. finally, appellant argues we should remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) to strike the firearm enhancements. finding no error and concluding that remand for resentencing under senate bill no. 620 is unnecessary, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. information as relevant here, an information charged appellant with two counts of robbery (pen. code,  211),1 one count of attempted robbery ( 664 & 211), two counts of attempted murder ( 664 & 187, subd. (a)), and three counts of assault with a firearm 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). the information also alleged that appellant used a firearm in the commission of the robberies and attempted robbery ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and that he intentionally discharged a firearm proximately causing great bodily injury in the commission of the attempted murders ( 12022.53, subd. (d)).2 b. evidence at trial 1. on june 15, 2015, at around 3:30 p.m., yosef ben elyahu was working as a cashier a gas station at 3227 west 54th street in los angeles. ben elyahu was returning to his register after assisting a customer when a man approached him from behind and pointed a gun at his head. because he was afraid, ben elyahu did not look at the man. the man then threw a bag onto the register and demanded the money. after ben elyahu emptied the register into the bag, the man took the bag and walked away. ben elyahu was subsequently unable to identify appellant as the robber in either a photo lineup or at trial. the video showed the robber, an african-american male, arriving and later escaping in a silver suv. the robber was wearing glasses, a gray sweat suit and a brown beanie. the sweat suit had a black line running across the chest and sleeves and down the pants. the beanie had a small brim and a white tag with the . 2 appellant was charged with additional counts relating to a appellant of those charges, and they are not pertinent to his appeal. 4 2. robbery at big lots the following day, june 16, at around 2:00 p.m., sabina montano was working as a cashier at the big lots store at 1815 slauson avenue in los angeles. montano was assisting a customer when a man suddenly cornered her, pushed her against the register, shot her in the abdomen, and placed a bag on the register. the man, who was african-american, was wearing after montano began transferring money from the register into the bag, the man shot her in the abdomen a second time. both bullets exited her body. the man took more money out of the register and ran out of the store. he then escaped in a silver cadillac suv with paper plate[s]. police later recovered a bullet from the scene, and obtained the video showed that the robber was wearing a gray sweat suit. montano survived the shooting. she identified appellant as the robber in a photo lineup and later at trial. 3. attempted robbery at arco the following day, june 17, at around 4:40 p.m., victor alvarez was working as a cashier at the arco gas station at 5804 south crenshaw boulevard in los angeles. a man approached him a bag and told him to place all the money in the bag. alvarez activated an alarm. the man then shot alvarez in the abdomen, ran out without taking any money and fled in a cadillac suv. here, too, events. security video showed the perpetrator, an african-american male, exiting a silver cadillac suv with a paper license plate at the front. he was wearing glasses, black athletic 5 shoes, jeans shorts, and a brown beanie. the shoes had a silver-colored medallion attached to the laces. the beanie had a small brim and a white tag with s. the video also showed that the perpetrator used a revolver to commit the attempted robbery and shoot alvarez. alvarez survived the shooting and later identified appellant as the perpetrator, both in a photo lineup and at trial. 4. and the search of his residence several hours after the attempted robbery at arco, police stopped appellant after he a stop sign in a silver cadillac suv with paper license plates. the vehicle matched those seen in the video from arco and the 54th street gas station. appellant, an african-american male, was wearing glasses and black athletic shoes with a silver-colored medallion, matching the shoes worn by the perpetrator of the crimes at arco. police took appellant into custody. in a sfound a loaded revolver, a brown beanie, a gray sweat suit, and jeans shorts. the beanie had a small brim and a white tag with testing later the beanie. police found the sweat suit on a clothesline. it had a black line running across the chest and sleeves and down the pants. the revolver was found in a case on a shelf, near several on the gun. carole acosta, a ballistics expert called by the prosecution, testified that the bullet recovered from big lots was all three crime scenes were within residence. 6 5. after his arrest, appellant made multiple telephone calls from jail to his own residence. these calls were recorded and played for the jury. in the first call, appellant asked his mother to look for a box informed him that police had already searched the house and loudly. in another call, appellant asked his mother to look for a black sweat suit, but she told him she could not find it. in a third call, appellant asked the person who answered c. verdict and sentence following trial, the jury convicted appellant of the robberies at big lots and the 54th street gas station, the attempted robbery at arco, the attempted murders of montano and alvarez and assaults with a firearm of ben elyahu, montano and alvarez. as to those charges, the jury found the firearm-enhancement allegations to be true. at sentencing, the trial court stated that the case called for a very harsh sentence. it noted that appellant had outrageous.in imposing sentence for the robbery at the 54th street gas station, the court rejected w-term sentence, opting instead for the high term of five years in prison, the court chose to impose a consecutive sentence for each of the attempted murders, the robbery, and the attempted robbery, resulting in a total sentence of 66 years and eight months to life 7 in state prison.3 the sentence included two enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), resulting in two consecutive terms of 25 years to life, and an enhancement under 12022.53, subdivision (b), resulting in a consecutive 10-year term. appellant timely appealed. discussion a. evidentiary challenges appellant claims the trial court abused its discretion under evidence code section 352 and violated his constitutional right to present a complete defense by ruling he could not: (1) cross-examine about a federal report critical of the science underlying firearms identification; (2) present testimony by a ballistics expert explaining the problems the report identified; and (3) present the testimony of an eyewitness-identification expert. under evidence code section 352, a trial court may exclude outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of we review a trial s under evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 643.) a meaningful opportunity to present a complete defense. [citations.] (crane v. ky. (1986) 476 u.s. 683, 690, quoting california v. trombetta (1984) 467 u.s. 479, 485.) thus, courts 3 the court stayed sentences for the assault charges under section 654. 8 (people v. babbitt (1988) 45 cal.3d 660, 684.) we assume for purposes of this decision that the de novo standard of review applies in determining whether the trial courtrulings violated constitutional right to present a complete defense. (see people v. seijas (2005) 36 cal.4th 291, 304 [stating independent review comports with this courts usual practice for review of mixed question determinations affecting constitutional rights].) 1. cross-examination of acosta during his cross-ballistics expert, defense counsel asked if she knew that d of firearm testing has been wildly [sic] criticized in the scientific community. acosta replied that the field had not been criticized in the relevant scientific community,she acknowledged that defense counsel then the trial court interjected, stating, this. 352. counsel continued his cross-examination; he did not seek a sidebar to further identify or describe the report, nor seek to make any such report a part of the trial record. appellant argues the court abused its discretion and violated his right to present a complete defense by preventing him from impeaching acosta using the federal report. he asserts the report questioned the reliability of firearms identification and would have shown that acosta had overstated the probative value of her testimony. the relevant report is not part of the trial record, however, and appellant made no offer of proof regarding 9 its authorship, contents or relevance. accordingly, he provides no basis for concluding his cross-examination of acosta was improperly curtailed. (see pulver v. avco financial services (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 622, 632 [appellate courts must generally disregard documents outside the record on appeal and arguments relying on such documents].) 2. ballistics expert following defense counsel cross-examination of acosta, the trial court asked counsel if the defense intended to call a ballistics expert to testify. after counsel confirmed the defense intended to call such an expert, the court stated: im not going to allow a wholesale attack on the science of the ballistics. i think it is well settled. . . . i have no problem with you calling an expert to come in and say that what the peoples expert did was insufficient. but if that expert is going to be talking about, oh, yeah, theres [an] obama report that criticizes ballistic testing, im not going to allow it.counsel made no offer of proof, and the defense did not call a ballistics expert to testify. on appeal, appellant abuse of discretion and a violation of his constitutional right to present a complete defense. he claims that had the court permitted him to call a ballistics expert, his expert would have in general, failure to make an offer of proof precludes consideration of an alleged erroneous exclusion of evidence on appeal. (in re mark c. (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 433, 444.) moreover, failure to do so defeats his claim on the merits. (see gutierrez v. cassiar mining corp. (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 148, 161 [failure to make an offer of proof at trial rendered it 10 unable to establish reversible error].) one function of an offer of ans of people v. schmies (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 38, 53.) because nothing in the record said, appellant cannot establish the probative value of the testimony for purposes of evidence code section 352. (see people v. miller bused .) nor can he show that the testimony was vital to his defense for purposes of his constitutional claim. (see people v. babbitt, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 684.) we therefore reject his claim that the trial court erred in limiting potential testimony by a defense ballistics expert. 3. eyewitness identification expert prior to trial, the defense indicated it intended to call an eyewitness identification expert to testify. upon a motion by the prosecution, the trial court excluded the proffered expert, finding that there was sufficient independent evidence to corroborate the eyewitness identifications, and that the merely confusing to the jury and not helpful to the search for the defense made no offer of proof. appellant contends ruling constituted an abuse of discretion and violated his right to present a complete defense. his opening brief alleges that his expert would have testified about cross-racial eyewitness identification and thus would have helped the jury assess the identification of appellant, who is african american, by montano, who was white. as with 11 expert, his failure to make an offer of proof as to his proffered eyewitness identification expert is fatal to his claim. (see gutierrez v. cassiar mining corp., supra, 64 cal.app.4th at p. 161.) moreover, even expected testimony at trial. in arguing that the trial court abused its discretion in excluding his eyewitness identification expert, appellant relies exclusively on people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351 (mcdonald). in mcdonald, the prosecution presented several eyewitnesses who identified the defendant as the perpetrator of a murder . (id. at p. 355.) no other evidence linked the defendant to the crime, and one eyewitness guid. at pp. 355, italics omitted.) the trial court identification , and the jury convicted the defendant. (id. at pp. 355, 363.) reversing, the supreme court held: when an eyewitness identification of the defendant is a key element of the evidence giving it independent reliability, and the defendant offers qualified expert testimony on specific psychological factors shown by the record that could have affected the accuracy of the identification but are not likely to be fully known to or understood by the jury, it will ordinarily be error to exclude that testimony. (id. at p. 377.) appellant argues that mcdonald mandates the admission of eyewitness identification the facts indicate those factors known to affect the accuracy of the his argument, however, ignores the 12 court limitation of its holding to cases in which eyewitness identification case but is not substantially corroborated by evidence giving it (mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d at p. 377.) identification of him as the robber lacked substantial corroboration. nor could he. as the perpetrator of the big lots robbery was strong. first, forensic evidence tied appellant to the crime. acosta, recovered from big lots was fired from the gun police found in security video and additional eyewitness testimony further perpetrator escape in a matching the vehicle appellant was driving when he was arrested. video from big loa gray sweat suit. police found a matching sweat suit in a search from jail suggested his consciousness of guilt. in those calls, appellant . . . where police had found the gun, and for his sweat suit, strongly suggesting that appellant wanted to know if police had found the items that tied him to the big lots robbery. in sum, there was appellant and give it independent reliability. (see people v. jones (2003) 30 cal.4th 1084, 1112 [eyewitness identification testimony properly excluded where other witnesses corroborated 13 the identification of defendant, despite potential impeachment of such witnesses].) accordingly, the trial court did not err in testimony. (see ibid.; mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d at p. 377.) b. sufficiency of the evidence as to the crimes at the 54th street gas station appellant claims there was insufficient evidence that he committed the robbery at the 54th street gas station. in he entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence -- that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) determination that he was the person who robbed ben elyahu at the 54th street gas station. security video from the gas station captured the robbery. the jury saw the video and could determine for itself whether appellant was the perpetrator. (see people v. denard (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 1012, 1022 [jury could decide for itself whether defendant was burglar seen on video].) the video also depicted items that tied appellant to the crimes. it showed the robber was wearing: (1) a gray sweat suit with a distinctive black line across the chest and sleeves and down the pants; and (2) a brown beanie with a small brim and a white tag with the letters . police residence, and adna was found on the beanie. the video further showed that the 14 robber arrived and fled in a silver suv matching the vehicle appellant was driving when he was arrested. moreover, appellant does not contest the sufficiency of the evidence to establish that he committed the robberies at big lots and arco. the similarities between those robberies and the one at the 54th street station also tend to support his culpability for the latter. (see people v. matson (1974) 13 cal.3d 35, 40 [a distinctive modus operandi common to multiple crimes supports a reasonable inference that the same person committed the crimes].) all three robberies occurred in commercial establishments, in the afternoon hours of three consecutive days. athe perpetrator of all three robberies was an african-american male who wore glasses and drove a silver or light color[ed suv. like the robber at big lots, the robber at the 54th street gas station wore a gray sweat suit. like the robber at arco, the robber at the 54th street gas station wore a brown beanie with a small brim. these common characteristics are sufficiently distinct to suggest that the same person committed all three crimes. from jail -- in which he asked others to find items that linked him to the crimes, including a sweat suit -- suggested his consciousness of guilt.4 in sum, 4 appellant argues that the content of those calls was inadmissible hearsay. his argument is meritless. rather than hearsay, a requests, seeking items that linked him to the crimes, were admissible verbal conduct. (see people v. curl (2009) 46 cal.4th 339, 362 [statement directing another to dispose of evidence was not hearsay 15 sufficient evidence the 54th street gas station. c. firearm enhancements appellant claims we must remand the case for the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancements under section 12022.53. as noted, ad a 10-year enhancement for use of a firearm in the commission of a robbery ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and two enhancements of 25 years to life for intentional discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). sentencing, prior to the enactment of senate bill no. 620, a trial court could not strike firearm enhancements under section 12022.53. (see former  12022.53, subdsection 1385 or any other provisions of law, the court shall not strike an allegation under this section or a finding bringing a person within the provisions of this sectionjanuary 1, 2018, senate bill no. 620 replaced the prohibition on striking section 12022.53 firearm enhancements with the following: section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any ( 12022.53, subd. (h).) senate bill no. 620 applies retroactively to nonfinal . (people v. chavez (2018) 22 consisting of a directive that was neither inherently true nor fals].) 16 cal.app.5th 663, 712.) under such circumstances, an appellate court must generally remand for the trial court to exercise its newly granted discretion. (see people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-78 [where statute enacted during pending appeal gave trial court discretion to impose a lesser penalty, remand was required for resentencing].) citing people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894 (gutierrez), respondent contends that remanding this matter for resentencing would be a futile exercise because the record clearly indicates that the trial court would not have exercises discretion to strike the enhancements. we agree. under gutierrez, we need not remand a case for resentencing if the sentencing court at it would not exercise discretion to lessen the sentence. there, the court of appeal cited the trial courtcomments at sentencing and the maximum sentence it imposed as support for the by a remand for resentencing. (id. at p. 1896) in sentencing appellant, the trial court stated its intent to impose . it noted that appellant had , and it viewed his conduct as rather than imposing a lesser sentence by selecting a low- or mid-term sentence for the robbery at the 54th street gas station, the court opted for a high-term sentence, finding and rather than producing a lesser sentence by imposing one or more sentences concurrently, the court chose to impose consecutive sentences. comments at sentencing, along with the harsh sentence it deliberately crafted, clearly indicate that the court would not strike any of . 17 accordingly, we decline to order a remand for resentencing and enhancements under section 12022.53. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. micon, j.* *judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 