filed 1/16/19 p. v. stone ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vincent stone, defendant and appellant. b282505 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba449071) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne e. egerton, judge. affirmed and remanded. myra sun, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant vincent stone. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez, acting supervising deputy attorney general, steven e. mercer and david a. wildman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 vincent stone was convicted following a jury trial of second degree robbery. on appeal he argues the trial court erred by admitting photographs taken from a social media account, motion for a new trial based on prosecutorial misconduct. stone also argues the evidence was insufficfinding the robbery was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. we remand to allow the trial court to consider whether to exercise its discretion under a new law, effective january 1, 2019, to strike or dismiss a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes. in all other respects we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information on september 6, 2016 stone was charged by information with one count of robbery (pen. code,  211)1 with special allegations a principal had personally used a firearm during the robbery within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1), and the robbery was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the information also specially alleged stone had suffered three prior serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and two serious felony convictions under section 667, subdivision (a). 1 statutory references are to this code unless otherwise stated. 3 2. evidence at trial shortly before midnight on july 30, 2016 jerry evans and a friend arrived at another intersection of stocker street and santa rosalia drive in los angeles. evans was meeting four other friends outside the apartment building so the group could go to a party together. after evans got out of his car, two men, later identified by evans as stone and clifford gibson, drove by him. as they drove by, one of the men evans did referred to a type of drug. evans declined, and stone and gibson drove up the block and parked their car. they got out of the vehicle and stood near it. stone was talking on a mobile phone, and evans could hear him .to gang affiliations. stone ended his telephone call, and he and gibson approached evans and his friends. stone pointed a gun at evans evans was wearing and pulled them off . gibson took five chains from evans, but one fell to the ground; and evans recovered it later. evans testified he was positive stone was the individual who held the gun during the robbery. after stone and gibson left, evans went home. evans testified he did not report the robbery to the police that night 4 because he had basketball practice the next morning.2 he also stated he was reluctant to report the robbery because there was the next morning, while evans was browsing a social media website, he saw a video of stone and gibson wearing the jewelry they had taken from him. the video appeared on the evans said he believed showed the user a collection of posts based on geographic location or mutual friends. he explained he viewed the explorer page often known connection to the user who posted the video. that evening evans showed the video to his mother. she took a photograph of the video with her phone. evans then went to the police station and reported the robbery. however, he did not tell the police about the video on social media until detectives visited his home on august 4, 2016. at that time evans showed detective richard campos the video on the internet, and campos took pictures of the video. sometime later the investigating police officers conducted a search on social media for the video seen by evans and the associated account. however, the account had been deleted, and the video could not be found. three los angeles police officer george marquez testified regarding gang activity in the area where the robbery occurred. marquez is a member of the gang enforcement detail and is specifically assigned to monitor and 2 at the time of the robbery evans was a professional basketball player in europe. 5 crips criminal street gang. marquez testified the rolli, and had migrated to the jefferson park area of los angeles. at the time of trial the rollin ,000 members. the gang had its own territory, hand signs, colors and symbolsprimary activities included robbery, burglary, murder and narcotics. marquez explained there were five subsets within the rollin marquez testified he knew stone from the neighborhood and had stopped him on the street approximately twice. in february 2016 marquez had an encounter with stone and three stone admitted during this encounter that he was a member of the rollin . stone also has tattoos consistent with rollin membership. marquez also knew gibson from numerous contacts in the neighborhood. on two occasions in 2015 gibson on cross-examination marquez opined stone and gibson were members of the 39th were typically seen. officer marquez stated the robbery in this case did not itory of a rival gang. while it is rare for gangs to commit crimes in rival territory, marquez explained the opposite was true for the rollin get identified. given a hypothetical based on the facts of the case, officer marquez opined the robbery was for the benefit of, and in 6 association with, a criminal street gang: it showed the gang was able to intimidate the community and commit a crime in rival territory and any money derived from the stolen items would produce revenue to buy guns or narcotics. robbery proceeds might also be used to buy luxury items to induce the youth in the community to join the gang. officer marquez also testified regarding a 2014 conviction of a rollin 30present at the arrest in that case and noted the defendant had stone presented two witnesses in his defense. girlfriend, holly burnham, testified she was with stone the night stone, sr., testified he had seen stone wear a gold chain prior to the robbery. 3. the verdict and sentencing the jury found stone guilty of second degree robbery and found the criminal street gang allegation to be true. the jury was unable to reach a unanimous finding on the firearm allegation, and it was dismissed . prior to sentencing stone admitted each of the prior felony conviction allegations. the court struck two of the prior qualifying strike convictions in furtherance of justice and sentenced stone as a second strike offender to an aggregate state prison term of 25 years: the upper term of five years for robbery, doubled under the three strikes law, plus 10 years for the 7 criminal street gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and five years for a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)).3 discussion 1. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting the social media photographs a. relevant proceedings on the first day of trial, before counsel gave their opening statements, stone objected to the admission of the photographs of the social media video photographs depicted stone and gibson wearing gold chains. the prosecutor informed the court evans would testify he saw the video the day after the robbery and recognized the men he saw as the men who had robbed him. evans would also testify he recognized the chains stone and gibson were wearing in the photographs as the chains that had been taken from him in the robbery. stone objected to the admission of the photographsauthentication as to what these photos mean in relationship to [the video]. . . . you could take a video with your cell phone. . . . you could sit around for a month and then post it later on; so the 3 while the court had discretion to dismiss two of the prior qualifying strike convictions for psentence under the three strikes law, the court did not, at the time of sentencing, have discretion to strike any of the prior serious felony conviction enhancements (see former  1385, subd. (b)) and was obligated to add two five-year enhancements to the sentence imposed. on remand the court should consider both prior serious felony convictions when deciding whether to exercise its discretion to strike or dismiss the section 667, subdivision (a), enhancements. 8 t have the video, also objected the photographs prejudiced stone by showing him together with gibson. after hearing argument, the trial court indicated the photographs were admissible, stating, sees an ad for a t.v. show on the billboard, and the two actors after further argument on potential prejudice the court stated, together . . . . [t]he motion to preclude them from putting in the next day the three photographs were marked for the . stone did not object to admission of the photographs on authentication grounds at that time. questions regarding identification of the accountholder(s) who posted or of those objections was on foundation grounds, but the prosecutor moved on before the court could rule. when the prosecutor requested permission to publish one of the photographs to the later, during argument concerning whether the prosecutor could elicit evidence regarding the owner of the social media aclink this to mr. stone. the victim has testified that he is sure that thesethat this is the man. i let you put in, over their 9 looked at these. i saw these guys. i recognized them. b. stone did not forfeit his objection to the photographs the attorney general argues stone forfeited his objection to admission of the photographs because he did not object at the time the exhibits were marked for identification or moved into evidence. the attorney general is correct that, to preserve an made and so stated as to make clear the specific ground of the ode,  353, subd. (a); accord, people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 666-reason for the rule is clearfailure to identify the specific ground of objection denies the opposing party the opportunity to offer evidence to cure the asserted defect. while no particular form of objection is required [citation], the objection must be made in such a way as to alert the trial court to the nature of the anticipated evidence and the basis on which exclusion is sought, and to afford the people an opportunity to establish its admissibility. (holt, at pp. 666-667.) generally, to preserve an objection, a party must raise the objection at the time the evidence is sought to be introduced. a tentative pretrial evidentiary ruling, made without fully knowing what the trial evidence would show, will not preserve the issue for appeal if the appellant could have, but did not, renew the objection or offer of proof and press for a final ruling in the (people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96, 133.) however, if a motion to exclude evidence is made raising a specific objection, directed to a particular, identifiable body of evidence, at the beginning of or during trial at a time when the trial judge can determine the 10 evidentiary question in its appropriate context, the issue is preserved for appeal without the need for a further objection at (people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 127.) n at the beginning of the trial was sufficiently specific to preserve his objection for appeal. the objection was on a specific groundfoundation and authentication regarding the date the video was created or uploadedand was directed to a specific body of evidencethe the time of its ruling and during the trial, demonstrate it understood the context and basis for the objection. c. the photographs were adequately authenticated authentication of a photograph is required before it may be admitted into evidence. (evid. code,  250, 1401; people v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 266 (goldsmitha photograph or video recording is typically authenticated by showing it is a fair and accurate representation of the scene depicted. [citations.] this foundation may, but need not be, supplied by the person taking the photograph or by a person who witnessed the event being recorded. [citations.] it may be supplied by other witness testimony, circumstantial evidence, content and location. [citations.] authentication also may be established by any other means provided by law ( 1400), including a statutory presumption. (goldsmith, at pp. 267-268.) he proof that is necessary to authenticate a photograph or video recording varies with the nature of the evidence that the photograph or video recording is being offered to prove and with the degree of possibility of error. [citation.] the first step is to determine the purpose for which the evidence is being offered. 11 the purpose of the evidence will determine what must be shown for authentication, which may vary from case to case. [citation.] the foundation requires that there be sufficient evidence for a trier of fact to find that the writing is what it purports to be, i.e., that it is genuine for the purpose offered. [citation.] essentially, what is necessary is a prima facie case. as long as the evidence would support a finding of authenticity, the writing is admissible. the fact conflicting inferences can be drawn regarding authenticity goes to the documents weight as evidence, not its admissibility.goldsmith, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 267.) we review the trial courts rulings on the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 266; people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 643.) stone argues the prosecution offered the photographs for after as such, stone argues the prosecution was required to provide evidence demonstrating the video was created after the robbery, which it did not. authentication requirement. the prosecution was required only graph is an in re k.b. (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 989, 997; accord people v. valdez (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 1429, 1437 [to establish validity or negate falsity in a categorical fashion, but rather to make a showing on which the trier of fact reasonably could conclude the proffered writing is authentic].) here, the photographs purported to be still images of the video evans saw the day after the robbery, which depicted two men wearing gold chains. stone does not argue the photographs do not depict him 12 wearing gold chains. nor does he argue the photographs have been altered. thus, he does not dispute the accuracy of the depictions in the photographs. instead he challenges the validity of the inferences the people proposed be drawn from them: he contends the jury could not conclude the chains were those taken from evans without evidence the video was recorded after the robbery. however, the prosecution was not required to authenticate the inferences it wished the jury to draw. the possibility of conflicting inferences as to when the video was (goldsmith, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 267; accord, valdez, at p. 1435 [photograph from social media account was sufficiently authenticated by other content in the account; although [defendant] was free to argue otherwise to the jury, a reasonable trier of fact could conclude . . . that the [social media] page belonged to him. accordingly, the trial court did not err in admitting the page for the jury to determine whether he authored it].) all that was required was evidence enabling a trier of fact to find the photographs were what they purported to be. testimony sufficiently provided that evidence. (see in re k.b., at pp. 997-998 [photographs taken by police of screenshots on cellular telephone of photographs posted on social media were sufficiently authenticated by police officer who took the photographs and testified they accurately represented what the officer had seen on social media].) 2. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying t a. relevant proceedings evans testified that in the six months since the robbery multiple police officers and deputy district attorneys had asked 13 him to reveal the names of the friends he was with when he was robbed. evans had declined because he believed divulging their names would put his friends in danger. he explained his friends all lived in the neighborhood where the robbery occurred, while he would soon return to europe and was not afraid of retaliation. during cross-examination defense counsel asked evans about his g that these other people, you do not want to reveal any of their names, who the person was thatwhat they looked like and robbing you, other topics. requested the court order evans to divulge the names of his denied. the next day stone filed a written motion to strike e names of his friends. stone requested that the court strike case. type of special instruction that, by not giving up [the names], denied in its entirety. b. governing law and standard of review -examination by declining to answer some or all of the questions, the court may strike all or 14 (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 421; accord, people v. sanders (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 543, 554-555 (sanders).) in determining whether to strike a witnesss testimony motive of the witness and the materiality (people v. seminoff (2008) 159 cal.app.4th 518, 525-the court should also consider if less severe remedies are available before employing [citation.] these include striking part of the testimony or answer in (id. at p. 526; see fost v. superior court the decision impose another remedy is left to the discretion of the trial court. (people v. price, supra, 1 cal.4th at p. 421; people v. seminoff, supra, 159 cal.app.4th at p. 528.) c. evans did not bility to cross-examine him stone contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying because stone from adequately cross-examining evans and obtaining information that could potentially impeach evans and exculpate stone. however, stone has failed to establish that evans refused to answer questions on cross-examination or frustrate the cross-examination in any way. 15 as discussed, defense counsel asked evans whether he wanted to identify his friends. evans was never directly asked, by the prosecutor or defense counsel, to name the individuals he was with the night of the robbery. while evans had been asked for the names multiple times before trial, and refused to divulge them, there is no way of knowing how he would have responded to such a question while under oath during trial. because there was no refusal to answer questions, there was no reason to strike his testimony or specially instruct the jury. even if evans statement he did not want to divulge the names could be construed as a refusal to answer, the trial court did not err in refusing to strike testimony or give a special jury instruction. identities were to protect their safety and to respect their desire to avoid becoming involved in a trial. evans did not indicate any intent in addition, defense counsel was able to conduct a thorough cross-examination of evans regarding his recollection of the robbery and his identification of stone as one of the robbers. evans was cross-examined regarding discrepancies in his description of the robbers and their vehicle, his failure to immediately report the incident, his failure to initially inform the police about the social media video, and his mistaken identification of a necklace recovered by police. (see sanders, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. 556 [no error in refusing to strike testimony of witness who extensively and exhaustively cross-examined about what he furthermore, additional eyewitnesses would have been material is speculative. 16 even if the witnesses had been identified and located, there is no indication they would have been willing to testify or, even if they were, that they would have remembered the incident sufficiently to provide meaningful testimony. nor is there any basis for concluding at least be some indication that these (unknown, unidentified and (sanders, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. 557.) finally, stone has not demonstrated the court abused its discretion in refusing to inrefusal to identify his friends. the jury was properly instructed regarding the evaluation of witness credibility (calcrim no. 226) and eyewitness testimony (calcrim no. 315). further, defense counsel was able to suggest during cross-examination and closing argument that evans did not want to identify his friends because the robbery had never occurred. on this record, failure to include an additional jury instruction was not an abuse of discretion. 3. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying the motion for a new trial based on alleged prosecutorial misconduct a. relevant proceedings during the direct testimony of witness, defense counsel asked her about telephone conversations she had with stone while he was in custody awaiting trial in this case. burnham testified that, during one of these telephone calls, ed defense 17 counsel then asked burnham if stone had ever asked her to fabricate an alibi for him in this case. she said he had not. on cross-examination the prosecutor displayed a call-log showing the time and duration of each telephone call that had taken place between burnham and stone while stone was in custody awaiting trial. the prosecutor played recordings of four of the telephone calls from late august 2016.4 during these calls stone repeate-[y]ou just go to the bail-bond and you go up to the bail monitor and co-gonna pay all his . . . soon as he get out he want you to stay right there though, so you can, so you can go get your money with him burnham testified she understood stone was asking her to post bail for his cellmate, but she refused. while questioning burnham regarding these calls, the prosecutor asked, without objection from defense counsel, whether the discussion of posting during closing argument the prosecutor claimed prosecutor relied on evidence burnham did not come forward with the alibi when she was first questioned by police, but waited until being contacted by a defense investigator shortly before trial. the prosecutor also observed stone and burnham demeanor during the telephone calls did not suggest a loving or 4 the call-log, recordings and transcripts of the recordings were marked for identification only and were not admitted into evidence. defense counsel did not object to the display of the call-log or the playback of the recordings. 18 intimate relationship. as to the discussion of burnham posting code. i after the verdict stone moved for a new trial based in part on alleged prosecutorial misconduct. stone argued the proand improperly provided his own opinion to the jury. stone also argued the telephone calls were played only to prejudice him by showing he had been in custody. the trial court denied the motion, explaining misconduct. b. stone has forfeited his prosecutorial misconduct claim by failing to object at trial a criminal defendant may move for a new trial on the case has been guilty of prejudicial misconduct during the trial courts ruling on a motion for a new trial under a deferential abuse-of- [citations.] s ruling on a motion for new trial is so completely within that courts discretion that a reviewing court will not disturb the ruling (people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 729; accord, people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1108.) to preserve a prosecutorial misconduct claim for appeal, a criminal defendant must make a timely and specific objection 19 and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the impropriety. [citation.] the lack of a timely objection and request for admonition will be excused only if either would have been futile or if an admonition would not have cured the harm.(people v. powell (2018) 6 cal.5th 136, 171; accord, people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820.) for new trial will not revive claims that had not been preserved by a timely and specific objection. (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 486; accord, people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 254 motion for in his reply brief stone appears to concede his counsel during closing argument. however, stone argues, any objection would made this argument in closing, it was too latethe evidence of the call was before the jury . . . this argument is without merit. sprosecunot from admission of testimony regarding the telephone calls. stone has failed to show that any potential prejudice arising from the was so egregious that it could not have been cured by an admonition. accordingly, any claim based on the alleged misconduct has been forfeited, and the trial court was well within its discretion to deny the motion for a new trial on this ground. 4. substantial evidence supports the criminal street gang finding robbery for the benefit of a criminal street gang, arguing there 20 was insufficient evidence the crime had benefitted the gang and the people failed to prove the gang member who committed the predicate offense was a member of the same gang subset as stone. to obtain a true finding on an a criminal street gang enhancement allegation, the people must prove the crime at issue association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) defined as an organization that has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the crimes enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e), and whose occasions or by two or more persons within a three-year period. ( 186.22, subds. (e), (f); people v. loeun (1997) 17 cal.4th 1, 9.) offenses charged in the case before the jury can be included in the crimes relied upon to show a pattern of criminal gang activity. (loeun, at p. 10; people v. bragg (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1385, 1401.) sufficiency of the evidence to support an enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify 21 the trier of facts findings, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. [citation.] reviewing court neither reweighs evidence nor reevaluates a witness (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60; accord, people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1170.) , meet the statutory requirements for a gang (people v. garcia (2014) 224 cal.app.4th 519, 523.) robbery was committed for the benefit of, or in association with, a criminal street gang. marquez testified both stone and gibson and gibson also had tattoos signifying membership in the gang and had associated with known gang membersrobbery was this evidence, especially given marquezrollin members rarely committed crimes in their own territory. substantial evidence from which the jury could reasonably conclude the crime was committed for the benefit of, or in association with, a criminal street gang. prosecution failed to establish the requisite predicate offenses is unavailing. the prosecution relied on the current offense as well as a 2014 conviction by a rollin within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (e). relying on people v. prunty (2015) 62 cal.4th 59 (prunty), stone argues the evidence of the 2014 conviction was insufficient to establish a predicate offense because there was no testimony the defendant 22 stone belonged. in prunty the supreme court showing the prosecution must make when its theory of why a criminal street gang exists turns on the conduct of one or more prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 67.) the prosecution in that case presented evidence the defendant identified as a member of the norteo gang. however, the evidence of predicate offenses offered by the prosecution pertained to activities of two subsets of the norteo gang. the ibid.) the court held this lack of a connection between the subsets and nal street gang enhancement, explainingseeks to prove the street gang enhancement by showing a defendant committed a felony to benefit a given gang, but establishes the commission of the required predicate offenses with evidence oalleged subsets, it must prove a connection between the gang and id. at pp. 67-68; see id. at p. 81 must show that the group the defendant acted to benefit, the group that committed the predicate offenses, and the group prunty does not apply where, exists does not rely on prior offenses committed by a gang subset. (see prunty, supra, 62 cal.4th at pp. 67-68 & p. 71, fn. 2; id. at p. 91 (conc. opn. of corrigan, j.) the issue we address is a 23 narrow one. it arises only when the prosecution seeks to prove a street gang enhancement by showing the defendant committed a felony to benefit a broader umbrella gang, but seeks to prove the requisite pattern of criminal gang activity with evidence of felonies committed by members of subsets to the umbrella gang. our decision is limiprosecution introduced evidence both stone and gibson identified as rollin believed they were members of a particular subset, he said they claimed membership to tspecifically claim membership in a subset. in addition, the rollin member. there was no testimony about any particular subset in relation to the 2014 offense. particular subsets, prunty does not apply. (see people v. pettie (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 23, 49-50 [prunty does not apply where members of a subset gang,committed by norteo members for the benefit of that gang, not people v. ewing (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 359, 372-373 [same].) 5. a limited remand is appropriate for the court to consider whether to strike the section 667, subdivision (a), enhancement at the time stone was sentenced, the court was required under section 667, subdivision (a), to enhance the sentence imposed for conviction of a serious felony by five years for each qualifying prior serious felony conviction. on september 30, 24 2018 the governor signed senate bill no. 1393, which, effective january 1, 2019, allows the trial court to exercise discretion to strike or dismiss section 667, subdivision (a), serious felony enhancements. (see stats. 2018, ch. 1013,  1 & 2.) because we cannot conclusively determine from the record that remand would be a futile act, we remand for the trial court to consider whether to dismiss or strike one or both of the five-year section 667, subdivision (a), enhancements that it was required to impose at the time of the original sentencing. disposition the conviction is affirmed, and the matter remanded for the trial court to consider whether to strike the prior serious felony enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a). perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j. 