filed 8/20/19 p. v. guidino ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jorge gudino, defendant and appellant. b282503 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba402855 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen kennedy and william n. sterling, judges. affirmed. emry j. allen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant jorge gudino of the willful, deliberate, premeditated murder of jose zamarripa. the jury found gang and firearm allegations true. on appeal, gudino does not challenge the evidence that he murdered zamarripa. instead, he raises three contentions: (1) the superior request for an in camera review of records produced in response to a subpoena he served on a nonparty, the coalition to abolish slavery and trafficking; (2) the trial court erred in denying his three batson/wheeler motions1; and (3) the trial court improperly pressured the jury to reach a verdict whenafter deliberating for a few hoursit sent the court a note that it was at an impasse. we find no error and affirm. facts and procedural background 1. gudino chases, shoots, and kills zamarripa as gudino does not contest the sufficiency of the evidence at trial, we only summarize it briefly. on the evening of june 22, 2012, jennifer torres was at a park at 62nd and halldale in south central los angeles playing softball with some friends. she saw a man wearing boxers or shorts and no shirt running down the sidewalk. another man with a gun in his right hand was running right behind him. he stood over the victim and fired two or three more times. the shooter then ran away. 1 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler). 3 miriam dominguez was a member of the florencia 13 gang and dominguez left the gang after dominguez hung out with florencia 13 gang members every day. places where people could zamarripa also was fighting inside the casitas. that violated the when gudino arrived at the casita, people would stop smoking methamphetamine2 and trickythe shot-caller who ran that casitawould take gudino to a special room in the back. a few days before the murder, two florencia 13 gang members came to a residence on halldale looking for zamarripa. dominguez had been living there for a couple of months. the ust 2 to smoke methamphetamine. 4 on june 22, 2012, dominguez was in the living room of the halldale house when gudino and zamarripa walked in. gudino and ran to look out the kitchen window. dominguez saw gudino shooting at zamarripa; then zamarripa fell and gudino ran toward the park. dominguez ran out of the house. zamarripa was on the arrive. los angeles police department officer mario fernandez and his partner drove to 62nd street and halldale. fernandez other officers and detectivesincluding detective sean hansenarrived. officers found five expended cartridge casings at the scene. gunshot wounds: three to his head, one to his chest, and one to d the shot to his chest were fatal. stippling on the chest wound indicated the gun was fired from 20 to 24 inches away. the coroner 2. dominguez goes into witness protection dominguez i5 t care what she saw, but that he and gudino killedif she talked or cooperated. dominguez went back to the halldale house to get her belongings; she had no other place to stay. she tried to go to different casitas, but tricky was sleeping in stolen cars; a few nights later someone shot at her from a passing car. on august 2, 2012, police arrested dominguez for stealing a car. detective hansen went to see her in jail. dominguez had lied to hansen the night of the murder; she was afraid if she told him the truth, something would happen to her family. after hansen told dominguez her family would be safe, she told him dominguez was threatened by other inmates several times while in custody; when she was released hansen put her in a witness protection program and took her to san francisco. at some point, dominguez received a facebook message ,kilo and he offered her $5,000. kilo instructed dominguez to go to a dominguez took a bus from san francisco back to los l 6 a man who said he was her brother, walked her into the office. another man prepared a declaration and had dominguez sign it. the woma dominguez later told hansen about the declaration and the money. hansen put her back into witness protection, at a hotel in torrance. ultimately, dominguez received the equivalent of $8,244.76, $2,830 of that in cash and $5,300 of it from the witness relocation program for lodging. in october 2013, dominguez was arrested for identity theft; at that point, she no longer was in the witness protection program and she received no further funds from the government. 3. the charges, verdicts, and sentence the people alleged gudino committed the crime for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. the people alleged firearm enhancements under penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d).3 the jury convicted gudino of first degree murder and found the gang and gun allegations true. the court sentenced gudino to 50 years to life in the state prison. 3 statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise noted. 7 discussion 1. neither the pretrial court nor the trial court violated a. the defense pretrial subpoenas to cast and its staff attorney, and the motion to quash pretrial proceedings in this case consumed nearly four years, from april 2013 to march 2017. in february and march tecum on the custodian of records for the coalition to abolish slavery and trafficking (cast) and on a cast staff attorney, sara van hofwegen. the subpoenas required cast and van hofwegen to produce all documents concerning communications between detective hansen (the investigating officer on the case) -pitman, trecords under evidence code section 1561. the documents consisted of 30 pages of e-mails between van hofwegen and both hansen and deputy district attorney hilary williams. mto also gave pitman a privilege log of documents cast was declining to produce based on attorney-client privilege and the attorney work product doctrine. apparently pitman viewed this response to his subpoenas as inadequate, because in october 2016 mtobehalfhofwegenrepresented by latham & watkinsfiled a joinder in 8 counsel appeared in the felony calendar court before judge william n. sterling on november 1, 2016. the court agreed with were re the court materiality and potential relevance. prefer a supplemental declaration from [mto and latham & watkins] that . . . without revealing content that gave me some any of murder and was entitled to due process of law. the court stated, e have related to offers made . . . to ms. dominguez by the police or the thing . . . that may have to do with inducements offered to ms. 9 were no offers or inducements by the prosecution in this case to she said detective hansen had dominguez in this case for any type of testimony or security or otherwise. and what was provided to her has been disclosed, anything having to do with payment or consideration for her protect on november 7, of the entries were --eight of the 40 verbatim quotations from detective hansen or prosecutor include[s] a promise, offer, or provision of legal benefits to ms. dominguez (neither in exchange for her testimony nor ehler wrote that the remaining two entries were work -and-pasted text from email communications between ms. van hofwegen and detective exchange between hansen and van hofwegen in which hansen 10 counsel appeared again before judge sterling on people v. hammon (1997) 15 cal.4th 1117 (hammon), for the proposition the court was not required to examine the documents in came everything, including what the defense already knows and the assertions on behalf of ms. van hofwegen [and cast], at this , to exercise hammon ars to me that this is a bit of a declarations to examine b. gudino did not establish good cause for an in camera and work product notations without distinguishing the pretrial proceedings before judge sterling from the trial proceedings before judge kennedy, his federal and state constitutional rights. without any citation n agreement [between dominguez and the prosecution] or even a 11 a defendant in a criminal case has a trial right under the questions that call for information protected by state-created hammon, supra, 15 cal.4th 1117, 1123-1124, citing davis v. alaska (1974) 415 u.s. 308.) section 1326 authorizes a defendant to issue a subpoena for documents in accordance with evidence code section 1560, subdivision (b). ( in camera hearing to determine whether or not the defense is ibid.) in hammon, a defendant charged with sexual molestation subpoenaed records from psychotherapists who had treated the victim. the superior court quashed the subpoenas. our supreme rights of confrontation and cross-examination to authorize prethammon, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 1119, 1128.) as we have said, there were extensive proceedings on the defense subpoenas to cast and van hofwegen before judge sterling, who handled the case during its years of pretrial proceedings. the record reflects no reissuance of those subpoenas trial. as the attorney general notes, there was some discussion before the trial court about with judge kennedy about potential cross-examination of denied my motion to review the records in camera. i think that this court could do that, and we could have the records brought here from . . . . 12 -mails. so detectives and the d.a.is expecting any benefits with regard to her immigration case the court also observed that detective hansen could be asked about this subject. pretrial subpoenas as premature. instead, the court conducted extensive proceedings. cast already had produced all responsive documents that were not privileged, including all of the emails between or among van hofwegen, the lapd (including hansen), and the district aoffice. judge guidance about necessary supplemental declarations. the mto lawyer for cast, rose ehler, then provided a sworn declaration detailing what wasand was notfile. ehler declared under oath there was nothing in the privileged entries reflecting any offer, deal, promise, or inducement from police or prosecutors to dominguez for her testimony or cooperation. gudino cites to no evidence that ehler was lying under oath, nor is there any reason to believe she was. to conduct an in camera review of records pitman had not material as a matter of right without regard to the adverse (pacific lighting leasing co. v. superior court (1976) 60 cal.app.3d 552, 566; cf. people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 13 attorney-client privilege (evid. code,  954) and thus not subject to in camera inspection or a balancing of their importance with judge kennedy with no evidence cast had any documents that it had not already produced that showed any inducement to dominguez. finally, any error in declining to conduct an in camera people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) before trial, pitman was given all of the records of all payments made to and on behalf of dominguez by the people. hansen testified about those amounts, down to the penny. pitman cross-examined dominguez thoroughly: his questioning and her answers consume some 160 roughly four hours of examination over the course of two days. the jury was made well aware of record, and pattern of changing her story. 2. repeated batson/wheeler motions a. voir dire and the defense batson/wheeler motions jury selection in this case took nearly a week. defense counsel pitman made several batson/wheeler motions; the trial court ultimately denied all of them. we summarize the answers jurors at issue. juror 14 juror 14 was a manager at a technology company. he had age 26was serving 14 time for assault with a firearm. juror 14 came to court wearing a shirt juror 25 juror 25 was a director of business development for a construction management company. he had never been on a 15 years earlier in f first one in my family to get a college degree, she reached out to think if a witness were to change her story severa the prosecutor asked juror 25 if there was anything about odified your view . . . short answer is he was offered a plea deal, and my aunt was persistent [sic] on taking it to trial. and he ended up getting a sentence that was twice as long. so . . . it took a while for us as a 15 [his] best to try to be impartial and listen to the facts as think it is hard because . . . at that moment in that particular situation where a specific testimony [sic] or specific facts are revealed, until you are faced at that moment, you know, human nature might kick in and you might be sympathetic. but right defendant of murder, juror 2getting the updates nightly from my aunt and how that particular day of trial went, i understand the emotional roller coaster that we are all about to go throug juror 27 have unusual hair color compared to everyone else here in the use that as a s talking or defense counsel asked juror 27 if she could express her a bit hard for me. but because i have this anxiety and social problem, that makes me listen better because i tend to stay quiet and to the side. i can see and listen to other people better. but 16 as far as expressing and actually talking, if i have a strong juror 57 juror 57 worked for federal express at the airport. he had never been on a jury. on the second day of jury selection, juror 57 was nearly an hour late to court, arriving close to noon. when was 20 years old. he had grown up in, and lived in, south central los angeles. he had heard of the florencia gang but was not familiar with it. friends necess juror 64 juror 64 worked in armored transport. he had been pulled over by law enforcement a lotofficers told him the address associated with his license plate la puente. juror 64 viewed the stops as unjustified and they riff department, when they 17 had searched his car. after the fifth time police pulled him over, juror 64 thought they were harassing him. juror 64 had not filed a complaint but he would if it law enforcement and could carefully and critically evaluate the probab juror 64 had been a juror in a driving under the influence case. the jury could not reach a verdict. juror 64 was in the b. the defense motionsand the first motion after the prosecutors exercised seven peremptory challengesincluding challenges to jurors 14, 25, 27, and 324defense counsel made a batson/wheeler challenge. counsel contended four of the seven excused jurors (two men and two women) were hispanic. counsel noted gudino was also hispanic. the court stated it was unsure juror 27 was hispanic, but 4 gudino states on appeal thateven though trial counsel included juror 32 in his motion-in-law had gone to prison two or three juror 32 believed her sister when she said he juror 32 also had two cousins who were gang members or associates. 18 there are four hispanicssure as to the last oneout of seven. and it raises a question. do you want to enunciate what your positions are with regard to the prosecutor said juror 14 had a nephew in prison on a weapons charge and was wearing a donkey kong t-shirt. the prosecutor stated she asked to have juror 25 excused because he constantly talked to his aunt . . . and what she had been going through losing her son to the justhe got more time than he should have gotten, and they felt it was bright green hair that immediately alerts me that she might be quite liberal. she is fairly young and somewhat unsophisticated, [juror 27] is hispanic, even looking at her to find that the reasons that have been stated by the prosecution are not race-based reasons for exercise of the peremptories that 5 the third motion the prosecution accepted the jury. defense counsel continued to strike jurors. after both sides exercised two more peremptory challenges, the prosecution again accepted the panel. 5 pitman made a second batson/wheeler motion after the african american juror. on appeal, gudino states he does not 19 pitman exercised another challenge, the court seated juror 57, and the prosecutor then asked the court to excuse juror 57. batson/wheeler challenge. counsel said, no. appear to be anything that i can tell that stands out with regard the prosecutor noted the people had accepted the jury with and unsophisticated, lives in concern for us is not only in his demeanor and the way that he approaches answeryou know, he has got some kind of unsophisticated attitude about him, but also the fact that he overslept. . . . he is one of these jurors that i think running his own program. i have concerns that he may not be getting along with other jurors or may not work well [with] the not an exercise for a racial motive and deny your motion at this nse counsel stated there was only one male hispanic juror in the box. the prosecutor responded there had been another male hispanic juror the people accepted and pitman then struck. the fourth motion the next day, after both sides exercised two more challenges each, the court seatedand the prosecution struck20 juror 64. defense counsel once again renewed his motion. other than the fact that he is a male hispanic, a young male the prosecutor noted the last three male hispanic jurors who had been excused had been removed by defense counsel. a lengthy colloquy between the court and counsel times by the sheriffs for this warrant that apparently is attached to his address that he never attempted to cure. constant contactswhether or not he says he is going to hold it against officers who prosecutor added that juror 64 had been on a hung jury; she seemed to suspect the majority (including juror 64) had voted not guilty. the court noted juror 64 never said he voted not guilty in his previous trial. the prosecutors pointed out the victim in this case 6 after 6 in people v. reynoso (2003) 31 cal.4th 903 (reynoso), the and the murder victim were of hispanic ancestry, a circumstance that might be viewed part that hispanic jurors would tend to be biased in favor of, and thereby be more inclined to vote to acquit, the hispanic (id. at p. 926, fn. 7.) 21 race neutral, having been stopped five times by the police in a short period of time. [addressing defense counsel:] you are apparently making police testimony a big issue in this case. . . . i case, but according to your questions [in voir dire], apparently it over and over and over and over and over and over attitudes toward police, so apparently there is something there from the defense standpointdeny the wheeler c. that the prosecutors provided genuine, race-neutral explanations for striking the five jurors in wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d 258, the california supreme held that the use of peremptory challenges by a prosecutor to strike prospective jurors on the basis of group membership violates the right of a criminal defendant to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16, of the california constitution.people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 116 (catlin).) eight years later in batson, supra, 476 u.s. 79, the united states supreme court held that such a practice violates, inter alia, the laws under the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution.catlin, at p. 116.) a trial court follows this procedure and applies this standard when a defendant makes a motion challenging first, the defendant must make out a prima facie case by showing that the totality of the relevant facts 22 gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. [citations.] second, once the defendant has made out a prima facie case, the burden shifts to the state to explain adequately the racial exclusion by offering permissible race-neutral justifications for the strikes. [citations.] third, [i]f a race-neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide . . . whether the opponent of the strike has proved purposeful racial discrimination. [citation.]people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 541 (avila), citing johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 168.) the question of purposeful racial discrimination for substantial avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 541.) we presume a prosecutor has used her peremptory challenges in a [trial] ibidspecific or detailed comments for the record to justify every -neutral reasons for exercising a peremptory challenge is being accepted by the court (people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 901 (hamilton), quoting reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 919.) sufficienccatlin, supra, reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered (avila, 38 cal.4th at p. 541.) 23 jurors 14 and 25 had relatives in prison. the supreme court has recognized having a family member in prison as a race-neutral reason for excusing a juror. (hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th donkey kong t-shirt. as for juror 27, the prosecutor cited her s our supreme court said in hamiltonof [the juror], namely his desire to exclude younger jurors. the proper focus of a batson/wheeler inquiry is on the subjective genuineness of the race-neutral reasons given for the peremptory challenge, not on the objective reasonableness legitimate reason is not a reason that makes sense, but a reason that does not deny equal protection. (hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 903.) gudino argues the prosecutor accepted another juror whose about 25, and 27 was race-applied by the prosecutor to non-prosecutor did use a peremptory challenge to remove the juror gudino identifies, juror no. 51.7 7 18 numbered seats during jury selection. the court also gave the jurors numbersin this case ranging from 1 to 95. as prospective jurors were excused for cause or by peremptory challenges, the court replaced those jurors with other jurors. so, for example, jurors 20, 29, 42, 50, 58, 67, 83, and 95 all occupied 24 articulated the prosecutor told the court she exercised a peremptory challenge as to juror 57 other jurors. again, immaturity is a neutral reason supporting a peremptory challenge (people v. sims (1993) 5 cal.4th 405, 431 people v. neuman nterest in the proceedings, inattentiveness, and tardiness (reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at pp. 925-in people v. davis (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 305, 311-313 [juror was late and seemed confused]). one seat no. 17 at some point. the court and counsel referred to the jurors by their numbersjuror 20, juror 50, and so on. but the court reporter referred to the jurors by seat number. so, for example, all eight of the jurors who sat in seat no. 17 are referwhat happened to each of the 95 prospective jurors, the reader must go to the page in which the court seated each successive with his or her seat number. we have done that. 25 worked in an emergency room. juror 1 had cared for gang or gender. on the fourth day of jury selection, juror 1 was about half an hour late to court. (the court had ordered the jurors back for 9:00 a.m. the previous day; proceedings on the morning in question commenced at 9:30 a.m.) juror 1 told the court, when tolcalling and nobody picked up the phone. it went to the voice in contrast with juror 57, juror 1 offered a legitimate excuse for being late and said he or she had called the court. juror 57 arrived close to noonnearly an hour lateand his only to the extent gudino asks us to conduct a comparative juror analysis-by-side comparison [of jurors 1 and 57] avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at pp. 546-547.) 4 presents a closer question. the court expressed understandable frustration that juror and then stricken him. the court also did not agree with d been one of the jurors voting to acquit the defendant in his prior trial that ended in a hung jury. ultimately, however, the court denied the challenge, noting that defense counsel was making a very substantial issue of police credibility in the case and juror 64 had been stopped repeatedly by police for no legitimate reason. 26 that a juror has suffered police harassment or had a negative experience with law enforcement is a legitimate, race-neutral challenge for a prosecutor to remove a juror (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 275; people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 628; people v. turner (1994) 8 cal.4th 137, 171 (turner)), as is prior experience serving on a deadlocked jury (people v. rodriguez (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 1093, 1108, 1114; turner, at p. 170). stop during which the juror believed the officers were unduly again, gudino is mistaken. the prosecutor used a peremptory strike to remove that juror, juror 50. 3. the trial court did not coerce the jury to reach a verdict a. the jury sends out a note after deliberating for five and one-half hours after approximately five days of jury selection, 11 days of testimony, and a day of instructions and arguments, the jury began deliberating at 9:20 a.m. on april 18, 2017. the jury went to lunch at 11:50 a.m., returned at 1:30 p.m., and recessed for the day at 3:40 p.m. the jury resumed deliberations at 9:10 a.m. the next day, april 19. fifty minutes laterat 10:00 a.m.the a the court discussed the situation with counsel. the court then brought the jurors into the courtroom. the court told the jurors: my sort of initial reaction to your note is, this trial lasted a month. and you folks have 27 long in terms of a deliberation. [] in addition, you have made no requests of the court such as for readback or any explanation of jury t when you consider the length of time of the trial and the amount of evidence that was presented and so forth, a day of deliberation is not an inordinately long period of time. [] so generally in a situation such as this the court would want to know whetanything further or additional that could be done that might assist the jury in reaching a decision such as readback of testimony or further instructions or possibly additional argument from the attorneys, something of that nature. and it might be something that you as a jury might want to discuss before you answer me; that is, a discussion of whether you think the court asked the foreperson (juror 2) what the juror thought about what the court had said. the foreperson any the court asked how many votes the jurors had taken. the 28 next in terms owayswell, yeah, there was a change. and then there was a the court stated, should continue to deliberate at this point; that you should think about, as a jury or as a particular juror even, if a particular juror has further that the court could do. [] and i know nothing further that the court could do. but there may be other jurors that disagree with the court can do. [] so what i would suggest is that you continue your deliberations and that you as a jury and as individual jurors think about whether there might be something further that could assist the jury in reaching a [] because there was a lot of time that was spent on this case, and one day of deliberation, although it may seem very long to youand you folks even left early yesterday; you left at like 3:45it is not, as you know, a huge, long that you think about what i have said . . . and 29 if there is something that any of the jurors think[s] might be helpful, that you can . . . write a note to that effect. [] if all of the jurors are in agreement there is nothing further that would be helpful, then . . . you can write me that kind of a note. [] but i think that you should continue your deliberations at this point the jury resumed deliberations at 10:40 a.m. at 11:15 a.m. the jury sent the court a nofirst identified as a suspect in this case prior to miriam dominguez[presented on this subject during th the jury took a 90-minute lunch break then continued to deliberate for two hours and 15 minutes in the afternoon. the jury returned the next day and deliberated from 9:25 a.m. to noon and 1:30 to 2:00 p.m. before announcing it had reached a verdict. b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in asking the jurors to continue deliberating impermissible allen charge8 the independent judgment of the jury in favor of considerations of court did not pressure the jury to reach a verdict nor did it state or even imply that, if the jurors did not agree, the case would have to be retried. (cf. people v. butler (2009) 46 cal.4th 847, 8 allen v. united states (1896) 164 u.s. 492. 30 jurors consider whether there was anything further the court or counsel could do, such as a request for readback, further jury instructions, or additional argument. the court told the jurors, and that you as a jury and as individual jurors think about whether there might be something further that could assist the the court did mention ttestimony, jury instructions, and closing arguments, the jury had deliberated for fewer than six hours. section 1140 provides the jury cannot be discharged until it expiration of such time as the court may deem proper, it satisfactorily appears that there is no reasonable probability that is a reasonable probability of agreement rests within the sound people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 363 (harris); people v. debose (2014) 59 cal.4th 177, 209 (debose); people v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 539.) the trial judge has wide discretion to decide whether the jury has had enough time to deliberate. (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 540.) in debose, after a two-month trial, the jury had deliberated for a day and a half before telling the bailiff it was deadlocked. 31 the court declared a recess for the afternoon and sent the jurors home to rest. the court ordered the jury to return the next n additional then so be it. concern was that the jury had not deliberated for a sufficient amount of time in light of the length of the trial. the court did not urge the jury to reach an agreement, nor did it pressure the jury to secure a verdict. the court simply told the jury that if after an additional period of time it found further discussions fruitless and there was nothing else the court could do to assist debose, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 209.) similarly, here, the court told the jurors if they got to the a , here, as in deboses debose, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 209.) in short, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in asking the jurors to continue their deliberations. (see, e.g., people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 615-616 [trial court did not abuse its discretion when it ordered deadlocked jury that had deliberated for day and a half to continue deliberating, telling you people v. peoples drop in the 32 bucket ] the line from harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 363-did not insist that a verecord reasonably people v. sandoval (1992) 4 cal.4th 155, 195-196 [court did not abuse its discretion in asking jurors to hen they had deliberated for 14.25 hours after five-month trial even though none of the 12 jurors thought there was reasonable possibility of verdict].) disposition not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j. 