filed 12/17/18 p. v. milton ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. allan jay milton, defendant and appellant. b282447 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba441385) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. valerie g. wass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted appellant allan jay milton (defendant) of first degree murder for the death of phillip melendez and found defendant used a deadly and dangerous weapon (a knife). the trial court sentenced defendant to 26 years to life in prison. defendant appealed his conviction. defendant does not dispute that he killed melendez. rather, on appeal, defendant argues that, due to alleged trial court theories of self-defense and the jury heard irrelevant and prejudicial evidence of an unrelated prior incident, he was substantial evidence does not support his conviction for first degree murder. as explained below, we disagree with each of background defendant does not dispute that, on the night of november 9, 2015, he stabbed and killed melendez on a city bus in the eagle rock area of los angeles. rather, the dispute centers on (1) whether the jury adequately was allowed to consider defendantself-defense, (2) whether the trial court properly admitted evidence of an earlier incident that occurred on the bus just before the stabbing, and (3) whether the evidence supported a conviction for first degree murder as opposed to second degree murder. 1. video evidence surveillance cameras placed throughout the bus captured the entire event from multiple angles. at trial, a silent black-and-white video recording of the bus footage was played for the jury and was admitted into evidence. the video depicted an incident on the bus that occurred immediately preceding the 3 stabbing (earlier incident) as well as the stabbing itself. together the earlier incident and the stabbing of melendez spanned approximately three minutes. there is no dispute as to the accuracy of the video evidence. a. earlier incident the earlier incident involved defendant and three other passengers on the bus. at approximately 10:40 p.m., defendant and his friend bobby ruelas walked toward the rear of the bus and sat in seats facing each other. defendant was wearing a large, baggy jacket with pockets. an unidentified man sat in the same area of the bus where defendant and ruelas sat. the unidentified man appeared to be intoxicated. defendantaaron was also on the bus and was sitting in the middle of the last row of the bus facing forward. melendez also was sitting in the last row of the bus, in the far corner seat against the curbside window. a few moments after defendant and ruelas sat down, the unidentified man reached into a bag. aaron became upset, stood up, punched the man twice, and threw him onto defendant. defendant then pushed the man off of him and toward the area of the rear side exit of the bus, where defendant and ruelas then chased the man off the bus. during the scuffle, the unidentified man dropped his own bag, which defendant then picked up. another passenger on the bus, daniel hook, spoke with defendant and motioned toward the defendant tossed the bag to hook, who then returned it to the unidentified man outside the bus. hook got off the bus at the next stop. other passengers on the bus witnessed the earlier incident and described it at trial (discussed below). those passengers 4 were william doherty and michael cooper. melendez was not involved in the earlier incident. b. altercation between defendant and melendez as hook returned outside the bus, defendant moved to sit next to aaron in the back row of the bus, putting aaron between defendant and melendez. defendant began to whisper into aarons left ear. while defendant and aaron were huddled together, melendez leaned over to pick up what looked like a jacket or shirt off the floor and handed it to aaron, who took it from him without incident. defendant was s approximately 40 seconds after melendez handed the piece of clothing to aaron, defendant stood with his hands in his jacket pockets and approached melendez, who sat somewhat reclined in his corner seat sucking on a lollipop. defendant made a kicking motion with his foot toward melendez, then aaron pulled defendant back. melendez remained reclined in his seat. about five seconds later, melendez straightened up in his seat. and a few seconds later, defendant again approached melendez. aaron stood between the two of them, and melendez again assumed a reclined position in his seat, still sucking on his lollipop with his right hand holding the lollipop stick. although aaron remained standing between defendant and melendez, defendant maneuvered around aaron and lunged at melendez. melendez tried to kick defendant away. then, holding onto a bus railing near his seat, melendez stood up for the first time and made a kicking motion toward defendant. defendant jumped back slightly. although standing, melendez remained at his seat in the corner of the back row on the curbside of the bus. defendant was at the opposite end of the back row in the corner 5 on the street side of the bus. aaron remained standing in the middle of the two men. once again, defendant moved around aaron toward melendez and made a jabbing motion with his right hand, striking melendez in his upper chest. at this point, ruelas left the back area of the bus, aaron was trying to restrain defendant, and melendez was looking at his chest. defendant broke free from aaron, squeezed between aaron and a bus railing, and again with his right hand jabbed at melendez, who remained in the back corner of the bus. melendez kicked defendant away. but for a third time, defendant jabbed with his right hand at melendez, shoving him against the bus wall and side window. aaron began to leave the back area of the bus and melendez used his feet to fight off defendant. melendez began to stand up, and defendant followed aaron toward the rear side exit door. as he moved toward the exit, defendant appeared to hold a knife in his left hand, and possibly another in his right hand. aaron and defendant ran from the bus and melendez looked again at his chest. a few seconds later, melendez fell to the floor next to the row in which doherty was sitting, still in the back portion of the bus. doherty tried to help melendez, but melendez died at the scene. 2. testimony1 a. witnesses hook testified at trial about the earlier incident. he said that he heard someone say, my bag. you stole something from my bag, after the unidentified man left the bus, hook said he asked defendant 1 we summarize the testimony relevant to this appeal only. 6 tossed the backpack out the bus door to the unidentified man. cooper testified about both the earlier incident and the altercation between defendant and melendez. his testimony was consistent with the video evidence. cooper said he heard people at the back of the bus telling the unidentified man, t off the bus, and two passengers eventually pushed the unidentified man off the bus. a short time after the unidentified man was pushed off the bus, cooper said the same passengers started arguing with another passenger (melendez), who was sitting in the back corner of the bus. cooper did not see anyone hit anyone else, but he saw melendez fall to the floor and two men leave the bus. doherty also testified about both the earlier incident and the altercation between defendant and melendez. his testimony also was consistent with the video evidence. doherty said three men on the bus, includinof the bus. doherty testified that during the altercation between defendant and melendez, he heard melendez say something like, t start with me. doherty did not see melendez provoke defendant. he said it appeared melendez was going to follow defendant and his two companions off the bus, but then melendez reached inside his jacket, felt his chest, and stopped in the aisle of the bus. doherty heard melendez say, they stabbed me,before he collapsed in the aisle of the bus . doherty tried to help melendez. doherty saw that melendez had a wound on the upper left side of this chest that was bleeding. melendez was unresponsive and appeared unconscious, although he was breathing normally for a while. at 7 some point, melendez started gasping for air, and doherty saw him take his last breath. b. investigators one of the officers who responded to the scene interviewed doherty. at trial, the officer testified he did not remember doherty reporting that melendez said, ,before he was stabbed. the officer stated that, had he heard that statement, he would have included it in his police report. his report did not include that statement. defendant was arrested the day after his altercation with melendez. when arrested, defendant had one knife in his possession. detective judith luera interviewed defendant twice after his arrest. during the first interview, defendant denied any however, defendant accepted a measure of responsibility for told luera that he and melendez -girlfriend. defendant told luera that, just before the stabbing, melendez told defendant, whoever i want to see. if i want to see her i will,to fuck you up, defendant also told luera that he never intended or planned to kill melendez, but saying and because of their ongoing dispute. defendant expressed shock and remorse and stated he wished he could take it back. c. autopsy his upper left chest, which went through his left lung and cut his pulmonary artery. in addition, melendez had a small stab wound 8 on his nose. the autopsy also revealed that, at the time of his death, melendez had cocaine, methamphetamine, and alcohol in his body. d. defendant defendant testified in his defense. he identified himself in the video as the person who stabbed melendez. defendant stated he had lived on the streets since 2012, during which time he had been the victim of thefts and assaults at the hands of other homeless people, some of whom defendant stated used methamphetamine. defendant also identified his friends aaron and ruelas in the video. defendant stated he and aaron sometimes fought when they were drunk, which one time resulted in defendant suffering a broken jaw and another time resulted in defendant suffering a broken collarbone. defendant explained he had known melendez for two or three years, but they were not friends. at the death, defendant had been dating -girlfriend estrada on and off for approximately two years. while dating estrada, defendant had four verbal confrontations with melendez. the first occurred when defendant and melendez were eating lunch at a church. defendant testified that because melendez previously had disrespected defendant by hitting on estrada when she was with defendant, defendant asked melendez to respect his relationship with estrada. defendant stated melendez responded by cussing and saying he was going . defendant testified he felt threatened and, therefore, left. couple of weeks later, when they were both getting dinner at a different church. defendant had heard melendez was trying to 9 see estrada, which made defendant very angry. although defendant was scared of melendez because melendez was stockier and heavier than defendant, defendant felt emboldened to confront melendez that evening because other people were present. defendant told melendez to stay away from estrada. melendez responded by saying, re moved away from melendez and stayed away from him the rest of the evening. the third encounter occurred a few weeks later on a street near the church that served dinner. defendant was alone and, from a distance, he again told melendez to stay away from [him] coming toward defendant. defendant ran away. the fourth encounter occurred approximately one month later when defendant was walking down a street with estrada. defendant testified that melendez approached them and tried to talk to estrada. defendant told him to stop. melendez also tried to take melendez again told defendant he was going to fuck him up. defendant testified he ignored melendez and kept walking. and, a couple of heard melendez had kissed estrada and had given her money. defendant was angry that melendez was still trying to see estrada. defendant also testified about the earlier incident on the bus as well as his violent altercation with melendez. defendant stated he and aaron had been drinking most of that day. when they boarded the bus heading to eagle rock around 9:00 or 10:00 at night, defendant 10 totally full-blown. soon after boarding the bus, defendant noticed ruelas also was on the bus. defendant did not notice melendez until later. defendant explained that at some point the unidentified asked him to stop and the man apologized, saying he was high. defendant said he accepted his apology. defendant explained, however, that aaron began to argue with and hit the unidentified man. defendant testified he was surprised when aaron hit the man. when defendant felt something hit his face, he thought the unidentified man had hit him. as a result, defendant kicked at the man and eventually defendant and ruelas chased the unidentified man off the bus. defendant testified that he first saw melendez on the bus a few minutes after chasing off the unidentified man. because defendant was very mad at melendez and tired of him disrespecting relationship with estrada, defendant decided he again would tell melendez to stay away from estrada. defendant told aaron his plan and asked aaron to get out of the way because defendant believed melendez was hostile and might attack him. defendant also testified that he had his hand on a knife in his pocket not because he wanted to hurt melendez, but because in light of his previous encounters with melendez defendant was scared and thought melendez was hostile and might chase him. defendant stated that after explaining his plan to aaron, defendant approached melendez and asked him why he was seeing estrada and to stay away from her. defendant testified that at that point melendez had not said anything to or had any interaction with defendant on the bus that night. defendant 11 testified that in response to his warning to stay away from estrada, melendez said, , and defendant kicked at him. when defendant kicked at melendez, aaron stood up and told defendant to relax. defendant testified he ignored aaron because he was upset and emboldened because he was buzzed from drinking. defendant testified that because melendez had cursed and said he was going to fuck him up, defendant moved around aaron and approached melendez again. however, melendez stood up, at which time defendant said he believed melendez was going to follow through on his threat to fuck [him] up, either by fighting or hitting him. defendant stated the encounter escalated quickly and when melendez cussed at defendant again and said he was going to fuck him up. defendant testified that at that point stabbed melendez once and lunged at him twice, while melendez was kicking at defendant. defendant said he did not see any weapon i defendant repeatedly testified he never intended to kill melendez and he never consciously took out his knife to stab him. instead, defendant explained it all happened instantaneously. defendant also explained he ran away and threw the knife in the gutter because he panicked defendant testified he was remorseful and felt about what happened and wished it had not happened. he said he had only wanted to warn melendez verbally to stay away from estrada. he said he carried the knife for protection. 12 3. verdict and appeal after deliberating for approximately 40 minutes, the jury returned a guilty verdict. the jury found defendant guilty of first degree murder and found he used a deadly and dangerous weapon. the trial court sentenced defendant to 26 years to life in state prison. defendant appealed. discussion 1. limitation imposed losing argument defendant argues the trial court improperly limited defense he was prejudiced when in the presence of the jury the trial court prohibited defense counsel from inviting the jurors to put themselves shoes. defendant believes that, as a restriction, the jury may have s of self-defense and imperfect self-defense. as a result of this alleged error, defendant claims his conviction must be reversed. we disagree. a. applicable law and standard of review although a criminal defendant enjoys a constitutional right to have counsel present closing argument to the trier of fact, this right is not limitless. (people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 147 (simonibid.) a trial court is given great latitude in controlling the duration and limiting the scope of closing (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 743.) reasonable time limits and may ensure that argument does not simon, at p. 147.) similarly, our 13 to control all proceedings during the trial, and to limit the introduction of evidence and the argument of counsel to relevant and material matters, with a view to the expeditious and effective ascertainment of the truth regarding the matters involved. 1044.) in addition, it is well settled that at the guilt phase of a criminal trial, sympathies. (people v. fields (1983) 35 cal.3d 329, 362 (fields); people v. botkin (1908) 9 cal.app. 244, 259.) as the parties correctly agree, of discretion. (simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 147.) b. relevant background i. during closing argument, defense counsel addressed at length the issue of self-defense. for example, early in his closing argument, defense counsel told the jury it should consider and try to understand the world in which defendant lived. counsel statedyou have to submerse yourself in that situation. you really, really need to go back there, put yourself in that position . . . you have to try to understand what he was going through at that time, at that defense counsel described as one -second decisions. hes and trying to get handouts, . . . finding himself in these violent situations because, you know, people get drunk, people get 14 whole counsel also highlighted and encouraged the jury to consider repeatedly antagonistic toward defendant because of estrada. more than half way through his closing, defense counsel immediately had to use deadly force to defend against a perceived imminent danger. counsel statedthe second element is that [defendant] reasonably believed that the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to defend against the danger. he told you. [defendant] used no more force than reasonably necessary to k you to do itself. it tells you, considerand this is in the instructionconsider all the circumstances as they were known to and appeared to the defendant and consider what a reasonable person in a similar position with similar knowledge would have believed. [] put yourself in that situation. you . . . are going to evaluate this case as a homeless person who has been attacked, who lives in re judging him, go stab her. talking about, ladies and gentlemen. [] so the law also tells you -the law is asking you to do, to put yourself in his shoes 15 at this point the trial court interruptobjecting to you putting the prosecutor say to put themselves in the shoes of the victim. shoes of the defendant. they are going to follow the instructions that i will instruct on the law. you cannot invite the jury to put defense counsel apologized, continued with his closing argument, and explained to the jury they would be following the law as explained in the jury instructions. counsel explained, without interruption from the court, that in considering imperfect self-defense the jurors would need to determine whether use of deadly force was necessary. counsel read a portion of the beliefs, consider all the circumstances as they were known and appeared to the defendant.not asking [the jury] t following and out of the presence of the jury, the trial court explained its reasoning for view that you should not invite jurors to imagine themselves as someone involved in the case. jurors are objective arbiters of the facts. they are sworn to try the case and to render a true verdict according to the evidence. it is improper to ask the jurors to imagine themselves as a victim, defendant or partisans. to do so invites them to become partisan advocates and to render a ,he trial court further explained 16 that it is improper in the guilt phase to ask jurors to step into the applied to criminal cases as well as civil cases. that was why i objected to your inviting the jurors to think of themselves in the the trial court cited people v. stansbury (1993) 4 cal.4th 1017 and loth v. truck-a-way corp. (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 757 as support for its ruling. ii. jury instructions one of the first instructions the trial court read to the jury the law conflict with my instructions, you must follow my instruct the trial court also instructed the jury on the law of self-circumstances as they were known to and appeared to the defendant and consider what a reasonable person in a similar situation with similar knowledge would have believed. if the d that phillip melendez threatened or harmed the defendant in the past, you may consider that information in deciding whether the who has been threatened or harmed by a person in the past is justified in acting more quickly or taking greater self-defense with respect to imperfect self-defense, the trial court 17 believed that he was in imminent danger of being killed or that the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to defend and, again, the court stated, nces as they that phillip melendez threatened or harmed the defendant in the past, you may consider that information in evaluating the finally, the trial court instructed the jury that it should indication of what [the court] think[s] about the facts, the witnesses, o iii. motion for new trial just before the trial court sentenced defendant, defense counsel made a motion for new trial. counsel argued the trial court committed prejudicial error when closing argument. specifically, counsel claimed the court erred when it precluded counsel from asking the jurors to put s shoes. respect to heat of passion,[2] there is an objective standard, but there is a subjective standard as well that does require that they consider the circumstances as they were known to the defendant. [] . . . [] . . . i think the net practical effect of the comments that the court made in front of the jury was that the jury got the impression that my entire argument or what i was asking them counsel pointed to the swiftness 2 passion,-defense. 18 jury came back within 20 minutes and it took the court longer to read the jury instructions than it did for the jury to reach a verdict. [] . . . [] i think that the practical effect was that the jury completely disregarded any argument that i made because they got the impression from the court that what i was doing and what i was asking them to do wa the trial court denied the motion for new trial. the court refused to speculate why the jury acted quickly in returning a guilty verdict and stated it stood by its earlier comments, reiterating it believed counsel the line with c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion argument. the trial court correctly argument so as to prohibit counsel from unduly appealing to the jas noted above, the law supports this ruling. (e.g., fields, supra, 35 cal.3d at p. 362.) nonetheless, as defendant correctly points out, imperfect self-defense includes a subjective element. thus, to a certain extent, the jury was required to consider the events that unfolded as defendant understood them. in particular, the jury was he was in imminent danger of being killed or suffering great it is a fine line between, on the one hand, addressing the believed and, on the other hand, improperly appealing to the 19 struck an appropriate balance. the court allowed defense defendant actually believed. for example, counsel was permitted both to discuss and to encourage the jury to consider the world in which defendant lived threatened defendant many times. however, the court drew the line shoes. we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion in drawing the line where it did. similarly, we speculative -defense altogether. importantly, other than one instruction discussed below, defendant does not contend that the court incorrectly or erroneously instructed the jury. instead, the jury was unequivocally told to follow the law as explained by the trial court, which included instructions on the law of lawful and imperfect self-defense. thus, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its . as that the alleged error violated his constitutional rights. no separate constitutional discussion is required, or provided, when rejection of a claim on the merits necessarily leads to rejection of any constitutional theory or gloss raised for the first time here. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 811, fn. 8 (solomon).) 20 in any event, assuming the trial court abused its discretion it was not prejudicial error. first degree murder, including the video evidence, was overwhelming. thus, even if the trial court had allowed defense counsel to invite the jury the jury still reasonably could have concluded defendant was not in, and did not actually believe he was in, imminent danger of being killed or suffering great bodily injury such that the use of deadly force was necessary. it is apparent the jury, as is its right, did considered himself in such danger. thus, absent the alleged error, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a result more favorable to defendant. (fields, supra, 35 cal.3d at p. 363; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 2. calcrim no. 3472 defendant contends the trial court improperly instructed the jury with calcrim no. does not have the right to self-defense if he provokes a fight or quarrel with the intent to create an excuse to use force(instruction 3472). use of this instruction. nonetheless, on appeal defendant claims that under the circumstances of this case, the use of instruction 3472 combined precluded the jury from considering the defenses of either lawful self-defense or imperfect self-defense. as a result of this alleged error, defendant claims his conviction must be reversed. we disagree. 21 a. the issue is forfeited. because defendant did not object to the use of instruction 3472 below, he has forfeited his right to raise the issue on appeal. generally, unless an instruction was an incorrect statement of failure to object to or request clarification of an instruction below forfeits the claim on appeal. (pen. code,  1259; people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1192 (rodrigues); people v. mitchell (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 442, 465.) b. the trial court did not err when it instructed the jury with instruction 3472. in any event, we conclude the trial court did not err in instructing the jury with instruction 3472. we review de novo whether a jury instruction correctly states the law and whether the instruction directs an adverse finding by removing an issue from the jupeople v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218.) instruction 3472 is a correct statement of the law. in people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, our supreme court confirmed the legal soundness of caljic no. 5.55, which is substantively the same as instruction 3472. the enraca court explained that the doctrine of self- may not be invoked by a defendant who, through his own wrongful conduct (e.g., the initiation of a physical attack or the commission of a felony), has created circumsts attack or pursuit is legally justified. enraca, at p. 761.) more recently, division five of this district reiterated the reasoning of enraca t of law. (people v. eulian (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1324, 1333 (eulian).) 22 as the eulian court recognized, however, instruction 3472 in the rare case in which a defendant intended to provoke only a non-deadly confrontation [but] the (eulian, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. people v. ramirez (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 940 (ramirez). there, two defendants provoked a nondeadly fistfight, but the victim responded by advancing with what looked like a gun in his hand. in response, one of the defendants fatally shot the victim in an alleged act of self-defense and defense of others. (id. at pp. 944945.) in that case, the majority convictions 3472. in the circumstances of that case, the majority held it was error to instruct the jury with instruction 3472 because it use force, even to provoke only a fistfight, defendants entirely forfeited any right to self-ramirez, at p. 953.) the court stated provoke a nondeadly quarr ] . . . his ri id. at p. 943.) relying on ramirez, defendant argues the use of instruction 3472 here was error because it effectively precluded the jury from considering his theories of self-defense. defendant claims the trial court should have included in its instructions the [i]f the defendant used only non-deadly force, and the opponent responded with such sudden and deadly force that the defendant could not withdraw from the fight, then the defendant had the right to defend [himself] with deadly force and was not required to try to 23 stop fighting [or] communicate the desire to stop to the opponent[, or give the oppone first, this case is factually different from ramirez. most significantly, in contrast with ramirez and contrary to , there is no evidence that unlawful or deadly force. indeed, the video shows melendez remained seated for much of the confrontation and only stood up when defendant more aggressively approached melendez. and even accepting as that when melendez stood up, defendant believed melendez was going to fight or hit him, fighting or hitting is not the same as deadly force. in addition, defendant testified that melendez cursed at defendant and said defendant. but no matter how provocative or aggressive, cursing at or verbally taunting someone is not the equivalent of deadly force. (people v. frandsen (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 266, 274.) moreover, aaronwho just moments before had punched another man on the bus own bonesstood in between defendant and melendez, easily providing a block or deterrent of any potential advances by melendez. thus, even (1) standing up, (2) cursing at defendant, and (3) giving the impression that he was going to fight or hit defendant. none of those responses escalated the altercation to a potentially deadly encounter only when the victim [(here, melendez)] resorts to unlawful force does the defendant-aggressor regain the right of self-defenseid. at p. 273.) 24 second, under instruction 3472, the jury was instructed to consider whether defendant both provoked the altercation with melendez and did so with the intent to create an excuse to use force against him. if the jury found both facts, instruction 3472 correctly instructed the jury that defendant had no right to self-defense. however, if the jury did not find both facts, the jury -defense theories, on which the jury was also instructed. it is apparent the jury determined either that defendant provoked the altercation with melendez with the intent to create an excuse to use force against him, or defendant did not do so but nonetheless had no right either to lawful or imperfect self-defense. the evidence amply supports both scenarios. because we find the trial court did not err in instructing the jury with instruction 3472, we need not and do not consider claimed error was prejudicial. 3. the earlier incident defendant also argues the trial court committed reversible error when it allowed evidence of the earlier incident that took place on the bus moments before defendant stabbed melendez. defendant claims the earlier incident either was not relevant or, if relevant, was more prejudicial than probative. we disagree on both counts. a. applicable law and standard of review only relevant evidence is admissible. (evid. code,  350.) relevant evidence is evidence having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.id.,  210.) nonetheless, relevant evidence may be excluded if it creates a substantial danger of 25 prejudicing, confusing, or misleading the jury, or would consume an undue amount of trial time. (id.,  352.) evidentiary rulings for an abuse of discretion. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 597.) we will not r exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. rodrigues, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 1124.) b. relevant background as described above, the earlier incident on the bus involved an altercation between an unidentified man, aaron, ruelas, and defendant. defendant made an unsuccessful oral motion in limine to exclude evidence of the earlier incident. in denying the motion, the trial court stated, c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of the earlier incident. we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of the earlier incident. first, the earlier incident was relevant. for what happened moments later. it helped to explain why witnesses knew who was in the back of the bus. indeed, doherty behind him. the earlier incident fight, which was relevant to defenda-defense. second, the earlier incident was not more prejudicial than probative. in fact, it can hardly be described as prejudicial to defendant. the earlier incident shows aaron as the aggressor 26 and defendant as simply reacting to the situation as it unfolded. incident portrayed [defendant] as a violent person. as such, we conclude the trial court exercise[ ] its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice.rodrigues, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 1124.) because we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of the earlier incthat the claimed error violated his constitutional rights and was prejudicial. 4. cumulative error defendant also argues his conviction must be reversed because the cumulative effect of the trial courtin a denial of his rights to due process and a fair trial. we reject the assertion for the simple reason that, having found no merit in was no cumulative error requiring reversal. (people v. beeler individual errors, they cannot constitute cumulative errors that somehow affected the . . people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 591.) 5. sufficiency of the evidence finally, defendant argues the evidence was insufficient to support a conviction for first degree murder. in particular, defendant contends the evidence was insufficient to support findings that he stabbed and killed melendez willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. as a result, defendant claims his conviction must be reduced from first degree murder to second degree murder. again, we disagree. 27 a. standard of review when considering a claim of insufficient evidence, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 241 (streeter).) we must accept logical inferences that the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if [we] would have concluded otherwise. (ibid.) we do not reweigh the evidence or reevaluate the credibility of witnesses. (people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314 (jones).) b. applicable law the jury was correctly instructed on the elements of both murder generally and murder in the first degree specifically. to find defendant committed murder, the jury was required to find defendant unlawfully killed melendez with malice aforethought. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).) to find defendant committed murder in the first degree, the jury was required to find (pen. code,  189.) a verdict of deliberate and premeditated first degree murder requires more than a showing of intent to kill. (solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 812.) deliberation refers to careful weighing of considerations in forming a course of action; premeditation means thought over in advance. ibid.) premeditation and deliberation can occur in a brief interval. the test is not time, but reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. [citation.] (ibid.) the true test is not 28 the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. (id. at p. 813.) our supreme court has identified three types of evidence commonly shown in cases of premeditated murder: (1) planning, (2) motive, and (3) manner of killing. (people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 2627 (anderson).) drawing on these three categories of evidence, anderson provided one framework for reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence supporting findings of premeditation and deliberation. in so doing, andersons goal was to aid reviewing courts in assessing whether the evidence is supportive of an inference that the killing was the result of preexisting reflection and weighing of considerations rather than mere unconsidered or rash impulse. [citation.] but, as we have often observed, anderson did not purport to establish an exhaustive list that would exclude all other types and combinations of evidence that could support a finding of premeditation and deliberation. solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 812; see streeter, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 242.) a first degree murder conviction will be upheld when there is extremely strong evidence of planning, or when there is evidence of motive with evidence of either planning or manner.people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 401.) c. was supported by sufficient evidence. amply supports his conviction for first degree murder. first, as defendant rightly concedes, there was evidence of motive. defendant admitted his anger with and jealously toward melendez. defendant testified he was very angry with melendez 29 from estrada, melendez ignored defendant and continued to pursue estrada. second, the manner in which defendant stabbed melendez supports a finding that defendant acted with premeditation and deliberation. as respondent notes, defendantfatal blow was made with such force and at such a position on the body that the knife sliced straight through lung and into his pulmonary artery. a rational trier of fact could have reasonably inferred from the location and strength of strike that, rather than randomly thrashing at melendez with a knife, defendant deliberated and reflected on his course of conduct. (e.g., people v. gonzalez (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1539, 1552; people v. paton (1967) 255 cal.app.2d 347, 352.) finally, the evidence supports a finding that defendant planned the murder. the video showed defendant just prior to the stabbing with his hands in his jacket pockets whispering in plan to confront melendez (albeit verbally, according to defendant) and that inside his pocket he was holding his knife. significantly, the video also shows defendant did not have unobstructed access to melendez. instead, in order to stab melendez, defendant had to and did purposefully maneuver around aaron, who not only stood between defendant and s own testimony, was trying to stop defendant. and defendant maneuvered around aaron not once, but twice. arguments on appeal, planning was not shown by the fact that defendant had a knife or two with him that night, but rather by what defendant did on the bus prior to stabbing melendez. and, as noted above, planning does not necessitate an extended 30 amount of time. (solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at pp. 812813.) thus, although defendant stated he noticed melendez on the bus only a short time before stabbing him, a rational trier of fact could conclude defendant considered and planned his attack. although defendant testified he never intended to kill melendez, the jury was entitled to, and apparently did, reject that testimony. findings. (jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 314.) thus, the evidence supports a finding that, although defendant had time to consider his actions, he willfully and deliberately chose to attack and kill melendez. in other words, it unconsidered or rash impulses.solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 812.) accordingly, using the anderson categories as a guide, we conclude conviction for first degree murder is supported by substantial evidence. 31 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, p. j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. hoffstadt, j. 