filed 6/11/19 p. v. bueno ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose luis bueno, jr., defendant and appellant. b282517 los angeles county super. ct. no. ta138412 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed in part and remanded for resentencing. david l. polsky, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted jose luis bueno, jr., of first degree murder, attempted first degree murder, and possession of a firearm by a felon, finding true firearm and gang allegations. bueno appeals, arguing that the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted recorded hearsay statements in which gilbert salazar implicated bueno during a jailhouse conversation with a paid undercover informant. bueno also argues he is entitled to a remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancement. we affirm the judgment and remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion. background on november 9, 2012, jose corona drove his girlfriend michelle ruiz and luis rivera to a walgreens, to pick up a prescription for ruiz. of the lynwood tiny locos, and the walgreens was in tiny locos territory. salazar and his girlfriend were entering the drugstore. the tattoo on the back of as a member of young crowd, a rival gang. rivera suggested, nevertheless, as corona and ruiz walked toward the entrance, they ran into salazar and his girlfriend. corona told ruiz to get back into the car. rivera got out of the car and the two men confronted salazar; ruiz thought corona asked salazar where he was from. after a minute or two, salazar and his girlfriend walked away. rivera returned to the back seat of the car, and corona and ruiz entered the walgreens. corona seemed nervous as they waited for the prescription, fielding calls from rivera and telling him to wait. corona told ruiz in line 3 and went outside to check on rivera. two or three minutes later and pick left the store. she called and texted corona with no response. when she heard sirens and saw police activity and an ambulance rushing down the street, she got a sinking feeling, and she ran toward the middle of the road, and his bloody clothes were in the street. an tattoos. ruiz asked the onlooker to take her to the hospital, where she learned corona had been shot multiple times and was dead. onwas fatal, travelling through his lungs and heart. surveillance video showed a red truck pulling up in the right turn lane, next to corona as it waited in the middle lane to turn left. another truck momentarily . the red truck drove off, rivera left the back seat of the car and ran from the scene. rivera did not cooperate when the police interviewed him later. the rolled-up a bullet hole and bullet damage; at least three bullets had passed through. three expended nine-millimeter bullet casings were on the street, and one nine-millimeter bullet was inside the front seat. three mo. all the bullets and the casings had been fired from the same firearm. on june 17, 2015, two years and seven months later, salazar was in custody on an unrelated felony. detectives placed a paid undercover informant wearing a recording device in 4 , to engage him in conversation to discover if during the conversation, salazar described the details of the shooting, and identified his homie (bueno) as the shooter. an amended information charged bueno with the murder of corona (count 3) and the attempted first-degree murder of rivera (count 4), both with gang and firearm allegations, and possession of a firearm by a felon (count 7), with a gang allegation.1 at trial, conversations with the paid informant and, later, with bueno. the jury convicted bueno on counts 3, 4, and 7, and found true the gang and firearm allegations.2 the jury deadlocked on the five remaining counts, which the trial court then dismissed. on the three counts of conviction, the trial court sentenced bueno to life in prison without the possibility of parole plus 25 years to life for the first degree murder of corona (count 3); a consecutive life term with a minimum of 15 years in prison for the attempted first-degree murder of rivera (count 4); and a consecutive seven-year prison term for felon in possession (count 7). 1 the eight-count information alleged five additional counts related to shootings in september and december 2006, which are not relevant to this appeal. 2 salazar was tried separately and convicted of first degree murder, attempted willful, deliberate, premediated murder, and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, with gang and firearm allegations, all related to the murder of corona. division 4 of this court affirmed his conviction and remanded for the trial court to exercise its discretion regarding the firearm enhancement. (people v. salazar (aug. 1, 2018, b280129) [nonpub. opn.].) 5 discussion 1. the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it admitted hearsay statements to the jailhouse informant implicating were not admissible as against sa penal interest and were unreliable. the prosecution filed a motion to admit portions statements that the shooter asked salazar to identify the target the trial court listened to the recordings and conducted a hearing on the motions. the court and all counsel agreed that evidence 3 first requirement, unavailability, was met. (salazar was then awaiting trial.) the court focused on whestatement created a risk of criminal liability. somewhere past the middle of the interview he began to describe the encounter in the parking lot which was the motive for the shootinthe individual pulled out a gun and shot. [] and that individual, at the very end, wa . . . . so he also . . . . [] so i think it the prosecution argued that the statement did not attempt to minimize or to shift blame and ion of how 3 unless otherwise specified, all subsequent statutory references are to the evidence code. 6 he defense counsel . . . attempt[ed] to shift the blame the trial salazar did not minimize his role in the shooting. toward the to find that, under 1230, that it does fall under a declaration against penal interest salazar appeared at trial and invoked his fifth amendment right not to testify, as his conviction was on appeal and not yet final. again objected to the introduction of the recording. the jury heard the recording in full. a. salazar during his conversation with the jailhouse informant deputy sheriff todd anderson testified that on june 17, 2015, he set up a perkins4 operation, placing a paid undercover agent (av), wearing a recording device, into the same jail cell as salazar (who was in custody on an unrelated charge), to engage salazar in conversation and attempt to get information on the sole target of the investigation was salazar; deputy anderson had no idea that bueno was involved. av had been told what gang salazar was from, but nothing about the specific crime, because law enforcement knew so little. is 87 pages long. we describe the relevant detail. the two men engaged in general conversation. salazar said he was in for driving a car without the consent of the owner. 4 illinois v. perkins (1990) 496 u.s. 292. 7 , salazar talked about his committed relationship with his girlfriend and their two children. av then said salazar explained he was worried about doing time because his girlfriend needed him. detectives removed salazar from the cell to question him. when they br) was ratting on salazar. they girlfriend next, and if after the detectives left, salazar told were implicating him, although salazar did not appear in the photographs the detectives showed him. the detectives said my av know why his name was coming up now. av suggested someone had informed to the authorities. salazar intended to deny everything, [ before. salazar agreed with av that someone must be talking to salazar worried they would charge him anyway. av suggested he could claim self defense, as av had in the past. salazar worried his girlfriend might say something, salazar told av 8 detectives briefly removed av from the cell. when he returned he told salazar the detectives had been looking at a - had nothing on him, and av responded they would never tell him what they had until they went to court. after they discussed why av was in custody, they returned to salazarav surmised they had something on salazar and just needed av said the best thing salazar could hope for was a deal, ; salazar responded he still he worried they might lock up his girlfriend. the two men discussed the televisions in the cells, with other gangs. the detectives removed salazar again. when he returned, salazar told av the detectives asked him about whether anyone approached him at a walgreens, and he the detectives had asked salazar . salazar had not yet claimed self-defense, two-thirds of the way into the transcript, salazar first admitted involvement in the incident went out there, right? and these fools [with a girl] came up . one of the men , 9 salazar then began to describe his involvement in the av , nofrom tiny locos. one of them recognized salazar and snitched, saying they were from little crowd and pointing out salazar. [t]himbecause the cops were investigating the motive for the killing. salazar said detectives had been working on the case but had never questioned him before. he thought the detective who questioned him was lying to try to convince salazar to confess, and they were talking to his girlfriend next. salazar provided av with more details. after the incident at the walgreens, he told his girlfriend to wait for him there, telling hercause you already know fuck a 10 , like, he wondered if the the gun av asked how many were in the car, and salazar said one was dead and the other was talking to the police. av said: gunned that nigga, the detectives[t] everyone had been talking about the shooting, but he av told salazar he was in a gang, and described shooting someone. a hard time. at the time of the walgreens incident, he and his girlfriend were homeless. they had gotten the kids back and had gone to walgreens to buy a few things for his girlfriend to use at salazar where he was from. salazar was in his own hood and got do w go head up with these when we were leaving the fucking spot where we was at where i up. . . . , like, round to get to the fools are 11 salazar was only other . . . . i was telling them what , they pulled up to the car stuck in traffic. and that fool just likehe rolls the window. and them fools they were just, like, looking straight ahead, i guess. is that him? i was, like, it was the car. it was the ride. yeah, it is him. so if we just, like, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow, pow. we took off, fool. corner and passed the walgreens. they saw an undercover cop car, and took off. the undercover cop car was in the photographs the detectives showed salazar; he had seen it around the neighborhood. salazar said the detectives had been following him but did not have enough evidence, and av replied that something and av suggested or a drug addict with a record. salazar had told the detective he av described his own interrogation, and then rand they probably had video from walgreens. salazar asked what he should say if he was on the video, and av suggested back looking for salazar, instead of him going looking for them. 12 on [t]first motherfucker i call twas on the streets or in jail, and salazar said he was in custody that fool, like, hey, fool, they, the conversation ended when deputies removed salazar from the cell. b. the statements about blade were against penal interest section declarant having sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made, . . . so far subjected him to the risk of . . . criminal liability, . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unless he to gain admission of hearsay evidence as a declaration against penal interest under section 1230, [t]he proponent of such evidence must show that the declarant penal interest when made and that the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission despite its hearsay 13 people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 711 (grimes).) bueno concedes that the recording contained statements by salazar that were against his penal interest, including his descriptions of the confrontation at the walgreens, his seeking out a fellow gang member to find the two men, and his participation in the resulting fatal shooting. bueno argues the final discretion, because those specific statements were not sufficiently penal interest. we disagree. in grimes, our supreme court clarified the long-standing rule that section 1230 does not allow the trial court to admit disserving to the interests of the dec grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 713, quoting people v. leach (1975) 15 cal.3d 419, 441) (leach).) leach] explained that those portions of a confession inculpating others are not as inherently trustworthy as those portions that are actually dgrimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 713.) [t]he court may take into account not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of the (grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 711.) grimes explained that contextual approach to the application of the leach rule. we have applied leach to bar admission of those portions of a third nfession that are self-serving or otherwise appear to shift responsibility to others. [citations.] but we have permitted the admission of those portions of a confession that, though not 14 ar-a grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 715.) -interest exception does not require courts to sever and excise any and all portions of an otherwise inculpatory statement that ultimately, courts must consider each statement in context in order to answer the ultimate question under evidence code section 1230: whether the statement, even if not independently inculpatory of the declarant, is nevertheless against such not have made the statement unless he believed it to be true.(id. aresponsibility for the crime, rather than diminish it,admissible as declarations against interest. (id. at p. 717.) ements by a nontestifying codefendant that implicate the defendant, even by name, may be admissible if they exculpatory, self-people v. almeda (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 346, 364.) the question before us is whether implicating bueno by his moniker are unreliable, as self-(grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 715.) identification of blade was an attempt to distance himself from the shooting and to shift the responsibility to bueno as the actual shooter. considering statements in context, we conclude they were self-inculpatory, and the trial court did 15 not abuse its discretion when it admitted the statements into evidence. rsation with av began casually. salazar was in custody. the detectives removed salazar to question him and returned him to the cell, suggesting rivera might be ratting on salazar. salazar then told av witnesses were implicating him in a 2012 murder, describing general facts consistent with the walgreens confrontation and nevertheless, he was worried his girlfriend might say something, and concerned he could lose custody of their children. salazar told av rival gangs were involved, claimed membership in young crowd, and said the rival gang was from lynwood. after av was removed from the cell and returned, av suggested the detectives might have been viewing surveillance video of salazar, and warned that if they found the murder av suggested salazar try to strike a deal with the detectives. salazar said he wanted to know what charges he might face. after the detectives again removed salazar for questioning and returned him to the cell, salazar told av he had denied any involvement in the confrontation at walgreens. he then implicated himself for the first time to av, saying he had gone to walgreens with his girlfriend, and described the confrontation with corona, rivera, and ruiz. he also described the shooting, and when they found them, they pulled up and gave it to them; salazar imitated six gunshots. ized salazar, and snitched. salazar 16 thought all the shells fell inside the car and he had gotten rid of everything. at this point, salazar had inculpated himself as the instigator of the pursuit and as present at the shooting, identified an eyewitness, and admitted he got rid of the evidence. giving more detail, salazar said he went to tell his homies after the walgreens confrontation, planning to return and fight. but then one of his homies pulled out a gun, and after salazar asked why and said he just salazar after his homie pulled out a gun, he accepted its use, and the gun was discarded the next day. salazar theorized that the man in the car with corona (rivera) had seen him and was talking to the police. that had been haunting him. he again described the shooting, saying they car and headed to the walgreens. salazar scar, his homie asked: is , and salazar identified managed to evade police. these statements culpability by describing how salazar both directed his homie to , and pointed out corona as the target. av suggested that salazar could try to discredit rivera, or say corona and rivera came back and went after salazar. av your his homie was the first person salazar would call to help him out. salazar had already inculpated himself in seeking out his homie 17 of as the target, and getting rid of evidence after the shooting. with these statements, he went further, saying the homie was the one whose assistance he could count on the most. very end of the conversation. salazar told av his homie was in he hoped av would run into him. av asked his name, and their conversation, because blade would challenge salazar telli in context, blade were not self-serving, or an attempt to exculpate himself and shift the blame to blade. this is not a case in which the declarant changed his story during the conversation to minimize his responsibility by identifying others as most culpable, doing to increase [his] criminal culpability, and serv[ing] accomplice[s].people v. gallardo (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 51, 74.) of what had occurred, further mitigating his role in the offense with id. at pp. 75-76.) in this case, each retelling by salazar gradually increased his culpability, and the final statements about blade were further inculpatory. in people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th hearsay statement identified the defendant by name as the driver of the car involved in a shooting. because the declarant knew by identifying her, he was increasing the likelihood that evidence 18 id. at p. 127.) me, viewed in context, specifically disserved his penal interest (ibid.) here, salazar volunteered that his homie was in custody. when he identified his homie as blade, and then specified where blade was in custody, salazar provided crucial inculpatory information that the detectives did not have; the identity of the shooter, and even his location. it was against enal interest to describe , his gang moniker, and where he was in custodygave the detectives easy access to the person with the most membership in young crowd would provide evidence to support a true finding on a gang enhancement allegation against salazar. provided self-inculpatory information that might have enabled the authorities to better investigate [salazpeople v. cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 127.) bueno also argues that when salazar as the shooter he intended to exculpate himself. but even when a role, exclusion is not required, if the statements disserve the people v. smith (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 766, 792.) here, salazar described himself as leaving the walgreens to find a homie to help him search for the rival gang members who had disrespected him. he also described his initial surprise when bueno pulled out a gun, followed by his acceptance of the presence of a firearm, his 19 direction of the car chase, and his identification of corona as the target. salazar did not minimize his involvement. although bueno does not argue statements were otherwise unreliable, we note that one reliability is they gave law enforcement significant details about the crime they did not have people v. almeda, supra, 19 cal.app.5th at p. 367.) blade resulted in important evidence identification, searched department records, and discovered that the young crowd gang member with the moniker blade was bueno, who was in custody on other charges. in july 2015, salazar was placed in a room with bueno and their conversation was secretly recorded. just as the jury in this case heard the recording of the conversation between salazar and bueno, the recording was also in evidence people v. salazar, supra, b280129.) interest and were not exculpatory, self-serving, or collateral. the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it admitted the statements. 2. we remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 620 bueno argues that remand is necessary to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancement on count 3. bueno received a term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1), imposed consecutive to his sentence of life without the possibility of parole on count 3, the first-degree murder of 20 corona. bueno argues that his case should be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise the discretion conferred under senate bill no. 620, effective january 1, 2018, to strike the section 12022.53 firearm enhancement. we agree with bueno that, as a defendant whose sentence exercise of its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancement, a discretion it did not possess when it sentenced bueno in may 2017. at sentencing, indication whether it would exercise discretion to strike the firearm enhancement . . . if people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1081.) people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 1110-1111.) we therefore remand to allow the trial court to decide in the first instance, at a hearing at which bueno has the right to be present with counsel, whether to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancement on count 3. (people v. rocha (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 352, 359-360.) 21 disposition the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to consider, at a hearing at which the defendant has a right to be present with counsel, whether to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancement imposed in count 3, under penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. dhanidina, j. 