filed 3/20/18 p. v. ji ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eunsung ji, defendant and appellant. b282015 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba442067) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. reversed and remanded with directions. alan s. yockelson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted eunsung ji of kidnapping his ex-girlfriend. ji appeals, arguing the trial court erred in admitting evidence of a prior incident of domestic violence under evidence code section 1109. we conclude the argument is forfeited and meritless. the jury also convicted ji of the lesser included offense of false imprisonment. we agree with ji and the peopleconcession that the conviction must be reversed. finally, the jury convicted ji of making a criminal threat. we agree with ji and the people that, when the trial court stayed execution of sentence for that conviction under penal code section 654,1 the court should not have ordered ji to serve that sentence concurrently. factual and procedural background a. the relationship m.l. was 29 years old and working as a cello teacher when she met ji in late december 2014 at a car wash where ji worked. they began dating and saw each other frequently. within two months they were discussing marriage and texting about buying an engagement ring, although during this time she also tried five or six times to end the relationship. m.l., however, did not break up with ji because he cried, asked for another chance, and begged her to stay in the relationship, 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 whenever she tried to end their relationship, ji was . m.l. became concerned about how to deal with the situation. b. the mountain road incident one evening in april or may 2015, to visit. she sat with him in his car in front of the house and told him she wanted to end their relationship. ji locked the car doors, preventing m.l. from getting outwas scared and wanted to go home. she kept asking ji where they were going, but ji did not respond. ji drove with m.l. in the car on u.s. highway 101 for 10-15 minutes to she again asked him where they were going. he did not answer. it was dark, and m.l. could not see anything and did not know where they were. ji stopped the car in were no streetlights, no people, and no one could hear them. ji got out, walked around the car, opened the passenger door, and asked m.l. to get out. she refused because she was scared and felt threatened. ji stood outside the car for a while, and then returned to [it] then he took her home. c. calling and texting ji went to korea in august 2015. while he was in korea, he and m.l. communicated by phone and through a korean mobile application for sending text messages. m.l. again tried to break up with ji, but was unsuccessful. in september or october 2015 m.l. decided she wanted to end the relationship, and she 4 told ji the relationship was over. the relationship, but asked to remain friends and continued to call m.l. m.l. tried to avoid ji, but ji continued to call her phone she still received calls from him. if she did not answer his calls, he would use the mobile messaging application to send text messages and ask her why she was not answering her phone. d. ji returned to the united states on november 8, 2015. he still believed he and m.l. were getting married because they had broken up and got back together several times before. they spoke on the phone, and m.l. said she did not want to see him. ji then called m.l. 10 to 20 times, but she did not answer his calls. the next day, ji , which was in a condominium complex. m.l. saw ji waiting for the gate to open at the entrance to the complex. he seemed angry and ran toward her car he stood in front of her ca[the] she honked her horn to attract attention, and ji stepped to the side, knocked on her car window, and shouted to her to get out of the car. m.l. drove through the gate, parked her car in the garage, went into her house, and told her father what had happened. meanwhile, ji had followed her car and walked past the gate. ji went to the front door rang the doorbell. m.l.side. ji threatened to report m.l. to if she did not come out of the house to talk with him. when she refused, m.l., 5 her father, and ji had a conversation. sympathy for ji mother was ill in korea. m. father told ji that he should not be obsessed with m.l. was over, and left. e. the surprise visit in the parking garage the next day, ji appeared in the parking structure where m.l. parked her car for work. m.l. was parking in a different place in the structure than she usually did because she believed ji knew where she parked and she thought that, if she changed parking spaces, he would not be able to find her. she was wrong. ji spoke to m.l. about wanting ji kneeled on the ground and pleaded with her. m.l. told him to go away because she wanted to go home. ji did not prevent m.l. from getting into her car, and she drove away. f. the kidnapping on november 18, 2015 and parked it on a different level of the parking structure than she usually did so that ji would not be able to find her. ji, however, found the car, parked next to it, and was standing next to his car when m.l. finished her cello lessons and returned to her car at 9:15 p.m. m.l. did not want to speak with ji. ji, however, had parked his car so close to hers that there was not enough space 6 [is going to] m.l. put her cello into the back seat of her car from the . she asked ji why he continued to come see her after they had ended their relationship, and stated she had nothing more to say to him. she also asked ji to move his car so she could get into of her car, but he refused. ji said ji went back to his car and returned with two items: a love letter he said he had written and a gift bag with something in it. ji kneeled, started to cry, asked m.l. to read the letter, and said he wanted to resume their relationship. m.l. ignored him and walked toward the front passenger side of her car. ji stood up angrily m.l. demanded her phone, and took it back from ji. jand pushed her shoulder with his right hand. dragged her to his car. let me g as she resisted and screamed, he used more force. ji lifted m.l. by placing his arm under her side front door with his other hand, and forced her into his car, bruising her legs. she landed in the front seat with her back against the center console and her feet outside the open car door. she kicked ji when he tried to grab her legs. ji pushed m.l. between the 7 driver and passenger seat and forced her into the back seat. he got in, started the car, and backed out of the parking space.2 as ji drove with his left hand, with his right hand he held m.l. neck by her shirt collar, while she was in the back seat with her head against the seat. ji squeezed the collar of m.l. clothing tightly, choking her. ji drove out of the parking structure as he continued to hold the collar around you . . . ji made a right turn out of the parking garage and stopped at a red light. ji finally released m.l., and she was able to open the back door and run out of the car.3 she did not have her wallet or phone with her when she escaped. g. the escape as m.l. ran , she saw several people walking on the street, one of whom was manuel rios, a man in m.l. was scared, out of breath, and . she said to riosshe told rios what had 2 a video recording of the interior of the parking garage captured some but not all of the events of that evening. the prosecutor played the video for the jury while m.l. answered questions about what the video showed. the video did not capture the physical struggle between ji and m.l. 3 m.l. and ji owned the same model car. she knew that the doors locked automatically when the engine started and that pulling the door handle twice unlocked the door. 8 happened, said ji had kidnapped her by forcing her into his car, and asked rios to call the police. rios said he would call the police, but suggested they go inside his apartment building, which was nearby. as they walked to the apartment building, ji walked up to them, became argumentative, and said to rios, -i want to [do] is just to ji also said he was trying to get her back into the car so they could talk. according to rios, . m.l. was hid behind rios for protection as they walked to the apartment building. ji , and m.l. asked rios to keep ji away from her. rios stood between ji and m.l. and asked ji to stay away. as they walked into the building, a woman came to help, and ji ran away. m.l. sat down in the lobby of the building, continued to cry, and said ji had her phone and was going to kill her. rios called 911. ji returned to the apartment building a few minutes later. he knocked on the glass front door of the building with his fist, eventually, ji walked away. h. the arrest two police officers arrived, and m.l. told them what had happened. one of the police officers observed m.l. was shaking and on the verge of crying. ji returned to the apartment building 20 minutes later, and officers and gave them wallet. ji was calm and cooperative as the police arrested him. the officers obtained and 9 served ji with an emergency protective order requiring him to stay away from, and have no contact with, m.l. the next morning, m.l. received a call from ji. m.l. immediately called the police. police officers responded and told her ji had been released on bail. the officers warned her that, even though ji had been served with an emergency protective order, he still might come to her house. i. jion ji denied he forced m.l. into his car and drove away with her in it. he said he asked her several times in the parking structure to speak with him, and she said she had nothing to say and was leaving. according to ji, m.l. voluntarily got into the back seat of was driving to a nearby location of a national coffee chain, and m.l. jumped out of his car while he was stopped at a red light. ji believed that, had m.l. not jumped out of his car and run away, he and m.l. would have been sitting together drinking coffee. ji ji testified m.l. made up the entire incident so that she would not have to be in a relationship with him anymore. after m.l. ran from his car, ji made a u-turn, stopped his car, and calmly approached rios and m.l. m.l. did not seem upset or scared. when rios prevented ji from speaking with m.l., ji went back to his car. ji could not understand why rios and the other people at the scene were preventing him from speaking with m.l. when ji police officers, but thought they were there for another reason. ji still wanted to talk to m.l. he gave the phone and wallet to one 10 of the officers, who placed him in handcuffs. ji was surprised. ji also admitted he called m.l. the next day, but said it was an accident and he meant ji denied the mountain road incident occurred. as for the with m.l. for several months, and parked by the gate at a time he knew she would be returning home. when she arrived, he walked up to the passenger side door of her car as she pressed a button to open the gate. when she did not acknowledge him, he followed her car through the gate before it closed. later, m.l. called ji and said she never wanted to see him again. j. charges, conviction, sentencing the people charged ji with kidnapping, making a criminal threat, and false imprisonment. the jury found ji guilty of all three crimes. the trial court imposed the upper term of eight years for the kidnapping conviction, stayed execution of the sentence, and placed ji on probation for five years, the terms of which included serving one year in county jail. on the conviction for making a criminal threat, the court, pursuant to section 654, imposed and stayed execution of a concurrent, three-year sentence. on the conviction for false imprisonment, the trial court, pursuant to section 654, imposed and stayed execution of a three-year sentence, nothing to separate these offenses to justify separate sentences 11 discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of the mountain road incident under evidence code section 1109 ji argues his convictions should be reversed because the trial court abused its discretion under evidence code section 1109 by admitting evidence of the mountain road incident as a prior act of domestic violence. ji, however, did not object at trial e incident. therefore, he has forfeited the argument. (see people v. sivongxxay (2017) 3 dmission and consideration of . . . the claim of error]; people v. fuiava timely and specific objection on the ground sought to be urged on s rulings on admissibility of evidence will not be reviewed ji contends that certain comments by the trial court on the record suggest trial counsel objected off the record to the admission of evidence of the mountain road incident. ji points to the following statement by the trial court, made immediately s to me that the evidence of prior incident where they go to the mountains is sufficient to show false imprisonment. the victim, if that were the case, would be someone who is listed in 6211 of the family code, which i think would be required 1109 later, but to put everybody on notice, it appears that 1109 instruction to be given. oth 12 was a statement by the court, not by counsel for ji. to preserve an argument based on an evidentiary objection, the defendant must have made a record of the objection. an oblique reference to a discussion that may have occurred off the record is not enough. (see people v. schmitz (2012) 55 cal.4th 909, 934 [burden is on ; in re kathy p. people v. mack (1986) 178 cal.app.3d 1026, 1032 [same].) second, the court made the statement after counsel for ji had completed her cross-examination of m.l. and before the prosecutor began his redirect examination of m.l. m.l. testified about the mountain road incident during her testimony on direct examination, long before the court made the reference to an off-the-record discussion. concerns the propriety of giving a jury instruction about evidence code section 1109, not the admissibility of evidence under that statute.4 4 ji argues for the first time in his reply brief that, if he forfeited his argument the trial court erroneously admitted evidence of the mountain road incident under evidence code section 1109, his attorney provided ineffective assistance. ji, however, forfeited this argument as well because he did not make it until his reply brief. (see people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 550, fn. 9 [defendant forfeited his ineffective assistance of counsel argument by raising it for the first time in his reply brief]; people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1290 s argument in res waiver argument by suggesting for the first time in his reply brief that the failure to 13 even if ji had not forfeited the argument, it would fail on the merits because the mountain road incident qualified as a prior act of domestic violence under section 13700 and family code sections 6203, 6211 and 6320. evidence code section 1109, subdivision (a), provides that, in a criminal action in which the defendant is accused of an offense involving domestic violence, evis commission of other domestic violence is not made inadmissible by section 1101 if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to section 352.tion 1109, in domestic violence for the purpose of showing a propensity to the evidence under evidence code section 352. (people v. brown (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1222, 1232; see people v. fruits (2016) express exception to the prohibition against propensity evidence and .)5 section 1109 is the definition of that term in section 13700, buse committed against an adult or a minor who is a spouse, former spouse, cohabitant, former cohabitant, or person with whom the suspect has had a child or is having or has forfeited 5 we review the admission of evidence of other acts of domestic violence under evidence code sections 1109 and 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. ogle (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 1138, 1145; people v. johnson (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 520, 531.) 14 had a dating or engagement relationship.(see evid. code,  1109, subd. (d)(3).) section 13700, subdivision (a), defines intentionally or recklessly causing or attempting to cause bodily injury, or placing another person in reasonable apprehension of imminent serious bodily injury to himself or herself, or another where, as with the mountain road incident, the prior act of domestic violence occurred within five years of the charged offense, the definition of domestic violence in evidence code section 1109 includes the definition of that term in family code sections 6211 and 6320, which define domestic violence as, among other things, a person in reasonable apprehension of imminent serious bodily injury to that person or to anotheror threatening, harassing, telephoning, or (see evid. code,  1109, subd. (d)(3); people v. garcia (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 979, 991-992; people v. kovacich (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 863, 894.) at a minimum, ji conduct during the mountain road and harassed her (see fam. code.,  6203), and probably also placed her in reasonable apprehension of imminent bodily injury ( 13700, subd. (a)). m.l. testified that ji locked her in his car and drove her to a dark, isolated location where they could not be seen or heard, refusing along to the way to tell her where they were going or why. ji asked m.l. to get out of the car, which she refused to do because she felt threatened and believed it was safer to stay in the car. admissible under evidence code section 1109. (see people v. brown, supra, 192 cal.app.4th at p. family code section more broadly than the more restrictive provisions of penal code section 13700people 15 v. ogle (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 1138, 1if the offense falls within the family code definition of domestic violence even if it does not fall within the more restrictive penal code definitionsee, e.g., people v. kovacich, supra, 201 cal.app.4th at pp. 894-talking a former spouse is domestic violence for purposes of section 1109 as defined by family code the evidence, that this event occurred,such a credibility determination, however, was for about the incident was sufficient for the court to admit the evidence; it was up to the jury to decide whether her testimony was sufficiently credible to use as propensity evidence. (see people v. garcia, supra, 16 cal.app.5th ffenses, the jury must find that an offense was committed by a preponderance of the people v. hoover (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 1020, the proper standard for proving past conduct is by a preponderance of the evidences past conduct was sufficiently estabfor the jury to decide after hearing the to a false imprisonment because [ji] never intentionally restrained or confined [m.l.] and never forced her to go anywhere because 16 on that day amounted to false imprisonment, however, is not the test under evidence code section 1109 for the admissibility of vidence code section 1109, section 13700, and family code sections 6203 s commission of other domestic violenceimprisonment, so long as it meets the much broader definition of domestic violence in the applicable penal code and family code statutes. nor did the trial court abuse its discretion under evidence code section 352.6 again, ji did not object to stimony about the mountain road incident under evidence code section 352, thereby forfeiting any argument the trial court abused its discretion under that provision. (see people v. valdez (2012) 55 inadmissible under evidence code section 352 because its potential to cause undue prejudice substantially outweighed its probative value, defendant forfeited this argument by failing to 6 ji does not separately argue on appeal that the evidence of the mountain road incident was inadmissible under evidence code section 352. ji only makes the argument indirectly, by pointing out (correctly) (see people v. brown, supraven if the evidence is admissible under section 1109, the trial court must still determine, pursuant to section 352, whether the probative value of the evidence is substantially outweighed by the probability the evidence will consume an undue amount of time or create a substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusion of issues, or misleading the jury 17 people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 777 [defendant forfeited argument under evidence code people v. holford (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 155objection under section 353 applies to claims seeking exclusion even if ji had preserved the argument, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in impliedly ruling that the potential for undue prejudice of the mountain road evidence did not substantially outweigh its probative value. quoting people v. johnson (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 520, [t]he principal factor affecting the probative value of an uncharged act id. at p. 531.) the reason: aracter to the charged domestic violence crime, and which was committed against the victim of the [citation.] thus, the statute reflects the legislative judgment that in domestic violence cases, as in sex crimes, similar prior offenses uniquely probative of guilt in a later accusation. [citation.] indeed, proponents of the bill that became section 1109 argued for admissibility of such evidence because of the typically repetitive nature of domestic violence. [citation.] this pattern suggests a psychological dynamic not necessarily involved in other types of crimes.people v. fruits, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 202.) the probative value of the mountain road incident was high because the uncharged and charged offenses were very similar. on both occasions, ji used the same instrumentality (his car, with the doors locked) and methodology (driving without saying 18 where he was going) on the same victim (m.l.). (see people v. rucker (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1107, 1120 [trial court did not abuse its discretion under evidence code sections 352 and 1109 in admitting evidence of prior incidents of domestic violence incident and charged opeople v. hoover, supra, 77 cal.app.4th at p. 1029 [trial court did not abuse its discretion under evidence code section 352 in admitting evidence of other incidents of domestic violence under evidence code section 1109 because, act that the subject evidence involved ; see also people v. brown, supra, 192 cal.app.4th at p. 1237 [prior acts of domestic violence were admissible under evidence code sections 352 and ].) the incident also domestic violence escalated from driving m.l. in his car against her will after she voluntarily got into the car to driving with m.l. in his car against her will after using force. (see people v. garcia, supra, 16 cal.a[t]he propensity inference [of evidence code section 1109] is particularly appropriate in the area of domestic violence because on-going violence and abuse is the norm in domestic violence cases, and is part of a larger scheme of dominance and control, that scheme usually escalates in frequency and severity, [and] [w]ithout the propensity inference, the escalating nature of domestic violence is likewise masked.) finally, the mountain road incident was near in time to the charged incident, was less 19 inflammatory than the charged incidents of kidnapping and making a criminal threat, and consumed very little trial time. (see people v. fruits, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 206 [no abuse of discretion under evidence code section 1109 where the was not so much more inflammatory [than the charged offense] that it caused evidence code section 352 prejudicepeople v. hoover, at p. 1029 [no abuse of discretion under evidence code sections 352 and 1109 where the subject evidence was also not remoteits presentation was not confusing or time-consuming finally, ji does not argue that, even if the evidence of the mountain road incident was admissible, the trial court erred in giving former calcrim no. 852 regarding evidence of uncharged domestic violence.7 although ji objected to the instruction in the trial court, he does not independently challenge the instruction on appeal. ji argues the instruction helped make the alleged error in admitting evidence under evidence code section 1109 prejudicial, but he does not argue the court erred in evidence regarding driving up the mountain did not amount to a 7 jury instructions in 2017 adopted separate instructions for charged and uncharged offenses offered to prove disposition to commit domestic violence. (calcrim nos. 852a, 852b.) calcrim no. 852a, applicable to uncharged offenses offered to prove a propensity to commit domestic violence, uses a preponderance of the evidence standard. calcrim no. 852b, applicable to charged offenses offered to prove a propensity to commit domestic violence, requires proof beyond a reasonable people v. garcia, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at p. 988, fn. 8.) 20 false imprisonment sufficient to give the section 1109 evidence similarly, have sufficient proof by a preponderance of the evidence to give the section 1109 instruction using this evidence as a prior domestic violence incideevidence that [ji] falsely imprisoned [m.l.] on a previous testimony was not sufficient to show the mountain road evidence prior act of domestic violence had to be false imprisonment to be admissible) are incorrect. b. vacated for false imprisonment must be vacated. false imprisonment is a lesser included offense of kidnapping. (people v. delacerda (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 282, 296; people v. chacon (1995) 37 cal.app.4th 52, 65; people v. magana (1991) 230 cal.app.3d 1117, 1121.) a defendant cannot be convicted of both kidnapping and false imprisonment of the same victim during the same offense. (see people v. ratcliffe false imprisonment count and kidnapping count relate to the same act, double conviction . . . ; see also people v. jandres convicted of both an offense and a lesser offense necessarily included within that offense, based upon his or her commission of .) therefore, the conviction for false imprisonment must be reversed. (see people v. milward (2011) 21 guilty of both the greater and lesser offense . . . the conviction of [the greater] offense is controlling, and the conviction of the ; people v. jandres, at p. 343 vacatrape and its lesser included offense of felony false .) c. the trial court should have stayed execution of the conviction for making a criminal threat without imposing a concurrent term ji argues, the people concede, and we agree the trial court making a criminal threat. as noted, the trial court imposed and stayed pursuant to section 654 the upper term of three years for , finding were plan.regarding the sentence on the conviction for making a criminal urrent sentence if i the last statement was error. a sentence stayed under section 654 is not served concurrently. (see people v. duff (2010) precluded by section 654 [citations] because [under such a sentence] the defendant is deemed to be subjected to the term of both people v. deloza any multiple punishment, including either concurrent or ; people v. alford (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 22 correct method of implementing section 654, because a .) therefore, the trial making a criminal threat to reflect that execution of the three-year sentence is stayed pursuant to section 654, but is not a concurrent term. disposition the judgment is reversed. the conviction for kidnapping is affirmed. the matter is remanded with directions to vacate the conviction for false imprisonment and to vacate the order for ji to serve his stayed sentence for making a criminal threat concurrently with his sentence for kidnapping. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. feuer, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 