filed 4/25/18 p. v. tatum ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lamar ahmad tatum, defendant and appellant. b282418 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba441078) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. robert perry, judge. affirmed. peter gold, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant lamar ahmad tatum (defendant) african-american prospective juror was racially motivated, and that the trial court improperly overruled his wheeler/batson objection made on that ground.1 contention, we affirm the judgment. background defendant was charged with second degree murder (count 1), in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a),2 and assault on a child causing death (count 2), in violation of section 273ab, subdivision (a). the information alleged for purposes of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and section 667, subdivision (a)(1), that defendant had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction (robbery). a jury convicted defendant as charged, and defendant admitted the prior conviction allegation. the trial court granted defendant romero motion3 to strike his and sentenced defendant to prison for an aggregate term of 30 years to life, comprised of 25 years to life as to count 2, plus a five-year recidivist enhancement. defendant was awarded 547 actual days of custody credit, and ordered to pay mandatory fines and fees, as well as victim restitution. 1 see people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler), and batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson). 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 see people v. superior court (romero) 13 cal.4th 497, 519. 3 jury selection4 relevant voir dire after initial voir dire by the court, the prosecutor asked prospective juror no. 11 what he believed was the role of a juror. the prospective jsides of the story and come up w the prosecutor then asked what the prospective juror meant by both sides of the story, and the following ensued: juror no. 11: well, first you have to establish the party is guilty or not guilty. [the prosecutor]: . . . are you expecting to hear from the defense? prospective juror no. 11: am i expecting to hear from the prosecutor]: when you say both sides, do you mean-- prospective juror, i expect to hear from her and you. [the prosecutor]: so i do have to correct you there because the court: well, but sking what his expectation is. both attorneys in the case. prospective jthe only one going to fight this and the other one sits back? 4 as defendant challenges only the overruling of his wheeler/batson objection, and presents no other issue related to the trial, we do not summarize the evidence presented at trial. 4 [the prosecutor]: . . . e defense? the court: well, what do you mean? what does that mean, the prosecutor] fendant has the defendant never in any kind of criminal case has to testify and i hope we made that clear this morning. what we would expect is that counsel will ask questions of the witnesses wthe evidence that is produced here at trial. [the prosecutor]: i understand that because this is what i do for a living. do you understand that, juror number 11? prospective juror no. 11: i do, but it seems to me like he know-- the court: well, there are different ways to defend. i mean, . . . prospective juror no. 11: yes, i have. the court: all right. did the defendant in both those cases testify? prospective juror no. 11: yes, they did. prospective jr him? 5 the court: his lawyer talks for him and she attacks and cross-examines. prospective j discussion here. the defendant does not have to testify. if thevidence in the case. . . . defendant if he decides not to testify. . . . . . . . are you okay with that? prospective juror no. 11: i am, but the way she was coming out-- t. i thought it was confusing. just want to be clear-- prospective jeryone [the prosecutor]: -- that the defendant does not have to and i just wanted to clarify that. prospective juror no. 11: you confused me right off the bat. did i confuse anyone else? juror no. 27, what are your thoughts? prospective juror no. 27: confused me too, but i understand what the judge is saying. he explained everything. 6 [the prosecutor]: what is your definition of the role of a juror? prospective juror no. 27: to be open minded. and like he said, make sure only base it on the evidence. [the prosecutor]: and when you heard the charges, what was your reaction? prospective juror no. 27: my condolences go out to the baby, first of all, but the prosecutor then asked another prospective juror . the court then excused three prospective jurors for cause, including no. 11, but gave no reason. after the prosecutor and defense counsel each exercised five peremptory challenges, the defense accepted the panel, and the prosecutor challenged prospective juror no. 27 (juror no. 27). challenge based upon wheeler. he is the only the african- y one that has been summoned to the jury box. . . . counsel observed there were no other african-american prospective jurors, but the prosecutor thought that prospective juror no. 10 might also be african-american. the trial court allowed the prosecutor the opportunity to state for the record her justification for excusing juror no. 27. sobviously the court did not like, i was trying to explain to the jurors that the defense has no burden. there were two jurors 7 who had trouble connecting to me and they said i confused them juror no. d who was the other prospective juror, and the prosecutor replied: juror 11. that juror was excused by the court, but i had him down on my list too. i mean, he was . . . antagonistic towards me because he said -- ved it -- because he said i confused him and it took the court to juror number 10 is african-american. and i should note that all of my witnesses and my victim are african- indeed that juror number . . . 27 did have trouble interacting with the prosecutor on that particular question and he seemed to have a lot of trouble, as did juror number 11 who was not around artic discussion defendant contends that the prosecutor improperly exercised a racially based peremptory challenge against juror no. 27, and that the trial court erred in overruling his wheeler/batson objection. the use of peremptory challenges to remove prospective the equal protection clause of the united states constitution and the right to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 of the people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612 (lenix).) by peremptory challenge people v. gutierrez 8 (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1172 (gutierrez).) -step procedure applies at trial when a defendant alleges discriminatory use of peremptory challenges. first, the defendant must make a prima facie showing that the prosecution exercised a challenge based on impermissible criteria. second, if the trial court finds a prima facie case, then the prosecution must offer nondiscriminatory reasons for the challenge. third, the trial court must determine whether, in light of all relevant circumstances, the defendant has shown purposeful race discburden of persuasion regarding [discriminatory] motivation rests people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, the three-step procedure also applies t(lenix, supra, at pp. 612-613.) during the first stage, it is presumed that the prosecution uses its peremptory challenges in a constitutional manner. (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 278-281.) to rebut that presumption and establish a prima facie case of discrimination, the moving party is required to produce sufficient evidence to johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 168, 170; see also people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 793-794.) only after a prima facie showing is made will the burden shift to the challenging party to articulate a race neutral reason for the challenge. (batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 94; lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 612-613.) the trial court made no express ruling that the defense made a prima facie showing of discrimination. both parties assume that by allowing the prosecutor to state reasons for the challenge, and then finding the reasons to be valid, the court implicitly found that the defense had established a prima facie 9 case of intentional discrimination, and that review proceeds directly to the third batson stage of inquiry: whether the trial court made a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the the assumption is overly simplistic. first, it was incumbent upon defendant to press for a ruling, which he failed to do. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1156.) sometimes a prima facie finding may be inferred, such as where the trial court requests the prosecutor to justify the peremptory challenge at issue and no other circumstances suggest that the court did not find that defendant failed to a make a prima facie showing. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 613 (taylor).) however, it is not always the case where the that a prima facie finding may be inferred; for example, no inference of such a finding was discerned in taylor, where the trial court invited however, in this type of a case, i think it is important that the ibid.) after hearing the reasons, the court immediately denied the motion. (ibid.) prima facie case under wheeler, we look to the whole record, taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 612-613.) here, defenfor objection to the peremptory challenge was that juror no. 27 was african-african-ne that has been summoned to the jury box. . . . objection did not matter appears more likely to have expressed a finding that defendant had failed to make prima facie showing. further, the trial court did not invite the prosecutor to state her 10 reasons, but simply acquiesced to her request to do so. far from indicating that the trial court believed a single challenge satisfied ent was a recognition that without more, excusing just one african-american prospective juror, even one who is the only african-american in the group, is insufficient to make a prima facie showing of discriminatory motive. (see people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 899.) indeed, the small absolute size of this sample makes drawing an (people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 343; see also taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at pp. 614-615.) revieinitial remarks in context of the does not change our interpretation. race-neutral. findinchallenges to be race-was insufficient evidence to permit the court to draw an inference that discrimination had occurred [and that] defendant failed to meet his burden of establishing a prima facie case of group (people v. hawthorne (2009) 46 cal.4th 67, 80, fn. omitted.) the court went on to observe that juror no. 27 had trouble interacting with the prosecutor as did prospective juror no. 11. the court may have meant to imply that it found the reason credible, or it may have simply meant to make a record of its observations. the court did not elaborate, express an opinion erity or credibility, or rule on the ultimate issue of discrimination. the court equally supports the conclusion . . . that because the trial court found no prima facie case of discrimination, it never intended to undertake a third- (taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at 11 pp. 613-614, fn. omitted.) thus we do not discern an implied finding that a prima facie showing had been made. defendant failed to establish a prima facie case under wheeler/batson, we apply the standard the high court articulated in johnson, supra, 545 u.s. 162, and undertake an independent record supports an inference that the prosecutor excused a juror (taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 614.) defendant contends discriminatory motive is demonstrated by the absence of any indication in this record of the actions to the prosecutor whether she had confused anyone else. he suggests that because the record is silent, it must be assumed that no juror responded, and that she then specifically singled out juror no. 27 to ask his thoughts. defendant also argues that absent any contrary indication in this record, it can be assumed that all the prospective jurors were confused and had the same trouble interacting with the prosecutor, and that she nevertheless chose to single out the sole african-american prospective juror. finally, defendant suggests that because the record contains only juror no. 27 did seem to have trouble interacting with the prosecutor, it must be assumed that either he did not have trouble or that all prospective jurors had similar trouble. in essence, defendant urges a comparative analysis based upon assumptions made from the absence of evidence in the record. contrary to the approach urged by defendant, it was his burden to the requirements of batsons first step by producing evidence sufficient to permit the trial court to draw an inference that discrimination has occurred. (taylor, supra, at p. 614.) in doing so, defendant was required to 12 make as complete a record of the circumstances as is feasible. (ibid., quoting wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 280.) has inherent limitations. [citation.] . . . there is more to human communication than mere linguistic content.lenix, supra, 44 including attitude, attention, interest, body language, facial id. at pp. 622-623.) thus, without a description of what the court or counsel observed during voir dire, the appellate record will not reflect all aspects of from the cold id. at p. 626.) we have reviewed the entire voir dire, and conclude that defendant failed to make a record of evidence suggesting that the excusal of a single african-american prospective juror suggested discrimination. although defendant claims that juror no. 27 was the only african-american on the panel, there was no evidence to support that claim or that there were other african-americans in the panel but not in the jury box. during jury deliberations, the trial court provided the parties with the . 2, setting forth perception of the race of the prospective jurors at the time of jury selection. as defendant opted not to request transmittal of the exhibit to this court, it is not a part of the record on appeal. furthermore, defendant failed to make a record of other to questions during voir dire. we are thus prospective juror no. 11 was antagonistic toward her and the triajuror no. 27 had trouble connecting juror n 13 the only possible juror comparison leads to the conclusion that juror no. 27 did in fact react to the prosecutor, and like prospective juror no. 11, his failure to connect may have been antagonistic. we have concluded that the trial court did not find defendant to have made a prima facie showing of discrimination. we have also found that defendant in fact failed to make such a prima facie showing. therefore we conclude that the trial court wheeler/batson objection. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, p. j. lui __________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 