filed 12/19/17 in re ramirez ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two in re raymond s. ramirez on habeas corpus. b282005 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka060104) original proceedings; petition for writ of habeas corpus. charles e. horan, judge. petition granted and remanded with directions. ralph j. novotney jr., christa m. hohmann, directing attorney, post conviction assistance center for petitioner. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 in 2003, petitioner raymond salvador ramirez was convicted of first degree murder with a felony-murder special circumstance finding (pen. code,  190.2, subds. (a)(17), (d)),1 and sentenced to state prison for life without the possibility of parole (lwop). recently, in people v. banks (2015) 61 cal.4th 788 (banks) and people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522 (clark), our supreme court explained the requirements for a special circumstance finding as to an aider and abettor of felony-murder. in april 2017, petitioner filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus, claiming the special circumstance finding against him is not supportable under banks and clark. we agree and accordingly grant the petition. background facts on an august day in 2002, petitioner, juan soto, frank quintero, and lorraine calvillo, riding in calof bobby bionghi. they met vincent lopez at bionghup on the way. a car; bionghi observed two or three other guns in the same spot. bionghi then spoke to lopez, who briefly explained the robbery plan, mentioning a store in el monte and a nearby tax service business that had a box full of money in the lobby. bionghi said he was not interested in participating. bionghi did not speak with petitioner but at one point saw soto speaking with him. 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the four defendants (petitioner, soto, lopez, and quintero) and to goit was a clear box of money and that he was goingand they were just going to defendants got out of the car near the tax service business, quintero said that he did not want to go, but soto told him not to worry about it. calvillo remained in the car as the defendants walked toward the business. as petitioner stood outside, lopez, quintero, and soto entered the tax service business. in the lobby was a large clear donation box containing cash for the abandoned in nicaragua foundation, a charity founded by camilo castro, who operated the tax business with his sister, carmen castro. when the three men entered, carmen, who was in a front office, began screaming. camilo, who was in a rear office with two acquaintances, heard about three or four gunshots. a man holordered camilo and the two others to get under a desk. the man took a cell phone, wallet, credit cards, a camera, and keys. in the front, another defendant dropped a fax machine on the donation box, breaking the box open. most of the money was taken. after the men left, camilo went to the front office and found carmen slumped in her chair, dead. charles visitor, an african-american man who owned the neighboring business, testified he heard gunshots and went outside to look. he did not men picking up money from the floor. he tried to leave but another man, whom visitor later identified as quintero, grabbed him. visitor managed to get outside, but quintero pinned him against a window and struck him on the shoulder with what appeared to be a handgun. quintero ran off. another 4 man, identified by visitor as soto, ran by and struck visitor on the back of the head with an object. a third man then ran by. visitor saw a dark-colored car, driven by a women with at least three passengers, drive away. visitor testified he saw only three men involved in the robbery, and he did not see a lookout. he further testified, however, that his view may have been obscured by a sign. as calvillo drove toward her residence, soto was asked why he shot the woman. he replied that he told the woman to be quiet but she would not shut up. petitioner told everyone that, as he was standing outside, he saw a black man and hit him, and others said they hit the man too. when they arrived at table and divided it four ways with petitioner. calvillo was given gas money. the next day, lopez told bionghi that he and the other defendants -blank range because she screamed. bionghi later spoke to police officers about the robbery, hoping to get a break on a pending drug case. police contacted calvillo, who also provided information on the incident. officers bullets used to kill carmen castro. petitioner, when interviewed by a sheriff detective, said that he went to the tax service business but did not enter. he saw a black man outside but 5 he told the detective the evidence against him was strong and he would e police spoke to her. relevant procedural history in addition to first degree murder, petitioner was convicted of two counts of second degree robbery, assault with a deadly weapon, and conspiracy to commit robbery. the jury found true the special circumstance allegation that petitioner committed the murder in the commission of robbery ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)). petitioner was sentenced to lwop for the special circumstance murder, with sentence stayed on the remaining counts.2 this evidence was insufficient to support the finding under section 190.2, subdivision (d) that he was a major participant in the robbery who acted with reckless indifference to human life. in july 2017, we issued an order to show cause why the april 2017 petitionrequesting the special circumstance finding be vacated for insufficient evidence in light of banks and clarkshould not be granted. a return and a traverse were filed, which we have considered along with the petition. discussion petitioner contends he must be resentenced because the section 190.2 special circumstance finding is not supported by sufficient evidence. the people respond that petitioner is procedurally barred from raising this argument and, in any event, substantial evidence supports the finding. 2 lopez, quintero, and soto were also convicted and sentenced to lwop. 6 i. claimed procedural bar the people advance several arguments for why we should not reach first, the people contend that the waltreus rule (in re waltreus (1965) 62 cal.2d 218, 225)which generally bars the assertion in a habeas petition of a legal claim previously raised and rejected on direct appealprevents petitioner from making a sufficiency of the evidence argument here since he already did so on appeal. we disagree. in re miller (2017) 14 cal.app.5th 960 (miller), a recent opinion involving the application of banks and clark, rejected this same procedural bar contention. as miller noted, banks and clark clarified the actual meaning of section 190.2, a statute that had previously been misapplied. (miller, at pp. 978-979.) habeas corpus is an imposing a punishment for conduct not prohibited by the relevant penal id. at p. 979, citing people v. mutch (1971) 4 cal.3d 389, 394-396.) review here is appropriate since petitioner asserts his conduct was not proscribed as a section 190.2 special circumstance. claim is barred by the lindley rule (in re lindley (1947) 29 cal.2d 709), another contention rejected in miller, supra, 14 cal.app.5th at pp. 979-980. the lindley rule generally prohibits consideration on habeas corpus of in re reno (2012) 55 cal.4th 428, 505.) a claim that a prior special circumstance finding cannot be supported in light of banks and clark is not the sort of lindley rule. (miller, at pp. 979-980.) third, the people assert that petitioner should have brought his claim earlier and improperly failed to raise it in prior habeas petitions. these 7 ented grounds for relief which were known to the in re clark (1993) 5 cal.4th 750, 767-768.) this is the first petition filed by petitioner in this court following banks. moreover, petitioner did not unduly delay in filing this petition. banks was decided on july 9, 2015, and clark was decided on june 27, 2016. given that banks and clark represented a significant change compared to how section 190.2 was previously implemented, petitioner raised the issue in a reasonably prompt manner. ii. a. banks and clark section 190.2, subdivision (d) provides for a sentence of death or lwop for a defendant convicted of first degree murder who is not the actual killer under section 190.2. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)(a).) the california supreme court, in banks, considered for the first time banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 798.) these two requirements are directly drawn from the holdings of tison v. arizona (1987) 481 u.s. 137 (tison) and enmund v. florida (1982) 458 u.s. 782 (enmund). (banks, at p. 794.) banks explained that tison and enmund al involvement in felony murder, along which substantial participation in a violent felony under circumstances likely to result in the loss of innocent human lifeor death. (banks, at pp. 801-802, quoting tison, at p. 154.) in determining 8 banks, at p. 802.) banks identified the following factors relevant to whether a defendant tisonwhat role did the defendant have in planning the criminal enterprise that led to one or more deaths? what role did the defendant have in supplying or using lethal weapons? what awareness did the defendant have of particular dangers posed by the nature of the crime, weapons used, or past experience or conduct of the other participants? was the defendant present at the scene of the killing, in a position to facilitate or prevent the actual murder, and did his or her own actions or inaction play a particular role in the death? what did the defendant do after lethal force was used?banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 803, fn. omitted.) the banks no one of these considerations is necessary, nor is any one of them necessarily sufficient. all may be weighed in determining the ultimate question, whether the in criminal activities known to carry a grave risk of death (tison v. arizona, supra, 481 u.s. at p. 157) was sufficiently significant to be considered major (id. at p. 152; see kennedy v. louisiana [2008] 554 u.s. [407,] 421.)banks, at p. 803.) banks further held that a minal activities known banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 800-801, quoting people v. estrada (1995) 11 cal.4th 568, 577, quoting tison, supra, 481 u.s. 137, 157.) subsequently, our supreme court, in clark, identified seveawareness that a gun will be used in the felony is not alone sufficient to use of a firearm, even 9 if the defendant does not kill the victim or the evidence does not establish which armed robber killed the victim, can be significant to the analysis of clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 618, original italicsr and the events leading not invariably a prerequisite to demonstrating reckless indifference to human id. at p. 619.) third, the duration of the felony may be relevant. (id. indifference. (id. at p. 620.bearing on a codefendant knows a cohort has a propensity for violence. (id. at p. 621.) the violence during the robbery. (ibid.) evidence of an effort to minimize the risks of violence could potentially rebut a conclusion that the defendant intended to engage in activities risky to human life, though an unreasonable belief that he or she was not posing a risk to human life will not preclude a determination of reckless indifference. (id. at p. 622.) factors relevant to the requirements of major participation and reckless indifference must be viewed in context because the elements . . . , for the greater the defelony murder, the more likely he acted with reckless indifference to human clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 614-615.) b. application to the facts of this case he standard of review for a sufficiency of the evidence claim as to a special circumstance is whether, when evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value is viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, 10 any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the allegation beyond a reasonable doubt. the standard is the same under the state and federal due process clauses. [citation.] we presume, in support of the judgment, the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence, whether direct or circumstantial. clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 610.) viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment, we first examine whether petitioner could properly be found to be banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at page 803, the evidence at trial showed petitioner knew of the plan to rob the tax business, but no evidence showed he had a significant role in the planning. rather, soto, and perhaps lopez, appeared to be the would be used, but the guns were supplied by soto, and, importantly, petitioner did not personally use a gun in connection with the incident. furthermore, the evidence did not demonstrate petitioner was aware of prior violent crimes committed by his codefendants. moreover, petitioner was not present at the scene of the killing. although he was standing near the business, it appears he had no forewarning that one of his accomplices would shoot a victim, he did not instigate the shooting, and he was not in a position to prevent it. instead, the shooting by soto appeared to take all others by surprise; soto afterward claimed it was a spontaneous rnevertheless, petitioner presumably heard the gunshots, so he could have investigated and tried to aid the victim, which he did not do. petitioner also claimed to hit visitor as visitor fled. the effect of this act in relation to the murder was negligible, though, because the shooting had already occurred 11 and visitor was understandably trying to get away from the scene rather than help the victim. near the scene of the robbery, he was a more significant participant than the getaway driver found ineligible for lwop in banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at page 805, but not by much. as an unarmed lookout with little to no role in the planning of the crime or the use of firearms, and with no direct involvement in the unforeseen shooting, it cannot reasonably be said that petitioner was a major participant. it therefore is unsurprising that the evidence of reckless indifference to human life is also lacking. (see clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 614-615 firearms would be used was not enough to show he acted with reckless indifference. (see id. at p. 618.) further, although he was close enough to hear gunshots, he was not present at the scene of the killing and so had little chance to prevent it. (see id. at pp. 619-620.) the robbery was not of particularly prolonged duration, such as a crime involving kidnapping or restraint. (see id. at pp. 620-621.) and, again, there was no evidence petitioner knew a cohort had a propensity to kill. (see id. at p. 621.) finally, although petitioner did not take steps to minimize the risk of violence during the robbery (see id. at p. 621-622), since he did not plan the crime or enter the establishment, it is questionable how much difference any such efforts would have made. thus, considering the evidence in the light of the guidance provided by banks and clark, the finding that petitioner was a major participant who acted with reckless indifference to human life is not supportable. 12 disposition the petition is granted to the extent it seeks relief under banks, supra, 61 cal.4th 788 and clark, supra, 63 cal.4th 522, and a writ of habeas corpus hereby issues. the special circumstance finding against petitioner is stricken, and the matter is remanded to the superior court for resentencing. not to be published in the official reports. goodman, j.* we concur: ashmann-gerst, acting p.j. chavez, j. * retired judge of the los angeles superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 