 filed 11/19/19 p. v. berry ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. frank andre berry, defendant and appellant. b282547 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba413129) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, edmund willcox clarke, jr., judge. reversed and remanded. jean matulis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, noah. p. hill and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 frank berry appeals from the judgment entered by the court after its determination at a retrospective competency hearing that he was competent at the time of his 2014 trial. he contends that at the competency hearing the court erred in determining the time period and evidence relevant to its inquiry; that the record demonstrates that the court erred when it determined that he was competent throughout his trial and sentencing; that the matter should be remanded for consideration of mental health diversion under recently enacted penal code1 section 1001.36; that the matter should also be remanded for resentencing in light of recent statutory amendments giving the trial court discretion in imposing sentence enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a); and that four one-year sentence enhancements under section 667.5, subdivision (b) are no longer applicable to him after recent statutory changes. while this appeal was pending, the california supreme court, in people v. rodas (2018) 6 cal.5th 219 (rodas), clarified the law concerning retrospective competency hearings. noting that the circumstances in which a retrospective competency hearing is feasible are narrow, the supreme court discussed at length the difficulty of making a reliable retrospective competency finding, in the absence of contemporaneous psychiatric evaluations, for a defendant whose competence fluctuates and depends on his or her continued use of psychotropic medication. applying the principles of rodas here, we conclude that the determination that berry was competent to stand trial is not supported by substantial evidence, and that the record demonstrates that a retrospective competency hearing is 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 not an adequate remedy for the failure to conduct competency proceedings . accordingly, we reverse the judgment of conviction and remand the matter for retrial if berry is competent to stand trial. factual and procedural background i. prior proceedings2 berry was charged with kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a)), with a special allegation that he had personally inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)); and battery causing great bodily injury ( 243, subd. (d).) as to both offenses, it was alleged that berry had suffered five prior serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1) and the law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)); that he had served seven prior prison terms for felonies ( 667.5, subd. (b)); and that he had suffered three prior felony convictions within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). a. declaration of doubt on october 11, 2013, the date that jury trial was set to begin, the trial court (judge charlaine olmedo) declared a doubt criminal proceedings and appointed psychiatrist kory j. knapke 3 the court 2 as requested by berry, we ordered the record in the prior appeal in this matter, case no. b254509, incorporated by reference in this matter. 3 section 1368, subdivision (a) provides that if, during the a doubt arises in 4 hiatrist to examine berry. knapke examined berry on november 4, 2013, and his report was submitted to the court on november 6, 2013. knapke , and knapke noted that such records would have been helpful. berry told knapke that knapke had previously examined him on several occasions while he was institutionalized as a mentally disordered offender and had even testified against him at previous mentally disordered offender hearings, but knapke did not recognize berry and did not locate any records pertaining to him. knapke concluded that berry suffered from a mental illness, most likely schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type. . knapke opined that at the time of the examination berry was is predicated on the notion that he continues to take his psychiatric medication on a daily basis proceedings could be a destabilizing factor in his overall mental of time before trial, berry could decompensate. on november 6, 2013, the parties appeared before judge and asked defense counsel how he wished to proceed. defense the mind of the judge as to the mental competence of the defendant, he or she shall state that doubt in the record and inquire of the attorney for the defendant whether, in the opinion of the attorney, the defendant is mentally competent. 5 counsel requested that berry be examined by a second psychiatrist, and explained that he had not yet selected a doctor records first. the prosecutor objected to any further continuance in the matter for the appointment of a second doctor, and the court stated that it, too, did not see any need for a second psychiatrist to be appointed. defense counsel argued to the court that a second examination was needed. he noted that knapke had commented that berry displayed heightened agitation, and counsel asserted that that this agitation made it difficult to communicate effectively and prepare for trial. counsel argued that he had personal experience with the difficulties that representing berry posed. . . . i need time to get the records in order to get mr. berry properly knapke, defense counsel argued, had not been provided with sufficient documentation in advance of his examinationwe could send the necessary information out to these doctors; he defense counsel argued, berry with at least the basic knowledge of a probation report which dr. knapke did not have. what i really need, what i feel this case nehistory, can see that, and then talk to mr. berry and provide us approved list ofnot only is hemedical doctor, but he certainly has the background, the training, and experience to render an opinion, and he knows what 6 according to dr. knapke, the defendant here is competent to go over . on the same day, the court heard pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. b. second psychiatric evaluation although the criminal proceedings had resumed, defense counsel arranged for psychiatrist jack rothberg to evaluate berry on november 15, 2013. rothberg, like knapke, was not provided with prior medical records, and berry refused to provide any information about his background or mental health history. rothberg found berry to be paranoid, angry, and uncooperative. delusional ideas which impair his thinking, his ability to interact rothberg found that while berry understood the nature and purpose of the he more importantly would certainly have difficulty cooperating with counsel in the preparation of a suitable defense. he refuses to provide any information about his background or mental health history, concerned that we would obtain records and use [them] even though this would obviously be a mitigating factor under the circumstances since this is a very serious charge. he is delusional about the roles of all of the participants. he was paranoid of me. by virtue of his inability to cooperate with counsel he would not be competent to while berry was taking psychotropic medication, rothberg concluded that the medication was insufficient to manage his psychosis . 7 treatment with anti-psychotic medication, rothberg wrote. in berry the absence of appropriate aggressive treatment with such medication, while treatment with antipsychotic medication would likely render berry competent to stand trial. rothberg concluded that while medication was necessary to avoid serious capacity to make decisions about such medication, and he will have to be medicate c. december 4, 2013 hearing the parties appeared before judge edmund willcox clarke on december 4, 2013. defense counsel advised the court that berry wanted a marsden hearing, and that he intended to declare a doubt as t. berry announced that he wanted to represent himself. defense counsel provided the rothberg report to the court. he ] et cetera, that is clearly not a statement of he ishimself and relieved defense counsel. 8 d. conditional examination on december 11, 2013, before judge stephen a. marcus, berry represented himself at the conditional examination of a witness. e. trial 1. january 27 the five-day trial began january 27, 2014, before judge michael garcia. berry waived his right to a jury trial. on the first day of trial the court granted the information to allege an assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4)), with the same special allegations attached as to the other counts. tend to prove that a witness is not necessarily a witness. because a witness is a witness to appear things, that can appear to that witness is going to appear to say things that could have appeared or might have appeared. but, then, when you really put it together, the witness is going to say, yes. that could have happened. illusion. see, because things that appear to have happen, just because you a witness, you witness the things that could appear. not only the things that did appear, but the things berry questioned witnesses and made objections as the trial progressed. 2. january 29 on january 29, 2014, the people sought to present a fingerprint identification witness out of order for the purpose of a potential post-conviction priors trial. while berry did not initially object to the witness being taken out of order, when the 9 witness began to testify berry began to protest, arguing that he had not been provided with relevant documents and needed time to prepare his defense with regard to them. he asserted several times that that the failure to produce these documents constituted a violation of brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, and he asked that the case be dismissed. attempting to mark for identification prompted the court to abandon its plan to mark the documents and take the witness out of order. instead, the court ordered a copy of the documents to be made and given to berry. after berry received the documents he argued that the because it related to the contested issue of what he had been wearing. berry moved to dismiss the case because the people accurately represhe asserted that the people had also withheld a video from him. the court asked berry if there was anything else, and i wanted to thank you for, you know, taking the time out to kind of like help me out here. and, you know, not [to] just throw me in mental patient, as you can see, i have been in the mental hospital the burden of this three the court asked what berry meant about three strikes, and the people explained that they had discovered that three of the prior offenses alleged in the information were not actually 10 committed by berry. the court asked the prosecutor if he wished to move to dismiss those prior allegations at that time, and the prosecutor said that he did. because [of] some of the comments you made, are you prepared to go forward right now to entertain this motion that the people are going to make[,] which the court understands is a motion to c hear and grant the motion to dismiss three prior conviction allegations. the court asked the people if there was any change in the plea bargain offer; there was not. the court ended the proceedings early asked u like the court to the court agreed to have an attorney present the next day. 3. january 30 however, when trial resumed the following day4 and berry asked whether the court had contacted counsel, the court said, 4 according to the minute order of january 30, 2014, berry had refused to come to court in the morning. proceedings did not begin until the afternoon. berry apologized to the court and 11 proceedings to appoint counsel. berry said, and m the court reminded berry that he had waived his right to be represented by counsel and that he had later refused to consent to a continuance for standby counsel to be obtained. berry said that the change in his potential imprisonment the day before had affected him mentally, and he told the court that he was having a mental breakdown. the court told berry that because the peoplea bargain offer had not changed when the allegations were dismissed, the dismissal of several strike allegations against him berry explained to the court that the change in his potential exposure was in fact significant, because any plea bargain offer was always to be weighed against the fact that he would be sentenced to life in prison if he lost. he said he had come to accept the situation when he was facing a potential life sentence, but that this acceptance now had been taken away from him. he said that the entire case was about mistaken identity, that the strike allegations were another instance of mistaken identity, and that the people had mistaken his identity but suffered no consequences. explained that he had been not been present because he had been mistaken for a gang member engaged in a fight. 12 berry concluded by talking to the court about his mental berry told the court that he was suicidal. the court told berry that it interpreted his comments as a motion for a mistrial, denied the motion, and resumed the trial. 4. conviction and sentence the court found berry guilty on all counts, and found true the special allegation with respect to the kidnapping that the victim had suffered great bodily injury. after the priors trial, the court found true several prior conviction allegations. on count 1, the court sentenced berry to the middle term of five years for the kidnapping, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus three years pursuant to section 12022.7, subd. (a). on count 2, the court sentenced berry to a consecutive two-year term. the court also imposed sentence enhancements of five years under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) and four years under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court stayed count 3 under prison. f. appeal on appeal, this court found substantial evidence that berry had not been competent to stand trial as of the december 4, 2013 hearing; and concluded that the trial court had erred when it failed to declare a doubt, suspend the criminal proceedings, and conduct a competency hearing. (people v. berry (nov. 4, 2015, b254509) [nonpub. opn.].) we conditionally reversed the judgment and remanded the matter to the trial 13 court to allow the trial court to determine whether a retrospective competency hearing was feasible to evaluate berrat the time of trial.5 (people v. berry (nov. 4, 2015, b254509) [nonpub. opn.].) ii. present proceedings a. early 2016 on remand to judge clarke, counsel was appointed for berry in march 2016. at request, the court appointed psychiatrist ronald markman to address the feasibility of a retrospective competency hearing. failed to address either the feasibility of a retrospective criminal proceedings. condition, need for psychiatric treatment, and competence to stand trial as of april 2016. markman concluded that while berry was psychotic, the condition was in remission due to his medication, and he was . -term psychotherapy with a psychiatrist [who] can focus on his socially dysfunctional behavior and prescribe and monitor needed markman mental state, and present competence to stand trial. 5 this court also concluded that the sentence on count 2 should have been stayed pursuant to section 654. (people v. berry (nov. 4, 2015, b254509) [nonpub. opn.].) 14 b. august 2016 feasibility hearing the court conducted its feasibility hearing on august 4, 2016. the people had submitted briefing articulating their arguments as to why a retrospective competency hearing was feasibility, but the court found that a retrospective competency hearing was feasible based on the factors for consideration set forth in people v. ary (2011) 51 cal.4th 510, at page 520, footnote 3. the court reasoned that there existed adequate contemporaneous ng his competency in hindsightguess what doctors might have said if they had seen him.court noted that because berry had spoken at his marsden hearings before trial and represented himself at trial, the record included statements by berry that could be evidence from which a person could reach a conclusion as to his competence to stand trial. finally, the court observed that numerous witnesses, including trial witnesses, the prosecutor, and the trial judge all c. competence question pending retrospective hearing rothberg had met with berry and observed that he had decompensated. rothberg believed that berry was no longer competent. based upon rothberg own interactions with berry, 15 present competency. counsel asked the court to suspend the criminal proceedings, appoint evaluators, and hold a competency hearing. have documentation from rothberg for the court to review, the court declined to declare a doubt. rothberg submitted a report on october 25, 2016. berry indicated that he was actively hearing voices and was paranoid. he appeared to be actively psychotic although he maintained he was taking his medication. berry refused to be interviewed further. rothberg opined that berry was not competent to stand trial as of october 2016, but rothberg render[] a to provide a final opinion, he would need to speak further with berryi would have to opine only that he is not competent now and that until he is restored to competency a discussion of his competency back in january[] 2014 would have to be held in abeyance. there is nothing more that i can offer at this time until he has been restored to competence or, if you have some powers of persuasion that i do not have, for him to cooperate with me. at this point i do not believe that this is simply volitional. i suspect that there is on novecourt has not been given a reason to declare a doubt in that december 7, appointed an update on whether he believed berry to be presently 16 competent. the court agreed that markman was possibly the best person to evaluate current competence because he was the person to most recently thoroughly examine berry. that markman had spoken with berry on multiple occasions and had reviewed additional records, and that markman had no stated that he had no doubt as to berry competence at that time. d. february 2017 preparations for retrospective competency hearing at the hearing on february 21, 2017, the court discussed the parameters of the upcoming retrospective hearing with the parties. the prosecutor asked that the court consider the marsden hearings and other hearings on or about the time of the trial in which berry spoke. the court questioned whether the transcripts of hearings that occurred close to the time of trial would be useful. noting that competence can fluctuate from day to day and that the relevant period for consideration was the period of specifically, the court said that with respect to the transcripts from the marsden hearingsure how strong they are because they precede the trial by at the court advised the parties that it had read the trial transcript, and it spoke at length about its views. the court stated that in the absence of other evidence, the trial transcript 17 trial since from what i have found there is no evidence the court noted that berry had presented a defense with objections, statements of strategy, arguments to the court, and interactions plus, the court noted, the judge who conducted the trial was experienced experts who will come in and tell me to look at it differently or . . . e. may 2017 retrospective competency hearing the court held the retrospective competency hearing on may 12, 2017. at the start of the hearing, the court advised the parties are the measuring points crucial to this decision in terms of his following monday, and remain competent through the whole next week. and he can likewise be competent until friday, and then arrive monday incompetent. and although, perhaps, less likely, it seems that a person can be competent friday and incompetent monday, and competent tuesday, and incompetent wednesday, at least under the theories that the law uses to address the 18 also in its introductory remarks, the court told the parties that have a doubt as to his competence, in terms of the [sections] 1368/1367 competence of understanding the nature and purpose of the proceedings, nor did i think there was a problem of assisting his attorney, especially since he was choosing not to have an attorney. but most importantly, i saw no reason to find that mr. berry should not have been denied the right to self-represent because of any issue of his ability to conduct the trial. ted himself at the time he chose to when the court was ready to hear from the parties, it asked counsel for berry to identify anything in the record prior to november 2013 that the court should consider in determining ce at the time of his january 2014 trial. the court again advised counsel that anything that occurred prior to counsel about what relevant past information was missing from missing from the reports, the evaluators lacked essential sive psychiatric history as they performed their evaluations. the court turned to december 2013 and spoke at length about its memory of the december 6, 2013 hearing at which proceedings, and the court permitted berry to represent himself. the court stated that it had read the file before calling the case; 19 marsden failed to immediately produce the november 2013 rothberg in spite of this cdetermination that the rothberg report was substantial evidence of incompetence requiring the suspension of criminal proceedings, the court stated that rothberg report a doubt in my mind, and . the trial court had found , and it read the report to say not that berry was incompetent to stand trial if he represented himself, but that he was incompetent to stand trial because he was incapable of cooperating with his attorney. the court stated that if a person was incompetent because their paranoia prevented them from assisting counsel, but chooses to represent himself, why would we declare that person not competent, since the communicating with the lawyer is now s no lawyer[?] defense counsel argued to the court that the examining psychiatrists did not know that berry had spent four years hospitalized as a mentally disordered offender, and that during that time he was paranoid and uncooperative, would not take medications, and refused to participate in counseling. that y argued, indicated that berry was a severely disturbed person who could not control his emotions. bparanoia, psychosis, delusions, auditory hallucinations, distrust of his attorney, and his apparent manipulativeness may have appeared be volitional based on the information available at the time, had his mentally disordered offender history been known when his attorney 20 declared a doubt in december 2013, the court would have ordered a competency hearing and would not have permitted berry to begin representing himself at that time. the trial court said that it was interesting to consider find him he rethe court characterized ; prior status as a mentally disordered offender does not equate with lack of co; and talked at length about the problem of mentally ill but competent own worst enemy. happened before [december6] 4th, whiwith respect to its decision to permit berry to represent himselfhistory or anything that was presented that day. the court stated that from its review of the december 11, 2013, conditional examination, at which berry represented himself, competent. rry exhibited paranoid and delusional behavior during the trial. the . . . thinks the evidence does not show what the prosecutor argues is quite 6 of the discussion that the court meant december. 21 the court also pointed out that berry made objections that were logical, demonstrated strategy, argued about the significance of evidence, and posed a question at trial that was drawn from the de [in notes] about the conditional exam and the trial, almost all of who is judge michael garcia, who worked as a federal public defender before he took the bench, saw this trial every day, and i saw no sign in his comments that he doubted the competence of years on the bench than judge garcia, sat at the conditional examinamarcus had the duty to stop the proceedings if they felt that berry was incompetent, the court noted, but had not done so. the court asked beread this in the transcriptthat at one point judge garcia did say that he was considering stopping the trial because the defendant was acting in a suic willingness to come to court, would not necessarily reflect on recollection of what had occurred. the prosecutor denied that the trial judge had considered halting the proceedings because berry had suicidal ideation. i have a note to myself that the 29th of january was a short day, compared to the others, and the 22 transcript nwhat mr. berry is remembering, that there was not a full trial day for some reason. but i detected nothing in the transcript that suggests it was related to misgivings about self-representation or co the court concluded that berry was competent to stand trial at all times pertinent to his trial and sentencing. berry appeals. discussion i. the competency determination the criminal trial of a mentally incompetent person violates due process. [citation.] however, a defendant is not incompetent if he can understand the nature of the legal proceedings and assist counsel in conducting a defense in a ration [citation.] a defendant is presumed competent unless the contrary is proven by a preponderance of the evidence by the party contending he or she is incompetent. [citations.] in reviewing on appeal a finding of competency, an appellate court must view the record in the light most favorable to the verdict and uphold the verdict if it is sup people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 797.) berry acknowledges that contemporaneous competency determinations are reviewed under the substantial evidence standard of review, but he argues that this cretrospective competency determination independently. as we identify no reason to review a retrospective competency determination differently than one made at the time of trial, we review the determination for substantial evidence. 23 as the court on remand (judge clarke) recognized, the key issue is whether berry was competent at the time of his trial, from january 27 through january 31, 2014. viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict, we are unable during that time period is supported by substantial evidence. the court on remand failed to appreciate the link between the foundation for the november 2013 determination that berry was competentthat psychotropic medication was necessary to control the symptoms of his mental illnessand the evidence that by the time trial was underway, berry was no longer receiving his medication and his mental condition had deteriorated. the most contemporaneous psychiatric evaluations of than two months before his trial. the first expert to see berry in november 2013, knapke, concluded that while berry was then competent to stand trial, his competence depended on berry continuing to take his psychotropic medication.7 although defense counsel attention to relevant events at trial, in its review of the trial record the court either did not see or misconstrued the evidence that by the time of trial berry was no longer taking the 7 the second expert, rothberg, concluded later in november 2013 that berry was at that time incompetent to stand trial. as we have previously ruled, this expert report should have prompted judge clarke to proceedings, and conduct proceedings to determine whether berry was competent to stand trial. (people v. berry (nov. 4, 2015, b254509) [nonpub. opn.].) 24 antipsychotic medication on which his competency depended; that he knew he was no longer stable; and that he was experiencing suicidal ideation. indeed, the record reflects that in the midst of trial, berry had told the trial court (judge garcia) that he was having an emotional breakdown and that he was not able to function. it is evident from the record that the court : judge garcia repeatedly asked berry if he was well enough to continue while prior strike allegations against him were dropped, and it offered to continue the matter if berry was not in the right state of mind to proceed. the court ended proceedings early for the day, and although berry had not said anything about representation by counsel, the court spontaneously offered to contact an attorney in response to what berry had told him that day. the next day, berry immediately asked whether the court had contacted counsel for him. the court withdrew its offer of representationthe proceedings to appoint counsel. berry implored the court to reconsider, because he was not receiving his medication, nor was he receiving sufficient sleep or nutrition.8 the court reminded 8 this evidence showed a substantial change of circumstances since berry had previously been determined to be competent, and the court should at that time have suspended the criminal proceedings and conducted new competency proceedings. (rodas, supra, 6 cal.5th at pp. 231-236.) however, the judge who presided over the trial was not the one before whom the issue of competency previously had been litigated, and there is no indication in the record that the trial judge was aware that the earlier determination of competence was based on a report that expressly conditioned competence on his continued use of psychotropic medication. 25 berry that he had waived counsel and refused to consent to a continuance for standby counsel; no longer stable: he was experiencing a mental breakdown and having suicidal thoughts. the court mistrial, denied the motion, and continued the trial. at the retrospective competency hearing, berryl failed to describe these proceedings accurately. judge clarke acknowledged that one trial day had been shortened, but said that he had seen nothing in the trial transcript to indicate that self- this characterization of events directly contradicts the record. the court failed to appreciate the link between the evidence upon which the 2013 finding of competence was based and the events dcourt did not consider the evidence that during trial berry was no longer medicated and was decompensatingexactly as had been predicted by knapke, who had explicitly conditioned his november 2013 conclusion that berry was competent on his continued use of medication. reports that he was having a mental breakdown and was no longer stable in conjunction with knapke prediction that the stress of court proceedings could cdeteriorate. additionally, despite this csubstantial evidence that berry was incompetent to stand trial, the court continued to disregard rothbergexpert opinion that berry was incompetent based on what appears to be its understanding that a defendant who is incompetent to stand trial 26 because he is unable to rationally assist counsel in preparing a defense is no longer incompetent if he chooses to proceed to trial without counsel. therefore, is not supported by substantial evidence. ii. the appropriate remedy after this court remanded the matter to the trial court to determine whether a retrospective competency hearing was feasible, and after the trial court made its feasibility determination and conducted the retrospective competency hearing, the california supreme court clarified when retrospective competency hearings are appropriate. in rodas, emphasizing the competency determination, the supreme court held that a retrospective competency determination is only feasible when reliably mental competence when trirodas, supra, 6 cal.5th at pp. 239-240.) when fluctuates and is dependent on medication, and there are no contemporaneous psychiatric evaluations, a trial court cannot sion that the defendant was id. at p. 241.) here, the record demonstrates that this case is precisely the type that the supreme court identified as unsuitable for a retrospective hearing. d, as evidenced by the repeated instances in which concerns and doubts were expressed as to his competence over the course of the trial court proceedings. there were no contemporaneous trial, when he was no longer taking medication. the most recent reports were more than two months old at the time of trial, and 27 both pertained to time periods in which berry reported taking his prescribed medication. had the trial court declared a doubt in january 2014 when it became apparent that berry was no longer taking his medication and was experiencing a resurgence of symptoms, examine defendant and report on aspects of his mental condition relevant to competence, as well as the appropriateness of medical treatment for any condition found. [citation.] such evaluations degree as to render him incompetent. (rodas, supra, 6 cal.5th at pp. 240-241.) these evaluations would have made it possible (though unnecessary) for the trial court to look back and make a reliable retrospective time of trial. in the absence of that crucial evidence, the court on remand was faced with the task of making a retrospective competency determination based on outdated psychiatric reports that found him incompetent and the other of which tied his competence to the continuation of his medication; evidence that the pretime trial was underway; and the reports of an unrepresented defendant that he was no longer stable or functional, having a mental breakdown, and considering suicide.9 under these 9 the court on remand did receive a 2016 report from knapke in which knapke said that his review of additional list of the materials that he reviewed in preparing his report indicates that he did not review 28 particular circumstances, which are in crucial respects similar to those in rodas, supra, 6 cal.5th 219,10 we do not believe the trial court could fairly come to a reliable conclusion that defendant was competent at that time.(id. at p. 241.) therefore, like the court in rodas, we conclude that under the circumstances of this case a retrospective competency hearing the trial transcripts from january 29 and january 30, 2014. as knapke did not review the transcripts in which berry reported that he was no longer receiving his medication and that he was experiencing a resurgence of symptomsoffered no assistance to the trial court in determining whether berry was competent at the time of trial. 10 use of medication, and he also remained able to converse somewhat rationally with the court even as questions arose about his competency. (rodas, supra, 6 cal.5th at pp. 225-226, 228-229.) unlike berry, rodas was represented by counsel, who declared a doubt as to rodaplaced before the court evidence that mental state had deteriorated. ounsel advised the court that rodas was no longer taking his medication, that he was making incomprehensible assertions, and that he had spokpreviously done when incompetent. (id. at p. 227.) here, without an attorney representing him, incomprehensible statements, such as his opening statement, went unremarked at trial. while the record here does not include the same level of documented incoherence and delusion as in rodasdisclosures that he was not receiving his medication, that he was having a breakdown, that he was no longer in a stable mental state, and that he was unable to continue with the trial demonstrated a substantial change in circumstances requiring the court to hold competency proceedings. 29 cannot supply an adequate remedy for the failure to hold a contemporaneous competency hearing.11 (ibid.) disposition the judgment of conviction is reversed. defendant may be tried on the charges for which he was previously convicted if he is competent to stand trial. zelon, acting p. j. we concur: segal, j. feuer, j. 11 our conclusion that the judgment of conviction must be additional arguments concerning mental health diversion and his sentence. berry may raise these issues on remand as appropriate. 