filed 8/14/18 p. v. johnson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lonnie johnson, defendant and appellant. b282481 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba437114) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. reversed and remanded with directions. tracy a. rogers, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted lonnie johnson of first degree residential burglary . johnson argues the trial court committed reversible error in admitting his videotaped confession because it was the result of coercion and therefore not confession by a combination of improper threats and promises of leniency, we reverse. factual and procedural background a. the home of s is burglarized on may 15, 2015 received a telephone call at work from her security company informing her the alarm system at the home she shared with her husband, wiley fletcher, had been activated. mrs. fletcher told the security company not to call the police; she would go check the house. when mrs. fletcher arrived home 15 to 25 minutes later, she noticed that the front door was unlocked and not completely closed and that the molding around the door was pried away from the wall. mrs. fletcher also observed damage to the stairway leading to the second floor, including cracks in several of the wooden steps, dents in the railing, and a six-inch hole in the wall near rs. fletcher discovered her safe was 3 smaller safe and jewelry box were missing from the master bedroom.1 mrs. fletcher went next door and asked her neighbor, linda rhone, if she had seen anything. rhone said she saw a tall, heavyset man walking out the front door carrying a large, black safe.2 rhone stated she saw the man place the safe in the front seat of a gray car with tinted windows and get into the back seat. rhone said she did not see anyone else on the property or in the car. mrs. fletcher recognized as a car went to , found the car parked in the driveway, and saw lee talking to his girlfriendgiovanni cuevas was standing near the trunk of the car. mrs. fletcher asked them if johnson was there, and they said he was not. mr. fletcher contacted the police and reported the burglary. b. the police meet with and then formally interview johnson (the first and second interviews) on june 1, 2015 los angeles police officer brendan flynn and detective asia hodge met with 1 mr. fletcher estimated the damage to the home, together with the value of the missing items (which included his watch collection), was approximately $28,000. 2 johnson, who was 20 years old at the time, was five feet nine inches tall and weighed 145 pounds. 4 and his girlfriend were present. officer flynn explained that he and detective hodge were investigating the burglary at his that the victims thoughsort of involvement in it, and that the officers after some discussion, johnson agreed to go with officer flynn and detective hodge to the police station to continue the interview. while walking toward the officer flynn that lee and cuevas he knew about what lee and cuevas had done. the parties refer to this encounter as the first interview. what the parties refer to as the second interview occurred in an interview room at the police station. it lasted approximately one hour and was videotaped. during this interview, johnson explained he had lived with his grandparents for six years, until mr. fletcher kicked him out of the house for not going to school . johnson stated that, on the day of the burglary, while riding with cuevas and lee in the gray car, he told them he was mad at his grandfather for kicking him out of the house. johnson admitted to the officers he told cuevas house. johnson also admitted he told cuevas and lee not to his anger was directed at mr. fletcher, who, johnson informed the officers, was married to his grandmother but was . johnson told the officers, however, he did not believe cuevas and commit the burglary). when they however, asked cuevas and lee to let him out of the car. johnson said they dropped him 5 off about a block from the house, and soon he heard the home security alarm. johnson said he caught a bus and later met up with cuevas and lee unloading the safes. soon after johnson arrived, he saw his grandmother drive up to the house, and he immediately left. johnson said he had not had any contact with cuevas or lee since that day. near the end of the interview, johnson, request, wrote a three-page statement. officer flynn told johnson, yhelp you out officer flynn also stated: yto jail today or anything like that. there might be a point where we bring you in for [more] anything. but you have to understand that these guys took advantage of you and your family.and before concluding the interview, officer flynn stated: ou can call [me] just so we can business owners if they can make a spot for you and hopefully c. the police arrest and question johnson (the third interview) on june 4, 2015, three days after the first and second interviews, officer flynn asked officer lo wong to take johnson into custody. officer wong arrested johnson at a coffee shop, brought him to the station, and placed him in an interview room. 6 the subsequent discussion, which the parties refer to as the third interview, was also videotaped. at the beginning of the interview, and for periods throughout the questioning, johnson was crying and visibly upset. officer wong, along with another officer, officer frias, initially questioned johnson for approximately 40 minutes. johnson admitted he told lee and cuevas the location of the safe, but he and insisted lee and cuevas dropped him off prior to the burglary. the questioning suggested they did not believe that cuevas and lee let johnson out of the car before the burglary. officer wong (falsely) repeatedly told johnson and that if he . . . you told them where the stuff is, you know, youyou committed a crime, conspiracy to commit burglary, okay. . . . regardless. you could either eventually johnson trying to have him acknowledge: , in there. flynn, asia hodge detective hodge. nevertheless persisted in asserting he 7 nothing, none of that. . . . i know for officer frias and officer wong left the room, telling and officer flynn entered. johnson as going to get me can only take you so far . . . said that johnson so far to help [johnson] outand that, [i] it . . . . officer flynn told johnson that the other officers anticipated johnson was would to do so. officer flynn stated, however, he would only give johnson five minutes ] the to a judge. . . . the following exchange then occurred: forward with and how much potential you have in your future.3 lonnie johnson: i do. officer flynn: ii going to be truthful with me, or these other officers and investigators. 3 officer 8 lonnie johnson: all right. lonnie johnson: ibecause i never been in trouble like this before. officer flynn: listenlisten. not telling the truth is only going to make it worse. do you understand? lonnie johnson: uh-huh. officer flynn: my help, their help can continue as long as forward and honest. no lies. lonnie johnson: how farlong can you help me? can you get me out of jail? officer flynn: all the way up to the trial. all the way up but we can help you talk with the das and the judge and say how cooperation is working with everything. oing to talk to us, and work with us, and on our job to put liars and cheaters and and thieves and murderers and rapists away in jailit to our face. as we can, and all the fingers are pointing at you still, man. i trying to do initially. it sounded legit. going to come, and all theand all the deals that you want to make at that point, 9 lonnie johnson: i do want to work with you. officer flynn: then tell me the truth. that is not a very hard request. that is not a very hard request at all. one day tell him that lying your way out of it is not an option. lonnie johnson: right. officer flynn: what happened? lonnie johnson: they i went in. johnson went on to state he entered the home and used a yellow crowbar to crack open the door. johnson asked officer can we keep it between stayed in the car while cuevas and lee went inside. after more discussion, officer flynn said he was going to leave and johnson should answer hi the officer stated, leaving the room, officer flynn warned johnson, have to come back in here if one of them comes out and says, officer wong and officer frias returned, and johnson again denied going in the house. when officer wong insisted ent inside the house with them, johnson agreed he did, but said, i know at the end of the interview, officer wong told johnson complied and wrote a letter to his 10 grandparentson an investigative action/statement formadmitting he had entered the home and took the safe. d. johnson files a motion to suppress johnson filed a motion to suppress the inculpatory statements he made in the third interview, including the apology letter. the trial court denied the motion. the court stated: promises of leniency are just not examples that are bound to make a confession involuntary. commenting on the realities of the accuseds] position are not enough to make a confession involuntary. the defendant was properly mirandized. they told the defendant he would feel better if he got it off his chest. those think it w e. johnson is tried, convicted, and sentenced the people charged johnson, cuevas, and lee with one count of first degree residential burglary (pen. code,  459), but johnson was tried separately. the fletchers testified for the prosecution, as did officer flynn and officer wong. the prosecution played the videotapes of the second and third interviews for the jury, and the jury received transcripts of both interviews. the defense presented an expert witness on false confessions. the parties stipulated to certain facts about what rhone had seen the day of the crime. although the prosecutor stated the people might call cuevas or lee as a witness, neither testified at trial. the jury found johnson guilty of first degree residential burglary. the court sentenced johnson to the upper term of six years in prison. johnson timely appealed. 11 discussion johnson contends the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress the inculpatory statements he made during the third interview. johnson argues his confession was not voluntary and was and express and implied assthe people contend coercion, improper promises of leniency, or any improper conduct we conclude johnson has the better argument. a. applicable law and standard of review people v. wall (2017) 3 cal.5th 1048, 1066; see people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1086 amendment precludes the admission of any involuntary statement obtained from a criminal suspect through state self- (wall, at pp. 1065-single factor is dispositive in determining voluntariness . . . rather[,] courts (id. at p. 1066; see people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1176 12 involuntary if extracted by threats or violence, obtained by direct or implied promises or people v. wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066; accord people v. linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1176; see people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th [a] statement is involuntary [citation] when . . . it . . . , [or] obtained by any person in authority makes an express or clearly implied promise of leniency or advantage for the accused which is a motivating cause of the decision to confess, the confession is involuntary and wall, at p. 1066; accord, people v. mccurdy, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1088; see people v. holloway confession is involuntary and therefore inadmissible if it was elicited by any promise of benefit or leniency whether express or people v. gonzalez (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 875, 882 [same].) the distinction that is to be drawn between permissible police conduct on the one hand and conduct deemed to have upon the bare language of inducement but rather upon the nature of the benefit to be derived by a defendant if he speaks the benefit pointed out by the police to a suspect is merely that which flows naturally from a subsequent statement will not be considered involuntarily (people v. gonzalez, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 883; 13 see people v. holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 115.) for examplethere is nothing improper in pointing out that a jury probably will be more favorably impressed by a confession and a show of remorse than by demonstrably false denials. . . . absent improper threats or promises, law enforcement officers are permitted to urge that it would (people v. case (2018) 5 cal.5th 1, 26; see people v. williams the suggestion by authorities that it is worse for a defendant to people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 174 [police statement cooperated with the police investigation did not constitute a similarlyby the police that it would be better for the accused to tell the truth when unaccompanied by either a threat or a promise does holloway, at p. 115; see gonzalez, at p. 883on the other hand, if . . . the defendant is given to understand that he might reasonably expect benefits in the nature of more lenient treatment at the hands of the police, prosecution or court in consideration of making a statement, even a truthful one, such motivation is deemed to render the statement involuntary and inadmissible. (people v. gonzalez, at p. 883; accord, people v. holloway, at p. 115.) people v. wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066.) [w]confession are undisputed to the extent the interview is tape- 14 ibid.; accord, people v. linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1wall, at p. 1066; see people v. falaniko (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 1234, 1249.) b. to suppress because the police officers made improper threats and promises of leniency although the line between permissible police techniques and impermissible police conduct in obtaining a confession may be a fine one, officer flynn crossed it. officer flynn made an implied promise of leniency or benefit by telling johnson that, if he the officer would go to the judge and advise the continue to help johnson until the trial. he also said he would help speak to the district attorney and the judge about how cooperative johnson had been. these statements implied that assistance and ability to communicate with the judge and the prosecutor on behalf would result in favorable treatment or leniency. (see people v. gonzalez, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at pp. 883-884 [statement that, unless the forced to write a parole report recommending [the defendant] for -promise of benefit or leniencyf [the defendant] agreed to talk with detectives without counsel present his parole agent would recommend a shorter sentence in the parole in re shawn d. (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 200, 215-216 could be 15 personally talk to the d.a. or persons who do the juvenileed defendant] will benefit from telling the police the whereabouts of s is .) had officer flynn only offered to inform the prosecutors of have been improper promises. (see people v. holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 116 the prosecutor or the court would grant defendant any particular benefit if he told them how the killings happened,unt involving blackout or accident might help defendant avoid the death penalty, [the detective] did no more than tell defendant the ] naturally from a truthful and honest ]; people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 298 amounted to truthful implications that his cooperation might be defenpeople v. ramos (2004) 121 cal.app.4th would determine what consideration [the defendant] would receivleniency]; people v. flores (1983) 144 cal.app.3d 459, 469 consequences, if unaccompanied by threat or promise, are 16 permissible police practices and will not alone render a subsequent statement i.) officer flynn, however, did more. he impliedly offered to speak to the through the pretrial process. officer flynn also made a direct threat: if johnson did not tell him tell the prosecutors that they should deals and that johnson was courts have held similar police conduct impermissibly coercive. for example, in people v. brommel (1961) 56 cal.2d 629, overruled on another ground in people v. cahill (1991) 5 cal.4th 478, 509, fn. 17, the defendant beaten or struck his daughter, the child. (brommel, at p. 633.) othat defendant had been telling a lot of lies and was not fooling them,f we just wrote one word across there, liar, that would-you can go up before that judge and you can ask him for all the breaks in the world, and he is not going to believe you because when a man tells a lie, then even the truth becomes a lie because he is branded as a liar. [] now if you want to meet that judge that way, if you want to meet your maker that way, well, id. at p. 633.) the supreme court held the defe the officers what they wanted and were insisting that he tell could then expect no leniency from the court; and an implied 17 promise, that if defendant told the officers the story that they (id. at pp. 633-634; see people v. neal (2003) 31 cal.4th 63, 84-85 [detectiveto drop defendant off closer to promising make it as good was people v. lee (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 772, 786 [police officer crossed the line between legitimate interrogation and the use of interrogation . . . was not designed to produce the truth . . . but to produce evidence to support a version of events the police had ; in re shawn d., supra, 20 cal.app.4th at p. 214 [police statement that if the minor [the minor] [the minor] would be treated more ]; in re roger g. (1975) 53 cal.app.3d 198, 202 [confession was involuntary where investigators threatened minor might be charged as an adult if he did not confess and threatened the hard-n.) the people argue that [t]he cases upholding the admission of confessions or damaging statements under similar or the people cite four cases from this purported legion: people v. daniels (1969) 1 cal.app.3d 367, people v. steger (1976) 16 cal.3d 539, people v. mayfield 18 (1993) 5 cal.4th 142, and people v. andersen (1980) 101 cal.app.3d 563. all four are distinguishable. in people v. daniels, supra, 1 cal.app.3d 367 the officers (accurately) told the defendant, who was accused of incest, that his family had been taken into custody and that his daughter might be pregnant. (id. at pp. 371-372.) the court noted the uncontradicted that no promises or inducements were made, noting t (id. at p. 376.) had confessed to protect his family, the court family, nor promise to take the matter up with higher (ibid.) in people v. steger, supra, 16 cal.3d 539, the defendant similarly police only to free her [codefendant] husband. (id. at p. 550.) the court noted, however, implied and desire of defendant to aid her husband by confessing was entirely self-(ibid.) in people v. mayfield, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 176 the officers to quit listening to defendant. the court held this remark was not coercive because (i.e., stop listening to the defendant) and (ibid.) refusing to listen to a defendant is very different from offering to help speak to the judge and the prosecutors and threatening to tell the prosecutors not to discuss settlement. 19 and in people v. andersen, supra, 101 cal.app.3d 563 the police officers, when asked by a murder suspect whether she would spend the rest of her life in jail if she confessed, responded and juries for admissions and explanations of intent over denials (id. at p. 582.) were venturing on thin ice because of the implication that a judge showed remorse by telling the truth, and in an unfavorable light ibid.; see id. at p. 576 [recognizing the particular facts and must avoid false promises of leniency as a reward for admission or confessionthe court in andersen held, however, that the were substantially accurate, insofar as answers to a legal that about what they might do, only what they thought a court might id. at pp. 582-583.) here, officer flynn told johnson what he was going to do: tell the prosecutors that they should not entertain any plea deals and that johnson was a liar and a criminal who refused to cooperate with law enforcement. he also told johnson what he would not do: tell the judge johnson was a good kid with potential. and rather than giving johnson answers to legal questions that were ly accurate,wong offered some unsolicited and questionable legal advice when he told johnson that, because johnson admitted he knew where the missing items were, he was already guilty of conspiracy to commit burglary, scene of the crime. 20 c. the s threats and promises were the motivating cause of johnson that officer flynn made improper promises and threats to johnson does not render his subsequent confession involuntary unless statements were the motivating cause of the people v. jones (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 787, 812; see people v. mccurdy, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. statement is involuntary and inadmissible when the motivating cause of the decision to speak was an express or clearly implied a by a promise within the proscription of both the federal and state due process guaranties if and only if inducement and statement . . this rule raises two separate questions: was a promise of leniency either expressly made or implied, and if so, did that promise motivate people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 985-986; see people v. williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. confession is not involuntary unless the coercive police conduct in other to warrant exclusionpeople v. wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066.) courts look to the to determine whether improper police coercion was make incriminating statements. (people v. gonzalez, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 884; see people v. perez (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 863, 876 where the defendant denied any knowledge of the crime for 21 approximately 25 minutes, until officers promised that not gonna charge you with anything,the defendant confessed (italics omitted)]; people v. gonzalez, at pp. 883-people v. flores, supra, 144 cal.app.3d at p. promises . . . , following almost an hour of interrogation and repeated denials . . . of any complicity or cul after the threat of a possible death penalty, after assurance that and after the implied promise that he might be released from custody until trial, appellant broke and gave the inculpative ; cf. people v. wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. [the because, before the detective made the alleged promise, the defendant had already begun to confess, describing the events . . . after the alleged promise of leniency as ]; people v. linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1177 [implied the to the promise with an admission of guilt, but rather made admission hours later during further questioning].) johnson consistently and adamantly maintained for nearly an hour that cuevas and lee dropped him off before the burglary and that he did not enter the house, despite the three officers insistence to the contrary. he held fast to this version of events 22 until officer flynn promised to help him and tell the judge johnson was a great kid with potential and threatened, if johnson did not tell the truth, to tell the district attorney not to discuss a negotiated plea. almost immediately after promises and threats, johnson confessed. the timing and sequence of events in the third interview show johnson made the admissions in direct response to and because of the promises and threats by officer flynn. d. the statements was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt involuntary confession under the standard of chapman v. california (people v. wilkins (2013) 56 cal.4th 333, 350; see people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1201) or whether the record demonstrates people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 663; see people v. merritt (2017) 2 cal.5th 819, 827). the people have the bu was people v. reese (2017) 2 cal.5th 660, 671.) carried their burden, we examine the entire record and must ibid.) to say that an error did not contribute to the ensuing verdict is . . . to find that error 23 unimportant in relation to everything else the jury considered on (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 463.) jury actually decided and whether the error might have tainted its . . . verdict actually rendered in this trial was surely unattributable to the ibid.) confessions, as a class, will almost always provide such, [citation.] therefore, the the outcome of a trial than are other categories of evidence, and thus is much more likely to be prejudicial under the traditional harmless- (people v. gonzalez, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 884; see people v. bridgeford (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 887, 904.) however, the improper admission of a confession can be harmless, if, for example, the defendant confessed multiple times, was arrested in the course of reliable eyewitnesses to the crime whose testimony is confirmed by a wealth of uncontprosecution introduced a videotape of the commission of the people v. gonzalez, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 884.) the people argue the guilt was ov]iven the compelling testimonial evidence adduced at trial, any error in the admission contend sealed his own fate by his admissions during the first and second 24 interviews, and by absconding from trial shortly prior to the verdict.these arguments are unconvincing. johnson did make several incriminating statements during the first and second interviews, including that he told lee and cuevas about the safe and the jewelry box, that he was angry with mr. fletcher, and that he was in the car the day of the burglary. but he also stated in those interviews that he did not think cuevas and lee were actually going to burglarize the house and that he told them to let him out of the car once he realized cuevas and lee were going to commit the crime. cuevas and lee did not testify said she saw a tall, heavyset male descriptionand no one else. while the remaining evidence may have been substantial evidence to support a guilty verdict, it is not overwhelming. (cf. people v. villasenor (2015) 242 cal.app.4th 42, 70 [error was harmless beyond a reasonable statements [improperly] obtained . . . people v. dowdell ave convicted [the defendant] as charged based on the overwhelming evidence of his guilt]; people v. gonzalez, supra, 210 cal.app.4th there is sufficient admissible evidence in the record from a on this record the people have not established beyond a reasonable doubt that (people v. pearson, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 463) to confession and apology letter, which were the only 25 presence at and physical participation in the burglary. the oral and written confessions evidentiary bombshells in this case. (people v. gonzalez, at p. 884; see people v. neal, supra, 31 confessions, with their detail and general consistency with each other and with extrinsic facts, functioned as the veritable people v. bridgeford, supra, 241 cal.app.4th at p. 907 [confession is probably the most probative and damaging evidence that can be admitted against him.) 26 disposition the judgment is reversed. the matter is remanded with suppress the inculpatory statements in the third interview, to enter a new order granting the motion, and for a new trial. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. wiley, j. * * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 