filed 7/16/18 p. v. moore ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles e. moore, defendant and appellant. b282836 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya094020) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric p. harmon, judge. affirmed. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 background in 2016, charles e. moore burglarized a home in gardena, california by breaking a rear sliding glass door, destroying the security alarm system, and stealing a purse, wallet, jewelry, and credit cards. at trial, one of the voir dire panel, who was eventually impaneled as juror no. 4, explained that he had been burglarized a month before trial. when asked whether he could remain unbiased and fairly judge moore about a week into trial, juror no. 4 arrived late and informed the court that he needed a new juror badge, as his truck touch . . . the handle explained that he suspected someone had gone into his truck and removed a garage door opener, then went into the garage and moved several items to the driveway. 4 excused for cause. the trial court asked juror no. 4 if he still believed he could remain fair throughout the remainder of the case, to which . i thought i would [have] been remiss [if the recent burglary was not juror no. 4 stated, h incident is an individual incident. when asked by the defense whether the going to impact in any way your ability to be fair at the trial court found that juror no. 4 at the way that mr. moore is connected. . . . i think he just wanted to 3 the court therefore 4. moore was convicted of residential burglary, and prior conviction allegations were found to be true. he was sentenced to 19 years six months in state prison. (pen. code,  459, 667 subd. (a)(1).) he timely appealed. discussion moore argues juror no. 4 was unable to remain unbiased during trial, thus depriving moore of a fair and impartial jury. in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury (u.s. const., 6th amend.) the california constitution declares [t]rial by jury is an inviolate right and shall be secured to all . . . . const., art. i,  16.) a trial court may discharge a juror at any time before or after the final submission of the case to the jury if, upon good (people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 621.) a juror inst a defendant is unable to perform his or her duty. (code civ. proc.,  227, subd. (d).) actual bjuror in reference to the case, or to any of the parties, which will prevent the juror from acting with entire impartiality, and civ. proc.,  225, subd. (b)(1)(c); see people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, 581 [willing to decide the case ](people v. bennett, supra, at p. 621.) 4 that a juror in a burglary trial had himself suffered a burglary either in the past or during trial is not itself grounds for disqualification. (people v. martinez (1962) 206 cal.app.2d 809, 813-814 [juror was a prior burglary victim]; people v. manriquez (1976) 59 cal.app.3d 426, 428-429 [juror was the victim of a robbery during trial].) we review for abuse of discretion decision to retain an allegedly biased juror. (people v. bennett, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 621.) here, juror no. 4 candidly disclosed burglaries he had suffered before and during trial, and stated he would continue to that he immediately reported the second incident shows that juror no. 4 desired to fulfill his duty to the best of his ability. moore argues that the probability of bias was substantial because juror no. 4 was victimized by the same type of crime as was alleged against moore. but the ransacking of juror no. 4truck and garage were dissimilar from the crime of which moore was accused. unlike moore, who destroyed both a sliding glass door and a security alarm and stole several items, the burglar of juror no. 4oke nothing and stole nothing, but pulled out a bunch of the dissimilarity of the two incidents supports the trial 4 formed no actual bias. although moore speculates that juror no. 4 was biased and unable to deliver a fair verdict, speculation does not establish a of bias. we conclude the trial court acted within its discretion in retaining juror no. 4. 5 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. bendix, j. 