filed 6/5/18 p. v. blanks ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dewayne blanks, defendant and appellant. b282344 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba437695) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mildred escobedo and michael d. abzug, judges. affirmed. mark s. givens, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 defendant and appellant dewayne blanks was convicted by jury of second degree robbery, in violation of penal code section 211.1 in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found that defendant suffered a prior conviction under the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subd. (d) & 667, subds. (b)(i)), and a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)). defendant was sentenced to 15 years in state prison, comprised of 5 years on the robbery, doubled due to the strike prior conviction, plus 5 years for the section 667, subdivision (a) prior conviction. defendant raises the following issues on appeal: (1) the trial court violated his sixth amendment right under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta) by terminating self-representation without cause and later denying multiple reassertions of his requests to reinstate self-representation; (2) the trial court abused its discretion people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden); and (3) the trial court abused its discretion by allowing the prosecution to call a rebuttal affirm. 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 facts prosecution the victim, 17-year-old dayonna howard, was walking home on western toward vernon to catch a bus at 9:00 p.m. on june 26, 2015. defendant was at the corner of western and 41st street by the mustang motel. defendant wore a white v-neck shirt and brown cargo pants. defendant started a conversation with howard, asking where she was going, and whether they could hang out and be friends. defendant asked why howard was walking so fast; she replied that she was going home. defendant told howard he was 26 or 27 years old. howard was concerned about the age difference. howard was carrying a purse, her phone, and a bag. howard was on the phone with her best friend. she ignored defendant and sped up her walk, concerned for her safety. defendant called out to someone, and an unidentified man ran toward howard, catching up to her by a u-haul business. the man asked howard if she had a dollar for the bus; she said no. the man grabbed right arm for five seconds. she ducked when he raised a fist. defendant then grabbed purse from her shoulder and took off running. howard did not fight back because she was scared for her lifethe man who grabbed her was much bigger than her and she was outnumbered two to one. 4 howard ran toward vernon. she looked back and saw defendant and the man going through her purse. cars stopped to help howard, who was given a ride to nearby police on vernon and western. she returned to the area of the u-haul in a police car, and other officers arrived. as howard spoke to officer edwin corpuz, defendant walked by, within 15 feet, on the same side of the street. howard identified defendant to the officer. the identification was made within 15 minutes of the robbery. defendant at the time was wearing a hat and his head was down. after defendant was searched, howard was shown a bank card bearing her name, and she identified the card as one she carried at the time of the robbery. her purse was recovered, but her bank card, identification, five or six dollars, and earphones were missing. sergeant mike richardson was the first officer to arrive at the scene, followed by officer corpuz. officer corpuz met howard and obtained suspect descriptions from her. when defendant walked near them, howard pointed was detained and searched. officer nguyen recovered bank card t. purse was recovered at 4213 south western. 5 defense defendant testified he did not commit the robbery.2 he had been in the area of the mustang motel, ready to meet a friend (named star), but she did not show up. defendant saw howard walking on the street, she looked attractive, and he approached her. they exchanged names, and he asked if she wanted to hang out and where she was coming from. she did not want to hang out. defendant, who asked her age. she said she was 17, but he thought she was 12. stopped. howard kept walking up western toward vernon. a man caught up to defendant and asked if howard was his girl. defendant said she was not. defendant heard howard scream. when he looked from a position almost at the mustang motel, he saw the man defendant kept walking toward vernon. he went into a liquor store and then across the street to buy a cheeseburger. he walked back toward the motel to eat the cheeseburger and check if star had arrived. he was arrested while walking back from master burger. he saw howard with officer corpuz, and heard her say, defendant never had but an officer pretended to puldefendant 2 defendant admitted he had suffered several prior felony convictions. 6 was framed by the officers. he was pretty sure the other man did the robbery. rebuttal sergeant mike richardson was flagged down in the area of western and vernon at around 9:00 p.m. on june 26, 2015, by a man in a car. howard was in the rear seat of the vehicle. the man, who refused to be identified or further involved, said howard had been robbed. howard entered sergeant richardsonthe two drove to 42nd and western to meet responding officers corpuz and nguyen, who arrived at the location of the offense four to eight minutes later. howard was crying, upset, scared, and ardson saw defendant arrested. officer front pocket and recovered a debit card. the officer had nothing in his hand before searching defendant. sergeant richardson a parkway between the sidewalk and the street. officer corpuz advised defendant of his miranda rights at the police station. defendant indicated he did not want to talk. defendant made a spontaneous statement that an unknown person reached into his pocket, removed money, and placed a card in the pocket. 7 discussion faretta issues his pro per status at a hearing conducted pursuant to wilson v. superior court (1978) 21 cal.3d 816 (wilson), violated his sixth amendment right to self-representation as interpreted by faretta. defendant further argues judge abzug violated the right to self-renewed request to proceed in pro per. we conclude judge escobedo erred in rev-representation status without making the required findingssubsequent unequivocal statements that he wished to proceed with appointed counsel cured what otherwise would have been a structural error requiring reversal. we also hold that judge abzug did not abuse his discretion in denying defendant in-trial requests for self-representation as untimely and intended to inject error into the proceedings. the right to self-representation faretta, the united states supreme court declared ly to his (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 834.) 8 -id. at p. 821.) thus, a state may not constitutionally hale a person into its criminal courts and there force a lawyer upon him, even when he insists that he wants to conduct hiid. people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 824 (butler); see people v. dunkle (2005) 36 cal.4th 861, 908 disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421 fn. 22 (doolin).) faretta motion is reversible per se. (people v. dent people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 253.) faretta right may be waived by failure to make a timely request to act as ones own counsel (people v. windham [(1977)] 19 cal.3d [121,] 128129), or by abandonment and acquiescence in representation by counsel (people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 929; people v. dunkle (2005) 36 cal.4th 861, 909butler, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 825.) he right of self-representation is absolute, but only if a request to do so is knowingly and voluntarily made and if asserted a reasonable time before trial begins. otherwise, requests for self-representation are s sound discretion. (people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 127doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 453.) access to a jail library or other services may be terminated for out-of-court misconduct, but only after a hearing satisfying due process, and if the hearing is held in an administrative setting, judicial 9 approval of the administrative finding is required. (wilson, supra, 21 cal. 3d at pp. 827828.) pro per status in court (as distinguished from pro per privileges in jail) may be terminated for out-of-court misconduct people v. carson [i]t is incumbent on the trial court to document its decision to terminate self-representation with some evidence reasonably supporting a finding that the s obstructive behavior seriously threatens the core integrity of the trial. (id. at p. 11.) the faretta right, once asserted, may be waived or abandoned. (people v. trujeque (2015) 61 cal.4th 227, 262 (trujeque), quoting dunkle, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 909.) a s waiver or abandonment of this constitutional right should be voluntary, knowing, and intelligent (people v. darcy (2010) 48 cal.4th 257, 284); such waiver or abandonment may be is conduct. [citations.]trujeque, supra, at pp. 262263.) faretta invocation and termination of self-representation on september 15, 2015, defendant executed a faretta waiver form and was granted the right to self-representation. on february 2, 2016, defendant was present in the courtroom of judge escobedo, with standby counsel, victoria clemans. pro per privileges at the jail had been revoked following an 10 administrative wilson hearing. the hearing officer concluded defendant delivered one sexually inappropriate letter to jail staff and two sexually inappropriate letters were recovcell. judge escobedo pro per privileges. she blanks, that i am going to revoke your pro per privileges. [] the question now is are you ready to proceed with miss [clemans][] i am ready to proceed with miss [clemans]judge escobedo stated: [p]ro per privileges suspended and revoked. [] he is no longer pro per to be represented by miss [clema the case was set for trial on february 24, 2016. status, because she tcarson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 13.) while out-of-court misconduct may be the basis for termination of pro per status, judge escobedo [her] decision to terminate self-representation with some evidence reasonably supportis obstructive behavior seriously threatens the core integrity of the trial. (id. at p. 11.) the improper termination of the right of self-representation is structural error, requiring reversal, unless the record establishes a subsequent voluntary waiver or 11 abandonment of the right of self-representation. further asserts that, in any event, reversal of the judgment is required bes error in denying his faretta motion resulted in his being forced to accept unwanted representation by counsel for an entire year, during which period resolution of the case was delayed, against his wish to plead guilty. but he cites no authority for the proposition that a defendant who, following an erroneous denial of his assertion of faretta rights, validly waives the right to self-representation and proceeds to trial represented by counsel is entitled to relief on appeal. indeed, such decisions as mckaskle v. wiggins [(1984)] 465 u.s. 168, and brown v. wainwright [(5th cir. 1982)] 665 f.2d 607, are to the contrary, and we therefore reject the dunkle, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 910; see also trujeque, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 262263.) for the reasons discussed below, what would have been a structural error was cured by defendantsubsequent unequivocal requests for counsel. proceedings after the revocation of faretta rights and before jeopardy attached on february 24, 2016, clemans attempted to declare a escobedo found no basis for the declaration. the case was set for trial in department 100 on march 3, 2016. on march 3, 2016, the case was transferred from department 100 to judge abzug in department 112 for jury 12 selection and trial. clemans complained to judge abzug that defendant had been denied due process in part because status due to a jail incident. judge abzug asked defendant, attorne that he was ready to proceed with clemans as his attorney constitutes a voluntary acceptance of counsel and a waiver of his right to self-representation. although counsel stated that judge defendant never asserted that he wished to represent himself, and to the contrary, he told judge abzug he was prepared to proceed with clemans as counsel. in this context, there is understand what he was giving up in confirming that he wished to be represented by counsel, or that he might in fact have wished to represent himself notwithstanding his statements to the contrary (dunkle, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 910.) jury selection commenced during the morning session of march 3. later in the day, clemans asked to be relieved, s seem to want to represent -counsel. judge abzug denied request, noting that counsel had not been relieved, defendant had a right to communicate with her, and defendant had already told the court that he wanted to proceed with counsel. at the end of the court day judge 13 abzug reiterated that jeopardy had not yet attached, and defendant had said he was satisfied with going forward with counsel. on march 4, 2016, a motion to suppress evidence was heard and denied. defendant had told clemans that he believed the failure of the police to preserve the bank card taken from howard resulted in a denial of due process. clemans told judge abzug that she had asked defendant if he wanted to represent himself, jury selection continued. the state of the record, as jury selection progressed, was that defendant had expressly told both judge abzug and defense counsel he wanted representation and did not want to represent himself. again, this is a clear indication that defendant had voluntarily elected to forego the right to self-representation. on the afternoon of march 4, the court returned to the issue of s motion to withdraw as counsel, which had been made on the basis that ac during jury selection. the court held an in camera hearing to explore any conflicts between defendant and counsel. after the hearing the court stated there had been no marsden or faretta request at the in camera hearing. our independent review reveals that of the hearing as not involving a marsden or faretta request was correct. jury selection was continued to monday, march 7, 2016. on march 7, 2016, judge abzug referred to papers filed by defendant (but not by clemans). judge abzug continued 14 to express concern over termination of he was satisfied that defendant thereafter repeatedly stated he wanted representation. clemans mentioned that defendant had that morning mentioned exercising his faretta right. defendant then told judge abzug he wanted to represent himself but keep clemans as standby counsel. defendant said he understood clemans would not be able to assist him and that he had no pro per privileges in the jail. he was ready to continue with a motion he had filed. judge abzug stated apparently they were taken away from him by judge judge abzug decided to require a second faretta waiver form from defendant. defendant said he wanted to he felt clemans was doing a good job, but it was his life, and he studied his case for five months. then, without prompting, defendant told the courtmy lawyer on this case and just probably have a sidebar and speak to her on the side about this matter. the court clarified defendant was withdrawing his faretta request, and defendant answered affirmatively. jury selection, with an additional panel of prospective jurors, was then conducted. in this instance, defendant again affirmatively stated his desire for representation by withdrawing his request for pro per status. faretta motion before a ruling is made. (see, e.g., people v. 15 snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 68people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1002.) withdrawal of the request, wanted to proceed with clemans as counsel, establish that any error committed by judge escobedo was effectively cured. proceedings after the attachment of jeopardy the jury was sworn on the morning of march 7, 2016. after opening statements, but before the testimony of the first witness, defendant stated in the presence of the jury, faretta outside the presence of the jury, defendant told judge abzug that he wished to represent himself. judge abzug observed the right to self-representations is not absolute when asserted in an untimely fashion, and that defendant had repeatedly stated he would proceed with counsel. defendant said he thought better job himself. clemans stated she could not competently represent someone who does not believe in her and who continuously interrupts. the court reminded clemans of the obligation to represent her client unless relieved as counsel. defendant said he needed two additional days to prepare and speak with his investigator. judge abzug denied the faretta request, finding no valid reason for sudden change of heart. defendant was receiving adequate representation. defense 16 counsel filed the motions requested by defendant. a jury had been selected. the young victim had already been inconvenienced by missing school, and defendant was requesting a further delay. faretta request was denied as untimely, not made in good faith, and intended to disrupt the proceedings. judge abzug correctly rurequest for self-representation, made immediately after jeopardy had attached, was subject to discretion and was not a matter of right. there was no abuse of discretion in the ruling. defendant had consistently said he wanted counsel, the jury had been selected and opening statements made, and the requested delay would disrupt the proceedings and further harm the victim. necessary continuance must be granted if a motion for self-representation is granted, it is also established that a midtrial faretta motion may be denied on the ground that (people v. espinoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 61, 80.) on march 8, 2016, at the beginning of the court day, clemans advised the court defendant wanted to represent himself and had filled out a faretta waiver. judge abzug again stated that he looked carefully at the record since judge escobedo revoked pro per status. he denied the current request, finding that defendant was attempting to manipulate the situation and inject error into the proceedings. defendant told judge abzug he would feel more comfortable representing himself because he knew the 17 case better and he was now ready to proceed without delay. judge abthan a thoughtful decision. defendant stated he was not judge abzug rejected the tion and ruled defendant could not abandon his sixth amendment right to counsel for the purpose of creating error. a marsden hearing was then request that counsel be relieved and that he be allowed to transpired in this marsden hearing and the timing of the marsden hearing only punctuates my earlier feeling, which is that the faretta request is not a genuine act of deliberate, mature, consideration; but rather a desperate and impulsive reaction that the defendant is having to what he perceived to not an abuse of discretion. as stated in people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, at pages 11101111: s untimely request after finding a lack of any justification for the delay. the circumstances here are remarkably similar to those in people v. williams (1990) 220 cal.app.3d 1165, 1170, where the court of appeal upheld s belated request for in propria persona status. the court explained that the defendant was able to delay tri18 juggling his faretta rights with his right to counsel interspersed with marsden motions. he first asserted his right to represent himself and did so until the case was sent out for trial. he then persisted in an attempt to select counsel of his choice. his meritless marsden motions and his civil suit against appointed trial counsel were devised to delay proceedings and allow personal selection of appointed counsel. [] contrary to his assertion on appeal, he never made a timely and unequivocal request to represent himself after abandoning propria persona status when the case was sent out for trial. he was playing the faretta game[.] post-conviction requests for self-representation while the jury was deliberating, defendant waived his right to a jury trial on the recidivism allegations in the event the jury returned a guilty verdict. after the guilty verdict, and right as trial on the recidivism allegations was to exercise my faretta judge abzug noted that the court had filed written findings of fact and conclusions of law (12 pages), in which the court concluded defendant had made tactical assertions of the right of self-representation designed to disrupt the proceedings. upon inquiry, defendant stated he wanted to represent himself because he was dissatisfied with representation by clemans. request, noting assertions and withdrawals of self-representation requests, and 19 conclusion that defendant had attempted to manipulate the proceedings to create error. the court cited people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, at page 23 (marshall) for the proposition that a -representation made in passing anger or frustration, an ambivalent motion, or one made for the purpose of delay or to frustrate the orderly people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 9899, citing marshall with approval.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying -verdict request for counsel. judge abzug carefully articulated his reasoning, which is amply supported by the record. clemans was replaced as counsel for sentencing. new retained counsel, ms. ter poorten, was provided with the trial transcripts, but on the day scheduled for sentencing, she told judge abzug she did not feel sufficiently experienced to handle post-trial motions. judge abzug asked defendant how he wished to proceed. defendant said he wanted to discharge ter poorten and asked, if he exercised his faretta to the pro per module.judge abzug pointed out that wilson hearing. sentencing was continued for ter pooten to investigate whether defendant could resume pro per rights in the county jail. 20 ter pooten reported that jail authorities refused to reinstate pro per jail privileges for defendant. judge abzug s to discharge ter pooten and appoint counsel to represent him. defendant said he was not requesting to represent himself. considering that defendant did not ask in this situation to represent himself, there was no faretta motion for the court to consider. marsden issues a series of marsden hearings were conducted by judge abzug during the course of trial. defendant argues it was an abuse of discretion not to relieve clemans and appoint new counsel for defendant due to irreconcilable conflicts between defendant and counsel. defendant fails to demonstrate an abuse of discretion. the marsden requirement and standard of review when a defendant seeks to obtain a new court-appointed counsel on the basis of inadequate representation, the court must permit her to explain the basis of her contention and to relate specific instances of inadequate performance. the court must appoint a new attorney if the record clearly shows the current attorney is not providing adequate representation or that the defendant and counsel have such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is likely to result. (people v. jackson (2009) 21 45 cal.4th 662, 682; see people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118.) if the court holds an adequate hearing, its ruling is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 431.)people v. rodriguez (2014) 58 cal.4th 587, 623.) preliminarily, we note that defendant was a particularly difficult client. he was demanding of clemans, interfered with her ability to represent him, and focused on non-meritorious issues he wanted clemans to pursue. and while there is little doubt that clemans patience with defendant was stretched to the limit, the trial court reasonably concluded her performance during trial was constitutionally adequate. the first in camera hearing pertinent to this appeal was held march 4, 2016. this was not a marsden hearing, as no request for a marsden hearing was made by defendant. the court held the hearing to clear the air after clemans had interference. because there was no marsden issue raised, there was no error. a marsden hearing was held on march 8, 2016. defendant complained because he wanted clemans to recall the victim as a witness to answer further questions defendant proposed, but clemans refusal to do so, which created a conflict resulting in his loss of confidence in her ability to represent him. defendant also complained about the effectiveness of cross-examination conducted by clemans. clemans agreed there was a conflict because 22 defendant was constantly undermining everything she was doing on his behalf. he was continuing to focus on returned it to the victim and not seized it as evidence, an obviously meritless argument for suppression. after hearing from both defendant and clemans, the court made a complete record of why there was no basis to remove counsel, including a finding that there was no valid reason to recall the victim as a witness. the complete record made by the demonstrates no abuse of discretion occurred. the next marsden hearing was held on march 9, 2016, after the prosecution rested. defendant complained that clemans was not being aggressive in questioning officers and had not objected to sergeant richardson being called as a rebuttal witness wwitness list. clemans accurately responded that she had objected to richardson testifying, although the objection was made when defendant was not in court. she insisted she had been working very hard under difficult circumstances, and had visited defendant in custody on several occasions. judge abzug agreed that clemans objected to sergeant richardson being called as a rebuttal witness, but the objection had been overruled. clemans and defendant were communicating, and it was not uncommon for there to be a dispute over strategy. clemans selectively asked some of the questions defendant wanted, but it was her role as counsel to 23 basis to remove counsel, after a thorough hearing, was not an abuse of discretion. in each instance, the trial court held a full marsden hearing, taking care to allow defendant to state his that the trial court was required to conduct a more in-depth inquiry into the nature of the conflict between defendant and conclusion that there was no irreparable breakdown in the attorney client relationship is borne out by the record. clemans job was to provide the best defense possible, within her professional judgment; it was not her job to satisfy every whim of a difficult client. we note that despite at the marsden hearings on the basis of inadequate representation of counsel, on two occasions defendant told judge abzug that clemans was doing a good job, and no separate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel is made on appeal. we find no abuse of discretion in the marsden motions. permitting sergeant richardson to testify as a rebuttal witness defendant argues the trial court committed prejudicial error by allowing sergeant richardson to testify as a rebuttal witness because his name was not on the defendant contends the failure to 24 identify the sergeant as a witness violated section 1054.13 background although not mentioned in the briefs of either party, shortly before the case was transferred from judge e, the prosecutor told the 3 section 1054.1 provides as follows: shall disclose to the defendant or his or her attorney all of the following materials and information, if it is in the possession of the prosecuting attorney or if the prosecuting attorney knows it to be in the possession of the investigating agencies: a) the names and addresses of persons the prosecutor intends to call as witnesses at trial. part of the investigation of the offenses charged. a felony conviction of any material witness whose credibility is likely to be critical to the outcome of the trial. witnesses or reports of the statements of witnesses whom the prosecutor intends to call at the trial, including any reports or statements of experts made in conjunction with the case, including the results of physical or mental examinations, scientific tests, experiments, or comparisons which the prosecutor intends to offer in evidence at the 25 court the people had four witnesses. clemans asked the prosecutor for the names of the witnesses; the prosecutor responded that the names were in the police report. clemans asked for clarificaquite a few at the end of the prosecution case on march 8, 2016, clemans told judge abzug that defendant requested to wait until the next day to begin his testimony. the prosecutor objected, noting that the court had advised the parties to be prepared to close the case that day. not mentioned in the briefs, tre ready to go for either cross examination or for closing argumentsfound no reason to recess for the day, but in response to -minute break, the court allowed him one-half hour, after which defendant testified. as indicated in the statement of facts earlier in this opinion, defenplanted in his pocket. this was the first time defendant asserted that evidence was planted on him. clemans stated that the prosecutor intended to call sergeant richardson as a rebuttal witness. she objected that sergeant richardson was a surprise witness, who was not in any report, and allowing him to testify would violate due process and section 1054.1, subdivision (b). the court overruled the objection and permitted sergeant richardson to testify as a rebuttal witness. 26 disclosure of witnesses by the prosecution s criminal discovery statutes, which were enacted as part of proposition 115 (crime victims justice reform act), are found at section 1054 et seq. these provisions set forth an almost exclusive procedure for discovery in criminal cases. (in re littlefield (1993) 5 cal.4th 122, 129; people v. superior court (barrett ) 80 cal.app.4th 1305, 13111312; people v. hammond (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1611, 1619 [(hammond)].) under this statutory scheme, the prosecutor must disclose: persons the prosecutor intends to call as witnesses at trial. [] (b) statements of all defendants. [] (c) all relevant real evidence . . . of the offenses charged. [] (d) the existence of a felony conviction of any material witness whose credibility is likely to be critical to the outcome of the trial. [] (e) any ( 1054.1.) persons the prosecutor prosecutor intends to call on rebuttal. (izazaga v. superior court people v. jordan (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 349, 357.) evidence must be disclosed at least 30 days before trial, or immediately if discovered or obtained within 30 days of trial(people v. zambrano people v. mireles (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 237, 248 (mireles).) proceeding. rather, it is a process which ebbs and flows with emotion and drama as 27 well as stretches of boredom and tedium. however, during the trial process, things change and the best laid strategies and expectations may quickly become inappropriate: witnesses who have been interviewed vacillate or change their statements; events that did not loom large prospectively may become a focal point in reality. thus, true purpose of a criminal trialthe ascertainment of the facts. (littlefield, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 131.) after hearing a witness, the necessity of a rebuttal witness may become more important. (hammond, supra, 22 cal.app.4th at p. 1624; mireles, supra, 21 cal.app.5th at p. 248.) defendant has not established error or prejudice the decision to admit rebuttal evidence over an objection of untimeliness rests largely within the sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal in the absence of an abuse of that discretion. (people v. carrera (1989) 49 cal.3d 291, 323.)people v. desantis (1992) 2 cal.4th 1198, 1232.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the prosecution did not intend to call sergeant richardson as a witness until after defendant testified. -in-chief that sergeant richardson was the first officer on the scene at the scene was 28 therefore not a surprise at the time defendant testified. but there was no intent to call sergeant richardson as a witness, he was examination or for closing argumentsether testified. it was not bank card had been planted in his pocket by an officer that sergeant this type of scenario is why sthe discovery requirement, in recognition that hearing a witness, the necessity of a rebuttal witness may hammond, supra, 22 cal.app.4th at p. 1624.) the decision to permit the sergeant to testify was well within the triadetermining the admissibility of evidence. we also conclude any error was harmless. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) there is no dispute that howard was the victim of a robbery. she made an identification of defendant at the scene, shortly after the commission of the offense. solid, d. his explanation that bank card was planted on him by an officer, in the presence of two other officers and the victim, does not inspire confidence. this is particularly so, considering that statement to officer corpuz that some unknown person had reached into his pocket, taken his money, and placed the card inside the pocket. defendant has fallen short of 29 establishing a reasonably probability that he would have received a more favorable result had sergeant richardson not been allowed to testify. disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, acting p.j. we concur: baker, j. dunning, j. judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 