filed 2/26/19 p. v. ballard ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. william lamar ballard et al., defendants and appellants. b282339 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma065269) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed with directions. jean ballantine, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant william lamar ballard. thomas t. ono, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant john christopher brown. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant 2 attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ william lamar ballard and john christopher brown appeal from judgments of conviction for murder and attempted murder. they contend (1) insufficient evidence supported the convictions, (2) the trial court erred in determining the prosecutor had a race-neutral reason for peremptorily challenging a prospective juror, (3) the court erred in refusing to instruct on self-defense, (4) the court erred in instructing on aider and abettor liability, (5) the prosecutor committed misconduct by failing to disclose exculpatory evidence and by misstating the law during closing argument, (6) fee assessments must be vacated ability to pay, and (7) changes in the law require resentencing brown. we reject each contention but the last, and affirm with directions to resentence brown. background a. on the evening of january 17, 2015, johnny jones was shot and killed while a bystander during an argument between his fianc and william ballard. ballard was at one time in a romantic relationship with faviana richardson, who by january 2015 was engaged to johnny jones. in january 2015, ballard posted negative comments about richardson on social media. on the evening of january 17, 2015, richardson and several friends went to the home of current girlfriend, toni cook, and demanded to see ballard, who was asleep in a back room. cassie jones (no relation to the victim) and shakira w. answered the door and said ballard was not home. after 3 richardson left, jones informed ballard about the confrontation, and he telephoned brown and asked him to come . later that evening ballard attended a neighborhood barbeque event. richardson and her group arrived and she and ballard argued, and at one point ballard told her, get you popped. richardson left the event but later returned and again ballard left the event and w, where brown arrived a short time later. ballard and brown then returned to the barbeque, where they confronted richardson. with brown standing next to ballard and johnny jones behind richardson, several times, to which jones strongly objected. as he and ballard prepared to fight, ballard passed a revolver to brown and said, brown fired a shot at richardson just as johnny jones pushed her out of the way. the bullet struck jones, killing him. b. investigation after first misidentifying bala man she , richardson identified , as the shooter.1 brown was arrested two weeks later. richardson identified certain he was the shooter. 1 although when they were dating ballard had introduced suge to richardson as his brother, she was not certain he had meant the term literally. 4 c. trial trial was by jury. s were misidentification and alibi. ballard presented no evidence. richardson testified brown had accompanied ballard to the barbeque, received a gun from him, and shot johnny jones. she heard the shot and looked around and turned around and saw johnny jones on the floor, and i also saw christopher standing over him with the gun was the shooter. toni cook and shakira w. testified brown was known by , and had come to their home in response to after richardson was turned away from the jones home. however, neither identified brown in court as the shooter. , but apparently did not identify brown in court as smoke. detective dawn retzlaff testified that richardson initially identified as the shooter but the next day said it had been brown. she further testified that nine months later, in october 2015, richardson identified brown from a photo array. retzlaff testified that toni cook told her a few hours after the shooting that brown had been in her house that night. wife, was at the shooting, as was her car, which brown sometimes drove. and cell tower records indcell phone, which brown sometimes used, was near the scene at the time of the shooting. 5 the jury found ballard and brown guilty of first degree murder and willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664, subd. (a)), and found firearm enhancements to be true. (pen. code,  12022, subd. (a)(1), 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d).)2 the trial court sentenced ballard to 26 years to life for the murder plus one year for the firearm enhancement, plus a consecutive term of life for the attempted murder. the court found that brown had one prior strike and one prior prison term (pen. code,  667, subd. (a)(1)), and sentenced him to 80 years to life for the murder (25 years to life doubled to 50 years to life as a second strike, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement) plus a consecutive term of life for the attempted murder and 20 years on that count for the firearm enhancement. d. posttrial after trial, brown, joined by ballard, moved for a new trial, contending the prosecution withheld evidence of height, facial hair, and criminal history. brown argued that had he known this information he would have investigated movements on the night of the shooting and posited him as an alternative suspect. the trial court denied the motion, finding defense had been apprised of all pertinent information and no reasonable possibility existed that a different result would have been reached had more information about suge been given. both defendants appealed. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 6 discussion a. sufficiency of the evidence brown contends insufficient evidence identified him as the shooter because the evidence was inconsistent and unreliable. ballard purports to join in this argument but offers no discussion on the issue, thus forfeiting the claim. (people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 363.) 1. further facts concerning the investigation detective dawn retzlaff that was the shooter. richardson had met suge two or three times at family events when she was dating ballard. she at different times during the subsequent investigation represented to police that suge was between five feet six inches and five feet nine inches tall. the day after the shooting, after had shown richardson a photograph of brown, she told detectives she had been mistaken in her identification of suge, and the shooter based her identification in part on brown height and his facial hair. retzlaff thereafter broadened her investigation to include brown as well as suge. she learned real name was dionte canade, and eventually discovered that he and brown knew each other, as he had bbrown was arrested for driving under the influence. in march 2015, about a month and a half after the shooting, suge himself was arrested for firing a gun during a fistfight. his booking information indicated that he was six feet tall, contrary to feet nine inches tall, and had facial hair. 7 in october 2015, detective retzlaff obtained the march booking photo of suge and included it in a photo array she showed to richardson during a recorded interview (the october 2015 ). richardson identified suge brother, and said he was at the barbeque but had left before the shooting. one bugs me. . . . he was there before. . . . [h]e was the one that was like not trying to like be there. like it was bullshit. . . . like he always go off on [ballard] behind me like . . . you start tripping lled up, hopped out, looked like for real, hopped back in the car, and was like willie with the bullshit and drove it was like during the first little argument when willie walk down the richardson said that before her first argument with ballard, suge upbraided ballard for his preoccupation with her. he said, like getting into it with this bitch, [johnny jones] think he winning. cause he got my bitch, he got my baby momma for taxes. and then he look and he like faviana? and then he, willie, he got back in the detec 8 when asked what kind of car suge last time i remembered what kind of car he drive because he have females drive him around and stuff. . . . he was driving a 2. despite discrepancies, substantial evidence supported the identification in reviewing for sufficiency of the evidence, we consider the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 960; people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 738-weigh the evidence, resolve conflicting inferences, and determine whether the prosecution established guilt beyond a reasonable (people v. hubbard (2016) 63 cal.4th 378, 392.) that circumstances can be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant reversal of the judgment. (people v. bean (1988) 46 cal.3d 919, 932-933.) testimony of a single witness, unless physically impossible or inherently improbable, is sufficient to support a conviction. (evid. code,  411; people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 106.) night of the shooting. thomas testified smoke fired the gun, and richardson positively identified brown as the shooter. the shooting, and cell tower evidence indicated a phone brown often used had connected to towers near the scene. this evidence amply supports identification of brown as the shooter. 9 brown argues the evidence was insufficient because richardson initially identified suge as the shooter, and did not identify brown until the next day, showed her a photograph of him, and gave inconsistent estimates of his height, revealing her unreliability. further, she repeatedly told detectives she could not see the faces of because they wore black hoodies, and at the time of the shooting she was identification of him as the shooter was problematic because she also testified she did not see who pulled the trigger. finally, brown observes that no one other than richardson identified him at trial. (people v. jackson (2014) 58 cal.4th 724, 749.) weaknesses in identification evidence, discrepancies in testimony, and uncertainty in witness recollection are solely the province of the jury. (people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 481; people v. mohamed (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 515, 522.) testimony of a single witness suffices countervailing evidence, or the testimony is subject to justifiable suspicion. (people v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 1158.) here, richardson unequivocally identified brown as the shooter at trial. this testimony alone would have been enough to support his conviction. brown argues the eyewitness evidence against him is inherently improbable, and thus may be reexamined on appeal. (see evid. code,  411; people v. brown, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 106 [witness testimony that is inherently improbable will not support a conviction].) we disagree. improbable, evidence must assert something has occurred that it 10 does not seem possible could have occurred under the (people v. adams (1980) 101 cal.app.3d 791, 797.) there is nothing impossible or inherently improbable about a witness accurately identifying a shooter after having seen only portions of the shooting, for example the transfer and pointing of a gun just before the shot. a witness may also identify another by something other than his face, and may correct an initial misidentification. although brown identification evidence, weakness does not equate with inherent improbability. b. batson/wheeler motion3 brown contends the prosecution impermissibly exercised a peremptory challenge to exclude a prospective juror on account of her race. we disagree. during voir dire, an african-american prospective juror in seat number six stated she was a retired nurse, her spouse had been a los angeles county peace officer for many years, and she had four adult children, one of whom lived in a group home in los angeles. she stated officer would not cause her to favor one side or the other. when asked if her son in the group home was a counselor there, prospective juror no. 6 answered that no, a court had ordered him to the prosecution exercised a peremptory challenge to excuse prospective juror no. 6, to which ey objected. 3 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79; people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258. 11 finding the defense had made a prima facie showing of impermissible racial bias, the trial court invited the prosecutor to explain his decision. the prosecutor said he was concerned that because of her son, prospective juror no. 6 ympathy he also stated that the prospective juror seemed about a child that had gone through the system,, and had implied that her son worked at the group home rather than residing there, apparently reluctant to admit he had been committed there by a court. the trial court disagreed with these latter statements, finding the prosecutor had misunderstood prospective juror no. 6s, who in fact had not been evasive; but the court stated having a child who did have a chemical dependency issue and [had] gone through the system-neutral ground upon which to exclude the prospective juror. brown argues the trial court impermissibly created its own exclude prospective juror no. 6. we disagree. prospective jurors based on race. (batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 97; georgia v. mccollum (1992) 505 u.s. 42, 59; wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-277.) doing so violates both the equal protection clause of the united states constitution and the right to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community people v. lenix single peremptory challenge solely on the basis of race or 12 people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1157-1158.) batson three-step inquiry is well established. first, the trial court must determine whether the defendant has made a prima facie showing that the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge based on race. second, if the showing is made, the burden shifts to the prosecutor to demonstrate that the challenges were exercised for a race-neutral reason. third, the court determines whether the defendant has proven purposeful discrimination. the ultimate burden of persuasion regarding racial motivation rests with, and never shifts from, the opponent of the strike. [citation.] the three-step procedure also applies to people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 612-613; people v. gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1158.) to make a prima facie showing of impermissible discrimination, a defendant must pto permit the trial judge to draw an inference that discrimination people v. jones, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 916.) once a prima facie case of group bias appears, the prosecution must demonstrate a proper basis for the allegedly offending is genuine. this demands of the trial judge a sincere and reasoned attempt to evaluate the prosecutors explanation in light of the circumstances of the case as then known, his knowledge of trial techniques, and his observations of the manner in which the prosecutor has examined members of the venire and the good judgment of the trial courts to distinguish bona fide reasons for such peremptories from sham excuses belatedly 13 (people v. hall (1983) 35 cal.3d 161, 167-168.) a trial court may ion at face value. (id. at p. 169.) batson/]wheeler upon which the prosecutor people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, 1155; people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 613-in a constitutional manner and give great deference to the trial here, the prosecutor demonstrated a race-neutral basis for challenging prospective juror no. 6: her child had had an adverse interaction with the court system. a prospective jurors negative experiences with law enforcement can serve as a valid basis for a peremptory challenge. (people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 1125.) brown argues the trial court relied on a justification not offered by the prosecutor. he argues the prosecutor challenged prospective juror no. 6 because she was evasive, whereas the court affirmed the challenge on the ground that her having a son in the system might cause her to be biased. brown argues these circumstances suggest the trial court either disbelieved the prosecutor or failed to make a good faith inquiry in to the offered rationale. the argument is without merit. trial courts should not . . . substitute their own reasoning for the rationale given by the prosecutor, even if they can imagine a valid reason that would not be shown to be pretextual. [a] 14 prosecutor simply has got to state his reasons as best he can and stand or fall on the plausibility of the reasons he gives. . . . if the stated reason does not hold up, its pretextual significance does not fade because a trial judge, or an appeals court, can imagine a reason that might not have been shown up as false. (people v. gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159.) here, the prosecutorrationale and finding prospective juror no. 6 nor itself established racial bias. (see people v. jones (2011) 51 eason appears to assume the prosecutor ibid.) an [citation] does not alone compel the conclusion that thibid.) in which the prosecutor offered his explanation, as we must, we conclude the court acted within its discretion in crediting the prosecutor and denying c. jury instruction on self-defense who was present at the shooting, had possessed a handgun, may have tried to fire it, and after the shooting told another person brown and ballard contend this evidence suggests the shot that killed johnny jones could have been fired in self-defense, and the trial court erred when it refused to instruct the jury on self-defense. we reject the argument because no evidence suggested that either brown or ballard saw anyone else with a gun. 15 we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1210.) with or without a requestto give correct jury instructions on the general principles of law relevant to issues raised by the people v. mutuma (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 635, 640.) the trial court has a duty to instruct sua sponte regarding a ] is relying on such a defense, or if there is substantial evidence supportive of such a people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 424.) substantial evidence is that which, if believed, would be guilt. (people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 529.) pursuant to the imperfect self-defense doctrine, an unlawful killing done with an intent to kill constitutes voluntary upon an actual but unreasonable belief in the need for self- (people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 551.) under the perfect self-defense doctrine, a homicide is entirely noncriminal where the actor possessed both an actual and (ibid.) in either situation, the defendant must actually fear imminent danger to life or great bodily injury. (ibid.) der the position of the defendant, with the knowledge and awareness. (people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082-1083.) the question here turns on whether the record contains substantial evidence that if believed by the jury would raise a 16 reasonable doubt as to whether defendants shot johnny jones in an effort to defend themselves. because nothing indicates either , no reasonable juror could have found they shot jones in order to defend themselves against being shot. d. conviction for first degree premeditated murder was not based on the improper theory of natural and probable consequences ballard was convicted of first degree murder as an aider and abettor of brown, the actual shooter. he contends the jury may have convicted him under an improper aider and abettor theory because it cannot be ascertained whether the jury found he personally deliberated and premeditated the murder of jones. the argument is without merit because whether ballard premeditated and deliberated the murder of jones is irrelevant. the jury found that ballard premeditated and deliberated the murder of richardson. the mens rea for that offense transfers to the murder of jones by operation of law. first degree murder, like second degree murder, is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought, but has the additional elements of willfulness, premeditation, and deliberation . . . . [citation.] that mental state is uniquely subjective and personal. it requires more than a showing of intent to kill; the killer must act deliberately, carefully weighing the considerations for and against a choice to kill before he or she completes the acts that caused the death.(people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 166.) state is guilty of the intended crime, target offense. 17 (people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 158.) second, an aider and abettor is guilty of most nontarget offenses that occur as a natural and probable consequence of the crime aided and abetted. (ibid.) but not first degree murder. under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, an aider and abettor is liable for reasonably foreseeable consequence of a principals criminal act. by its very nature, aider and abettor culpability under the natural and probable consequences doctrine is not premised upon the intention of the aider and abettor to commit the nontarget offense because the nontarget offense was not intended at all. . . . [c]ulpability is imposed simply because a reasonable person could have foreseen the commission of the nontarget crime. (people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 164.) it therefore follows that an aider and abettor whose only premeditative mental state was that he should have foreseen the nontarget crime cannot be found guilty of first degree premeditated murder, which requires willfulness, premeditation, and deliberation. (id. at pp. 158-159.) instructs a jury on two theories of guilt, one of which was legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in the record to find that the people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 167.) for example, an error may be held harmless or if it is impossible, upon the evidence, to have found what the verdict did people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1204.) here, the trial court instructed the jury on murder, explaining that for defendants to be convicted the prosecution had to prove had a state of mind called malice 18 aforethought.there are two kinds of malice aforethought, express malice and implied malice. proof of either is sufficient to establish the state of mind required for murder. . . . the defendant acted with implied malice if . . . [h]e intentionally committed an act . . . [t]he natural and probable consequences of the act were dangerous to human life.explained that to constitute first degree murder, the prosecution acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. the court also instructed the jury on direct aiding and abetting liability, explaining that to establish liability under an aiding and abetting theory the prosecution had to prove the or she specifically intend[ed] to, and [did] in fact, aid, facilitate, that crime. notably, the trial court, in compliance with people v. chiu, did not instruct the jury on the natural and probable consequences doctrine of aider and abettor liability. finally, the trial court instructed the jury on the doctrine of transferred intent. none of these instructions was erroneous. ballard argues his conviction must nevertheless be reversed unless the jury found he personally deliberated and premeditated the murder of johnny jones. the argument is without merit. under the common law doctrine of transferred intent, if a shoots at b with malice aforethought but instead kills c, who is standing nearby, a is deemed liable for murder notwithstanding lack of intent to kill cpeople v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 850, fn. 9.) under the doctrine of 19 transferred intent, ballard was properly convicted for the murder of jones because the jury found he willfully and with premeditation and deliberation tried to murder richardson. his actual mental state as to jones was irrelevant. ballard argues the jury was instructed he could be found guilty of first degree murder as an aider and abettor of an implied malice murder. he is incorrect. although the trial court instructed that second degree murder could be committed with only implied malice, it instructed that to establish first degree murder the prosecution additionally had to prove that the the court further instructed that to find ballard guilty as an aider and abettor of first degree murder the jury had to find he unlawful purpose and specifically intended to facilitate it. having failed to identify any instructional error, ballard of could have followed the former doctrine to find him guilty under the latter. we disagree. the doctrine of transferred intent has nothing to do with the natural and probable consequences theory of aider and abettor liability. (see people v. vasquez (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 1019, 1024 he doctrine of transferred intent does not implicate the concerns raised in chiu, in which the connection between the tive state is too attenuated to impose aider and abettor liability for first ].) the requisite intent for the murder of johnny jones was established richardson. purely as a matter of policy and by operation of law, 20 that intent is deemed to have transferred to jones. (id. at p. 1026.) the transferred intent doctrine does not . . . denote an actual transfer of intent from the intended victim to the unintended victim. [citation.] rather . . . it connotes a policythat a defendant who shoots at an intended victim with intent to kill but misses and hits a bystander instead should be subject to the same criminal liability that would have been imposed had he hit his intended mark. [citation.] it is the policy underlying the doctrine, rather than its literal meaning, that compels the conclusion that a transferred intent instruction [be] given(people v. sanchez, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 850, fn. 9.) in sum, nothing in the record permits us to conclude the jury based its first degree murder verdict on an invalid aider and abettor theory. e. prosecutorial misconduct ballard contends the prosecutor misstated the law on premeditation and deliberaovercoming the resistance on the hammer of a revolver or cocking of the revolver to the rear . . . would be an example of willful, when combined with other circumstances. ballard also contends the prosecutor misstated the law on reasonable doubt when he said the only reasonable explanation that fits offered no objection to the statements at trial, which ballard argues constituted ineffective assistance, preserving the objection on appeal. s conduct violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial 21 with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible (people v. morales (misconduct is based on the prosecutors comments before the jury likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an obj[citations.] to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 305.) we review a the context of the whole argument and the instructions the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 667.) here, ballard made no contemporaneous objection to either of the statements to which he now objects. because no basis exists in the record to conclude an objection would have been futile, the issue is forfeited. in any event, objections are without merit. deliberation means a result careful thought and weighing of considerations for and (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1216.) premeditation and deliberation may be 22 found in overcoming a heavy trigger pull to fire a shot (see people v. watkins (2012) 55 cal.4th 999, 1026) or in cocking a weapon (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 577). in his remarks on reasonable doubt, the prosecutor told the jury that proof beyond a reasonable doubt required an abiding conviction but not or proof doubt, and the prosecution had to show its theory was the only we fail to see the problem with this statement, and ballard illuminates none. he argues the prosecutor essentially meant that to raise a reasonable doubt the defense had to show its theory was the only reasonable explanation that fit all the facts. but this is not what the prosecutor said. s comment as reversing the burden of proof. f. there was no brady4 error brown contends the prosecution failed to disclose march 2015 booking information and photograph, which was material exculpatory evidence. he also contends the prosecution presented false evidence when it permitted detective retzlaff and photograph. we disagree with both contentions. 1. further testimony and details about the investigation richardson told detective retzlaff immediately after the shooting that suge was the shooter, describing him variously as between five feet six and five feet nine inches tall. in the course 4 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83. 23 of her investigation retzlaff discovered that two years earlier suge had been present when brown was arrested for driving under the influence, and in march 2015, two months after the shooting, he was arrested for firing a gun during a fight. his booking information indicated he was six feet tallsimilar to six feet two inchesand had facial hair, as did brown. she also discovered his true name was dionte canade. although retzlaff march 2015 booking photo in october 2015, when she included it in a six-pack photo array, both testified incorrectly that richardson had never been shown the photo. (respondent suggests they simply forgot about the october 2015 photo array. the simpler explanation is they were both testifying about an earlier stage of the investigation.) when at trial asked retzlaff you get a 75-page transcript interview . . . that the person who did this is other than richardson had mentioned suge, but almost all the witness mentioned smoke. she said smoke therefore became the focus of evidence that, one, suge was there or that, two, suge fired a gun in posttrial proceedings it was revealed that during a break 24 the photograph, but when she offered it to him he changed his mind and walked away without it. during closing argument, brow that immediately after the shooting richardson was certain that suge was the shooter, and had said suge and brown looked alike. counsel then rhetorically asked why retzlaff failed to show richardson the photograph of canade. counsel sbecause he looks so much like john brown that it would confuse reach a conclusion, but do her job and do the investigation. why attorney reiterated that richardson was an unreliable witness, dionte canada?5 the photograph that she had of dionte canada to faviana? why yes, she said somebody else subsequently, but you have reason to believe that that subsequent identification is questionable. so whyyou go and offer the photo of dionte canada in a six-pack and let or maybe we find out, oh, well. and in this case, the detectives had a reasonable conclusion they 5 the parties until after trial. 25 the upshot is that retzlaff never showed the october 2015 six-pack array to the prosecution or defense, and neither was aware of the booking information describing suge as being six feet tall and having facial hair. in fact, at the time of trial neither the prosecution nor defense even knew the correct and although the prosecutor provided the defense with an audio recording of the october 2015 richardson interview, defense counsel neglected to listen to it, and the prosecutor took no particular note of the october 2015 photo array depicting suge. as a result of these circumstances, both the prosecutor and defense counsel knew at trial that retzlaff possessed a photograph of suge, but neither knew it was a march 2015 booking photo, and neither knew retzlaff had shown richardson the photo in october 2015. 2. pertinent law brady . . . and its progeny, the prosecution has a constitutional duty to disclose to the defense material exculpatory evidence, including potential impeaching evidence. the duty extends to evidence known to others acting on the prosecutions behalf, including the police. [citations.] the duty to disclose exists even though there has been no request by the accused. [citations.] for brady purposes, evidence is material if it is reasonably probable its disclosure would alter the outcome of brady violation: the evidence at issue must be favorable to the accused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is impeaching; that evidence must have been suppressed by the state, either willfully or inadvertently; and prejudice must have 26 people v. superior court (johnson) (2015) 61 cal.4th 696, 709-710 (johnson).) 3. analysis brown argues the prosecution suppresmarch 2015 booking information. we disagree. brown knew that richardson had initially identified suge/canade as the shooter. being personally acquainted, he knew height, and either knew or could have discovered his real name and whether he had facial hair at the time of the shooting. by the time of trial, brown also knew about the march 2015 booking photo, and possessed an audio recording of the interview wherein richardson looked at the photo and denied suge was the shooter. furthersuge/canade booking photo at trial, but he refused it, and then strenuously photo was somehow significant. in short, ormation was never suppressed. material or favorable to brown. johnson, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 709-710.) here, when shown richardson convincingly demonstrated she knew him but, consistent with her stance since the day after the shooting, definitively stated he was not the shooter. information before trial he could have investigated his movements and possibly established him as an alternative 27 suspect. he also could have impeached richardson by showing or at least could have demonstrated the police investigation was shoddy, which is itself a defense. the arguments are without merit because brown and ballard, both well acquainted with canadealways had the opportunity to investigate his movements and either posit him as an alternative suspect or otherwise impugn the investigation or impeach witness testimony. the booking information added nothing they did not already know. and at trial attorney fully explored both n. information could have made no difference. g. resentencing under section 12022.53 and senate bill no. 1393 when sentencing brown, the trial court imposed mandatory enhancements under section 12022.53 upon finding he had used a firearm in committing the crimes. the court further enhanced his sentence due to his recidivism pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1).) at the time of sentencing a trial court had no authority to strike firearm enhancements proven under section 12022.53, but senate bill no. 620, which became effective january 1, 2018, removed the prohibition on striking such enhancements, amending section 12022.53 to provide court may, in the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise imposed by this section.n september 30, 2018, the legislature amended section 1385 to remove a provision preventing a judge from striking prior serious felony convictions for purposes of sentence enhancement under section 28 667, subdivision (a)(1). (stats. 2018, ch. 1013, 1 (sen. bill no. 1393), effective jan. 1, 2019.) an amendment to the penal code will not generally apply retroactively (see  3), but an exception applies when the amendment reduces punishment for a specific crime. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 745.) reduction of a punishment former penalty was too severe and that a lighter punishment is ibid.) the exception to nonretroactivity extends to amendments that do not necessarily reduce a dthe trial court discretion to impose a lesser sentence. (people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-76.) brown argues the amendments to sections 12022.53 and 1385 apply retroactively to defendants in his position, and require that the trial court be given an opportunity to exercise its newfound discretion to strike the firearm and recidivism enhancements imposed as part of his sentence. the people concede the point, and we agree. although the trial court here had no discretion to strike the enhancements at the time of sentencing, the record is silent as to whether it might have been open to doing so. therefore, the matter must be remanded to afford the court an opportunity to exercise its discretion. h. assessments of fines and fees need not be vacated the trial court imposed $40 court security fees ( 1465.8) and $30 conviction assessments (gov. code,  70373) on each defendant for both counts of which each was convicted. the court also imposed $10,000 restitution fines ( 1202.4), imposed and 29 stayed $10,000 parole revocation fines ( 1202.45), and imposed $6,700 in restitution ( 1202.4) on each defendant. ballard, joined by brown, argues the fines and fees must be vacated because to impose them without a finding of ability to pay violates due process. we disagree. due process prohibits imposition of penal consequences on a defendant for nonpayment of court-ordered assessments and fines which the defendant has no ability to pay. (people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157, 1168 (dueas).) but the court need determine ability to pay only upon the defendant raising the issue and making a prima facie showing of inability. (see people v. mcmahan (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 740, 749 [e].) here, neither ballard nor brown contended below that he was unable to pay the various fees and fines assessed, and neither asserts such inability on appeal. therefore, the fees and fines need not be vacated. defendants argue that pursuant to dueas a trial court has ability to pay before imposing fines and fees. we do not necessarily disagree. but here nothing in the record suggests either ballard or brown is indigent. defendants argue that dueas created a new requirement that a trial court inquire into request. we disagree. the court made no such ruling explicitly, but instead obligated the trial court to make findings defendant, i.e., the one before it, not as to defendants in general. because the rule is well established that a defendant must argue fees are unpayable before a court must evaluate ability to pay (see people v. acosta (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 701, 707-708), we 30 think it unlikely the dueas court intended to abrogate the rule by implication. in any event, no such issue was before the court, as the defendant in dueas did in fact request a determination of her inability to pay assessed fines, and it was undisputed she could not pay them. an appellate ruling cannot be interpreted to resolve an issue not before the court. disposition the convictions are affirmed. upon remand, the trial court shall determine whether to strike any enhancements imposed under sections 12022.53 or 667, subdivision (a)(1). if the court strikes any such enhancements, it shall reduce the sentence accordingly, amend the abstract of judgment, and forward the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j. 