filed 8/20/19 p. v. cheatham ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steven dwayne cheatham, defendant and appellant. b283821 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta075519) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. jack w. morgan, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. maggie shrout, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant steven dwayne cheatham of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (pen. code,  246),1 assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (a)), and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 12021, subd. (a)).2 the jury also found that defendant personally used a firearm ( 12022.5) and had served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). defendant was sentenced to a total state prison term of 20 years eight months, consisting of the high term of nine years on the assault conviction, a consecutive eight-month term on the possession conviction, plus a 10-year term on the firearm enhancement and a one-year term on the prior prison term enhancement. the trial court also imposed a concurrent seven-year term for shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. defendant appeals.3 he contends that the trial court erred by (1) admitting evidence of his prior act of domestic violence, and (2) admitting evidence of his gang membership. he further argues that the matter must be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike or dismiss the firearm enhancement. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the jury acquitted defendant of an attempted murder charge ( 664/187, subd. (a)). 3 defendant was sentenced on april 20, 2006. on may 23, 2006, trial counsel filed a motion for appointed counsel on iling a notice of appeal. no record on appeal was prepared and no counsel was appointed. on july 19, 2017, this crelief from default in filing a timely notice of appeal. 3 we agree with defendant that the matter must be remanded for resentencing. in all other respects, we affirm the judgment. factual background evidence a. defendant an argument nakisha blackmon (blackmon) and defendant began their romantic relationship in 1999. blackmon ended the relationship after the following incident: on the evening of july 3, 2004, blackmon drove with defendant to get something to eat. during the passenger seat. she previously told defendant never to bring a gun around her. an argument ensued after blackmon asked defendant to take the gun back. defendant said that it was not a had her drop him off at the douglas apartments. blackmon immediately drove defendant to that location. when they arrived, defendant got out of the car, slammed the door, and said, vehicle. within seconds of blackmon driving away, defendant fired several shots at the vehicle, one of which shattered the back windshield. blackmon ducked down when she heard the shots. afterwards, she looked behind and saw defendant running into the parking lot of the apartment complex. blackmon drove away and called defendant moments later. she told him that she was going to call the police. he replied 911 and reported the incident. as she spoke to the operator, blackmon expressed concern about where she would meet the and had a lot of friends and family members. 4 partner met with blackmon. she appeared nervous and afraid. she stood next to her car, which had a broken back windshield and a dent on the top portion. the dent was consistent with a bullet mark. as blackmon spoke to deputy rufino, defendant it was only a warning shot in the air. defendant also called blackmon the following morning and admitted that he only shot at her once. b. defendant physically beat blackmon in a prior incident of domestic violence gathering at his house in compton. blackmon and defendant attended. defendant was intoxicated and began to argue with a fight ensued, during which defendant repeatedly punched blackmon as she tried to fend off the attack. defendant smashed break. blackmon was no longer able to fight back. defendant continued the attack, dragging blackmon throughout the house. fendant to stop; he eventually called the police. defendant finally stopped and left. blackmon went to the hospital where she was treated for her injuries, which included a laceration on her head that required 12 stitches, a broken nose, and a fractured skull. when police interviewed her at the hospital, she refused to identify defendant as the culprit. she testified that the reason she did not do so at the time was because she was afraid that the 5 police would not be able to protect her; defendant had friends and family members who took matters into their own hands. defense evidence a. defendant claimed that a third party fired the shots defendant testified on his own behalf. he denied ever icle. he claimed that the argument started when he placed his phone on his lap and blackmon thought it was a gun. blackmon had accused him of bringing a gun in her vehicle, while defendant insisted that he had not done so. defendant then asked her to drop him off at the douglas apartments. once there, defendant got out of the vehicle and noticed ied to convince blackmon to park inside the apartment complex, but she refused. the group suddenly fired shots, and defendant immediately ran inside the apartment complex. when blackmon called him shortly thereafter, he asked her to come back to the location so they c[.] defendant called back later and again insisted that she return so they could talk about it. defendant denied telling her he shot a gun. b. blackmon was the aggressor in their relationship defendant claimed that blackmon was the aggressor in their relationship. regarding the may 2001 incident, defendant testified that blackmon became belligerent after drinking. defendant told her that he wanted to leave and visit his mother. blackmon got upset and did not want him to leave. when defendant tried to walk away, she slapped him. defendant grabbed her. they wrestled each other, lost their balance, and fell on the coffee table where blackmon hit her head. blackmon 6 jumped back up and tried to swing at defendant. others at the gathering separated them, and defendant subsequently left. defendant claimed that his relationship with blackmon involved a lot of fighting. in the past, blackmon broke to run him over with her vehicle. tonya dunbar (dunbar), who had known defendant since childhood, testified that she was at the may 2001 gathering. according to dunbar, blackmon had been drinking all day and slapped defendant after an argument. defendant restrained her. the couple lost their balance and fell on the coffee table. when police arrived, dunbar witnessed blackmon telling them that she did not want to press charges. dunbar also denied that the rather, she claimed that blackmon suffered those injuries in a traffic accident a couple of months earlier.4 dr. terence sean mcgee testified and confirmed on may 15, 2001. discussion i. the trial court properly admitted evidence of d defendant contends that the trial court erred by admitting evidence of the may 2001 prior incident of domestic violence because it was unduly prejudicial. 4 on rebuttal, the prosecution introduced evidence from los gutierrez never saw dunbar at the gathering on may 15, 2001. deputy gutierrez also testified that she took photographs 7 a. relevant proceedings during a pretrial hearing, the prosecutor sought to introduce evidence of the may 2001 domestic violence incident. propensity to commit domestic violence (evid. code,  1109, subd. (a)(1)) and his intent in committing the current offenses (evid. code,  1101, subd. (b)). the trial court agreed and admitted the prior incident. the trial court also found that the prior incident did not warrant exclusion under evidence code section 352 since domestic violence was the basis of both the prior and current incidents, and evidence regarding the prior incident would not necessitate undue consumption of time. at trial, blackmon discussed the may 2001 incident. deputy gutierrez testified about her interactions with blackmon after she responded to the scene, which included taking photogdr. mcgee confirmed had observed during the incident. in closing argument, the prosecutor discussed how domestic violence victims often remain with their abusers and asked the jury to focus on why defendant continued to victimize fact he committed this crime back in 2001 and got away with it is nthe later, the prosecutor argued that the evidence of the ermine not only that [defendant is] an abuser in a domestic violence situation but what his intent may have been on the incident in intend to kill his victim? well, look at his victim from a few years before. broken skull, fractured nose, cut all up around the face, nose, forehead, eyes, hair weave pulled out into pieces and 8 thrown on the floor. that is what he did. that prior assault is . as is relevant to this issue, the jury was told not to consider evidence [that he] is a person of bad character or that he has a disintent. the trial court also told the jury how to evaluate whether the may 2001 incident constituted a domestic violence offense and what purpose it could be used for if it made such a finding: involving domestic violence, you may, but are not required to, infer that the defendant had a disposition to commit other offenses involving domestic violence. if you find that the defendant had this disposition, you may, but are not required to, infer that he was likely to commit and did commit the crime or crimes of which he is accused. that the defendant committed a prior crime or crimes involving domestic violence, that is not sufficient by itself to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he committed the charged offenses. if you determine an inference properly can be drawn from this evidence, this inference is simply one item for you to consider, along with all other evidence, in determining whether the defendant has been proved guilty beyond a reasonable doubt of the charged b. relevant law to be admissible, evidence must be relevant. (evid. code,  reason to prove [or disprove] a disputed fact of consequence to the people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1034; evid. code,  210.) a determination of relevant evidence includes whether 9 logically, naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts such as identity, intent, or motive. (people v. wilson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1237, 1245.) evidence of uncharged criminal acts is ordinarily acts. (evid. code,  1101.) in domestic violence cases, however, evidence code section 1109 creates an exception to evidence code section under evidence code section 1109, evidence of a prior act of domestic violence is admissible to prove the defendant had a propensity to commit domestic violence when the defendant is ct to exclusion by evidence code section 352. (people v. rucker (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1107, 1114; see also evid. code,  1109, subd. (a); people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 917; people v. johnson (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 410, 419420.) exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or cial than to the fairness people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 805.) prejudice in the context of evidence codapplies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues.people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612; 638; see also people v. poplar (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1129, 1138.) all evidence that tends to prove guilt is damaging to the defendant, but damaging evidence is not excluded unless it meets the more 10 stringent test of prejudice. (people v. karis, supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 638.) in evaluating propensity evidence under evidence code nsider such factors as its nature, relevance, and possible remoteness, the degree of certainty of its commission and the likelihood of confusing, misleading, or distracting the jurors from their main inquiry, its similarity to the charged offense, its likely prejudicial impact on the jurors, the burden on the defendant in defending against the uncharged offense, and the availability of less prejudicial alternatives to its outright admission, such as admitting some but not all of the . . . offenses, or excluding irrelevant though people v. falsetta, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 917.) the trial court must uncharged acts . . . was no stronger and no more inflammatory people v. harris (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 727, 738.) standard of review to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence, including one that turns on the relative probativeness and prejudice of the evidence in question people v. jablonski, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 805.) a evidence code section 352 will be overturned only if there was a manifest abuse of discretion; that is, if its decision was palpably arbitrary, capricious, and patently absurd. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 11241125; people v. jennings (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 1301, 1314.) c. analysis applying these legal principles, we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it admitted evidence of 11 the may 2001 incident of domestic violence. the incident involved the same victim (blackmon) with whom defendant was having a romantic relationship. it dpower over the victim and his propensity to commit acts of violence against her during heated arguments. it also tended to negate the defense theory that blackmon was the aggressor in their relationship and that defendant did not fire his gun at in committing the current offenses. furthermore, there was little risk of undue prejudice. incident was highly inflammatory, it was not significantly more inflammatory than the evidence of the charged offenses. the current offenses involved defendant possessing a deadly weapon, instigating an argument with his girlfriend, and firing multiple shots at her vehicle moments after exiting her vehicle. and, presentation of the evidence consumed little time and had little risk of misleading the jury. the entire testimony relating to the may 2001 incident was less than 60 pages of finally, the jury was properly instructed how to consider the evidence of the may 2001 incident. we presume the jury ns. (people v. letner and tobin (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 152.) d. harmless error even if the trial court had erred in admitting this evidence, which it did not, any error was harmless. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman); people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson).) as set forth above, the 12 vehicle; he threatened to kill blackmon when he exited her vehicle; and he fired several shots in her direction moments later. it follows that any error in admitting the may 2001 incident was harmless as a matter of law. ii. the trial court properly admitted evidence of defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by allowing the prosecutor to elicit evidence of his gang membership during cross-examination. a. relevant proceedings as set forth above, blackmon testified that after the may 2001 incident, she told police that she did not want to his army is faster than your army.when asked what blackmon meant, defense counsel objected and, at side bar, explained that she was concerned that blackmon was going to say that defendant was in a gang. the trial court instructed the prosecutor not to elicit any gang evidence. later, on direct examination, defendant testified that he could not think of any reason why blackmon would fear him, his friends, or his family members. with respect to the may 2001 incident, defendant testified that blackmon had no reason to fear his friends, that none of his friends had any reason to touch her, and that blackmon had no reason to fear the douglas apartments area. prior to cross-examination, the parties discussed whether the prosecutor could question defendant about his gang t defense counsel argued that she only questioned defendant about 13 whether blackmon feared his friends or the douglas apartments, neither of which had anything to do with gang membership. the prosecutor responded that the douglas apartments were the her to fear the apartments, no reason to fear him or his friends, the trial court agreed with the prosecutor and allowed him to question defendant about his gang affiliation. in so ruling, the attempt to contact other individuals in the area, and to suggest legitimate issue . . . that there are gang members throughout the if there wasshe was in fear of his friends or on cross-examination, the prosecutor asked defendant about his gang membership. he admitted that he used to be a piru gang member, but claimed that he gave it up in 2002. he confirmed that there were a lot of piru gang members who hung out at the douglas apartments. later, the prosecutor sought to introduce testimony from a gang expert. the trial court excluded such evidence. b. relevant law a trial court properly admits gang evidence when it is relevant to a material issue at trial. (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049; people v. martinez (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 400, 413.) gang evidence is not admissible when its only purpose 14 ence [that] the defendant committed people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 223; see also evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) determining the credibility of a witness any matter that has any tendency in reason to prove or disprove the truthfulness of his affiliation may be used for impeachment. (see, e.g., people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 277; people v. ruiz (1998) 62 cal.app.4th 234, 241242.) by taking the stand to testify, a defendant places his own credibility at issue and becomes subject to impeachment in the same manner as any other witness. (people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 1139.) even if relevant, gang evidence may be excluded under evidence code section 352 if it is more prejudicial than probative. (people v. avitia (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 185, 192.) gang testimony, for abuse of diwill not be disturbed in the absence of a showing it exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner people v. avitia, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 193.) c. analysis applying these legal principles, we conclude that the trial court properly allowed the prosecutor to impeach defendant with evidence of his gang membership. during her 911 call regarding the charged offenses, blackmon expressed concern about where she would meet the police because defendant had a lot of friends and family members in the neighborhood. moreover, blackmon testified that she was afraid to press charges against defendant regarding the may 2001 incident because defendant had a lot of 15 friends and family members who took matters into their own hands. defendant denied that blackmon had any reason to fear him, his friends, his family members, or the douglas apartments area. trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of in may 2001 and explained her concerns about meeting with police in 2004. moreover, the gang evidence was not more prejudicial than probative and would not have swayed the jury to find defendant guilty regardless of the other evidence presented at trial. (people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1051.) the gang evidence membership without providing any specific details of gang activity. no gang expert testified regarding gang culture or habits. given the important impeachment value of this evidence, the trial court properly admitted the gang evidence. relying upon people v. morrison (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 158, 163, defendant argues that the gang evidence was not but there rather, as set forth above, impeachment evidence is relevant when it tends to prove or  780.) and tmembership did hereclaim that blackmon had no reason to fear him, his friends, his 16 family, or the douglas apartments area. after all, it is common in re h.m. (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 136, 146.) defendant further argues that the trial court failed to discharge its duty to weigh the evidence under evidence code section 352. we disagree. the trial court is presumed to have performed its duty even if it did not expressly so state. (evid. code,  664; people v. carpenter (1999) 21 cal.4tcourt need not expressly state for the record [that it has engaged] people v. padilla (1995) 11 cal.4timplicit weighing by the trial court on the basis of record , overruled on other grounds in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1.) and there is ample evidence that the trial court was weighing the evidence throughout trial. it readily displayed its awareness of evidence code section 352 when it admitted evidence of the may 2001 incident. it prohibited gang expert from testifying. and, originally, the trial court and the parties agreed not to introduce any gang evidence during trial. that only changed after defendant testified and put his under these circumstances, we can infer that the trial court weighed the evidence before allowing it to be introduced. finally, defendant argues that reference to his gang membership was unnecessary since blackmon had already defendant contradicted his own testimony, thereby discrediting defendant. (people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 869 17 for testifying is relevant to the credibility of that witness and is therefore admissible. [citations.] an explanation of the basis for well within the discretion of the trial it follows that we rcourt violated his due process rights by admitting this evidence. d. harmless error even if the trial court had erred by allowing the prosecutor not, any error was harmless. (people v. avitia, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. ng or other evidence requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable that [the defendant] would have obtained a more favorable result had th; chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24; watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) as set forth above, the testimony was credible and corroborated by other evidence. for example, her 911 call made shortly after the shooting was consistent with her testimony and showed her fear of defendant and his friends and family. defendant contends that the error was prejudicial; in -examination: immediately afterwards a juror asked what defendant meant by the phrase .because the trial court was also confused, d 18 convicted defendant solely because of his gang affiliation. murder demonstrate that this was a jury only convicted him because of the gang evidence. rather, the jury could simply have determined that the prosecutor did not prove the elements of attempted murder, but did prove the elements of assault and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. iii. the matter is remanded for reconsideration of senate bill no. 620 defendant asserts that the matter should be remanded for resentencing on the firearm enhancement imposed under section 12022.5, subdivision (a), pursuant to senate bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.). authority to strike firearm enhancements proven under sections 12022.5 and 12022.53. but, senate bill no. 620, which became effective january 1, 2018, removed the prohibition; sections 12022.5 and 12022.53 now give trial courts the discretion to strike an enhancement. and, as the parties agree, the amended statutes apply retroactively. we therefore remand the matter to the trial court to consider whether to strike the firearm enhancements pursuant to the discretion now conferred by senate bill no. 620. in urging us to reject this argument, the people argue that remand is unnecessary because the appindicates [that] the trial court would not have exercised any 19 had the discretion to do so. we disagree. oceeded with sentencing on the . . . assumption it lacked discretion, remand is necessary so that the trial court may have the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion at a new sentencing hearing. [citations.] defendants are entitled to of its discretionary authority cannot exercise its informed people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, e record reveals a clear indication that the trial court would not have reduced the sentence even if at the required. (people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 1110.) the record of the sentencing hearing in this case contains with regard to imposition of the firearm enhancement it still would have imposed it. merely opting for the upper term of 10 years is insufficient. for that reason, as pointed out by defendant in his reply brief, people v. mcvey (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 405, 418419 (mcvey), is distinguishable. in mcvey, not only did the trial court sentence the defendant to possible term for the firearm enhancement, but in doing so, it also identified several aggravating factors, including the lack of callous reactionan unarmed homeless man six or seven times. (mcvey, supra, at p. 419.) here, in contrast, the trial court did not identify any factors in aggravation. thus, the matter must be remanded for resentencing. (people v. almanza, 20 supra, 24 cal.app.5th at p. 1110; people v. mcdaniels, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 425.) disposition the matter is remanded for resentencing pursuant to section 12022.5, subdivision (a), pursuant to senate bill no. 620. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ________________________, p. j. lui ________________________, j. chavez 