 filed 11/6/18 p. v. arnaud ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert julio arnaud, defendant and appellant. b283939 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga097819) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, teri schwartz, judge. affirmed in part and remanded with directions. leslie conrad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, deputy attorney 2 general, and lindsay boyd, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ appellant robert julio arnaud appeals the judgment of conviction after a jury found him guilty of the attempted and premeditated first-degree murder of antonio lizarraga. (pen. code,  664, subd. (a), 187, subd. (a).) 1 the jury also found true the allegations that the offense was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), and that arnaud personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury to the victim ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)). arnaud contends the trial court abused its discretion by failing to adequately address his request to replace appointed counsel pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). arnaud also contends he is entitled to remand so the trial court can exercise its newly enacted discretion to strike the firearm-use enhancements pursuant to senate bill no. 620 (stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2). we conclude remand for resentencing is warranted, but otherwise affirm. 1 all undesignated section references are to the penal code. 3 factual and procedural summary2 1. evidence at trial arnaud is an active member of the pasadena latin kings (plk or latin kings), a criminal street gang. he goes by the nickname chucky. as of december 2015, the plk had approximately 15 to 20 active members. the plk has a long-standing rivalry with the villa boys, another hispanic street gang based in pasadena. in december 2015, rafael garcia solorzano lived on sunset avenue in the city of pasadena. his cousin, jose garcia3, lived in the city of azusa and was a latin kings member. jose moya, a garage. solorzano instructed moya to move out of the house after learning he recently had been jumped into the villa boys. on december 29, 2015, solorzano arrived home from work where he saw a man walking up his driveway. the man was wearing a gray los angeles dodgers hoodie. the man told solorzano to stop letting vsolorzano asked the man who he was looking for. he did not receive an answer. as solorzano continued his approach, the man pulled out a revolver and aimed it towards the ground. solorzano did not recognize him but he later identified appellant arnaud in a photographic lineup. 2 we present the facts in the light most favorable to the judgment in accord with established principles of appellate review. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) 3 jose garcia was charged as a codefendant for accessory after the fact and possession of a firearm by a felon. he was tried separately. 4 later that night, solorzano conducted a search on facebook to identify the man who wielded the firearm. he found a person wearing the same gray dodgers sweatshirt, whom he later identified ay. solorzano discovered that chucky shared a mutual friend on facebook with his cousin, garcia. chucky had visited at 8:35 p.m., solorzano sent a message to garcia on ucking up. coming to my within less than one hour, garcia replied to solorzano through at approximately 10:00 p.m. that evening, a group of men, including moya and antonio lizaragga, purchased some beer at a liquor store in pasadena.4 the group of men walked to a nearby . mustang convertible exited the parking lot across the street, made a u-turn, and pulled into the driveway . the vehicle stopped in the lot. lizarraga threw a beer can at the car. one of the passengers pulled out a firearm and fired two to three shots towards moya and lizarraga. one of the bullets struck can of beer. lizarraga fell to the ground after he was shot in his left leg. the passenger who fired the shots was a hispanic male who wore a gray hooded sweatshirt. 4 one witness testified she saw a group of three to four men while moya testified that only he and lizarraga were present. 5 pasadena police department officer kourtney zilbert responded to the shooting. she activated an audio recording device and interviewed moya. moya told officer zilbert that the red mustang belonged to chucky, and that chucky was the shooter who sat in the passenger seat. was wearing a gray hoodie. moya did not have a beef with chucky and no gang signs were thrown. according to officer zilbert, moya described the gun as a small revolver, possibly .22 caliber.5 alex padilla is a forensic specialist for the pasadena police department. padilla booked several items into evidence, including empty beer cans, a metal fragment, a fixed-blade knife, gunshot residue testing, and two bags of clothing from lizarraga. the metal fragment was later determined to be the remnants of .22 caliber ammunition. pasadena police department officer michael herrera interviewed lizarraga at the hospital following the shooting. lizarraga confirmed the gunshots came from a red vehicle outside detective david duran found a facebook account under the y search warrant for the records associated with this account. the account was linked to -mail address. afacebook account included photographs of: arnaud wearing a blue and gray los angeles dodgers jersey; the trunk area of a ford mustang, along with a mustang logo just below the keyhole 5 the record is conflicting on this point. officer zilbert the audio transcript from the interview reflects that moya did not actually see the gun. 6 of a red emblem; a y ; and the gravestone of a deceased plk member, surrounded by six rounds of ammunition. detective duran also reviewed messages from facebook account. in july 2015, arnaud sent two messages about gang homie? u from wcs right? i b hearin bout u lil niggas is tact active thas wassup hit me up we smash on niggas . . . fuk suckas, 6 work me u knoe any of the homies detective duran also obtained a warrant to search the an incoming message received on nine days later, arnaud received a message y, be careful my nigga. the ruffles had a 7 an incoming message received on december 16, 2015 asked which is the moniker for jose moreno, a latin kings member. residence in azusa. a 2007 red ford mustang with a beige convertible top was parked in the driveway. he observed a 6 plk members use anillasas a derogatory term in reference to villa boys. 7 gang, varrio pasadena riffa. 7 splash or spill pattern along the front fender and passenger door of the vehicle. a chucky character mask was inside the trunk and a chucky hood ornament was on the dashboard. no weapons or ammunition were found in the vehicle. through an automated license plate reader system. the license plate reader placed the vehicle at the 1100 block of sunset , approximately two hours before the shooting. near the scene of the shooting, starting at approximately 7:37 p.m. phone was tracked heading in an easterly direction towards azusa, starting at 11:55 p.m. the following morning, arnaud was arrested after residence. detectives duran and gomez interviewed arnaud in county jail. arnaud admitted the red musbelonged to him and that his nickname is chucky. when asked if with certain gang members, including garcia. his gang colors are black and gold. arnaud denied his involvement in the shooting, claiming at the time of the shooting. following the interview, arnaud called his girlfriend, guadalupe alcaraz. arnaud rebollar) to tell him stomps [the leader of villa boys] and tell him to tell whoever the fuck is lying on me to fucking, alcaraz visited arnaud in jail two days later. arnaud claimed someone from villa boys had implicated him in the shooting. alcaraz visited arnaud again the next day. 8 alcaraz said she talked to shorty, who in turn talked to stomper, and 2. verdict and sentencing arnaud was found guilty of the attempted murder of lizarraga. the jury found true the allegations that the attempted murder was willful, deliberate and premeditated ( 664, subd. (a)), and that the offense was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the jury also found true three enhancement allegations for personal use of a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), personally and intentionally discharging a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), and personally and intentionally discharging a firearm, causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). arnaud admitted he suffered a prior strike within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12) and a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the trial court sentenced arnaud to 60 years to life. the sentence consisted of 15 years to life for the base offense and corresponding gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5) [15-year minimum term required before defendant may be considered for parole], doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years for the prior serious felony conviction, plus a consecutive 25 years-to-life term for personally and intentionally discharging a firearm, causing great bodily injury. the court stayed the imposition of sentence on the remaining firearm use enhancements, and struck the sentence on the gang enhancement. 9 discussion 1. the was not error arnaud contends the trial courtaddress his request for a substitution of appointed counsel violated his constitutional rights.8 we disagree. 1.1 proceedings below on april 19, 2016, before the beginning of his preliminary hearing, arnaud requested a substitution of counsel, deputy alternate public defender thomas lee. according to arnaudand mr. lee are [not] seeing eye-to-need a p.d. nobody out of pasadena. i feel like i should get a state appointed. . . . i feel like i need somebody else to represent the court told arnaud that it was very early in the process and that counsel only had access to police reports at that point in the case. lee conceded he had not had the opportunity to communicate with arnaud for the last few weeks, but stated that 8 although appellate arguments sometimes conflate portions of the record from both the april 19 and may 9 marsden hearings, as we read his briefs, arnaud is challenging hearing. it appears to us that he refers to the first marsden proceeding for context only. to the extent he challenges the ruling on his first marsden motion, we deem it to be forfeited for two reasons: (1) failure to make a meaningful and intelligible argument concerning that proceeding; and (2) failure to state every point under a separate heading or subheading summarizing the point. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.204(a)(1)(b); in re s.c. (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 396, 408.) 10 during their last meeting he advised arnaud what to expect at the preliminary hearing and explained what evidence would be leveled against him. lee also placed blame on co-defendant garcialee assured the court he would make himself more available to arnaud going forward. the court told arnaud that lee was an excellent lawyer see eye-to-eye. arwe have kind of like -- -to-eye with the court denied the marsden motion without prejudice, explaining that arnaud was free to renew his motion in the future. the court observed that arnaud was obviously frustrated with the fact that lee had not spent much time with him, but it believed lee would provide effective assistance of counsel going forward. the case proceeded to trial. on may 9, 2017, following defense cross-examination of fbi special agent michael easter9, the people recalled detective court excused the jury and conducted a marsden hearing. arnaud told the court he talked to lee about settling the case prior to trial. at that time, lee told arnaud that the 9 special agent easter testified about cell phone tower geo-location methods. 11 prosecutor would not accept less than 33 years and that he the day before the hearing, lee reiterated to arnaud that he was not going to win. arnaud opined that lee had not made a sufficient effort to win the case, and that he would have a better chance with another attorney. the court noted the people were almost done presenting their case-in-chief, and lee confirmed he was going to call defense witnesses. the court then asked arnaud for any specific complaints about counsel. arnaud believed lee should have cross-examined detective duran more extensively, and complained that lee failed to pursue an alibi defense. arnaud also complained that a private investigator retained by lee only interviewed his family, and failed to talk to lizarraga, moya or garcia. the court asked them to attempt to resolve these issues during a break. after the break, arnaud addressed the court as follows: -- or nothing back there. actually, it was the opposite, so -- the court: okay. so, mr. lee, do you have your witnesses? mr. lee: i do. the cknow if you had a chance to speak with your client about [sic]. but mr. lee: i was going to get into that when i was called out. the ci have to deny the motion. because for me to grant it i would be remedied; and that your attorneyor that your attorney is providing ineffective assistance. [] and in all candor, he is doing 12 else there is that you wanted him to do earlier on thadone. but i promise you we can address it at another time. i just of trial. [] but i wouldmarsden the issue was never revisited. 1.2 applicable law a defendant is entitled to new appointed counsel if the record clearly shows counsel is not providing adequate representation or that he and counsel have become so embroiled in conflict that ineffective representation is likely to result. (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1085.) when a defendant complains about the adequacy of appointed counsel, the trial court must (1) give him or her an opportunity to explain the causes of dissatisfaction and, if any of them suggest ineffective assistance, (2) conduct an inquiry sufficient to ascertain whether counsel is in fact rendering effective assistance. (ibid; marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at pp. 123124.) tactical disagreements between the defendant and counsel do not by themselves constitute an irreconcilable conflict. (in re m.p. (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 441, 458.) in addition, the number of times one sees [her] attorney, and the way in which one relates with [her] attorney, does not sufficiently establish incompetence.[citation.] (id. at pp. 458459.) once a defendant is afforded an opportunity to state his or her reasons for seeking to discharge an appointed attorney, the decision whether or not to grant a motion for substitution of counsel lies within the discretion of the trial judge. the court does not abuse its discretion in denying a marsden motion 13 would substantially impair the defendants right to assistance of counsel. [citations.] substantial impairment of the right to counsel can occur when the appointed counsel is providing inadequate representation or when the defendant and the attorney have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is likely to [ci(people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 912.) the court has wide latitude in balancing the right to counsel of choice against the needs of fairness and the demands of its calendar. (people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 872.) this is be[s]ubstitution of appointed counsel threatens to waste public resources by creating duplicative representation and repetitive investigation at taxpayer expense.free substitution as a matter of right would present an undesirable oppdelay trials and otherwise embarrass effective prosecution people v. lara (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 139, 151.) 1.3 analysis applying the marsden test to this case, we find no error in denying the motion for substitute counsel. the trial court gave arnaud wide latitude to articulate his complaints about counsel, and none of his complaints rise to the level of ineffective assistance or an irreconcilable conflict. arnaud relies on people v. munoz (1974) 41 cal.app.3d 62 (munoz) to support his argument that lee was unable to prospects at trial. not so. 14 in munoz, the defendant requested a substitution of counsel after complaining that his appointed counsel said he did not want to defend him, and also told the defendant he was guilty and had no chance at trial. (munoz, supra, 41 cal.app.3d at pp. 6466.) the court denied the opinion did not prevent him from providing effective representation. (id. at p. 64.) the court of the attorney-client relationship contemplates trust and mutual cooperation, particularly when the attorney is defending the clients libertyif after appointment the attorney becomes convinced of his clients guilt to the extent that he is unable to defend the client vigorously and effectively at the trial, he should withdraw from the case.id. at p. 66.) unlike munoz, the record does not reflect that lee took a ed an unwillingness to remain on the case. own representations, lee simply expressed a candid evaluation of his prospects at trial in a private setting. counsel is not expected to misrepresent the likely results to his client. (see in re vargas (2000) 83 thus, munoz is unavailing. out the scope of lee-examination was a disagreement over trial tactics, which does not warrant a substitution of counsel. (people v. mckenzie (1983) 34 cal.3d 616, 631 [scope of whether and how to conduct cross-examination is one such tactical decision, which must yield to appointed counsel], abrogated on other grounds in people v. crayton (2002) 28 cal.4th 346, 365.) a defendant is not entitled 15 to claim that an irreconcilable conflict has arisen merely due to a disagreement with counsel over reasonable tactical decisions. (people v. lara, supra, 86 cal.app.4th at p. 151.) [sic] and that the private investigator did not interview certain witnesses were tactical decisions and do not rise to the level of ineffective assistance of counsel. the record gives us no reason to question whether counsel made a reasonable choice by declining to pursue efense counsel was not obliged to pursue futile lines of defense simply because defendant demanded them, and his refusal to do so did not justify his removal as counsel.people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 432; see people v. barnett, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 1096 [no right to appointed counsel who will accede to all of whims].) lastly, arnaud contends his complaints warranted further questioning of leeadequate appellate review. citing people v. armijo (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 1171 (armijo), arnaud asserts the error cannot be treated as harmless because it is impossible to determine what other evidence he might have offered had he been afforded the opportunity to press his claims. armijo does not support s position. in armijo, the trial court failed to hold a marsden hearing after the defendant wrote two letters to the court requesting the discharge of the public defender. (people v. armijo, supra, at p. 1173.) the court of appeal conditionally reversed the judgment with directions to hold a marsden hearing, noting [u]nder these circumstances, we cannot speculate upon the basis of a silent record that the trial court, after listening to 16 defendants reasons, would decide the appointment of new counsel id. at p. 1183.) unlike armijo, the trial court conducted two marsden arnaud was afforded the opportunity to explain the basis of his marsden requests and to cite specific instances of counsels purported inadequate performance. counsel was limited, his complaints were nothing more than tactical disagreements between arnaud and lee. (people v. panah, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 431432.) given the nature of question lee. (see people v. turner (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 1214, 1219 related by defendant, it may be necessary for the court also to question his .) accordingly, we find no basis for concluding that the trial court either failed to conduct an adequate marsden inquiry or abused its discretion in declining to substitute new counsel. b. remand pursuant to senate bill no. 620 as discussed, the trial court imposed a 25-years-to-life sentence enhancement for personally and intentionally discharging a firearm and proximately causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), and stayed the remaining firearm-use enhancements ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(c)). at the time of sentencing, the court was not authorized to strike these enhancements in the interest of justice. (former  12022.53, subd. (h); people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080, 1090.) in 2017, the governor signed senate bill no. 620 (stats. 17 2017, ch. 682,  2), which amended section 12022.53. the statute now allows the trial court, in the interest of justice, to strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed under section 12022.53. ( 12022.53, subd. (h).) arnaud contends he is entitled to the retroactive benefit of senate bill no. 620 because the judgment is not final. the attorney general concedes the statute is retroactive and that arnaud is entitled to a remand for resentencing. we accept this concession. (people v. woods, supra, 19 cal.app.5th at pp. 10891091.) disposition the sentence is vacated and the case is remanded to allow the trial court an opportunity to strike the firearm enhancement, in the interest of justice, pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (h). the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official report micon, j.* we concur: manella, p. j. collins, j. *judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 