filed 11/30/18 p. v. foreman ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffrey keith foreman, defendant and appellant. b283561 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba452661) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. brian c. mccomas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 middle of the night to retrieve belongings their mother left at his house. they verbally and physically sparred with defendant, who ensuing trial for assault with a firearm and possession of a firearm by a felon, both children alluded to prior domestic violence between defendant and their mother. defense counsel promptly objected to their testimony as contrary to a pretrial agreement and twice moved for a mistrial. the trial court denied the motions for mistrial, and defense counsel declined a curative instruction. the jury found defendant guilty of both offenses. defendant now contends the trial court erred in denying statements not only unduly prejudiced him but also constituted testimonial hearsay that violated his right to confrontation. we disagree and affirm. procedural history an amended information charged defendant with one count of assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2))1 and one count of unlawful possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)).2 the amended information alleged as to the assault count that defendant personally used a handgun and inflicted great bodily injury on the victim ( 12022.5, 12022.7, subd. (a)). 1all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2the amended information also charged defendant with attempted murder ( 187, subd. (a) & 664) and related enhancements ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), & (d)), but the trial set aside that count. 3 it also alleged that defendant suffered a prior conviction within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant pled not guilty to the charges and denied the allegations. a jury found defendant guilty of the charged offenses but found the enhancement allegations not true. defendant later admitted the prior conviction. the trial court sentenced him to the midterm of three years on the assault count and imposed an additional one year for the prison prior, for a total sentence of four years. the court imposed the midterm of two years on the possession count, but stayed that sentence pursuant to section 654. defendant timely appealed. factual background tyra wallace testified that her mother was dating defendant on december 17, 2016; defendant was in his fifties at 3 mother called aanswer. she also called the police to ask for help retrieving the items from defendant, because she knew her mother and assistance because they were responding to a homicide. tyra decided not to wait for the police; she and her friend destiny, house to retrieve the items. 3we refer to tyra wallace and her brother, tramell wallace, by their first names to avoid confusion. 4 defendant followed her and initiated a shoving match. during the scuffle, tyra saw defendant reaching for a small silver gun that was concealed beneath a pillow on the bed. tyra ran back downstairs and exited the house before defendant grabbed the gun. she returned to her car and called her older brother, tramell wallace, who was 28 at the time. tyra asked defendant hit her, and that he had a gun. tramell told her to leave and wait for him, so she drove around the corner. tyra testified that tramell4 arrived about five to seven minutes later. he parked his car in the middle of the street parked several houses down. tramell stayed in his car and used his cell phone to call defendant. tramell testified that defendant did not answer, so he left at least one and possibly two angry voicemails for defendant. tramell testified that he was angry - - he took my mother car [sic 4tramell was accompanied by his friend, charles queen, who was also about 28 years old. queen remained in the car until after tramell was shot. 5 defendant eventually exited his house. tyra testified that tramell and defendant began verbally arguing; tramell testified t the first time something like this has tramell, tyra saw defendant reach into his right pocket about tyra nevertheless approached defendant and demanded the keys. defendant responded by pushing her in the arms and chest. this physical confrontation angered tramell, who got out of his car and approached defendant. tramell testified that he minute or two, though tramell testified that defendant never swung back at him. pulled out ttoward tramell aright thigh as he ran to his car. 6 tyra called 911 at 4:22 a.m.; the prosecutor played the 911 call for the jury. during the call, tyra told the operator that car back [sic [sicgive us back her keys, he pulled out a gun on us so we just trying to get our mom [sic los angeles police department officer william hines and through-and-thrfor tramell and then, with additional officers, surrounded taken into custody without incident; hines did not see any injuries on him. no gun was recovered from defendant or his home. hours of december 17, 2016 when she was awakened by the doorbell and yelling. she stayed in her room and later heard defendant came back into the house after she heard the bang and 7 walked upstairs. candice did not remember telling police officers that she saw someone push defendant before she heard the bang discussion defendant argues that the court should have granted a mistrial. he contends that both tyra and tramell violated a that occurred between defendant and their mother,5 thereby putting testimonial hearsay before the jury, violating his confrontation clause rights, and depriving him of a fair trial. we conclude the court did not abuse its discretion in denying his requests for mistrial. i. background prior to trial, counsel and the court had the following colloquy: defenssome point earlier before the actual conduct that makes up this case between my client and ms. white that gave rise to ms. record, that [the prosecutor] will introduce that the adult children, one of them being the alleged victim in the matter, went 5defendant also asserts that hines violated the order when he testified, in response to a question asked by defense counsel during cross-examinationupset about the way his mother was treated and also about him defense counsel did not object to this testimony at trial or request a mistrial after its admission. any arguments related to this testimony are accordingly forfeited. 8 belongings that were at the home of my client. [domestic violence] incidents or auto theft or anything like that. it does not appear that defense counsel made a formal motion in limine to exclude evidence of prior incidents between defendant and his girlfriend, or that the court made a formal ruling excluding the evidence. the above colloquy is the only pretrial discussion of the issue that appears in the appellate record. on direct examination, the prosecutor asked tyra what she told her that you were therinterrupted by an objection from defense counsel. at sidebar, the t said it was not clear that the al. she did not assert that the statement was testimonial hearsay or argue that it violated the confrontation clause. the court took the request under submission. after the lunch recess, defense counsel reiterated her made an express 402 for this 9 mention anything about that uncharged, [sic] behavior for which the defense, in these kinds of situations, in a tenuous position. said it understood her c have any direct knowledge of what may have occurred between has nothing to do with the defense [of self-defense], which i think is a strong defense since he is in his home and his home is being barged into in the middle of the nighthe court also explicitly warned the next witness, tramell, that defendant here, mr. foreman, that happened before you ended understood. on the stand, tramell mistreated, and my mom been mistreated [sic]. and i have to go at sidebar, defense counsel argued that tramell 10 cautioned about it less than an hour earlier. she again requested jury has heard the same tthe prosecutor responded that the jury already knew that tyra just something happened, then they could think they broke up. they got in an argument. thethings combined together are completely and totally unfair to my client. it muddies his c mistreated can be interpreted in a lot of different ways. and she could have been mistreated because the defendant wouher her [sicobviously, the jury knows that there is some sort of dispute going hing kind of defense counsel ultimately decided not to request a curative instruction. during closing, she argued that defendant 11 acted reasonably under the circumstances and shot tramell to defend himself, his family, and his property. she also argued were upset because of whatever happened between my client and ii. standard of review we apply the deferential abuse of discretion standard when reviewing rulings on motions for mistrial. (people v. wallace the court is apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by ibid.) such cases are exceptional. (people v. mcnally (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1419, by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions. [citpeople v. wallace, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. for a finding of incurable prejudice. (people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 565.) defendant agrees that abuse of discretion is the whether a statement was testimonial so as to implicate the people v. nelson (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1453, 1466; see also people v. mayo (2006) 140 as to the admissibility of evidence (including the application of the exceptions to the hearsay rule) for abuse of discretion [citations] and the legal question whether admission of the 12 or traprejudicial nature of the testimony. defendant argues that the expre as an agreement by the parties to avoid discussion of certain evidence. even if we were to equate such an agreement to a motion in limine, a motion a specific legal ground for exclusion was advanced through an in limine motion and subsequently raised on appeal; (2) the in limine motion was directed to a particular, identifiable body of evidence; and (3) the in limine motion was made at a time, either before or during trial, when the trial judge could determine the people v. whisenhunt (2008) 44 cal.4th 174, 210.) here, undue prejudice was the only legal ground defendant advanced as a basis for explain their reasoning, and the court did not consider or rule on the hearsay or testimonial nature of the evidence. defendant therefore has forfeited any argument that the evidence was testimonial hearsay that violated his confrontation rights.6 (see people v. redd 6even if he had preserved the issue, we are not persuaded that the challenged statements meet the definition of hearsay (evid. code,  1200, subd. (a)); they therefore cannot be testimonial hearsay (see people v. perez (2018) 4 cal.5th 421, 455). 13 objection below based upon the confrontation clause, and ; see also people v. dykes numerous decisions by this court have established the s failure to object to claimed evidentiary error on the same ground asserted on appeal results in a forfeiture of ]; evid. code,  353.) iii. analysis after considering the statements to which defendant objected, the trial court concluded that they did not incurably prejudice defendant. this was not an abuse of discretion. the court astutely observed that the nature of the case was something happened between your client, the defendant, and herwise, there would be no reason for uncontroverted testimony that her mother called her and asked her to retrieve some belhome. indeed, defense counsel acknowledged during the pretrial hearing that the prosecutor could introduce evidence that tyra defense counsel also raised no objection to the 911 call, sic] car 14 provided a basis from which the jury could infer that defendant and his girlfriend had a tumultuous relationship, and that the taken it or refused to return it to her. the brief and isolated dd little to this body of evidence. a trial court should people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 555.) these statements, considered alone or together,did not meet this high threshold, particularly where it is defendant alternatively argues that the statements from the bona fide evidence of self-defense, defense of home, and 7 and that the statements and the prejudice they caused tipped the balance in thauto theft allegations were so prejudicial that no limiting 7 send a message to everybody involved in the case that while the defendant is, in fact, technically guilty, that they felt that there 15 only added to the prejudice imparted by its discretion to conclude otherwise. -defense [for an assault charge under section 245], the defendant must have an honest and reasonable belief that bodily injury is about to be inflicted on both subjectively exist and be objectively reasonable. [citation.] people v. brady (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1008, 1014.) the issue is not whether the defendant had reasonable grounds for believing he or she was in danger; it is ordinary and normal mental and physical capacity would have believed he [or she] was in imminent danger of bodily injury id. at p. 1015.) the statements at issue are of limited relevance to this objective inquiry. to the extent the jury heard them, they may -defense argument by underscoring the anger tyra and tramell harbored toward defendant when they and their friends arrived at his home in the middle of the night, and the reasonableness of any fear he may have felt. defense counsel may have recognized this possibility when she made the tactical decision to decline a curative instruction. moreover, we are not persuaded that the case was as close as defendant suggests. all four prosecution witnesses testified that they either saw or heard the gunshot or personally observed 16 case, self-defense or defense of others, necessarily operated as a concession that he shot tramell. the jury heard also heard that he acted in self-defense against four rowdy twenty-somethings who threatened him and his family. tyra and not involved in the altercations. defendant was the instigator of both physical confrontations with tyra, who ran away when he attempted to grab his gun the first elected to go outside, away from his family members, with his gun. he threatened to shoot tramell long before the conflict became physical, and continued to threaten tramell with property theft even after shooting him. in the face of this evidence and personal observation of the witnesses who provided it, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that defendant was not so prejudiced as to warrant a mistrial. disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p.j. micon, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 