 filed 7/31/19 p. v. robbins ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. garth allen robbins, defendant and appellant. b283582 los angeles county super. ct. no. ga088055 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, stan blumenfeld, judge. affirmed. david andreason, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and heather b. arambarri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 garth allen robbins appeals from a jury verdict finding him guilty of two first degree murders with special circumstances and two counts of arson. he argues his statements to an undercover police officer should have been suppressed, trial counsel was ineffective when he conceded during closing argument that robbins had set the fire, he was denied his right personally to enter a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity, and the court should have granted his motion to replace his counsel. we affirm. background an information filed august 30, 2013 charged robbins with the murders of clif clark (count 1) and paul boyd (count 2) under penal code1 section 187, subdivision (a); one count of arson causing great bodily injury to perry simons (count 4) under section 451, subdivision (a); and one count of arson of an inhabited building (count 19) under section 451, subdivision (b). the information also charged 15 counts of attempted murder, which were dismissed before trial. the information alleged arson and multiple-murder special circumstances for the murders, and alleged the use of an accelerant on the arson counts. after incompetent to stand trial, the trial court held a competency hearing on november 18, 2014, and r robbins competent to stand trial. the court later held an evidentiary hearing and 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 a recorded conversation he had with an undercover police detective while in jail. the case went to trial in april 2017, and we summarize the evidence below. 1. the november 1, 2012 fire at 1385 el sereno when pasadena firefighters responded to a report of a structural fire at 1385 el sereno in the early morning of november 1, 2012, they found the house ablaze. they searched inside for victims, leading out twelve men. three men were carried out: clif clark and paul boyd were dead, and perry simons was badly burned.2 everyone who lived in the building was accounted for except for robbins, and all uniformed patrol officers were advised to be on the lookout for him. a fire investigator arrived at the scene that night when the fire was nearly out and the two dead bodies were on the lawn covered in sheets. as he walked down the driveway, he saw and photographed a green scripto disposable barbecue lighter wedged between the driveway and a chain-link fence gate. the investigator examined the outside of the house, and then went inside. the 3,000 square foot house had 20 bedrooms, and he walked through all three floors. after examining smoke patterns and the severity of the fire damage, he concluded that the fire began in a first floor bedroom near the front entrance of the house (room no. 1). . . . a fire in a room to a room on . 2 simons was taken to the hospital. he was treated with skin grafts, and spent six months in a convalescent center. he lost everything he had when the house was cleaned out after the fire. 4 sifting through the remains of a pile of clothing in the room, the investigator was met with an overwhelming smell of gasoline. using a combustible gas detector, he found combustible gas in the pile and on other areas of the floor. he also found at least three aerosol cans with the bottom ends blown out. fire overpressurizes such cans until they release and explode with a very loud bang, like a firework. after the floor was cleaned and someone had poured an ignitable liquid (such as gasoline) on the floor on his way out of the room. the investigator concluded that the fire had been set intentionally, and the first fuel was gasoline vapor ignited with an open flame device. the clothing taken from room no. 1 tested positive for gasoline. robbins lived in room no. 1. thurman johnson lived on the second floor in room no. 4, . the house had a front entrance and a back entrance, both on the main floor. johnson kept his electric little red moped with a basket on the front, which he kept outside behind the driveway gate by the garage. robbins was something of a hoarder, and never cleaned. the house had a cockroach problem, and the bugs hid in the stuff three or four days before the fire, johnson helped robbins clear out his room so the building were stored in the garage, and the rest were loaded onto a truck and taken somewhere else. robbis room was cleaned, recarpeted, and painted, and a bed, a chair, and a table were moved back in. 5 on halloween night 2012, johnson came home from his cleaning job around 12:30 a.m., and began to cook chili for himself in the kitchen. robbins came in the back entrance, walked through the kitchen and said hello, and then went to the bathroom and into his room, closing his door. robbins, who was ; johnson had seen him take a whipping without fighting back. after five minutes, robbins left his room carrying two bags, closed the door, [s]ee you , and left by the front door. robbins got on his moped and left, closing the driveway gate, which had a padlock to which robbins had a key. johnson left the kitchen five to ten minutes later and went upstairs to his room. just as he began to eat, he heard a loud boom from downstairs, and all the lights in the house went out. he went downstairs to investigate and saw orange fire coming sed door. he grabbed a fire extinguisher and sprayed around the door, and when it ran out he went back upstairs to get another extinguisher. another boom blew the for everyone to get out of their rooms and ran down the hallway hitting doors. the front exit was blocked by the fire shooting out johnson climbed over the driveway gate, which was locked, to get to the front of the house. he grabbed the water hose in his hand and threw rocks at the upstairs window to wake up his friend clif, until the police told him to go to the other side of the street. the fire department arrived as tenants were coming out of the house. johnson saw the two dead men brought out of the house in bags; his friend clif was one of them. johnson lost everything in the fire. 6 ricky kindred, who lived in a room two doors away from robbins, also heard the loud bang at around 2:00 a.m. on november 1, 2012. hand saw a small fire on the carpet when johnson opened the door. johnson went to get the fire extinguisher. when the fire got out of control, johnson shouted for everyone to leave and kindred left through the back entrance. the driveway gate was open. kindred was able to reclaim most of his possessions when, weeks later, he was allowed back into the house. a second-floor resident said he stopped interacting with robbins after robbins stopped bathing and had an unpleasant smell. he woke up to smoke alarms on the morning of the fire, and the hallway was full of smoke. he pulled his air conditioner out of his window, climbed out, and clambered down drain pipes to the ground. laurence white, the resident manager of the boarding house, explained that the cockroach problem was mainly in robbins did not leave his door open for the exterminators but they cleaned his room out and sprayed it anyway; robbins never said he was upset about that. of the fire. white grabbed a fire extinguisher and headed from too hot to even look in, so he went down to the basement to wake people up and then headed out the back door. 2. the investigation at around 5:45 a.m. on the morning of the fire, police arrested robbins after they found him asleep in a pancake restaurant; he was courteous and cooperative. his red scooter was parked behind the restaurant. in a rite aid bag in the 7 storage compartment on the back of the scooter was empty packaging from a scripto lighter, which perfectly fit the lighter found outside the house. wallet held money and receipts, including one from a transaction at 7:00 p.m. on october 31, 2012 at a bank of america near a rite aid store. the clothing he was wearing tested negative for gasoline. after robbins was booked and placed in custody at the police station, he was moved to an interview room where detectives read him his rights under miranda v. state of arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). he invoked his right to counsel and the detectives stopped questioning him. the next day, a pasadena police detective who worked undercover was placed construction worker, with a digital recorder attached to his forearm under his long-sleeved shirt. this was the first time he had been undercover inside a jail. he had been told that a suspect had been arrested, and was in jail after invoking his miranda rights. only he and robbins, who was seated at a table, were in the room. the detective sat on the other side of the table with his tray of food, and began a 40-minute recorded conversation; the recording was played trial. the detective asked if he could sit down and robbins said sure. the two men discussed the food and their health. the detective asked why robbins was in a prison jumpsuit, and robbins explained the police took all his clothes for evidence. well, i just goti just 8 got kind of mad that night. i set the house on fire. . . . the house [s]ooner or later, i juststand it. i just gave in to it he explained he had been renting a room in the . i the detective asked how robbins did it, and he answered: i had a lawnmower in the back. and it had a can of gasoline. so, i just spread it around in the living room and . . . i poured the gas out. and then, i lit it. . . . i never tried it before. i just, uh, kind of leaned over and lit it with the barbecue lighter thing. had been awake thinking, while people were sleeping. there were 20 people living in the house. the detective said, the detective asked if robbins was trying to hurt the other people in the house, n trying to work it . the whole . . . , what thei did this. uh . . . resisting the impulse has left me depressed in the past. . . . i thought about doing it a lot of times, yeah. but, i [w]hat d[id] robbins i 9 been to the mental hospital. and i told them i had. but, forfor been to thethe mental hospital a couple of times in the last couple of years, while i get depressed. and i just stop taking care of myself. and my and so big toto such little robbins said he just emptied the gasoline can on the floor; they ago there was a fire in pasadena, and two older guys died. robbins said the fire was on el sereno. robbins said he used to work as a chemist but it was too stressful. he explained how he poured the gasoline out of the valve clearly. . . . . . . right afte did various things. i drove around. i just, i was feeling happy. . . . yeah, i was feeling very happy. i drove around. i he had moved into the house on el sereno after he got out of the mental hospital. the detective suggested that he could have told the landlord or someone that the other tenants had there was bugs coming out. 10 and ifor, uh, complaining. but, the thought just popped into my head. and before i knew it, i was doing it. yeah. he could have warned the good residents and just gone after the bad ones, but robbins them. i think it was just getting rid of my old life. just like . . . burning bridges. i could have just easily just gone out the door and just never come back and not done anything to anyone, i me happy. iyou know, mythey say everyone has dark thoughts, every once in a while. you know, and you resist them. and i alwaysi always resisted them and tried to get over them. but, then, when ione time i gave in to it, ijust it made me really happy. and i mean, ii spent the next day and this morning, and all day today, kind of happy, even though i my the detective testified that robbins never cried or acted sad during the conversation. robbins waived his right to testify in his own defense. after deliberating for just over an hour, the jury convicted robbins of all counts, finding both murders to be first degree, and finding true all the allegations and special circumstances. the court sentenced robbins to two consecutive terms of life without parole on the murder convictions, with an additional consecutive term of 14 years for arson causing great bodily injury (including a five-year enhancement for the use of an accelerant). the court imposed 13 years for arson of an inhabited building, staying the sentence under section 654. robbins was ordered 11 to pay fines and fees, and received presentence custody credit. he filed a timely appeal from the judgment. discussion 1. the motion to suppress was properly denied defense counsel moved to suppress on due process grounds officer, based on his earlier invocation of his right to counsel. the court conducted an evidentiary hearing at which the court heard testimony (including from robbins and the undercover officer) and vulnerable, and his will was overborne when the physically imposing undercover detective engaged in the recorded conversation with him. the court denied the suppression motion in a written opinion. tthat under california case law the statements were not in violation of miranda, given that robbins had been unaware he was speaking to a police officer. the due process clause was not violated because rob the audiotape showed that robbins was unguarded and open with the friendly undercover officer, showed significant insight into his actions and emotions, and never showed any signs that he was intimidated. the court concluded that robbins was not coerced into confessing, and denied the motion to suppress. on appeal, robbins argues that despite california case law, the jail pod conversation was an interrogation subject to mirandaustodial interrogation after a suspect has invoked his right to counsel. we disagree. 12 in illinois v. perkins (1990) 496 u.s. 292, 296-297 (perkins), the supreme court held that a conversation between an incarcerated suspect (who had not been given miranda warnings) and an undercover agent posing as a fellow inmate was not custodial interrogation, and therefore did not require warnings under mirandamiranda that the danger of coercion results from the interaction of custody and official interrogation. . . . when the suspect has no reason to think that the listeners have official power over him, it should not be assumed that his words are motivated by the reaction he perkins, at p. 297.) although custodthat he is conversing with a government agent, these pressures do not eibid.) miranda mere trust in one he supposes to be a fellow prisoner. . . . [] miranda was not meant to protect suspects from boasting about their criminal activities in front of persons whom they believe to be (perkins, at pp. 297-298.) robbins argues that perkins does not apply to him because unlike the defendant in perkins, he had already received miranda advisements and had invoked his right to counsel before he would answer questions. relying on edwards v. arizona (1981) 451 u.s. 477 (edwards) and its prohibition of further custodial interrogation of a suspect who has invoked his miranda rights (absent waiver), he argues that the conversation with the undercover detective in the jail pod was inadmissible because he had asserted his miranda rights and had not waived them. 13 the first district rejected precisely this argument in people v. guilmette (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 1534 (guilmette). the defendant had invoked his right to remain silent and his right to an attorney before police recorded a phone call he made to his rape victim, who was acting as a police agent and asking questions suggested by the police. (id. at p. 1538.) the court held the recording was admissible under perkins, regardless of miranda rights: is true, as appellant contends, that in perkins there was no miranda warning, no invocation of miranda rights, and that the issue presented to the court was whether the undercover agent was required to give perkins a miranda warning. these distinguishing facts, however, do not change or alter the basic nature of the respective conversations by perkins and appellant herein. . . . statements made under these circumstances simply do not implicate miranda, and a noncoercive atmosphere is not transformed into a coercive one because one suspect is warned guilmette, at p. 1541.) division two of this appellate district recently agreed. in people v. orozco (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 802 (orozco), the father of a baby who died from blunt trauma while under his care voluntarily went to the police station. police read him his miranda rights and he said he understood them, and then gave an account absolving himself. after an officer asked him to take a polygraph test, he asked for an attorney five times. the officers then arrested him, promising not to take him to jail if he would tell them the truth without his attorney present. he again asked for an attorney, and the officers jailed him. he had not made any incriminating statements. (id. at pp. 807-808.) 14 police officers then interview room with the defendant, after telling the mother she had a right to know what happened, and suggesting she could get a full explanation. police recorded the conversation. an officer interrupted to report autopsy results indicating the baby had died from a beating; later, the officer briefly pulled the mother out of the room to ask her to take a polygraph test ; and after the defendant broke down and confessed to the mother that he struck the baby once and it killed her, the officer [t]im the mother from the room. (orozco, supra, 32 cal.app.5th at pp. 808-809.) the defendant moved to suppress the confession as in violation of miranda, and the trial court invoked perkins in allowing the confession into evidence. (orozco, supra, 32 cal.app.5th at p. 810.) on appeal, the defendant argued (among other arguments) his confession should have been suppressed because he invoked his miranda right to counsel, and the police violated miranda mother to speak to him. (id. at p. 812.) as in this case, the mother was an agent of the police, and the defendant did not know this. (ibid.) and as here, the squarely presented question miranda right to counsel and law enforcement subsequently orchestrates a conversation between the suspect and someone the suspect does not know is an agent of law enforcement, which decision controlsedwards or perkinsibid.) the orozco court pointed out that edwards prohibits only further interrogation by the authorities once the suspect invokes his miranda rights. (orozco, supra, 32 cal.app.5th at p. 813.) 15 miranda purposes means that the police should know are reasonably likely to elicit an orozco, at p. 813.what the ibid.) when a suspect speaks with someone he does not know is a edwardid. at p. 814.) in addition, like miranda, edwards intended to dispel the coercive pressures inherent in custodial interrogation. (orozco, at p. 814.) lacking a police-person sa family member, a friend or even a fellow criminaladded), the purpose of miranda and edwards implicated in such situations.orozco, at p. 815.) california cases such as guilmette, supra, 1 cal.app.4th at pp. 1540-1541, and people v. plyler (1993) 18 cal.app.4th 535, 544-545, have uniformly come to the same conclusion. (orozco, at p. 815.) perkins, supra, 496 u.s. at p. 300, to argue that perkins does not apply when a defendant has invoked his miranda rights before he makes incriminating statements to someone he does not know is and we agree with orozco that the seven-justice majority opinion controls. (orozco, supra, 32 cal.app.5th at p. 815.) we therefore guilmette misreads perkins. (see orozco, at pp. 815-816.) 16 suppress his statements.3 2. ds closing argument was not structural error or ineffective assistance of counsel in his brief opening statement, defense counsel , killed a bunch of people,ding to a question about what the police said robbins did, and pointed out that robbins the jury to listen carefully to the evidence, and at the end of the y it is that garth of and responsible for the deaths of paul boyd, clif[ ] not a fire. garth robbins set that fire. two men died, one was defense counsel then argued that robbins was guilty only of involuntary manslaughter. the instructions told the jury that 3 robbins does not reassert his due process argument at trial that his statements to the undercover detective were not voluntary. he also does not argue that it makes a difference that the person to whom he made his statements was an undercover police detective, rather than an agent of the police. 17 specific intent was necessary for murder and manslaughter, you cause a death without intendiwas criminally negligent in lighting the fire with gasoline, aware that his actions presented a substantial risk of burning an inhabited structure, and ignored that risk. the evidence showed he lacked the specific intent for murder, and he committed involuntary manslaughter in the deaths of the two men. what robbins said to the undercover detective in the jail pod showed that he had no intent to hurt anyone; he was not thinking about burning down the house, but was depressed his focus on his own pain made him criminally negligent. was consistent with an impulsive act and a lack of specific intent. fits toward the end of the defense closing argument, counsel stated that what robbins said was consistent with a lack of intent and the prosecution had not proven specific intent. the prosecutor objected that defense counsel had misstated the law, and the court overruled the objection and told the jury to read the instructions. out of the presence of the jury and before rebuttal argument, the prosecutor told the court she thought she heard to kill for it to be and did not focus on felony mu the court stated, 18 your which was the reason the court overruled the objection. in rebuttal, the prosecutor pointed out that the jury did not need to find robbins had an intent to kill to find him guilty of felony murder. the evidence showed that rohouse on fire and that he intended which was all the intent required for first degree felony murder. a. mccoy does not require reversal robbins argues his counsel unreasonably conceded all the facts required to find him guilty as charged, resulting in a breakdown of the adversarial system. in mccoy v. louisiana (2018) __ u.s. __ [138 s.ct. 1500] (mccoy),4 defense counsel concluded that the evidence against mccoy on three counts of first-degree murder was overwhelming, and unless the defense conceded that mccoy was the killer, it would be impossible to avoid a death sentence. mccoy was informed him of the planned concession, told counsel not to concede, and pressed him to seek acquittal. (id. at p. 1506.) nevertheless, during opening statement and closing argument, counsel told the jury the evidence unambiguously showed that defendant committed three murders. the jury convicted mccoy on all three counts. after counsel argued at the penalty phase that mccoy had mental and 4 the supreme court decided mccoy after robbins filed his opening brief and before respondent filed its brief (which mccoy applies to his case. 19 emotional issues and urged mercy, the jury returned three death verdicts. (id. at pp. 1506-1507.) [t] court concluded the sixth amendment right to counsel entitled a a (mccoy, supra, 138 s.ct. at pp. 1507-1508.) while counsel is in are reserved for the client . . . . [] autonomy to decide that the objective of the defense is to assert innocence belongs in this id. at p. 1508.) the court concluded: . . . intid. at p. 1510.) in issue, we do not apply our ineffective-assistance-of-counsel jurisprudenceid. at pp. 1510-of a clto be entitled to relief. (id. at p. 1511.) here, there is no evidence that robbins continually maintained his factual innocence, much less that he expressly and intransigently that he started the fire. division four of this appellate district recently declined to extend mccoythe defendant has not expressly objconcede guilt. (people v. lopez (2019) 31 cal.app.5th 55, 66 (lopez).) the court of appeal explained: mccoy explicitly distinguished florida v. nixon [(2004)] 543 u.s. [175,] 186, in which defense counsel several times explained to the defendant a proposed concession strategy, but the defendant 20 was unresponsive. the nixon confers with the defendant and the defendant remains silent, strategy, [citation] ibid.) we agree that mccoy does not extend to a case in which the defendant does not relating to the objective of his defense. (lopez, at p. 66.) robbins points out that the record does not demonstrate whether his counsel ever told him he intended to concede that robbins started the fire that killed the victims. he does not claim that his counsel did not tell him, however, and in the absence of a claim that he was blindsided, we will not assume that counsel kept him in the dark. he also argues that after the -based defense to the charges. he refers, however, not to a claim of factual innocence, but to his after-verdict claim that he had wished to pursue a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity (which we address below). (see people v. eddy (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 472, 481 [mccoy or .) robbins also argues that mccoy was a capital case and the california supreme court has not held a concession tactic may be employed in a non-capital case, even if the defendant has been informed. we agree with people v. flores (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 270, 282, that mccoy offenses, applies outside of capital trials. b. robbins has not shown his counsel was ineffective robbins also argues thineffective assistance of counsel. the familiar requirements for 21 a successful claim areor her bjective standard of reasonableness (people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 610 (gurule), quoting strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-must then show prejudice flowing fomission. [citations.] we will find prejudice when a defendant demonstrates a unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient it must also be shown that the [act or] omission was not attributable to a tactical decision which a reasonably competent, experienced criminal defense attorney woul (gurule, at pp. 610-611.) in gurule, defense counsel in his opening statement admitted that gurule robbed the victim. he also told the jury that a murder during the course of a robbery is a first degree murder, regardless of who did the killing, so gurule would be guilty of first degree murder. the identity of the murderer and circumstances.5 (gurule, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 611.) the court stated a concession of guilt by counsel is ineffective assistance only if counsel (gurule, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 611.) 5 oblique reference to the prior-murder special-circumstance allegation. (gurule had pleaded guilty to a different second-degree murder.) (gurule, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 611, 633.) 22 the concession of guilt was not unreasonable, as gurule told the police that he participated in the robbery, although claiming it was his codefendant who -murder theory at the (id. at pp. 611-evidence of guilt is quite strong, that trial counsel, given the weight of incriminating evidence, instead adopted a more realistic approach in the hope of avoiding . . . . the circumstances we cannot equate such candor with incompe . . . [] [c]ounsel was not ineffective for admitting to the jury def(id. at p. 612.) defendant is arguing that it is necessarily incompetence for an y and murder as in this case], the law is otherwise, (especially actively defend those counts). (people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, 30-31.) in gurule, supra, 28 cal.4th 557, counsel had a tactical reason to be candid with the jury and to concede first-degree felony murder in the hope of avoiding a true finding on a special circumstance and the prospect of the death penalty. in people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th cession that defendant was guilty of first-degree murder because of the felony-murder rule, although he had no intent to kill, was a 23 for three special circumstances. in lopez, supra, 31 cal.app.4th at p. 67, the concession of guilt on a hit-and-run charge was a reasonable tactical decision given much undisputed evidence on that charge, and the seriousness of a murder charge. here, an explicit explanation for why defense counsel conceded that the recorded conversation from jail, robbins told the undercover officer he had intentionally started the fire and it made him happy. robbins was consistent with the arson room showed the fire had been set intentionally, using gasoline. the evidence that robbins started the fire was overwhelming. in the face of similarly strong evidence of intent, counsel chose to admit that robbins recklessly started the fire, and to argue that robbins had not intended to harm anyone and was therefore guilty only of involuntary manslaughter. this attempt to argue that robbins was guilty of a lesser offense was quixotic, given that the jury had been instructed that even unintentional, accidental, or negligent killings would make robbins guilty of felony murder. but the jury had also been instructed that robbins was guilty only of involuntary manslaughter if he caused the fire with criminal negligence, and his act caused the death of another person. counsel could reasonably believe that candidly conceding that robbins set the fire had a realistic chance of strengthening his argument that state of mind supported only a conviction of involuntary manslaughter. this is not a case in which defense reasonable doubt regarding the only factual issues in dispute on 24 the single count charged. (u.s. v. swanson (1991) 943 f.2d 1070, 1071-1072, 1074, italics added.) in dispute, and counsel argued that robbins acted recklessly to avoid convictions for murder rather than involuntary manslaughter. robbins (u.s. v. thomas (2005) 417 f.3d 1053, 1058.) robbins has not tactical decision was ineffective assistance. robbins argues that this case is like people v. diggs (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 958. colbourn and his codefendant diggs were convicted of kidnapping, multiple counts of oral copulation by force, and multiple counts of rape. (id. at p. 964.) colbourn testified at trial, and after cross-examination, his only viable defense was to deny participation in any forcible sex acts, and to deny any knowledge of such acts by his codefendant diggs. after redirect examination in which he asked colbourn about what music he listened to and what television he watched, argument,6 arguing that a permissive society and rock music ce a nihilistic attitude in young people so that society should be held responsible for [colbour (id. at p. thus tenders a nondefense to the jury. . . . [] [and] implicitly it based on the societal theories previo(id. at pp. 967-968.) counsel did not argue the only viable defense, 6 . (people v. diggs, supra, 177 cal.app.3d at pp. 967, 975-981.) it must be read to be believed. 25 that colbourn did not engage in criminal activity; instead, he admitted that colbourn participated in the crime, and the jury to consider a nondefense by way of excuse,on which the jury received no instructions. (id. at pp. 968, 970.) the court was fundamentally unfair and was a miscarriage of justice requiring reversal, and it was reasonably probable that the result as to colbourn would have been more favorable absent the unprofessional errors. (id. at pp. 970-971.) diggs also was prejudiced, and his conviction also was reversed. (id. at pp. 971-972.) the court of appeal sent a copy of the opinion to the state id. at p. 972, fn. 15.) by contrast, here the jury had already heard the recorded conversation in which robbins admitted he started the fire that caused two deaths, so his cs concession echoed his confession. counsel conceded the charge to which there was no viable defense. instead of making an incoherent argument asserting a nonsensical defense which ed his client people v. samayoa, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 847), coherently asserted that at most robbins was guilty of a lesser-included offense fully described in the jury instructions. counsel had a tactical reason for conceding that robbins started the fire, and robbins has not shown ineffective assistance. 3. robbins was not prejudiced when he was not allowed to personally enter his plea cember 5, 2013, the court 26 with counsel that the name and date of birth in the information eading of the information, advisement of rights, enter a plea of not guilty and deny any and did not answer, and counsel did not state that robbins personally concurred with the not guilty plea. on appeal, robbins states that had he been asked by the court, he would have entered a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity (ngi). he argues that he was prejudiced by the denial of his statutory right to personally enter an ngi plea. he also argues this violated his sixth amendment right to present his chosen defense with the assistance of counsel, and we must reverse his conviction and remand for a sanity trial. e entered or withdrawn by the defendant himself or herself in open , plea of not guilty by reason of insanity is a matter within the people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 893.) as a result, if the defendant wishes to plead not guilty by reason of insanity, the trial court people v. henning (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 388, 394, 397 (henning).) respondent concedes that the record shows the trial court erred not guilty plea. nevertheless, the statutory violation alone does assess whether the violation resulted in prejudice, and failure to allow a defendant to plead ngi is harmless when the 27 record affirmatively shows the insanity defense lacks evidentiary id. at pp. 398-399.) where there is no affirmative showing in the record that an ngi plea was baseless, however, reversal is required where a defendant unequivocally states he wishes to enter a plea of ngi. in people v. clemons (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 1243 (clemons), the defendant entered a plea of not guilty to possessing a manufactured weapon (a razor blade removed from a disposable razor) while in custody, but then repeatedly stated before trial that he wanted to plead ngi, had been trying to do so for two years, and no one would listen. (id. at pp. 1245-1249.) the defendant unequivocally told the trial court that he wanted to plead ngi and counsel would not let him. (id. at pp. 1248-1249.) the trial court erroneously believed that defense counsel controlled whether defendant could plead ngi. (id. at p. 1251.) even if his counsel thought that plea was a id. at p. from which the jury might have found that appellant was ngi if it had been id. at p. 1253.) the defendant had a history of diagnoses of mental illness and hospitalizations. even if no expert testimony supported an ngi defense, provided some evidence for it, since he self-inflicted a wound to his arm that was deep enough to require 18 stitches and grinned he (ibid.) an ngi defense was not futile, and the court of appeal held that defendant was entitled to a new trial. (ibid.) we therefore consider whether the record contains evidence to support a plea of ngi, so that robbins was prejudiced when 28 he was denied his statutory right to personally enter his plea.7 we conclude that this case is like henning rather than clemons. two months after the verdict and on the date set for sentencing, robbins moved for the appointment of new counsel, and the court held a confidential people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden) hearing. the court denied the motion. robbins cites to the confidential transcripts of his hearing to support his claim that he wanted counsel to enter a plea of ngi. we have thoroughly reviewed transcript of the marsden hearing, the unredacted briefs filed by the parties under seal, and the confidential psychiatric reports.8 we conclude that the record does not show that robbins was prejudiced by the failure to allow him to enter a plea of ngi. crime, a mental state which is distinguishable from that which is required of a defendanthe time the offense was committed, the defendant was 7 robbins argues that henning is wrong, and when a defendant is denied his right to personally enter a plea of ngi, reversal is required regardless of whether evidence supports the defense of insanity. we disagree and follow henning as valid precedent, and we note that clemons also supports the conclusion that the record must show some support for an ngi plea before reversal is warranted on that ground. 8 wbriefs under seal along with public redacted versions. we also granted rof the marsden 29 incapable of knowing or understanding the nature of his act or of distinguishing right from wronghenning, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at p. 396.) a defendant who enters a plea of ngi along with his not guilty plea undergoes a bifurcated trial: first, to determine whether he committed the charged offenses, and second, to determine whether he was insane at the time of their commission. (ibid.) the record does not support a conclusion that robbins was harmed when he did not personally enter a plea of ngi. first, entered an ngi plea if asked, he would have forgone his right to enter an ngi plea. robbins does not point to where in the confidential transcript of the marsden hearing he stated that he unequivocally told counsel he wanted to enter a plea of ngi, or that counsel refused to do so in response to his demand.9 s description of his numerous conversations with robbins, assessment that there was no evidentiary support for an ngi plea, or whether after the discussions with counsel he still wished to pursue that plea. our own review convinces us that the record lacks evidentiary support for a claim that, at the time of the arson fire, robbins was unable to understand the nature of the act of lighting the fire in his room or to distinguish right from wrong. 9 (more than two years before trial), defense counsel stated: not clear to me whether or not he was legally sane at the this statement supports a conclusion that counsel seriously considered and investigated whether there was a basis for a plea of ngi. 30 in jail the day after he set the fire, robbins lucidly described his act. he got mad that night, and set the house on fire with many people sleeping inside. robbins went and got a can of gasoline, poured it on the floor, lit the gasoline, and got away unharmed. he knew not to tell the police this without his lawyer thought many times about doing this, in reaction to many small things. he felt very happy that he finally did it, although he thought that he would probably spend the rest of his life in jailunderstood the nature of his act and could distinguish right from wrong. on appeal he argues he behaved casually when he interacted with johnson just before and after he started the fire, and his flight afterwards did not go farther than the pancake restaurant where he fell asleep. those are not evidence that he did not understand the nature of the act of lighting the fire in the building full of sleeping residents, or that he did not appreciate that his act was wrong. rself-reported mental health history as reflected in two 2014 confidential forensic psychiatry reports10 consisted of psychiatric treatment and several hospitalizations for depression, anxiety, and suicidal thoughts. robbins denied any psychotic symptoms or any substance abuse. robbins does not claim the record contains any evidence that he ever suffered from any other mental disease or defect that would have impaired his ability to understand the nature of his acts. 10 the time of the interviews (september and october 2014) only to determine whether he was then competent to stand trial, with. 31 given this record, an insanity defense would have been futile. it was not reasonably probable that robbins would have obtained a different result at trial had he personally entered a plea of ngi. he therefore was not prejudiced when he did not personally enter his plea, and we will not reverse his conviction on that basis. robbins also argues that his sixth amendment right to present his chosen defense of ngi with assistance of counsel was [r]ejection, on the merits, of a claim that the trial court erred on the issue actually before that court necessarily leads to rejection of the newly applied constitutional well. no separate constitutional discussion is required in such cases, and we therpeople v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 441, fn. 17.) 4. the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it s marsden motion ngi is a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship requiring when a criminal defendant moves to substitute counsel, he must be allowed to state specific reasons why, and the court exercises its discretion to decide whether the circumstances justify substitution. (clemons, supra, 160 cal.app.4th at p. 1250.) as we have concluded the record does not show that robbins made an unambiguous request for counsel to enter an ngi defense or that in the face of such a request counsel explicitly refused, there is no basis to find that the trial court abused its discretion when it denied the marsden motion. robbins also argues that the court failed to conduct a sufficient inquiry at the marsden hearing to resolve any 32 ambiguity about why counsel did not enter a plea of ngi on we have reviewed the confidential transcript of the hearing, and conclude the trial court adequately sought to clarify the issues and to seek details from both robbins and counsel. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 