filed 3/18/19 p. v. barraza ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose angel barraza, defendant and appellant. b283526 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka019275) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. janet gusdorff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted jose angel barraza of voluntary manslaughter and found true the allegation he used a firearm. the trial court sentenced barraza to the upper term of 11 years, plus five years (also the upper term) for the firearm enhancement. barraza argues the trial court abused its discretion in excluding some of the evidence of specific instances of conduct and sustaining an objection during . barraza also contends the trial court violated his constitutional rights under cunningham v. california (2007) 549 u.s. 270 [127 s.ct. 856, 166 l.ed.2d 856] in imposing the upper term on his manslaughter conviction and violated the statutory prohibition on using the same factors to impose the upper term and the firearm enhancement. we affirm the conviction but remand for resentencing on the firearm enhancement to allow the trial court to exercise discretion whether to strike the enhancement. factual and procedural history a. barraza kills delgado and flees to mexico one saturday evening in september 1993 roberto delgado (delgado) and his cousin, braulio delgado (braulio), attended a party on the porch of a garage in the back of a residence in el monte, california. there were approximately 50 people at the party. at some point the two men left the party to check on . as they walked on the driveway to the street, they saw barraza and pedro valdez herrera approach the driveway on the way to the party. barraza and the delgados had known each other since they were teenagers living in la soledad, a small rural village in durango, mexico. 3 after the delgados walked past barraza and herrera, the two pairs of men turned around and faced each other. according to herrera, barraza and delgado did not exchange any words or punches, although herrera also said he heard delgado speak to barraza in spanish and say barraza testified y are you coming, you son of a braulio thought barraza and delgado were going to fight. braulio according to barraza, braulio held barraza from behind while delgado hit him, but barraza was able to get away from braulio and take out a gun to defend himself.1 when herrera saw barraza lift up his shirt and pull a gun from his waistband, herrera stood in front of barraza shots at delgado. according to braulio, barraza shot delgado several times from less than 20 feet away. delgado fell to the ground, and braulio bent over to look at him. braulio asked delgado where he had been shot, but delgado was unable to speak. braulio saw delgado had been shot in the neck. braulio ran into the house and told someone to call the police and an ambulance. delgado died from two gunshot wounds to the chest. investigators recovered four .45 caliber casings from the crime scene. barraza fled to mexico. later in durango. the funeral, and she told the police she had seen him there. in january 2015 barraza was detained crossing the texas border from mexico into the united states. 1 barraza testified he brought a .45-caliber handgun with him to the party because he always carries it. 4 b. the people charge barraza with murder, the jury convicts him of voluntary manslaughter, and the trial court sentences him to 16 years in prison the people charged barraza with murder and alleged he personally used a firearm within the meaning of penal code section 12022.5.2 the jury found barraza not guilty of murder but guilty of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter. the jury also found true the allegation barraza personally used a firearm. the trial court sentenced barraza to the upper term of 11 years, plus the upper term of five years for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, for a total prison term of 16 years. barraza timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not err by excluding some but conduct 1. applicable law and standard of review evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), provides that (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a evidence code section 1103 provides an exception: in , evidence of the character or a trait of character (in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of conduct) of the victim of the crime for which the defendant is being prosecuted is not made inadmissible by [evidence code] section 1101 if the 2 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 5 evidence is . . . [o]ffered by the defendant to prove conduct of the victim in conformity with the character or trait of character.(see people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 695; people v. myers (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 546, 552.) we review for abuse of evidence under evidence code sections 1101 and 1103. (people v. thompson (2016) 1 cal.5th 1043, 1114; people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 602; people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 827.) 2. discretion a. evidence delgado had guns barraza argues the trial court erred by excluding testimony by barraza and herrera about the number of times they saw delgado with a gun. the jurors heard barraza testify he had seen delgado with a gun on two different occasions, and they heard herrera testify he had seen delgado with a gun. the trial court sustained objections to questions asking barraza and herrara how many times they had seen delgado with a gun. neither ruling was an abuse of discretion. the prosecutor objected to questions, gun: on direct examination, you had talked about two instances when you saw a gun. was that actually the same incident or were they two distinctly different instances? different. and were those the only two times that you recall? well, he was always carrying a gun. how do you know that? 6 statement that delgado always carried a gun. the court sustained the objection and granted the motion to strike, but specific qstating that but said barraza did not have personal knowledge to testify delgado always carried a gun. indeed, barraza testified that he did not live with delgado, did not know him well, and did not remember how many times he saw delgado with a gun. while barraza may have been able to answer the question about whether delgado had a gun every time barraza saw him, the court asked counsel for barraza to start the question again, and counsel stated she was going to move on to another topic. there was no abuse of discretion by the trial court in this exchange. as for herrera, ever seen [delgado] with a gun before,y it is unclear from the record whether the objection was to the of that would tend to show [delgado] had a . . . character trait for character for violence is going to be an issue in this case, because 7 d absent any the court also stated, absent some better foundation, okay?context suggests the trial court was appropriately proceeding cautiously until it had a better sense of the issues and evidence in the case. the court did not foreclose inquiry into whether delgado had a lot of guns, but only ruled barraza would need to call a witness who had more no abuse of discretion. b. evidence delgado shot a gun outside counsel for barraza sought to introduce evidence delgado including in june 1993, several months before barraza killed delgado. the trial court excluded the evidence on several grounds, including lack of foundation and relevance. counsel for barraza sought first to elicit testimony from herrera about an incident where delgado fired , but counsel did not know if herrera was present at the incident. nt to say he was there, but i the court. . . ever went outside to see if delgado was there. so your offer of proof is based on information that was obtained from witnesses other than mr. herrera, right? yes. who can do that other than mr. herrera, correct? 8 the court: so it seems to me unless you know for a fact, (a) that he [herrera] was there, (b) that mr. barraza was there, conduct that nighwitness. again, there was no abuse of discretion. counsel for barraza conceded she did not know if herrera had personal knowledge of the shooting incident (but other witnesses did), the court ruled herrera could not testify about the incident (but other witnesses might be able to), and counsel for barraza appeared to . (see evid. code,  702 people v. lewis must have personal knowledge of the subject of the testimony, people v. montoya (2007) personal knowledge of the subject of the testimony, based on the the trial court did not abuse and allowing barraza to present witnesses who, unlike herrera and barraza, witnessed the alleged shooting incident. counsel for barraza incident officers had stopped a car near with four people in it, but that the police reports indicated the officers did not find 9 a firearm. anything about the victim in this case nothing connecting the victim with any vcounsel for barraza, however, never called the officers, and the court never ruled they could not testify. the court and counsel then counsel for barraza claimed had witnessed incidents involving barraza never called his sister to testify.3 the trial court stated that, at this point in the trial, there was not enough evidence of self-defense or unreasonable self-defense to admisort of self-defense or imperfect self-muddy up the victim for the sake of muddying up the victim. it has to be relevant. and whether or not he had some sort of character trait, it still has be relevant to an issue in this case. and the only issue in this case that it could potentially be relevant to is a defense. and the only relevance it could have to a defense is . . . or something [barraza] observed. delgado was aggressive toward your client that night. so there was something about possibly some words, but that was it. and so unless first of all, , 3 counsel for barraza stated that the barraza family, but that they had not returned her calls. she also stated she told the 10 going to let you put in evidence muddying up the victim until i have some better assurance as to what the offer of proof is when [barraza] will testify. because if he does not testify, thecoming in. and while i understand that . . . evidence can some in in different order, in this instance, absent any evidence not inclined to let you put on these other witnesses before mr. the record shows the trial court did not categorically only ruled it was not appropriate to admit such evidence at the time. indeed, the trial court stated that, under appropriate circumstances, the determined before anything is decided about these witnesses is, is [barraza] going to testify. and if so, ultimately, what he says. and if his testimony is such that it makes this incident . . . relevant, then i had indicated yesterday that i would allow you to the cos show that the court did not rule the evidence was not admissible; the court ruled the evidence was not admissible yet. and that ruling was not an abuse of discretion. because the court had not yet heard any evidence delgado acted violently the evening barraza shot him, the court could not determine (see people v. gutierrez the victim posed a threat to the defendant, exclusion of evidence people v. hoyos (2007) 41 cal.4th 872, 912- 11 some evidentiary support for a self-defense-type theory that the defendant perceived the murder victim as presenting an violent person in the world, that fact would not be relevant if the evidence made it clear that the victim was taken by surprise and overruled on another ground in people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 637-643; people v. yokum decedent had made prior threats against defendant is admissible if there is evidence tending to show any act of aggression committed by decedent at the time of the homicide indicating that he intended to a people v. lamar (1906) support the claim of a defendant that he acted upon an honest apprehension of imminent peril from some overt act on the part of the deceased, and the circumstances of the fatal contest are equivocal, the reputation of the deceased as a violent and dangerous man is proper and competent evidence to present to the jury for consideration in determining whether defendant acted upon a reasonable apprehension that he was in imminent ) the court acted well within its discretion in waiting until it heard evidence that delgado acted violently the night of the shooting before admitting evidence delgado had been violent before that night. (see people v. buenrostro (2018) 6 cal.5th 367, the order people v. case proof rests largely in the sound discretion of the trial court.) 12 c. evidence delgado was arrested for driving under the influence and had killed a co-worker counsel for barraza stated she intended to call three officers to testify about an incident where barraza was arrested for driving under the influence and resisted arrest. the trial section 35 und[t]he trial court has broad discretion both in determining the relevance of evidence and in assessing whether its prejudicial effect outweighs its probative value.people v. anderson (2018) 5 cal.5th 372, 402; see people v. duff courts wide discretion in assessing whether in a given case a particular piece of evidence is relevant and whether it is more even if evidence is admissible under evidence code section 1103, the trial court has discretion to exclude it under evidence code section 352. (people v. fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 700; people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 827-828; people v. shoemaker (1982) 135 cal.app.3d 442, 448.) barraza, however, does not argue the trial court abused its discretion under evidence code section 352. finally, at one point while barraza was testifying, he to say it now in front of all these people. these people killed a guy who was . . . when the trial court 13 an offer of proof, and the following exchange occurred outside the presence of the jury: it was that he had information with regards to the death of one of his coworkers at the hands of [delgado]. and that . . . that was where the rift came and the threats, was because they were afraid that he was going to go and rat them out. how did he come about this information? never been able to get because i just found this out. . . . . the court: what is he going to say to lay a foundation that he got this information? s shave that. and i can ask him further, not on the witness stand, but right now i can move on to something else. urt: you move on to something else . . . . counsel for barraza admittedly was unable to explain whether and how barraza knew delgado had killed a coworker. there is no indication in the record counsel for barraza ever learned how barraza knew delgado allegedly killed someone, and counsel did not raise the issue again. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding such inflammatory evidence until counsel could make a proper offer of proof and could establish barraza had personal knowledge delgado had killed someone. (see people v. brophy (1954) 122 cal.app.2d 638, 648 where a proper foundation has been laid, it is conclusively established in almost all jurisdictions that evidence of the turbulent and dangerous character of the victim of an assault or homicide is admissible 14 3. any error was harmless even if the trial court had abused its discretion by excluding some of , any error was harmless. the jury heard abundant evidence delgado drank alcohol, was violent, and frequently threatened barraza. for example, herrera testified that, prior to the shooting, delgado had threatened barraza many times. herrera also barraza testified he was afraid of delgado because delgado d beaten [him] up several times, and barraza described several such incidents. on one occasion, a few months before the 1993 shooting, as barraza was getting out of a car, delgado approached and said in spanish, on another occasion, delgado used a required barraza to wear dentures. on another occasion, delgado hit barraza with the butt of a gun on his forehead, leaving a scar. on yet another occasion, barraza was walking by , barraza understood this as a challenge and a threat. on still another occasion, delgado was stopped at a traffic light, saw barraza, barraza also testified who would make faces at him, that delgado challe and that delgado , made threatening gestures, and said, barraza testified he was afraid of delgado and his cousin because of all the times they had beaten him. 15 thus, the jury heard evidence providing a full and graphic description of delgado and how he acted toward barraza, yet the jury convicted barraza of manslaughter. there is no reasonable probability that, had the jury heard the relatively few additional instances of delgado acting violently that the trial court excluded, the jury would have reached a different result. (see people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 131 [erroneous exclusion b. was harmless as counsel for barraza concluded her closing argument, she prosecutor is] going to say [in his rebuttal argument] when we come back from lunch. so i ask of you to challenge what it is that he says in your mind. and think, well, what would [counsel for barraza] say if she had the opportunity to get up here andthe prosecutor the barraza correctly argues counsel for barraza was not asking the jury to advocate; she was asking the jury to think, which was entirely appropriate. sustaining the objection, however, was harmless. after the court sustained the objection, counsel for barraza argued without objection that the jurors should think about and challenge what 16 the prosecutor would say in his rebuttal argument, which was not materially different from the comment the court sustained the objection to (but did not tell the jury to disregard). and the trial court instructed the jurors their role was to be an impartial judge of the facts, not to act as an advocate for one side or the other, an instruction we presume the jurors understood and followed. (people v. buenrostro, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 431.) there is no reasonable probability that, had the trial court overruled the objection, barraza would have obtained a more favorable verdict. (see people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 853 [applying harmless error standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 to the s argument].) barraza also contends precluded the jury from challenging what they [sic] heard during standard, depriving [barraza] of his fifth, sixth, and fourteenth hardly. the trial court did not give the jury any instruction, let alone one that shifted the burden of proof from the prosecution, would be impr indeed, immediately after the trial court sustained the objection, counsel for barraza encouraged the jurors to use that very kind of reasoning. c. the matter must be remanded for resentencing ry having found [barraza] guilty of voluntary manslaughter as a 17 lesser offense of the charged murder, the sentencing range at the time in 1993 was three, six, or 11 years. the [firearm] use allegation that was found true pursuant to . . . section 12022.5 provided then for a sentencing [range] of three, four, or five provocation (because there was no evidence delgado provoked barraza the night of the shooting) and lack of a criminal record (because barraza had been in mexico for 23 years). turning to aggravating factors, the court stated barraza brought a gun to the party, used the gun to shoot planned the crime because he armed himself with a gun, and fled the court anything other than [voluntary manslaughter conviction. in 1993, when barraza commideterminate sentencing law (dsl) shall order imposition of the middle term, unless there are [citation.] the facts relevant to this sentencing choice are to be determined by the court and need be proved only by a preponderance of the evidence. [citationsforth on the record the facts and reasons for imposing the upper people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 836, fns. omitted.) the sentencing law at the time sentencing court to start with the middle term, and to move from that term only when the court itself finds and places on the record factswhether related to the offense or the offenderfor sixth amendment purposes, the middle term was the 18 maximum term that could be imposed based on (ibid.) in 2007 the united states supreme court in cunningham v. california, supra, 549 u.s. at page 281 held the dsl violated s constitutional right to a jury trial to the extent it authorize[d] the trial judge to find facts (other than a prior conviction) that expose a defendant to an upper term sentence by people v. velasquez (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 1503, 1513.) in response to cunningham, the legislature amended the dsl under section 1170, subdivision (b), to select among the lower, middle, and upper terms specified by statute without stating ultimate facts deemed to be aggravating or mitigating under the circumstances and without weighing aggravating and mitigating circumstances. upper term sentence upon any aggravating circumstance that the [citation.] in other words, these amendments to the dsl essentially eliminated the middle term as the statutory maximum absent aggpeople v. jones (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 853, 866.) [dsl] as it existed in 1993 (when [barraza] committed the crime)cunningham and sandoval by imposing the upper term based on facts the jury did not find. court stated it was applying the dsl provided in 1993, not the now-unconstitutional sentencing procedure as it existed in 1993. there would be no point in applying a 1993 sentencing law that was declared unconstitutional in 2007. the 19 trial court applied the current, constitutional sentencing law in imposing the upper term, using only the three-six-11-year sentencing triad section 193 prescribed then (and still prescribes). and, as the people point out, even if the trial court applied the former dsl in imposing the upper term, a remand would be unnecessary. the supreme court has held that the remedy for such a violation is a remand to allow the trial court to among specified by statute for the offense, subject to the requirements that the court consider the aggravating and mitigating circumstances as set out in statutes and rules and that reasons be stated for the choice of sentence. (people v. sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 843, 846.) because the trial court here already considered those circumstances and stated its reasons for imposing the upper term, a remand would produce the same result. (see id. ence between the pre-cunningham provision of the dsl enacted by the legislature and a statutory scheme in which the trial court has broad discretion to select among the three available terms is est of that which would have been imposed under the dsl as initially the trial court also imposed the upper term of five years on firearm use allegation, i think the same factors in aggravation . . . repeatedly, but there are many, and i think that the fact that the firearm was used at close range for no apparent reason in my mind justifies [the upper] 20 term for that also. barraza argues that section 1170, term by using the fact of any enhancement upon which the (see people v. jenkins (1995) 10 cal.4th 234, 252, fn. 10 [section 1170, upper term and to impose an enhancement].) whether the trial court erred in imposing the upper term and the enhancement based on the same facts is a closer question. although section 1170 prohibits a court from using the same fact to impose both the upper term and an enhancement (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 350), a court may use the same fact to impose the upper term for the offense and the upper term of the enhancement. (see people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th the dual use of a fact or facts to aggravate both a base term and the sentence on an enhancement is not prohibitedpeople v. moberly (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 1191, 1198 [same].) (people v. nicolas (2017) 8 cal.app.5th 1165, 1182; accord, people v. jones, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at p. 863; see people v. osband ; people v. weber (2013) 217 cal.app.4th aggravating factor will support an upper .) the same rule applies to an enhancement. (see people v. yim here, the trial court imposed both the upper term for the manslaughter conviction and an enhancement under section 12022.5 for the true finding on the firearm use allegation. 21 several of the factors the court stated for imposing the upper term on the manslaughter conviction involved firearm use: he had a gun at the party, and he used the gun at the party. one of the other circumstances mentioned by the trial court, that barraza fled because he was scared, is not generally an aggravating circumstance under rule 4.421 of the california rules of court. the final circumstance, that the crime involved some planning, is a factor that could justify the upper term without violating the dual use prohibition (see cal.rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(8)), but the court stated tcrime involved planning was that he brought and used a gun. to be sure, planning in advance to shoot someone with a firearm is not the same as using a firearm, but using those circumstances to impose the upper term for manslaughter and the firearm enhancement is pretty close to the dual use line. this is aggravating factors that supported the term for the manslaughter conviction supported imposition of the firearm enhancement. we do not have to decide the issue in this appeal. at the time the trial court sentenced barraza in 2017, section 12022.5, subdivision (c), prohibited the court from striking the firearm enhancements under that statute. (see people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1127.) the legislature, however, has since amended section 12022.5, subdivision (c), to give the trial court discretion to strike a firearm enhancement in the interest of justice. (see sen. bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.)  1.) barraza argues, the people do not dispute, and we agree that section 12022.5, subdivision (c), as amended, applies to barraza. 22 (see people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 425; people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080, 1090-1091.) the people argue the record shows the trial court would not have exercised discretion to strike the firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, even if it had the discretion to do so because the court stated there was no justification for anything him. however, assuming the trial court properly imposed the upper term for the manslaughter conviction and the firearm enhancement, the court did not clearly indicate it would have imposed the enhancement even if it had the discretion not to impose it. (see people v. almanza (2018) 24 reveals a clear indication that the trial court would not have reduced the sentence even if at the time of sentencing it had the people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 973, fn. 3 [remand was appropriate under amendments to t indicate prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes, had the court had the discretion to do so at the time it originally (people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1081.) therefore, it is appropriate in this case to remand the matter for resentencing to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion under the amended statute. if the court strikes the 23 firearm enhancement, the dual use issue will be moot. if the court does not strike the firearm enhancement, the court will have an opportunity to clarify the reasons for its sentencing choices. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. this matter is remanded for resentencing to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike or impose the firearm enhancement under section 12022.5. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 