filed 11/1/18 p. v. cortez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. heriberto cortez, defendant and appellant. b283537 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la082717) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles, alan schneider, judge. affirmed with directions. matthew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, and chung l. mar, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant heriberto cortez appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of multiple counts of sexually abusing his minor daughter. defendant contends that the trial court erred by failing to hold a hearing on his marsden1 motion to replace appointed counsel. he contends his statements to the police were inadmissible because a detective tricked him into waiving his miranda2 rights by softening him up with ingratiating conversation before advising him of those rights, and then coerced him into confessing through implied promises of leniency. he further contends that the trial court failed to instruct the jury orally on the elements of the charged and lesser offenses. we hold that any failure to hold the marsden hearing, which the trial court previously had scheduled, was inadvertent, and defendant abandoned his challenge because he did not bring hold that the conversation the detective had with defendant prior to advising him of his rights did not render his miranda waiver involuntary, detective impliedly promised leniency in exchange for cooperation. we further hold that the record indicates the trial court orally instructed the jury on the charged and lesser offenses. we agree with defendant that the minute order of his sentencing hearing and abstract of judgment do not reflect the to correct those documents. we affirm the judgment. 1 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 3 background a jury convicted defendant of five counts of continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14 years (pen. code,  288.5, subd. (a)) and three counts of oral copulation with a child 10 years old or younger (id.,  288.7, subd. (b)). the victim was the trial court sentenced defendant to 27 years to life, awarded 594 days in presentence credits, and imposed various fines and fees. defendant timely appealed. the facts of the underlying offenses are not relevant to the issues on appeal and thus we do not summarize them. we challenges in our discussion section, post. discussion a. defendant abandoned his marsden request defendant argues that the trial court committed reversible error by failing to hold a hearing on his marsden motion. we disagree. 1. additional background on january 25, 2017, defendant filed a handwritten motion claiming his appointed counsel was ineffective and requesting a marsden hearing. defendant and his counsel appeared before the stated that he would be filing several evidentiary motions. the trial court stated it would hear those motions on february 23, marsden agreed. the minute order from that proceeding reflected that the 4 marsden motion and would hold the hearing on february 23. defendant and his counsel appeared before the trial court on february 23. le the motions did not refer expressly to the marsden motion, nor was it mentioned in the minute order. subsequent minute orders reflected that defendant and his counsel appeared before the trial court again on march 1 and 2, evidentiary motions. the minute orders did not mention a marsden motion or proceeding. defendant and his counsel appeared again before the trial court on march 17, at which time the trial court granted a defense motion in limine and trailed the matter for jury trial to march 20. again, the minute order did not mention a marsden motion or proceeding. trial began with jury selection on march 20, and again the minute order did not mention a marsden motion or proceeding, nor did any of the subsequent record entries. 2. analysis the law governing a marsden -settled. substitute another attorney, and asserts inadequate representation, the trial court must permit the defendant to explain the basis of his contention and to relate specific instances (people v. jackson (2009) 45 cal.4th 662, 682.) indicates to the trial court a request for the discharge and replacement of appointed counsel, the court must hold a hearing 5 (people v. armijo (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 1171, 1179 (armijo).) ibid., citing marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 126.) when a trial court schedules a requested marsden hearing people v. jones (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 355, 362 (jonesibid.) in jones, the defendant filed a marsden motion and the court stated it would hear it on april 27, 2010. (jones, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 360.) subsequent minute orders reflected that defense counsel stipulated to or requested several continuances of the jury trial, and the trial court similarly continued the marsden hearing. (ibid.) on june 14, 2010, the (ibid.) the minute order did not mention the marsden motion, nor did any subsequent minute orders. (ibid.) the trial court granted additional continuances requested by the parties over the next two months, finally beginning jury selection on august 23. (ibid.) the record reflected that the defendant personally was present for most of the hearings in which the trial court granted continuances, including those in which the minute orders did not refer to his marsden claim. (ibid.) the court of appeal held that the defendant had abandoned his marsden claim. (jones, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at 6 challenge on appeal a procedural error or omission if the party acquiesced by failing to object or protest under circumstances (id. at p. 361, quoting people v. braxton (2004) 34 cal.4th 798, 813-814.) the couconduct a hearing on the motion appears to have been the (id. at p. 36marsden motion. (ibid.) the circumstances here are analogous to those in jones. marsden motions. on the scheduled day, the trial court continued the subsequent minute orders reflected the trial court hearing and ruling on the evidentiary motions, with no mention of the marsden motion, which appears to have been lost amidst the continuance and other motions. as in joneso hear the marsden marsden motion before trial began. defendant did not avail himself of the multiple opportunities to do so in his pretrial appearances before the trial court. thus, we deem his claim abandoned.3 3 although the record before us does not reflect it, we recognize the possibility that defendant affirmatively withdrew his marsden request, which would also constitute abandonment 7 defendant argues that his circumstances are closer to those in armijo, in which the court of appeal concluded a defendant had not abandoned his marsden claim by failing to bring it to the trial couarmijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1183.) in armijo, the defendant sent a letter to the trial court claiming that his assigned counsel was inadequate and requesting a new attorney. (id. at pp. 1176-1177.) the trial court did not hold a the (id. at p. 1177.) the court of appeal noted that, as in jonestmarsden proceeding after he sent his letter requesting new counsel. (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1182.) the court of appeal nonetheless found jones distinguishable on two bases. (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at pp. 1182-1183.) first, in jones the marsden marsden hearing or remind the court contrast, there is no indication from the record that [defense counsel] knew that [the defendant] had written to the trial court ibid.) second, of his claim. (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1182.) it is also possible defendant told his counsel privately that he did not wish to pursue the request further, which could explain why defense counsel apparently did not raise the issue again in the trial court. given the record, however, we have proceeded on the assumption that defendant did not withdraw his request. 8 the trial court in fact did not receive until after the pretrial conference at which the defendant appeared) may have led the defendant to believe the trial court had denied his request, ich may have suggested to [the defendant] that it would have (id. circumstances, we do not believe that the fault for the trial cmarsden hearing should rest with [the ibid.) the circumstances that distinguished armijo from jones are not present in the instant case. as in jonescounsel was aware of the marsden motion because the trial court expressly mentioned it in a proceeding the day after it was filed and scheduled a hearing on it. thus, defense counsel was responsible for reminding the trial court of the need to hold that hearing. (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1182.) also, because the trial court scheduled the hearing, defendant had no reason to think his request had been denied summarily, as was possible in armijo. defendant argues that in jones it was defense counsel that requested the continuances of the marsden hearing, and thus it was his responsibility to ensure the trial court held the hearing. marsden motion, or undertake to gard to the motion were although defendant does not so state, we presume he is arguing that because his trial counsel did not request a continuance or otherwise take any action regarding the marsden request, trial counsel did not take responsibility for ensuring the trial court heard the request. 9 we reject this argument. neither jones nor armijo require defense counsel to take some affirmative action, such as seeking marsden motion. jonesremind the trial court of the pending marsden request, did not counsel. (jones, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 362.) in armijo, defense counsel was not responsible for the marsden request because defense counsel was not aware of the request. (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at pp. 11821183.) here, where defense counsel knew of the request, and could act to ensure the trial court heard it, defense counsel bore a responsibility to do so. defendant also notes that in jones, just before the jury panel was called in, the trial court stated: if anybody has anything else that they want to say [regarding pretrial issues], put it on the record, make a pitch, or whatever. so feel free. (jones, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at pp. 360-361.) the jones court (id. at p. 361.) here, defendant argues the trial court never gave him the opportunity to address the court in this way. we do not read jones to require an express invitation to speak from the trial court before a defendant has a duty to remind it of any overlooked matters. the jones court listed five other pretrial appearances by the defendant at which he (or his counsel) failed to raise the issue of the marsden request, with no indication that the trial court invited the defendant to speak at any of them. (jones, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 360.) regardless, in both jones and the instant case defense counsel was aware of the pending marsden request and certainly knew 10 how to raise the issue with the trial court without an invitation to do so. b. the statements to the police defendant argues that the trial court erred in admitting statements he made during a police interview. defendant claims the interviewing detective improperly persuaded him to waive his miranda rights, then coerced him to confess through promises of leniency. both the validity of a miranda waiver and the voluntariness of a confession are subject to our independent review on appeal. (people v. mayfield (1993) 5 cal.4th 142, 172; people v. wall (2017) 3 cal.5th 1048, 1066 (wall).) we conclude rguments lack merit. 1. defendant validly waived his miranda rights a. additional background detective ninette toosbuy of the los angeles police department interviewed defendant at the police station a few hours after his arrest. toosbuy and defendant conversed for approximately 20 minutes before she advised him of his miranda rights and explained to him why he had been arrested. during he had just been laid off, and toosbuy gave him some suggestions as to where else he might seek employment. toosbuy asked described disagreements he and his girlfriend had over religion. toosbuy asked how many children defendant had, their ages, and where they lived. toosbuy asked defendant if he had served in the military and whether he was taking any medications. 11 defendant said he drank too much soda, leading to a lengthy recommendation that defendant switch to unsweetened ice tea. toosbuy asked defendant about his level of education and criminal history, and defendant described a past domestic violence arrest. toosbuy toosbuy then advised defendant of his miranda rights. after doing so, she asked, toosbuy proceeded with the interview, during which defendant admitted to sexually abusing his daughter. b. analysis defendant argues that he waived his miranda rights as a -up technique of engaging in ingratiating conversation with [defendant] for nearly 20 minuteswhich comprised approximately one-third of the interviewbefore advising appellant of his miranda he argues that under people v. honeycutt (1977) 20 cal.3d 150 (honeycutt), his waiver therefore was invalid. in honeycutt, police arrested the defendant after he fatally injured a man. (honeycutt, supra, 20 cal.3d at p. 154.) a detective interviewed the defendant later that day. (id. at p. police ibid.) the detective -hour unibid.) finally, the victim. [the detective] mentioned that the victim had been a suspect in a homicide case and was thought to have ibid.) the detective did not bring up 12 end of the half-hour [the] defendant indicated that he would talk ibid.) the police then advised defendant of his miranda rights, which the defendant expressly waived before confessing to the murder. (id. at p. 159.) the supreme court held that, under these circumstances, therefore invalid. (honeycutt, supra, 20 cal.3d at pp. 160-161.) should have that knowledge of his rights afforded him by miranda. the self-incrimination sought by the police is more likely to occur if they first exact from an accused a decision to waive and then offer the accused an opportunity to rescind that decision after a miranda warning, than if they afford an opportunity to make the decision in the first instance with full knowledge of the miranda rights.id. when the waiver results from a clever softening-up of a defendant through disparagement of the victim and ingratiating conversation, the subsequent decision to waive without a miranda warning must be deemed to be involuntary for the same reason that an incriminating statement made under police interrogation without a miranda warning is deemed to be involuntary.(id. at pp. 160-161.) honeycutt is clearly distinguishable because in that case the defendant agreed to discuss the crime for which he had been arrested, thus waiving his right to remain silent, before the police had advised him of his rights. here, in contrast, neither toosbuy nor defendant even mentioned the crimes for which he had been arrested during their pre-advisements conversation, and defendant did not agree to talk with toosbuy about those crimes 13 until after toosbuy provided the advisements. thus, defendant miranda warningunlike the honeycutt defendant. (honeycutt, supra, 20 cal.3d at p. 160.) moreover, subsequent supreme court decisions have held honeycutt squarely to its facts. for example, the court declined to apply honeycutt in a case missing honeycuttient - people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 478 (scott).) in another case, the court declined to apply honeycutt when the police during the pre-advisement conversation did not discuss the [the (people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 603 (gurule).) the instant case also lacks honeycuttacquaintances with defendant; indeed, toosbuy and defendant had no prior relationship. she also did not disparage the alleged victim, whom she mentioned only briefly in asking defendant the age and location of his children. moreover, we cannot conceive how such amicable conversation as occurred here might overcome defendant argues that honeycutt nowhere states that a police officer must disparage the victim for its holding to apply, but the presence or absence of such conduct is honeycutt in later opinions, as reflected in scott and gurule. we also note that the supreme court has held that police him of his rights provided 14 (people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1086-1087.) police suspect and convince him to view the police officers favorably; confession is invalid. (id. complied with this authority. we thus conclude that honeycutt is inapplicable and defendant validly waived his miranda rights. 2. detective toosbuy did not coerce defendant to confess with promises of leniency defendant argues that toosbuy coerced his confession with implied promises that he would receive less punishment if he admitted to the allegations against him. we disagree. [w]here a person in authority makes an express or clearly implied promise of leniency or advantage for the accused which is a motivating cause of the decision to confess, the confession is involuntary and inadmissible as a matter of law. (wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066.) however, mere advice or exhortation by the police that it would be better for the accused to tell the truth when unaccompanied by either a threat or a promise does not render a subsequent confession involuntary. . . . thus, [w]hen the benefit pointed out by the police to a suspect is merely that which flows naturally from a truthful and honest course of conduct, the subsequent statement will not be considered involuntarily made. [citation.] if . . . the defendant is given to understand that he might reasonably expect benefits in the nature of more lenient treatment at the hands of the police, 15 prosecution or court in consideration of making a statement, even a truthful one, such motivation is deemed to render the statement involuntary and inadmissible. (people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96, 115 (holloway).) defendant identifies numerous portions of his police interview in which he contends toosbuy implied that defendant would receive more lenient treatment if he confessed. for ease of analysis we group these statements by theme, and discuss each theme in turn. a. statements that defendant could move forward with his life by admitting to his crimes defendant identifies statements by toosbuy suggesting you continue to deny and lie about it, it remains part of your . . . you admit it and take responsibility, you know what, it instantly becomes part of your past, and then you able to take that a defendant identifies other passages in which toosbuy similarly encouraged okay. and it is defendant argues that by these statements, toosbuy 16 [defendant] could salvage his life and put the prosecution behind him because, defendant contends, he could not realistically put the matter would not be subject to a harsh penalty. defendant also contends would receive the most benefit, and therefore be treated the most statements. in context, it is clear that in referring to defendant talking about defendant relieving his conscience and possibly rectifying his relationship with his daughter, the victim of his responsibility to move forward . . . this will haunt [you] for the want [your daughter] to be able to forgive you and be able to move forward, too. and i think a huge step for her was to come forward and tell me [what happened]. [] and the other huge step is for her to understand that you are going to take responsibil describe the moral or psychological advantages to the accused of telling the truth.people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 172 17 (carrington).) here, the only benefits toosbuy specified were psychological and morala relieved conscience and reconciliation consequences that he might avoid. (cf. people v. jimenez (1978) 21 cal.3d 595, 611-612 [police implicitly promised leniency when they informed defendant he was at risk of the death penalty, then implied he could avoid that fate by confessing], overruled on other grounds by people v. cahill (1993) 5 cal.4th 478, 509-510, fn. 17; people v. dowdell (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1388, 1404 forth the possibility of a firearm enhancement . . . and implied that [an interview subject] confirming certain facts].) under those circumstances, we cannot or legal advantage. (wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066.) for similar reasons, we hold it was not improper for is is not the time and place to start running situation but, more importantly, that if he did not make a full suggestion that toosbuy was referring to something other than the psychological and moral benefits of telling the truth, benefits she expressly identified earlier in the interview, we disagree that clearly implied promise of leniency or advantage (wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066.) 18 b. statements that others would want an toosbuy told defendhis financial troubles. defendant members of the criminal jenough explanation for the alleged conduct, he would be treated were proper under holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th 96. in that case, police suggested to a suspect that the killings of which he was uncontrollable fit of rage during a drunken blackout, and that make[ id. at p. 116(ibid.an account involving blackout or accident might help defendant avoid the death penalty, he did no more than tell defendant the ] naturally from a truthful and honest the degree of a homicide or, at the least, serve as arguments for ibid.) 19 [citation] between urging a suspect to tell the truth by factually outlining the benefits that may flow from confessing, which is permissible, and impliedly promising lenient treatment in holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 117.) the court concluded, however, that the ine by mentioning a possible capital charge or suggesting that defendant might benefit in an unspecified manner from giving a truthful, mitigated account of ibid.) defendant provided a truthful account that mitigated his conduct, so suggesting, toosbuy did not promise leniency in exchange for a confession, but merely outlined the benefits of telling the truth. (holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 117.) c. statements regarding counseling and posting bail toosbuy said she thought defendant needed psychological lity that of jail. defendant contends that toosbuy knew that given the be unlikely to [defendant] could be subject to more lenient treatment than stating that defendant needed counseling did not suggest that he 20 also would not be subject to criminal penalties. stating that defendant had a possibility of posting bail was accurate, even if under the circumstances it was unlikely he would be able to do so. regardless, even accepting that these statements suggested penalty, there was no implication that the reduced penalty was contingent on his cooperation. in his reply brief, defendant also identifies statements by toosbuy in which she described possible outcomes when a case defendant argues that this also was an implied promise of leniency. we reject this argument for two reasons. first, in context it was evident toosbuy was speaking generally, because she referred to said, at no point did she say or imply that a particular outcome depended on wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1066.) toosbuy made the statements about possible outcomes after defendant had already confessed to sexually abusing his daughter. thus, even if we could interpret her statements as promising leniency in exchange for cooperation, those statements could not have caused him to confess. d. statements purportedly minimizing or defendant identifies portions of the interview in which 21 were excusable or less serious than they actually were, and that he was not a bad or evil person. accepting this characterization as accurate for the sake of argument, we fail to see how such statements imply a promise of leniency in exchange for cooperation. defendant argues that by these statements toosbuy was be given a chance to redeem himself and salvage his life if he defendant contends that the promises of aid necessarily also promised more lenient treatment. we see no promise of aid, implied or otherwise, in moreover, as we have discussed, to the extent toosbuy suggested she wished to help defendant, it was to achieve the psychological and moral benefits of telling the truth, in this case relieving his conscience and reconciling with his daughter. this did not constitute a promise of leniency. (carrington, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 172.) c. defendant fails to show that the trial court did not instruct the jury on the elements of the charged offenses defendant asserts that the trial court neglected to instruct the jury orally on the elements of the offenses of which he was charged. as we discuss further below, those instructions were r, there are indications in other portions of the record that the trial 22 court read the instructions to the jury. we therefore conclude defendant has failed to show error. 1. additional background march 29, 2017 reflects the following: the trial court discussed the proposed jury instructions with counsel outside of the presence of the jury. the trial court stated its intention to instruct the jury with the relevant instructions numbered between calcrim nos. 200 and 370 and then dismiss the jury for a break while the court and counsel edited and discussed the the trial court then brought in the jury and read the instructions through calcrim no. 370. the instructions read by the court did not include the instructions on the charged offenses or the lesser offenses, which numbered between calcrim nos. 1082 and 3517. the court told the jury, have to go through the remaining instructions with the attorneys have you come back in half-an-hour and that will give me enough instructing th morning proceedings, including any proceedings taking place after 11:15.4 the transcript resumes with the afternoon session on march 29. the transcript reflects that the trial court began 4 the record does not indicate whether these proceedings are missing from the renever transcribed, or because they were transcribed but not included in the record on appeal for some unknown reason. 23 the afternoon proceedings by reading a revised version of calcrim no. 252, one of the instructions between calcrim nos. 200 and 370 that it previously had read to the jury during the morning session, but gave no further instructions, including any instructions regarding the charged and lesser offenses. the parties then gave their closing arguments, which were transcribed. during closing, the [y]ou have heard some various jury instructions on various charges. in counts 1, 2, 3, 8 and 9 the defendant is charged with continuous sexual abuse, the prosecution then discussed the elements of that charge, followed by the elements of oral copulation with a child under 10 years old. instruction, 1128, on these counts, these are counts 4, 5, and 6, and this instruction provides you with the elements that need to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt for this charge as to these under the age of 18, and referred to calcrim no. 1082. shortly thereafter, defense counsel stated, instruction on the lesser charge of lewd act with a child under the after the parties completed their closing arguments, the trial court provided final instructions to the jury regarding the process of deliberating and returning a verdict. those court did not instruct the jury regarding the charged and lesser offenses at this time. 24 the record indicates the trial court provided the jury with written instructions including the instructions for the charged and lesser offenses. defendant does not challenge the written instructions. 2. analysis defendant argues tthe charged and lesser offenses, the trial court never read those instructions to the jury. defendant argues this was reversible error, citing people v. murillo (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 1104, 1107 (murillo). in murillo, the trial court provided a full set of written instructions to the jury, but inadvertently failed to read one of the instructions orally. (id. at pp. 1106-1107.) division four of this couthe jurors (id. at p. 1107.) under those circumstances, the reviewing court must assume the jurors did not read the written instruction, and ibid.) murillo is inapplicable here. it is evident from the proceedings earlier that day that the trial court read the instructions on the charged and lesser offenses, even if we have no transcript of that reading in the record on appeal. the trial court stated it would read the instructions, taking a short break beforehand to work out the final instructions with counsel. proceedings following that break, during the afternoon session the prosecution and defense counsel referred to the instructions 25 for both the charged and lesser offenses during closing arguments, and defense counsel identified the calcrim number the instructions before closing argument began, that is, sometime before the afternoon session. the logical conclusion is the trial court did as it said it would, reconvening the jury in the late morning after a short break and instructing them on the charged and lesser offenses. defendant argues that when counsel referred to the instructions in closing argument, they may have been referring to instructions. statement reasonable conclusion is that the trial court read the instructions for the charged and lesser offenses aloud.5 d. the sentencing minute order and abstract of presentence credits during sentencing on june 27, 2017, the trial court awarded defendant 517 days of custody credits and 77 days of conduct credits for a total of 594 days of presentence credits. those credits are not reflected in the minute order of the sentencing hearing, and the abstract of judgment lists zero total 5 defendant claims the purported errors in admitting his statement to the police and failing to instruct the jury properly resulted in cumulative prejudice justifying reversal. because we conclude the trial court did not err in either regard, we similarly find no cumulative prejudice. 26 credits. pronouncement of judgment and the minute order or the abstract of judgment(people v. zackery (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 380, 385.) we thus direct the trial court to conform the minute order and abstract of judgment to its oral pronouncement. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to correct the june 27, 2017 minute order and the abstract of judgment to indicate an award of 517 days of custody credits and 77 days of conduct credits. the trial court shall forward the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: johnson, acting p. j. currey, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 