filed 9/27/18 p. v. hernandez ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george hernandez, defendant and appellant. b283270 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka110022) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed. edward h. schulman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, and allison h. chung, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 george hernandez (defendant) stands convicted of second degree murder for stabbing friend 41 times. in this appeal, he argues that the trial court should have given the jury a special defense-of-home instruction applicable to intruders and that the defense-of-home instruction the jury heard improperly shifted the burden of proof onto him. these arguments lack merit, so we affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts on a wednesday evening in late june 2015, someone stabbed daniel herrera (herrera) 41 times in the head, chest, arms, and legs; three of the wounds were fatal. the stabbing occurred in one of the trailers at the thunderbird trailer park in pomona, california. the trailer was owed by cece arenas (cece).1 cece, her adult daughter danielle, and defendant each occupied a room in the trailer. both cece and danielle were friends with herrera, and herrera would regularly drop by the trailer. on the night in back to the living room. at some point thereafter, danielle heard a scuffle in the living room. when she investigated, she saw someone standing over herrera as herrera sat on the sofa. hit the assailant with a floor lamp and then the television. she then tried to pull the assailant away, but he sliced her hand with a knife. cece then came out to the living room and whacked the 1 because cece and danielle share the same last name, we use their first names for clarity. we mean no disrespect. 3 assailant with her walking cane. at that point, the assailant fled. overwhelming evidence established that defendant was . a six-inch fixed s blood on it was recovered outside the apartment where ex-girlfriend lived, and whom he had gone to visit right after the stabbing. when defendant was arrested that night for violating the restraining order to keep away from his ex-girlfriendshorts, t-shirt, and knife sheath he was wearing. was also on his shorts and on a tank top. what is more, both cece and danielle had told police that defendant was the assailant. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with a single count of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))2 and alleged that he had personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon (namely, a knife) ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). the people further alleged that degree burglary convictions constituted strikes within the meaning of our three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)); that one of those d. (a)); and that defendant had served four other prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)(1)). at trial, cece and danielle were both in custody for refusing to testify. both recanted their prior statements identifying defendant: danielle said she could not identify the had attacked herrera, and cece 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 went so far as to say she did not know defendant at all. defendant took the stand. he said that someone had the moment he entered the trailer that night, because he feared the mexican mafia was making good on its 2003 threat to kill him. because six peopleherrera, danielle, cece, and three otherswere attacking him at the same time. the trial court instructed the jury on the charged crime of second degree murder, on the lesser included crime of voluntary mansudden quarrel or in the heat as well as due to imperfect self-defense), on self-defense, and on defens the jury found defendant guilty of second degree murder and found the weapon enhancement to be true. defendant subsequently admitted his prior convictions. the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for 55 years to life, comprised of a base sentence of 45 years (15 years to life, tripled due to the two prior strikes), plus one year for the weapon enhancement, plus five years for the prior serious felony, and plus four years (one for each prior prison term). defendant filed this timely appeal. discussion in this appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred (1) in not instructing the jury that a person who uses deadly force against an intruder within his residence is ve held a reasonable fear of imminent peril of death or great bodily injury, and (2) in not modifying calcrim no. 506. defendant did not bring either claimed error to the trial court. however, we will ignore any forfeiture 5 ( 1259),3 and will independently review the correctness of the people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 132-133). i. sua sponte duty to instruct on presumption habitation . . . .197, subd. (2).) the home protection bill of rights, enacted in 1984, made this defense easier to prove by erecting a rebuttable force intended or likely to cause death or great bodily injury within his or her residencwill be fear of imminent peril of death or great bodily injury to self, family, circumstances. ( 198.5; people v. brown (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 1489, 1494-1495 (brown).) the only circumstances in which this presumption applies, however, is where: (1) there was an unlawful and forcible entry into a s] (3) the defen . . . against the [intruder] within the residencebrown, at pp. 1494-1495; people v. curtis (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 1337, 1361-1362;  198.5.) permit residential occupants to defend themselves from intruders people v. owen (1991) 226 cal.app.3d 996, 1005; people v. grays (2016) 246 cal.app.4th ifically discussed in the context of protection against burglars 3 in so doing, we obviate was constitutionally ineffective for not objecting on these grounds. 6 when there has been no request to do so turns on whether: (1) there is substantial evidence supporting that instruction; and of the case. (people v. townsel (2016) 63 cal.4th 25, 58; people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 517.) in assessing substantial evidence for these purposes, we construe the record in the light most favorable to the defendant. (people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 1137; people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218.) the trial court did not violate its duty to instruct in this case. that is because substantial evidence did not support at least one of the four prerequisites to the applicability of the namely, the requirement that the homicide victim be someone who made entrybrown, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at pp. 1494-1495.) both cece and danielle testified that herrera was their friend and a welcome guest in their mobile home, and danielle testified that herrera was present inside the mobile home with her permission the night he was killed. defentestimony did not in any way touch on how the person who attacked him had entered the mobile home. consequently, the only evidence in the record indicates that herrera had not made mobile home. a defense instruction premised on the opposite was inapplicable. defendant offers two arguments in response. first, he asserts that it should be enough that he reasonably believed his assailant was an intruder who had made an unlawful and forcible entry into the home. this assertion ignores the plain language of section 198.5 and the cases interpreting it, all of which require 7 both the fact of an unlawful and forcible entry and the onable belief in that fact. ( 198.5; brown, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at pp. 1494-1495.) second, defendant urges that the presumption should apply even when here, defendant continues, that evening was unlawful because it was made with the intent to do defendant harm. this argument asks us to ignore the plain language of section 198.5, which requires prand forciblethis we cannot do. (melissa r. v. superior court courts may not . . . rewrite the clear language of [a] statute to broaden the st) or mcminn v. bliss (1866) 31 cal. 122, 126-127.) no such a manner; to the contrary, was with the the time of entry. ii. failure to modify general habitation instruction a. pertinent facts with respect to defense of home, the trial court gave calcrim no. 506, which provides that a defendant is not guilty of murder or manslaughter if he killed to defend himself in [his] 1. the defendant reasonably believed that he was defending a home against . . . herrera, who intended to or tried to commit great bodily harm or murder; 2. the defendant reasonably believed that the danger was imminent; 8 3. the defendant reasonably believed that the use of deadly force was necessary to defend against the danger; and 4. the defendant used no more force than was reasonably necessary to defend against the danger. that instruction furtthe burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the killing b. analysis italicized language effectively placed the burden on him to prove herrera specific intent, which he claims violates both due process and the sixth amendment. reasonable likelihood that the jury has applied the challenged instpeople v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 957, quoting estelle v. mcguire (1991) 502 u.s. 62, 72.) we conclude that there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury read the italicized language to require instruction makes clear that the people have the burden of disproving any defense of justification, including disproving each element of such a defense, and (2) the italicized language refers or tried to commit great bodily an attempt is sufficient regardless of intent. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p. j. lui _________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 