filed 9/28/18 p. v. griego ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard griego et al., defendants and appellants. b283947 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka113798) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. robert m. martinez, judge. affirmed in part and reversed in part. kent d. young, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jesse alderete. sunnie l. daniels, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant richard griego. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant jesse alderete of possession of a controlled substance while armed, possession of a firearm by a felon, and unlawful possession of ammunition. the same jury convicted defendant and appellant richard griego of possession for sale of a controlled substance. alderete contends the prosecutor committed doyle1 error and the trial court erred in failing to sua sponte give an instruction on unanimity. griego contends he received ineffective assistance of counsel and improper gang evidence was presented to the jury. he also urges us to strike an enhancement for a prior drug conviction. we however, we agree griego received ineffective assistance of counsel and reverse the judgment on that basis. factual and procedural background investigation on october 19, 2016, pomona police department officer francesco sacca and several other officers executed a warrant to search a residence located on gordon street in pomona. alderete was in the front yard of the residence when the officers arrived. inside the house, the officers found a pipe under the living room couch and two nearly identical pipes on the kitchen table, all of which contained methamphetamine. on a shelf in one of the bedrooms, the officers discovered three firearms wrapped in a shirt. all three guns appeared to be in working condition, and two were loaded. the officers also found in the bedroom several documents bearing alderete name and listing the gordon street address as his residence. there were no indications that anyone other than alderete lived in the house. 1 doyle v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610 (doyle). 3 living space. there, the officers found 1.25 grams of powder cocaine, unused plastic baggies, $900 in cash rolled up and tied with a rubber band, a digital scale, a knife, and a mirror with a non-adhesive surface. a portion of the cash consisted of $100 bills. the officers also discovered a prescription pill bottle, a and the gordon street address. in addition, the officers found clothing or items. trial alderete and griego were jointly tried before a jury. the prosecutor presented evidence establishing the facts summarized above. in addition, the prosecutor presented expert testimony from officer sacca, who opined that the cocaine found in the garage was intended for sale. officer sacca explained that, although the quantity of cocaine was small, the digital scale, unused plastic baggies, cash, and knife were all indicative of drug sales. officer sacca also based his opinion on the lack of items one would typically expect to find if an individual is using cocaine, such as a surface to snort the drugs, straws, broken pens, or rolled-up dollar bills. neither defendant testified. alderete presented testimony from a private investigator who visited his house the day before trial. according to the investigator, contain a tall shelving unit, but there was a shelving unit in an unoccupied bedroom. 4 griego presented testimony from his girlfriend of three years, denise gonzales, and his employer. testified that both griego and gonzales worked for him at an auto-body shop, and he paid them in cash. gonzales testified that she rented the detached garage from alderete, and griego would occasionally stay with her. gonzales believed the clothes the police found in the closet belonged to alderete. she pointed out that griego has a 48-inch waist, but the pants in the closet had waist sizes of 50 and 52 inches. gonzales acknowledged that griego used cocaine, but she did not believe the cocaine found in the garage was his. gonzales did not know to whom the cocaine belonged. she explained that a lot of gonzales stated she used the scale and plastic baggies for craft supplies to create piatas for her family. verdict and sentencing the jury found alderete guilty of possession of a controlled substance while armed (health and saf. code,  11370.1, subd. (a); count 1),2 possession of a firearm by a felon, (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1); count 2), and unlawful possession of ammunition (pen. code,  30305, subd. (a)(1); count 3). alderete admitted suffering three prior felony convictions. the court sentenced alderete to the upper term of four years on count 1. the court imposed the upper term of three years on counts 2 and 3 and stayed the sentences under section 654. it also imposed a two-year enhancement under penal code 2 all undesignated statutory citations are to the health and safety code unless noted otherwise. 5 other criminal case (see pen. code,  12022.1, subd. (d)). the court awarded alderete 66 days of custody credit and imposed various fines and fees. the jury found griego guilty of possession for sale of a controlled substance (pen. code,  11351; count 4). griego admitted suffering two prior strike convictions and a prior drug sales conviction under section 11351. the trial court sentenced griego to an aggregate term of nine years, comprised of the midterm of three years doubled under the three strikes law, plus a three-year enhancement for the prior drug conviction pursuant to former section 11370.2, subdivision (a). the court awarded griego 144 days of custody credit and imposed various fines and fees. defendants timely appealed. discussion i. though the prosecutor clearly committed doyle error, we find the error harmless alderete argues the prosecutor improperly presented evidence of, and commented on, the invocation of his right to remain silent, in violation of doyle, supra, 426 u.s. 610. we agree but do not find it warrants reversal. a. background during her opening statement, the prosecutor described the then stated the following: [the police officers] placed mr. alderete under arrest. after advising him of miranda rights, they asked him if he wished to give a statement regarding the search and regarding his arrest. 6 alderete did not object during statement. however, after a recess for lunch, counsel argued it was improper tstatement, is, man, because it constituted an invocation of his right to [i]t is what it is, refusal to speak to police. although never requested by counsel, the court stated it whether he wanted the court to admonish the jury and strike the should do nothing because he would inform the jury in closing argument . thereafter, the prosecutor informed the court she intended tstatement. the court determined was an invocation of his right to remain silent and inadmissible. the court further determined the portion of [i]t is was not part of the invocation, but nevertheless ruled the entire statement should be excluded because of the potential for misuse by the jury. during the cross-examination of officer counsel elicited testimony suggesting it was possible the pipes ntly, the prosecutor asked the court to reconsider allowing her to elicit [i]the basis that the statement was part of the invocation of his right to remain silent. the court then changed its ruling and 7 permitted the testimony. the prosecutor proceeded to question officer sacca as follows: q: did you, after completing the search, tell mr. alderete that you found those firearms in his bedroom? a: i did. q: and at the time that you told him that, did he make any statements to you? a: no. q: okay. did he, at any time, make any statements regarding any of the contraband that was found inside the home? a: no. okay. so not at the location but after placing him under arrest, did you have a conversation with him at theat the station? a: i did. q: and at that time, did he make any comments to you regarding the items that were found inside the home? a: hit is what it q: did he, at any time, indicate to you that the contraband found inside his home did not belong to him? a: no. in her closing argument, the prosecutor commented on that [alderete] also reasons he knew about the guns. because when told about all of 8 methamphetamine pipes may have been left in his house by people who were there to use or buy drugs. he also implied that because alderete is a drug user himself, he might not have been bunch of dopers that are coming to his house on a regular basis . . . do you think that there might be some activity going on there, that . . . drugs, are you one hundred percent on top of your game in terms of . . . the prosecutor responded to this argument on rebuttal: these items were in his home. well, if that were the case when officers told him that they found these contraband items in his must have left them there. but if you recall, his one statement mission. no surprise there. he knew they were there. he knew because he possessed them. and the only thing he had to say about that was an admission b. analysis 1. the prosecutor committed doyle error in doyle, supra, 426 u.s. 610, the u.s. supreme court held it is a violation of due process for a prosecutor to impeach a defendant at trial using his post-arrest silence after receiving 9 miranda3 warnings. (doyle, at p. 619; see also wainwright v. greenfield (1986) 474 u.s. 284, 295, fn. 13 (wainwrightdoes not mean only muteness; it includes the statement of a the court explained that such silence than the arresmiranda rights. (doyle, at pp. 617619.) moreover, because the miranda warnings imply fundamentally unfair and a deprivation of due process to allow the arrested persodoyle, at p. 618, fn. omitted.) the california supreme court has since expanded the doyle -in-chief. (people v. coffman and marlow against a defendant by means of an interrogating detective even before the defendant has had the opportunity to take t we agree with alderete that the prosecutor committed misconduct when she told the jury he invoked his right to remain silent when asked if he wished to provide a statement to officer sacca.4 we are at a loss to understand why a prosecutor, who 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 4 the attorney general contends alderete forfeited his clarequest a limiting instruction, and forfeited his claims regarding objection. (see people v. clark doyle violation does not occur unless the prosecutor is permitted 10 was certainly aware of the seminal decisions in miranda and doyle which have been the law for 4050 years, would so blatantly ignore their principles to gain a tactical advantage in trial. nothing further need be said on the merits of this point; it was clearly wrong. we consider whether the error was harmless after similar allegations. alderete next contends that the remainder of the statement[i]was part and parcel of an unambiguous and unequivocal invocation of his right to remain silent. in addition, he faults the prosecutor for certain statements she made during closing argument, which pointed out that alderete did not tell officer sacca the pipes were not his or that he was unaware they were in his house. we find these claims unpersuasive. before we proceed to our analysis, however, we pause to state that when statements at trial, the wise and prudent course of action is to first bring the issue to the attention of the trial judge for a determination of their admissibility. here, the prosecutor should the evidentiary question by forging ahead with presenting an objection and appropriate instruction to the jury ordinarily ipeople v. tate (2010) 49 cal.4th 635, 691692 [failure to object on doyle grounds forfeits claim on appeal].) we need not decide these issues because, even if there was a forfeiture, we would exercise our discretion to consider the claim of ineffectiveness of counsel. (people v. dejesus (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 1, 27.) 11 comments in her opening statement; the issue was not so clear. that said, we do not agree that it was improper for the prosecutor to introduce evidence of, and comment on, [i] we find the statement was not an inextricable from his prior invocation. to the contrary, it was a separate spontaneous statement, which a reasonable juror could have interpreted as an implicit admission that alderete was aware of the contraband found in his house.5 doyle does not statement against him at trial, even if the statement is made in close proximity to an invocation of a miranda right. moreover, because aldquestioning by officer sacca, it does not matter that it came after he initially invoked his right to remain silent. (see people v. mcdaniel when not in response to an interrogation are admissible against a defendant, even after an initial assertion of the right to remain 5 although we have not found any california cases essee appellate court examined the phrase in the context of a case with similar facts. (see state v. welch (tenn. crim. app., oct. 13, 2016, no. m201500361ccar3cd) 2016 wl 5944999.) in that case, the defendant was asked during a police interrogation about suspected drug paraphernalia found in his home, to which he it is what it is. noted that a reasonable juror could conclude this statement was an implicit admission that the items were, in fact, drug paraphernalia. (id. at p. *15.) 12 alderete relies on several ninth circuit cases in support of le, unparsable invocation of his right to remain silent.6 we are not bound by decisions of lower federal courts, although they may be persuasive and entitled to great weight. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 190; elliott v. albright (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 1028, 1034.) here, we are not persuaded that the cases upon which alderete relies compel a conclusion that his [i]his right to remain silent. several of the cases alderete relies on are simply inapposite. arnold v. runnels (9th cir. 2005) 421 f.3d 859 (arnoldstatement that he did not want to talk on tape was an unambiguous and unequivocal invocation of his right to remain silent. (id. at p. 866.) garcia v. long (9th cir. 2015) 808 f.3d 771 (garcia) and jones v. harrington (9th cir. 2016) 829 f.3d 1128 (jonesinvocations of their rights to remain silent were rendered ambiguous by virtue of their other comments. here, in contrast, 6 the day before oral argument, alderette submitted a letter brief citing to people v. case (2018) 5 cal.5th 1, in support of this argument. we do not find the case dispositive. there, the california supreme court considered, but did not resolve, the issu no, not about a robbery/ murder. jesus christ, (id. at p. 17) after being informed of his miranda rights, and being asked if he wished to talk to officers, was an ambiguous invocation of the right to silence which applied to officers were admissible. it did not address the issue presented here whether such a statement was a single, inseparable invocation of the right to remain silent on all issues. 13 we agree with alderete that he unambiguously invoked his right [i]t is what it is, ot render the earlier invocation ambiguous. we disagree with alderete only to the extent we conclude his [i]invocation of his right to remain silent. arnold, jones, and garcia do not address that issue. although hurd v. terhune (9th cir. 2010) 619 f.3d 1080 (hurd), is more on point, we do not find it persuasive and decline to follow it. in that case, a police officer pressed the defendant to want to do that, no, and because that id. at pp. 10881089.) the ninth circuit held it was doyle error for the prosecutor to use those statements against the defendant, and rejected the hurd, allows a suspect to invoke his right to silence through an ibid.) the ninth circuit pushed the hurd united states v. gomez (9th cir. 2013) 725 f.3d 1121 (gomez). in that case, the court proposed a hypothetical situation where, after being advised of his miranda to talk because i committed the murder. gomez, at p. 1128.) the court explained that, consistent with hurd, the prosecution could not use any part of the statement i committed 14 the murder -in- explanatory refusal. gomez, at pp. 11271128.) we acknowledge it is possibl[i]t refusal to provide a statement to officer sacca. however, we disagree with hurd and gomez to the extent they suggest the constitutional protections elucidated in doyle extend to a miranda right. initially, the lacks a solid precedential footing. despite the hurd insistence that the restrictions on circuit case, u.s. v. bushyhead (9th cir. 2001) 270 f.3d 905 (bushyhead), in support. in bushyhead, the court held it was doyle i have (bushyhead, against self-not merely the silence itself, but the circumstances of that silence as well. the entirety of [the and is therefore protected by the fifth amendment privilege against self-id. at p. 913.) the court in bushyhead relied on three cases to support its of bushyhead, supra, 270 f.3d at p. 913, citing wainwright, supra, 474 u.s. 284, u.s. v. whitehead (9th cir. 2000) 200 f.3d 634 (whitehead), and u.s. v. 15 velarde-gomez (9th cir. 2001) 269 f.3d 1023 (velarde-gomez).) none of those cases, however, involved statements analogous to wainwright, for example, concerned a attorney before speaking to police, (wainwright, at p. 286), whitehead involved a -miranda search, (whitehead, at p. 639), and velarde-gomez concerned evi just sat there with incriminating evidence (velarde-gomez, at pp. 10311032). we do not read any of these cases as even suggesting that the doyle invoking his right to remain silent. moreover, in our view, extending constitutional protections to an incriminating explanation for an invocation of the right to remain silent does not serve the purposes underlying the restrictions on the use of the silence itself. in doyle, the court silence: (1) silence is insolubly ambiguous and (2) it is unfair to d not be used for that purpose. (doyle, supra, 426 u.s. at pp. 617619.) does not serve either of these purposes. as the doyle miranda warning because it is guilt or simply an exercise of his constitutional right. (doyle, supra, 426 u.s. at p. 617; see united states v. hale (1975) 422 u.s. 171, 177.) the same concern, however, does not apply to an miranda warnings is that the arrestee may invoke his rights 16 without providing a reason. indeed, this is precisely what makes post-miranda silence inherently ambiguous. because an explanation is not required in order to invoke the right to remain silent, when an arrestee does provide one, it is clear he is not simply exercising a constitutional right. we also do not think it is unfair to use the explanation against the arrestee. as noted above, an arrestee is under no obligation to provide a reason for invoking his miranda rights. moreover, one of the fundamental miranda warnings is that anything the arrestee says may be used against him in court. consequently, we think an arrestee given miranda warnings would understand that he need not provide an explanation to invoke his right to remain silent, and any explanation he does provide may be used against him in court. it is not unfair to use ainst him after explicitly warning him of such a possibility. for these reasons, even if [i]for the invocation of his right to remain silent, we do not think it was improper for the prosecutor to use it as evidence of his guilt. finally, wrhetorical questions in her closing argument constituted doyle error. a deliberate omission in a voluntary statement to police is not tantamount to an exercise of the right to remain silent. (people v. clem (1980) 104 cal.app.3d 337, 344 (clem).) accordingly, a prosecutor may inquire into discrepancies between (anderson v. charles (1980) 447 u.s. 404, 408 (anderson).) this includes questions eliciting testimony that the defendant did not tell police specific information relevant to his defense. (see, e.g., anderson, at p. 408; people v. barker (1979) 94 cal.app.3d 321, 17 329330; clem, supra, 104 cal.app.3d at pp. 341344; people v. farris (1977) 66 cal.app.3d 376, 388390.) in anderson, supra, 447 u.s. 404, the defendant told police he stole a car from one location, but testified at trial that he stole the car from a different location. an appellate court held the and tell anybody at the time you were arrested, where you got that car? id. at pp. 406, 408.) the u.s. supreme court draw meaning from silence, but to elicit an explanation for a id. at p. 409.) the court version. but doyle does not require any such formalistic adopt such a anderson, at p. 409.) post-arrest silence. rather she was properly highlighting the inconsistencies between his statement to police[i]t is what it and his defense at trial. as we noted above, a an admission that he was aware there was contraband in his house. as such, it directly contradicted his defense at trial that the contraband belonged to someone else and he was not aware of it. the prosecutor was permitted to comment on this inconsistency, which she did by pointing out the omissions in argument violated due process would require the sort of 18 supreme court in anderson. 2. any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt although the prosecutor improperly remarked in her ocation of his right to remain silent, the error was harmless. a doyle error is harmless if it chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman); see people v. galloway (1979) 100 cal.app.3d 551, 559.) alderete insists the doyle error was prejudicial because it fatally undermined his defense to the allegation that he possessed methamphetamine.7 we disagree. claim of prejudice is severely undermined by the the court also specifically instructed the jury and we presume the jury followed this instruction. (see people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 443.) moreover, the evidence that alderete possessed methamphetamine was overwhelming, even in the absence of his statement to officer sacca. the uncontroverted evidence showed 7 alderete does not assert the doyle error undermined his defense to the allegations that he possessed a firearm and ammunition. nonetheless, we note the evidence of guilt was overwhelming as to those allegations. the firearms and evidence indicated alderete was the only person living in the house. 19 kitchen table, and a third pipe containing methamphetamine under his couch. further, all of the evidence indicated alderete was the only person living in the house at the time. this was sufficient to find alderete possessed the methamphetamine. (see people v. williams of possession of narcotics are physical or constructive possession thereof coupled with knowledge of the presence and narcotic cha alderete offered no explanation for how the contraband ended up in his house, other than a vague suggestion that it may have been left there by some unnamed person. his defense was simply that he had no knowledge of the pipes. specifically, he argued the pipes could have belonged to someone else and, because he is a drug user, he had a limited awareness of the items in his house. although this defense could conceivably have convinced some jurors that alderete was not aware of the pipe under the couch, it did not effectively address the two pipes in plain sight on the kitchen table. accordingly, we have no doubt the jury would have found alderete guilty, even if the prosecutor had not referred to his invocation of miranda rights. as a result, any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.8 ii. the trial court was not required to give a unanimity instruction related to the methamphetamine the jury a unanimity instruction specific to the firearms found in his house. alderete 8 given the overwhelming evidence of guilt, we would conclude any error was harmless even if we agreed with alderete 20 did not request, and the court did not give, a unanimity instruction specific to the methamphetamine. alderete contends this was error. we disagree. (people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132.) accordingly, when the evidence at trial suggests a defendant committed more than one discrete act upon which a single count could be based and the prosecutor does not elect one of the acts, the court generally must instruct the jurors that they are required to agree on the same act. (people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 679 (jennings); people v. russo, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 1132.) in the context of an unlawful possession charge, a unanimity instruction is rupon two or more individual units of contraband reasonably distinguishable by a separation in time and/or space and there is evidence as to each unit from which a reasonable jury could find that it was solely possessed by a person or persons other than the people v. king (1991) 231 cal.app.3d 493, 501.) here are, however, several exceptions to this rule. for example, no unanimity instruction is required if the case falls within the continuous-course-of-conduct exception, which arises [citation], continuous course of conduct or a series of acts over a period of timeinstruction if the defendant offers the same defense or defenses to jennings, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 679; see people v. carrera (1989) 49 cal.3d 291, 311312.) we review assertions of instructional error de 21 novo. (people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 568 (hernandez).) alderete relies on two cases, people v. crawford (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 591 (crawford) and hernandez, supra, 217 cal.app.4th 559, to support his argument that the trial court was required to give a unanimity instruction specific to the methamphetamine. in crawford, the defendant was charged with a single count of unlawful possession of a firearm. the prosecutor introduced evidence of two handguns found in the handguns bedroom. (crawford, supra, 131 cal.app.3d at p. 595.) as to the guns in his bedroom, the defendant presented evidence that he was not aware of one of the guns and the other belonged to his girlfriend. (ibid.) the court determined a unanimity instruction was necessary because the possession of the guns was in different parts of the house [and] the evidence showed unique facts surrounding the possess[ion] id. at p. 599.) in hernandez, supra, 217 cal.app.4th 559, the defendant was charged with a single count of unlawful possession of a firearm. the prosecutor presented evidence that the defendant fired a gun outside a residence and, later that night, the police found a gun in a car the defendant was driving. (id. at p. 565.) the defendant argued he never had a gun outside the residence and he lacked dominion or control over the gun found in the car. (id. at p. 567.) the court determined a unanimity instruction was necessary because the evidence indicated a possibility of two distinct possessions separated by time and space, and the defendant tendered different defenses to each alleged possession. (id. at p. 574.) 22 in contrast to crawford and hernandez, the possession acts reasonably distinguishable by separation in time or space. each pipe containing methamphetamine was found during the two of the pipes were found in the kitchen and one under a couch, the evidence indicated alderete was the only person living in the house and had exclusive dominion and control over everything within it. moreover, unlike the defendants in crawford and hernandez, alderete offered the same general defense to each quantity of methamphetamine found in his house. specifically, he argued the pipes containing the methamphetamine did not belong to him and he was not aware they were in his house. alderete did not, however, present evidence or argument to differentiate in any way the circumstances under which each pipe ended up in his house. nor did he present evidence or argument that the pipes belonged to different individuals. consequently, alderete provided no reasonable basis upon which the jurors could split as to which quantity of methamphetamine he possessed. under these circumstances, a unanimity instruction was not required. (cf. people v. castaneda (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 1067 [unanimity instruction required where defendant argued one quantity of heroin was planted by police and the other quantity belonged to someone else]; people v. king, supra, 231 cal.app.3d 493 [unanimity instruction required where defendant argued two quantities of methamphetamine were possessed by two different individuals].) alderete maintains he offered different defenses to each quantity of methamphetamine when he posited in closing got two of these 23 pipes out there in the open in the kitchen have this other pipe fact, mr. alderete was using that pipe that he would stick it ugh these statements could conceivably cast doubt as to his knowledge of the pipe under the couch, alderete did not make any comparable arguments with respect to the pipes in the kitchen. as such, we read these statements as part of a broader argument that the reject it as a whole. it was not a separate defense to the methamphetamine under the couch, as alderete contends. finally, even if a unanimity instruction was required, the error was harmless under either a federal constitutional test or state law test.9 (compare chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24 with people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) the only issue legitimately in dispute at trial was whether alderete was aware of the pipes containing methamphetamine found in his house. given the evidence that the pipe under the couch was hidden, a juror could have reasonably concluded alderete was aware only of the pipes in the kitchen and convicted him on that basis. the converse, however, is not true. indeed, based on the evidence and argument presented at trial, we can conceive no reasonable basis upon which a juror could conclude alderete was aware of the pipe hidden under the couch, but not the pipes found in plain sight on his kitchen table. as a result, there is no 9 there is a split of authority as to the proper harmless error standard to apply when a trial court erroneously failed to give a unanimity instruction. (see hernandez, supra, 217 cal.app.4th at p. 576 [discussing the split of authority].) 24 reasonable doubt that all jurors agreed alderete possessed the methamphetamine contained in the pipes found in the kitchen, which was sufficient to convict him. under such circumstances, any error in failing to give a unanimity instruction was harmless. iii. griego received ineffective assistance of counsel griego contends his trial counsel provided ineffective regarding prior investigations and arrests at the gordon street residence, and that a judge signed a search warrant after finding probable cause that a crime had been committed at the residence. we agree. a. background in her opening statement, the prosecutor informed the jury it would hear te[the gordon street leaving that location. and what he will tell you, that the one thing that these people had in common was that they had drugs, either on their person or inside their cars. having had contact with people leaving the location with drugs in their possession, he had a suspicion about what might be going on there. [] as a result of that, he was able to . . . prepare a search warrant, which was th -in-chief, officer sacca testified that he conducted three previous investigations at the gordon street address, which resulted in him arresting three people for either possession or sales of narcotics. officer sacca did not specify the types or quantities of narcotics involved. based on those investigations and arrests, officer sacca suspected there was narcotics sales activity occurring at the location. in response, he drafted a warrant to search the residence, which a 25 judge signed. officer sacca explained that prior to signing a search warrant, a judge must determine whether there is probable cause to believe a crime was committed at the location. during her closing argument, the prosecutor recounted arrests. she explained that officer sacca then sought a warrant s people leaving a house with drugs . . . , you suspect that there may be counsel addressed in his closing argument by stressing that the individuals were arrested as they left the house, rather than the garage. on rebuttal, while discussing evidence showing griego intended to sell the cocaine, the prosecutor stated the following: location where people leave a location with certain items. just as you expect people leaving a grocery store to be carrying baggies with them, with certain items, the same thing works with people who sell drugs. in this case, you heard that people who are leaving a location had different from when people leave a grocery store with new items b. analysis to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel a defendant must establish two elements: (1) counselrepresentation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness; errors or omissions, a determination more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. (strickland v. washington (1984) 26 466 u.s. 668, 690, 694 (strickland); see people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703 (holt).) in our review on direct appeal, we presume counsel rendered adequate assistance and exercised reasonable professional judgment in making trial decisions. (holt, at p. 703.) the record must demonstrate the lack of a rational tactical purpose for a challenged act or omission. (people v. williams arguably inadmissible evidence is a tactical decision; because trpeople v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 415416.) if the record fails to disclose why trial counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, the ineffective assistance of counsel claim must be rejected unless counsel was asked for, and failed to provide, an explanation or there could be no plausible explanation. (people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 426, overruled on another ground in people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048, 1081, fn. 10.) as we have noted, griego contends his counsel provided testimony regarding prior investigations and arrests outside the gordon street residence, which led to a judge finding probable cause to believe a crime had been committed and signing a warrant allowing officers to search the residence. griego asserts the testimony constituted improper character evidence because it implied he sold narcotics in the past. griego further contends that, to the extent the testimony was introduced for some other purpose, it should have been excluded as unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. he argues the same provision 27 of the evidence code would have resulted in exclusion of the testimony regarding the judge finding probable cause of a crime. those charged is inadmissible to prove criminal disposition or a poor chapeople v. lenart (2004) 32 cal.4th 1107, 1123 (lenart); see evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) nonetheless, the trial court has discretion to admit evidence of uncharged crimes if perpetrator of the charged crimes, the existence of a common design or plan, or the intent with which the perpetrator acted in the commission of the charged crimes. . . .lenart, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 1123; see people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 636637; people v. kelly (2007) 42 cal.4th 763, 783.) when used to show intent, the uncharged crimes must be sufficiently similar to the charged offense to support the inference that the defendant probably harbored the same intent in each instance. (people v. lewis, supra, 25 cal.4th at pp. 636637.) in addition, substantial probative value that is not greatly outweighed by the potential that undue prejudice will result from admitting the lenart, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 1123.) we pause, again, to reiterate that the prosecutor should have presented this issue to the trial judge for its consideration before presenting the evidence in trial. the question of whether other crimes evidence is admissible in trial is a complex evidentiary question. highly fact. [the california supreme court] has repeatedly warned that the admissibil28 people v. thompson (1980) 27 cal.3d 305, 314, fns. omitted (thompson).) that said, we also agree with griego that any reasonably competent attorney would have objected to officer stestimony when the evidence was sought to be admitted by the prosecutor without prior court approval, on the basis that it constituted improper evidence of uncharged crimes. the prosecutor clearly introduced to imply that griego sold narcotics to the three individuals who were arrested after leaving the gordon street residence. indeed, she urged the jurors to draw precisely this inference when she stated happen in a location where people leave a location with certain items. . . . in this case, you heard that people who are leaving a from when people leave a grocery store with new items in their although it appears the prosecutor may have had a proper purpose for admitting evidence that griego previously sold narcoticsto show griego intended to sell the cocaine found in the garagethere was insufficient evidence connecting the prior arrests to sales made by griego. while the search warrant may have had more to say on the point, at trial there was no evidence presented that officers observed sales taking place, only that persons were arrested outside the home carrying useable or saleable amounts of drugs. as such, the evidence only amounted to direct proof that the home was a place where people who possessed drugs congregated. even if the arrests were circumstantial evidence of drug sales at the gordon street address, the sales might equally have been made by alderete, and 29 thus entirely irrelevant and highly prejudicial when usedas they wereto convict griego. indeed, as defense counsel pointed out, the persons arrested with drugs outside the residence left the main house, not the garage where griego lived. absent some showing that the individuals arrested went into the garage or that griego regularly went into the main house where the later-arrested individuals were seen leaving, there was no connection between the circumstantial evidence of drug sales and griego. found probable cause for the warrant, coupled with closing argument, gave a strong impression that there was such a connection. mony was inadmissible under evidence code section 1101, and any reasonably competent attorney would have objected to it. the attorney general does not dispute that the testimony was inadmissible to the extent it was used to show griego sold narcotics in the past. nonetheless, the attorney general insists an objection would have been futile because the testimony was admissible to explain why the police investigated the gordon street residence and why officer sacca succeeded in obtaining a search warrant. that the evidence was introduced for such rebuttal. we acknowledge that the standard minimal questions and answers about the search being conducted pursuant to a warrant would have been appropriate for the purposes the attorney general asserts. still, because the lawfulness of the investigation and search were not at issue, there was no reason for the jury to learn the unduly prejudicial and inflammatory details about the investigation being premised on drug arrests outside the home. 30 there was especially no reason for the jury to learn that a warrant was issued after a judge determined there was probable cause to believe crimes had been committed at the residence. that was precisely the issue the jury was selected to determine; they should not have heard that a judge found that a crime occurred, even if the standard of evidence was less than beyond a reasonable doubt. as such, the evidence was irrelevant, and therefore inadmissible, if offered as background information for the investigation and warrant. (see evid. code,  210 [evidence any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of even if the evidence had some relevance for these purposes, it should have been excluded under evidence code section 352. evidence code section 352 affords the court discretion to exclude relevant evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will create substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury. (evid. code,  352.) here, the probative minimal, at best. in contrast, the risk of undue prejudice from such evidence was high, as it implied griego engaged in numerous uncharged criminal acts. (see thompson, supra, 27 cal.3d at p. 318 [evidence of uncharged crimes is inherently and substantially prejudicial]; people v. holt (1984) 37 cal.3d the admission of any evidence that involves crimes other than those for which a defendant is being tried has a highly inflammatory and prejudicial effect on the trier of fact. ent the court would have excluded the evidence under evidence code section 352 had 31 counsel objected to it on that basis. indeed, if there is any doubt thompson, supra, at p. 318.) wanted the jury to know that numerous drug users had been seen theory that someone else may have left the methamphetamine metduring his closing argument, counsel attempted to that the individuals were arrested coming out of the house, rather than the garage. this strongly suggests that counsel understood the evidence was harmful to his client and his failure to object to it had no tactical purpose. with respect to the second strickland factor, we think it is reasonably probable that a determination more favorable to griego would have resulted had his counsel objected to officer the cocaine for sale, rather than for personal use, was not overwhelming. as officer sacca readily admitted, the quantity of cocaine found in the garage was quite small. as a result, in forming his opinion that the cocaine was intended for sale, officer sacca relied heavily on the presence in the garage of other items indicative of narcotics sales, including $900 in cash, a digital scale, unused plastic baggies, and a knife. griego, however, presented plausible explanations for most of these items. 32 gonzales in cash. there was also evidence that a portion of the cash consisted of $100 bills, which would be inconsistent with small drug transactions. further, gonzales explained that the scale and baggies belonged to her, and she used them for crafting projects. moreover, although officer sacca testified that the garage lacked items one would typically expect to find if an individual is using cocainesuch as a surface to snort the drugsthere was evidence that a mirror with a non-adhesive surface was located on the couch. perhaps because the prosecutor recognized her case was improper testimony throughout the trial. during her rebuttal in particular, the prosecutor strongly suggested the testimony showed that griego sold narcotics in the past. making matters worse, because the prosecutor waited until rebuttal to explicitly draw this connection, she ensured griego had no opportunity to respond to the highly prejudicial argument. under these circumstances, we think there is a significant risk the jury convicted griego based on alleged prior misconduct, rather than the charged crime. indeed, as our supreme court is influenced with the seriousness of the narcotics problem . . . and has been taught to loathe those who have anything to do (people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897, 907.) the substantial reliance on evidence of the prior investigations and arrests, combined with her presentation of evidence that a trial judge had already found probable cause that a crime had been committed at the residence, lead us to find it reasonably probable 33 a determination more favorable to griego would have resulted testimony.10 disposition we affirm the judgment against alderete. we reverse the judgment against griego. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. 10 because we reverse the judgment on this basis, we need not 