 1 filed 6/21/18 p. v. cantrell ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. angelique cantrell, defendant and appellant. b283626 los angeles county super. ct. no. ma062757 appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. reversed. andrea keith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and analee j. brodie, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant angelique cantrell appeals from failing to complete court-ordered community service, terminating probation, and executing a suspended prison sentence. cantrell reported monthly, committed no more crimes, and made payments to the probation department. but cantrell failed to complete her community service after she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. cantrell contends the court abused its recommendation to reinstate her probation. based on the entire record in this case and its unusual facts, we agree the court abused its discretion in finding cantrell willfully violated the terms -year sentence. facts and procedural background 1. the charges and negotiated disposition in march 2014, cantrell went to the state prison in lancaster to visit someone. cantrell had about half an ounce of methamphetamine, .07 ounces of hashish, and 1.8 ounces of marijuana hidden in her bra. in a felony complaint, cantrell was charged with three counts of possessing contraband in jail in violation of penal code section 4573.6, subdivision (a).1 cantrell had no felony record. she had been convicted of two misdemeanor vehicle code violationsreckless driving and driving without a licenseabout eight years earlier. on may 7, 2014, cantrell entered into a plea deal with the people in an early disposition court (judge christopher g. estes, presiding). cantrell pled to one of the three counts. in 1 references to statutes are to the penal code. 3 cantrell to the midterm of three years in state prison (to be served in the county jail) but suspended execution of that sentence and placed cantrell on probation for three years. judge estes ordered cantrell to report to her probation officer and 2. the modification of probation at some point between may 2014 and october 2015, cantrell was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. cantrell -on notice, deputy probation officer (dpo) marcos garcia informed new arrests, had provided a dna sample, had met with the financial evaluator, and was making payments of $10 each month in accordance with her payment plan with probation. garcia cantrell came to court as ordered on december 9, 2015. judge kathleen blanchard, presiding in that court, told cantrell, felony probation to this court. as part of your plea agreement i labor. i understand you have a medical condition that is going to prevent you from doing that community labor, at least make it very difficult for you to do so. i spoke with your attorney and to do is 4 had discussed the matter with her client and cantrell was agreeable. the order that you complete the 60 days of community labor and instead order that you complete 90 days of light duty community servi told require that you complete that community service at a rate of no fewer than two 8-hour days per week. show proof of completion of at least 45 days of that community service to your [probation officer] no later than june 6th of 2016. proof of completion of all of it to your [probation officer] by december 8th of [2016]. so that gives you six months to do the first 45 days and then you get an cantrell if she understood that and agreed, and cantrell 3. the 2017 set-on and the preliminary revocation of probation in march 2017, dpo garcia sent a notice to the court that with the financial evaluator in january 2016, was to pay $25 each month, and had paid a total of $810. garcia also stated he 5 reported she has not completed her community service due to al document [sicbe found in violation of probation, that the defendant serve suitable time in custody in lieu of community service, that probatioprobation department receive a judgment against cantrell for the cost of probation services. cantrell appeared in court as ordered on april 20, 2017. eason why a three-year sentence hanging over your head. as part of your original plea agreement back in 2014, you agreed to do 60 days of community labor. you came back before this court in december of 2015 having done none of that but having brought us some information about your medical condition. you convinced the court to convert that 60 days of community labor to 90 days of light duty community service, which i did. at that time, i also stressed to you the importance of you fulfilling this term of your probation, and i ordered you to complete that community service at a rate of at least two full eight-hour days per week, and i gave you deadlines to show that completion to your probation officer. imagine my dismay when i learned from probation today that you have completed none of that community service. based on violation of your probation, and i am going to preliminarily 6 2 asked for a probation report. judge blanchard remanded cantrell and set ask multiple sclerosis. so if i could have a medical order so that she 4. the probation violation hearing and execution of sentence about six weeks later, on june 1, 2017, the court commenced a formal probation violation hearing. before the hearing, dpo garcia submitted a supplemental report prepared on may 8, 2017.3 the report noted that, had the court not ion on april 20, it would have expired on may 6, 2017. garcia repeated some of the information in his earlier reports: that cantrell had provided a dna sample, had o arrests other than the april 20 remand, and had paid $860 toward her court fines and fees and probation supervision costs. garcia stated he had 2 cantrell was represented by a different public defender than the attorney who had appeared with her at the december 9, 2015 proceeding. 3 cantrell asserts the court did not read the supplemental report. cantrell is mistaken. although the report was not file-stamped by the clerk until july 7, 2017, judge blanchard signed the line on page 4 of th at the hearing, the prosecutor marked the report as an exhibit, and he and the court conversed about its attachments. 7 start her 73 hours of her community service. however, she was having medical problems pertaining to her multiple sclerosis treatment/medication that kept her from continuing community department on april 28, 2017. garcia attached copies of both a letter from the manager of the acts thrift store verifying that cantrell had completed 73 hours and 49 minutes of community service4 and a note on a prescription pad from fares elghazi, excessive physical activity. she requires frequent resting the defendant appears to have a medical excuse as to why she failed to complete her community service, the defendant had been rendered [sic] ample time within her 3 year grant of probation to complete community service. therefore, the following is submitted as recommendation. [] it is recommended the defendant be found in violation of probation; probation be reinstated and time served for community service; a judgment be ordered against the defendant and in favor of the los angeles county probation department for costs of probation services, in the amount of $3645.00, less credit for all payments made to date pursuant to [] 1203.1(b); probation 4 this works out to about nine and one-quarter days of community service. 8 at the june 1, 2017 hearing, the prosecutor called dpo garcia to testify. garcia essentially repeated what he had written in his supplemental report. on cross-examination, garcia testified cantrell reported each and every month. defense counsel asked garcia about his statement that cantrell did appear to have a medical excuse for failing to complete community service. the court interjected, reading aloud the questioning garcia directly, reminding him she had ordered cantrell to do at least two full days of community service each duty, do you see any reason why a medical condition that prohibits an individual from excessive physical activity and requires frequent resting; that that would prohibit anybody from when defense counsel resumed questioning, he asked garcia if he ever had been notified that the community service garcia said he had not. reviewing his file, garcia then testified his assistant had mailed cantrell a referral for light community service in december 2015. garcia stated he remembered that cantrell lost that referral and came into the probation department for a replacement. garcia said the second referral authorized light duty community service. the parties agreed the court could take judicial notice of its file and the prosecutor rested. defense counsel called cantrell to testify. cantrell stated , 9 she had been seeing dr. elghazi for about 18 months. cantrell said she had lost her first referral form for light duty community service and so drove to the probation department to get a duplicate from garcia. cantrell testified she took the second third floor and asked them to honor the li cantrell testified the work she had done at the thrift store was not light duty. cantrell said she could not continue at the thrift store because that assignment required her to stand and and, if she stands on her feet for too long she gets light-headed. cantrell tried to reach her probation officer, garcia, and spoke with his assistant. the assistant told her she had to go to court window they told [her] that [she] was unable to just go in as a walk- cantrell stated she receives injections of copaxone three times a week for her multiple sclerosis. the side effects, cantrelspeak with garcia directly after her unsuccessful attempt to go to court. on cross-examination, cantrell testified she stopped wor 10 department. cantrell testified that in the summer of 2016 she came walk- the court interrupted the prosecutor and asked cantrell a said she was told (apparently by the community service office) to get a letter from her probation officer. cantrell stated she called letter for a set-an option. i thought everything had to be done through the kiosk that you needed to be mindful of your community o seeing those on the on redirect, cantrell testified her multiple sclerosis left her counsel said he had no further questions. the court then asked cantrell more questions. the court reminded cantrell of the conversion of community labor to light duty community service hours a week. in responshe did not remember the court setting a june 2016 deadline for 11 half of the hours. the court said it could order a transcript but it then said he would stipulate to that. the court then asked initial diagnosis and coming into court and specifically getting everything modified to light duty, which you said you could do, setting up a schedule to do it by; is it your testimony that because contimake the efforts necessary to come in and get a minute order showing that, or to go to probation and insist that they put a set-simight. -on, like you had done in the past through probation . . . you just stopped your efforts and stopped doing the community service; is that the court he had no further from huntington hospital and the custodian had failed to appear. the court proposed the parties return in about two weeks. the court also admitted into evidence 37 pages of medical records from dr. elghazi. submitted 55 pages of medical records. the parties agreed to 12 return in a week. (the matter apparently was later continued to july 7, 2017.) on july 7, the court stated it had gone through the medical records, reviewed the transcript of the december 9, 2015 modification proceeding, and considered the testimony received converting that 90 days [of community service] to some defense counsel noted the medical records demonstrated cantrell with some pretty severe sidpaperwork, and had trouble reaching her probation officer because of the kiosk reporting and contact our office, but unfortun . sick woman with multiple have anything to say on behalf of the people. history with the was very clear in my court order one of the conditions of probation is that she obey my court order. i find it simply unbelievable that after having gone through that, that if indeed 13 there was some paperwork snafu, that she would think it simply appropriate to sit at home and do nothing, rather than come back to court as she did before and ask for some form of modification. i think that she was absolutely medically capable of doing light duty community service. it was very clear that she was supposed to do that and when she was supposed to do that, and she simply conversations with people? perhaps. but based on those conversations, if indeed they occurred, it was on her to come to did. and so i do find her in violation of her probation in this case defense counsel told the court cantrell wanted to say officer, i spoke with his secretary. she told me, okay, come to know that i had the option to come speak with my attorney. . . . i if she got ready to walk to the store, she would fall to the floor. your medical diagnosis. the issue is that when you are granted probation by the court, and the court looks you in the eye and orders you to do certain things, and in this case, made all the 14 accommodations that you asked for and looked you in the face and said you have to do these things and you have to do them by bationer to get that not take care of those obligations for years and then come in and say, oh, there was a paperwork snafu. it just doesway. you are ordered to do things, you are obligated to do them, because it just becomes a cycle of me telling people to do something and them not doing it, and me telling them to do it then executed the three-year suspended sentence. discussion to reinstate probation or sentence a defendant to prison, are rpeople v. downey (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 899, 909 (downeydiscretion is very broad, the court may not act arbitrarily or capriciously; its determination must be based upon the facts (people v. buford (1974) 42 cal.app.3d 975, 985.) judgment and guided by legal principles and policies appropriate people v. russel (1968) 69 cal.2d 187, 195.) probation revocation decisions and sentencing people v. alexander (1977) 74 cal.app.3d 20, 26.) while the facts supporting revocation need be proved only by a preponde 15 people v. galvan (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 978, 982.) as noted, here, cantrellwho had no significant criminal record before pleading to the charge in this casereported consistently as directed for nearly three years, suffered no new arrests much less convictions while on probation, met twice as al evaluator, and made payments to the probation department. after cantrell was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis, her probation officer recommended that the community labor requirement be deleted. when the court instead converted the community labor to community service, cantrell tried to do that community service at the thrift store but was unable to continue because of her multiple sclerosis. while cantrell should not have lost her first referral form, her probation officer conceded that the second form community service office refused to permit her to do light duty because the referral form did not say that was uncontroverted. about the symptoms she suffers from the disease itself, also was uncontroverted. the court had before it nearly 100 pages of 5 in its ruling, the court think that she was absolutely medically capable of doing light in the medical records or otherwise explain the basis for this 5 general has asked the superior court to forward the exhibits to us, so we have not been able to review the medical records. 16 it believed cantrell to be lying about: the symptoms of her disease, the injections and their side effects, what the community service office told her, what the probation ofher, or what someone at a courthouse window told her. on behalf of the people, ever asked that cantrell be found in violation of probation and given the three years. as noted, labor be deleted; he later recommendedafter the court put cantrell in jailthat she be reinstated on probation with credit for time served in lieu of the community service.6 service to jail time but not to execute the three years. from the record, it appears to have been uncontroverted that the community service office told cantrell to go to probation to get felony. the court seems to have concluded that cantrell should have gone to the probation department and demanded to see someone who could give her the right paperwork or schedule a set-on with the court or, failing that, to have gone to the public the court. cantron the 6 we acknowledge the court is not required to follow the recommendations of the probation department. (downey, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at p. 910.) 17 uncontroverted and unusual facts heredoes not rise to the level of a willful violation of her probation terms. disposition the order finding cantrell in violation of probation and executing the three-year suspended sentence is reversed. we order probation to remain terminated and the los angeles discharge cantrell from any further obligations to the probation department or the superior court. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 