filed 8/31/18 p. v. pickett ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ricky andre pickett, defendant and appellant. b283443 (los angeles county super. ct. nos. ba447411, ba448257) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig richman and katherine mader, judges. affirmed. jenny macht brandt, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, yun k. lee and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant ricky andre pickett (defendant) was on probation when police officers arrested him for domestic violence. the arrest prompted the los angeles county district attorney to seek revocation of the revocation hearing, the trial court, without objection, found defendant violated the terms of his probation not based on the grounds alleged in the revocation petition, domestic violence and grand theft, but because defendant admitted he had contact with the victim, which violated an existing protective order. we consider whether reversal is warranted for asserted violations of present a defense. i. background in august 2016, defendant pled guilty to violations of health and safety code sections 11351.5 (possession of cocaine base for sale) and 11352, subdivision (a) (selling, transporting, or offering to sell cocaine base) pursuant to a plea agreement that called for probation, including a condition for time served in jail. in october 2016, in a different case, defendant pled guilty to violations of penal code sections 245, subdivision (a)(1) (assault with a deadly weapona kitchen knife) and 166, subdivision (a)(4) (disobeying a domestic violence protective order) pursuant to a similar agreement that called for probation, a time served jail term, and compliance -away and protective defendant was sentenced in both cases, in separate proceedings before different judges, on december 12, 2016. for the narcotics-related convictions, the court placed defendant on 3 formal probation for three years, including a condition that he serve 360 days in jail with credit for time served.1 for the assault and violating a protective order convictions, the trial court placed defendant on five years of formal probation and sentenced him to 365 days in jail, again with credit for time served. the sentencing court also issued a 10-year protective order prohibiting defendant from harassing, contacting, or coming within 100 yards of shanika j. (shanika), wife, who was the victim of the assault and the person protected by the earlier protective order defendant was convicted of violating.2 on may 1, 2017, shanika called 911 and directed officers to defendant, who was sitting in a car with two other people about a block away. shanika complained of pain and appeared to have a bruise or discoloration on her face. according to one of the responding officers, julio aguilar, defendant would not cooperate with requests to exit the vehicle and provide identification. officer aguilar arrested defendant and took him into custody. 1 at the time of sentencing, defendant was on probation in another case (ba425037) in which he had been convicted in 2015 of possessing or purchasing cocaine base for sale (health & saf. code,  probation in that case unde 2 defendant later pled guilty to yet another crime, a violation of penal code section 4573.8 (felony possession of narcotics in jail) and was sentenced to probation and 600 hours of community service. after defendant admitted his conviction was a violation of his existing probation, the court revoked and 4 the district attorney petitioned to revoke defendprobation on two grounds: a violation of penal code section 273.5 (inflicting corporal injury on a cohabitant) and a violation of penal code section 487, subdivision (c) (grand theft).3 the trial court subsequently held a probation revocation hearing. officer aguilar was the sole prosecution witness. he testified to the injuries he observed on shanikaexplained she guided him to a nearby location where defendant was sitting in a vehicle. according to officer aguilar, once defendant was taken into custody and read his miranda rights, he admitted he had an argument with shanika. defendant claimed, however, that he did not have a physical altercation with shanika -examination, defense counsel questioned officer aguilar about whether he witnessed how shanika got her injuries (the answer was no), whether he took pictures of the injuries (no), whether he wore a recording device when mirandizing defendant (no), whether defendant said he was after officer aguilar completed his testimony, the trial counsel argued officer aguilar did not witness how shanika was injured, and counsel stated sthe court then stated it thought the people had proven a violation of 3 shanika contacted law enforcement and reported defendant had taken her cell phone and approximately $100 from her. 5 alone be sufficient for a preponderance of the evidence, and there was fact that [defendant] did not cooperate with the police officer and refused to . . . get out of the car he was in, . . . [which] violates a condition of probation[ ] that he cooperate with law enforcement while he is on probation . . . defense counsel interjected to note the probation officer was present in court and had advised her that defendant had been the prosecution said it would stipulate defendant was doing the with [shanika the court summarized defendant criminal history, defense counsel interjected again, stating: know if he necessarily would like to testify, but he would like to replied: be heard really matter in terms of the police officer asked you to come out defendant then addressed the trial court personally, on the record. he stated he complied with police officer commands and gave the officer his identification. he also stated the shanika] let me in the door to get my things. i said i want to have a witness. she came with me. let me get my stuff, and i left. never no altercation or anything. even though she pushed me, i di 6 downtown to my brothea colloquy between defense counsel and the court ensued, with the court asking if the defense wanted to call any witnesses, defense counsel representing defendant would like tthe court asking defense counsel if she wanted witness . . . stating defendant had identified a witness counsel would like to at that point, the prosecution interjected to note it was a court order that [defendant] not have any contact which meant defendant admission that he went to her house to get items the court res . . . that would be the a brief recess, the court took judicial notice of a transcript of probation modification proceedings in may 2016, which included an order protecting shanika from defendant. the trial court recited on the record the pertinent terms of the previously entered protective order, namely, that to have absolutely no contact with [shanika] . . . , no electronic, telephonic, written or personal contact4 the trial court then asked counsel for both sides if either . . . prosecution responded it had nothing to add. the court then specifically asked defense counsel [was] anything that you want to say aboutdefense counsel 4 the may 2016 proceedings, defendant confirmed on the record that he understood this requirement of the protective order. 7 honor, that the officer testified that he [defendant] went there to believe the officer testified that he ever saw them together . . . just that he was there to retrieve his a protective order,highlighted defendantadmission that stated . . . defendant in violation of probation after a formal hearing for failing to obey the protective order. [] probation is rev revocation finding, either at the time it was made or when the parties later appeared for sentencing on that finding. the trial court ordered defendant to serve an aggregate term of six years in prison, calculated to account for defendanton probation in four separate cases. ii. discussion defendant contends his sentence is unconstitutional because the prosecution provided no advance notice it would seek to revoke his probation on the basis of a protective order violation and because the court revoked permitting him to testify and present a defense. these arguments are forfeited because defense counsel made no due process objection in the trial court (despite ample opportunity). we therefore consider alternative argument, that his trial attorney was constitutionally ineffective for not raising a due process objection, and we conclude the argument fails because defendant cannot establish prejudice. 8 a. due process principles a court may revoke probation where the supporting facts people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 439.) the constitutional guarantee of due process entitles a probationer to certain safeguards before any revocation of probation. t heard in person and to . . . morrissey v. brewer (1972) 408 u.s. 471, 488-489 (morrissey) [enumerating due process requirements for revocation of parole]; gagnon v. scarpelli (1973) 411 u.s. 778, 782 [holding the conditions set forth in morrissey also apply to probation revocations]; see also people v. vickers (1972) 8 cal.3d 451, 457-458 (vickers).)5 apprise the affected individual of, and permit adequate memphis light, gas and water division v. craft (1978) 436 u.s. 1, 14[ ], fn. omitted.) the compet 5 the other due process requirements applicable to probation -examine adverse witnesses, unless the hearing body specifically finds good factfinder as to the evidence relied on and the reasons for black v. romano (1985) 471 u.s. 606, 612; vickers, supra, 8 cal.3d at pp. 461-462.) 9 (gilbert v. city of sunnyvale (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 1264, 1279; see also in re large (2007) 41 cal.4th 538, 552 [and the opportunity to be heard is to give [a defendant] a chance to present information b. s are forfeited consideration of the may 2016 protective order as the basis for nor did defense counsel call any witnesses to testify even though she had several opportunities to do so, including when the trial court invited her to be heard on the issue of the protective order violation. controlling authority holds the absence of a contemporaneous objection forfeits the due process claims raised only now on appeal. (people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 521, fn. 12; people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, defendant never objected at trial to any lack of notice that the prosecution would attempt to prove lying in wait. neither did defendant move for a continuance when the prosecution first indicated it might proceed on that theory, or move to reopen the taking of evidence when the prosecutor asked the court to instruct the jury on that theory. accordingly, we find that defendant has failed to ; see also people v. hendricks the decision on the part of counsel not to present a defense does not involve a question of waiver but rather the issue of effective assistance of counsel. [citation.] in other words, if counsel does not put on a s only real complaint can be that he was denied effective assistance, not that he was deprived of the 10 opportunity to waive in open court his right to present a defense.) defendant seeks to evade forfeiture by arguing (1) the arguments on appeal should be deemed preserved because the trial and (2) an objection would have been futile because the trial court was predisposed to find a probation violation. neither assertion is convincing. there is no cause on this record to presume the trial court would have been aware of the objections defendant makes only now, particularly where the defense gave no hint of an objection despite ample opportunity to be heard after the issue of the protective order argument, if accepted, would eviscerate the well-established forfeiture doctrine because one can always assert, as defendant does, that a trial court can be . . . known of objections that were not in fact made. as to futility, the record of the probation revocation hearing demonstrates at most a degree of informality in the proceedings, not an improper predisposition of any sort.6 at the stage of the hearing when the defense contemplated presenting testimony, the trial court was amenable to hearing additional evidence. there is no reason to believe the trial court would have been any less amenable to considering the merits of a properly raised due process objection. 6 even if the better practice would have been for the trial court to expressly confirm on the record that the defense had no evidence to present before the court invited argument on revocation, the court could reasonably conclude the defense had nothing ccepted the invitation to argue a 11 c. the record on appeal does not establish ineffective assistance of trial counsel counss representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694[ ]; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217[ (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189.) . . . bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate assistance of counsel. (ibid.) and it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which . . . will often be so, that course (strickland v. washington, supra, at p. 697.) there is no reasonable probability of a different result had defendant received greater advance notice of an allegation that he violated the may 2016 protective order or had he formally testified in his own defense. officer aguilar testified defendant admitted he got into an argument with shanika and was attempting to remove his personal property from her house. then later, when defendant personally addressed the court, he said shanika him] in the door to get [his] thingspurportedly pushed him before he left. even assuming with greater advance notice defense counsel could have convinced her client to avoid making any statements during the revocation hearing, we still do not see any reasonable probability that defense counsel had an available avenue on cross-examination to undercut testimony about 12 defen(compare people v. mosley (1988) 198 cal.app.3d 1167, -was defending his client against [a different] allegation [than that alleged in the petition to revoke probation]nor could the defense claim defendant had no knowledge of the may 2016 protective order when, at the time it was entered, defendant was served with a copy in court and confirmed he understood it meant shanika. there is also no reasonable probability of a different result had defendant actually testified (which would have rendered him subject to cross-examination) because we already know from the transcript of the hearing what he would sayor at least what he could not truthfully deny, namely, having had contact with shanika.7 in fact, appellate briefs make no showing at all of how he was prejudice that he violated the may 2016 protective order as grounds for revoking his probation. rather, his reply brief argues only that he had a potential witness who would have testified he was cooperative with the police and that there was only weak evidence he caused ; neither, of course, is a defense to the protective order violation that served as the basis for revocation. 7 in addition, the possibility of calling a witness other than defendant does not alter our conclusion that there was no strickland v. washington prejudice given the broad terms of the protective order prohibiting contact with shanika and officer location where he was found. 13 thus, at a fundamental level, defendant has not carried his burden to demonstrate the possibility of a more favorable result absent the asserted deficient performance of counsel. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, acting p. j. we concur: moor, j. kim, j. 