filed 10/31/18 p. v. alvarez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose rodolfo alvarez, defendant and appellant. b283546 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba436457) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall, judge. affirmed. richard j. miggins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant jose alvarez of sexually abusing s two granddaughters, and the court sentenced him to a total term of 93 years to life. he contends his convictions should be reversed because the prosecutor improperly introduced, the trial court improperly admitted, and his counsel ineffectively failed to object to about the physical exams she performed on them. defendant further contends the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction for showing harmful matter to a minor, and that his sentence for that conviction should have been stayed. we reject his contentions and affirm the judgment. procedural history an amended information charged defendant with two counts of oral copulation or sexual penetration with d.j., a child 10 years of age or younger. (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (b).)1 it further charged him with four counts of committing lewd or lascivious acts against a child under the age of 14; two of those counts involved d.j., and two involved her younger sister, e.r. ( 288, subd. (a).) the amended information alleged that each of those four counts was committed against more than one victim within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (b) and (e). the final count of the amended information charged defendant with showing harmful matter to a minor ( 288.2, subd. (a)(2).) a jury convicted defendant on all counts and found the multiple victim allegations true. the trial court sentenced defendant to the midterm of three years on the only determinate count, showing harmful matter to a minor ( 288.2, subd. (a)(2)). 1all further statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 the trial court sentenced him to the mandatory statutory term of 15 years to life on each of the two section 288.7, subdivision (b) counts, to be served consecutively. it also sentenced him to 15 years to life on each of the four section 288, subdivision (a) counts, pursuant to section 667.61, subdivision (b); the court ordered those sentences to be served consecutively as well, pursuant to section 667.61, subdivision (i). defendant timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution evidence dalia j. testified that she was the mother of five children, the eldest of whom were daughters d.j. and e.r. d.j. was born in 2004 and e.r. was born in 2006. in 2012, dalia and the children moved into an apartment boyfriend, that arrangement was short-lived; dalia testified she and the children moved out because defendant threatened her. -boyfriend luis and his then-partner, maritza. the situation at that apartment was tumultuous: luis hit dalia and threatened to evict her and report her to immigration authorities unless she provided sexual favors to him and maritza. the family was involved with the department of children and family services (dcfs), and dalia eventually told a social worker about the abuse. the social worker helped the family move out. after brief stints in a shelter and a hotel, dalia and the children moved into a different apartment with guadalupe and defendant in approximately august 2013. d.j. was around eight years old at the time, and e.r. was around seven. dalia and her children 4 only bedroom; guadalupe and defendant slept in a bed in the living room. on days that dalia worked, she left the apartment at 6:00 a.m. and did not return until around 7:00 p.m. guadalupe would take the oldest children to school, and either she or defendant would pick them up. guadalupe worked as a street vendor in the evenings, and dalia helped her with that work, sometimes until 11:00 p.m. defendant, who did not have a job outside the home, watched the children when dalia and guadalupe were not home. d.j. and e.r. testified that it was during those times that defendant touched them. d.j., who was 12 at the time of trial, testified that when she was nine. after sending the children to their bedroom at night, defendant would call d.j. into the living room (his bedroom) and touch her body with his hands. d.j. testified that [her] b d.j. testified that defendant touched these areas both over and under her clothes and did so on more than one occasion. defendant told d.j. that she could not tell anyone or he would blame it on her; d.j. thought her mother would believe him because he was older2 and took care of them. d.j. testified that defendant used his finger to touch her she went to the bathroom afterward. he also used his hand to r 2the parties stipulated that defendant was born in 1961. 5 standing, defendant would open her legs and move his hand on d.j. said that it hurt sometimes and made her body feel weird. on that occasion, defendant pulled down both of their pants and stood behind d.j. as she crouched down and bent forward. moved forward enough to d.j. testified that after that incident. defendant also once used his tongue to touch on a different occasion, he used his tongue to touch defendant pulled down her clothes, ouched d.j. testified that defendant also took pictures of her naked defendant did not show he did show her a video, which was on dvd, depicted a man and woman who were not wearing any clothes. d.j d.j. d.j. did not tell her mother, teacher, or the dcfs social worker who visited the family monthly about the abuse. at some point, however, she confided in e.r. d.j. did not feel good when hat someone else knew. she stated 6 that e.r. told her that defendant also touched e.r. e.r., who was 10 at the time of trial, testified that defendant her mother and grandmother were not home. e.r. testified that defendant would call her into his room while her siblings were watching television. she went because defendant told her he would tell her mother she had misbehaved if she refused. sometimes, he made her dance with her clothes on while he looked on from the bed. other times, defendant used his hand to your body that you go pee-clothes. when he touched her without her clothes on, defendant would remove while e.r. testified that it hurt when she went to the bathroom afterward. with a camera. she was lying down and naked at the time. dvd. clothes on. defendant told e.r. not to tell anyone about the incidents, e.r. believed him. she did not tell her mother, teacher, or any of the social workers who visited the home about the abuse. at some point, however, she told her was touching my private part d.j. 7 eventually, the girls disclosed the abuse to dalia after she got into an argument with defendant. dalia testified that on may 10, 2015, defendant and guadalupe got into a dalia overheard the argument from the bedroom, where she was with her boyfriend and her three eldest children. the argument escalated when dalia intervened, and defendant ultimately hit guadalupe and kicked dalia in the leg. defendant left the apartment before they arrived and did not return. the following day, dalia was in the car with her sister, d.j., e.r., and one of their younger siblings. d.j. asked dalia what had happened with defendant, and whether he was going to come back to the apartment. dalia told her that defendant was not coming back, and asked why she had asked. d.j. responded, s follow up questions, d.j. began crying and apologizing. she then told dalia that defendant had touched her. d.j. further stated that she had not said anything earlier because defendant had threatened to call the social worker and the police. while dalia was talking with d.j., she noticed that e.r. d.j. told e.r. to tell the truth, at which point e.r. began crying and revealed that defendant had also touched her. dalia told her sister to drive them to the police station. dalia testified that d.j. and e.r. spoke to los angeles police department detective dara brown. the next day, dalia took d.j. and e.r. to stuart house in santa monica so they could be interviewed further. later, she took them for physical exams. both d.j. and e.r. testified that they told their mother about the abuse while riding in a car with their aunt, and that they went directly to the police station afterward. 8 detective brown testified that she was assigned to the west bureau sexual assault unit in 2015. on may 12, 2015, at about 1:00 a.m., she was called to the station to respond to a sexual abuse claim filed by dalia j. on behalf of her daughters, d.j. and e.r. brown spoke to the girls individually, for about 25 minutes each. she did not record the interviews. brown testified that d.j. reported that her step-chest area, her vaginal area, and her anus,for over two years. the touching occurred in the living room, which served as a bedroom for pancho and the grandmother. d.j. further reported that defendant took photos and videos of her and threatened that would d.j. told brown that she had told her sister e.r. about the abuse, and that e.r. said defendant also abused her. brown testified that she spoke to e.r. separately. e.r. told touched she further reported e.r. told brown that she and d.j. had confided in each other about what happened. later on may 12, 2015, brown went tapartment to collect evidence. she returned a few days later with a search warrant. during the searches, brown recovered a tablet containing photos of d.j. and e.r.; the girls were clothed in all of the photos. she also found dvds that the prosecutor brown did not show the recovered movies to the girls or ask them for more details about 9 what they had seen, because they describing the video defendant had shown them. they described they were doing things to each other. and it no dvds were introduced into evidence at trial. brown testified that she took both girls to stuart house to be interviewed on may 12, 2015. stuart house director and forensic interviewer nicole farrell testified that stuart house is fashion to allegations of child sexual abuse forensic interviewers there interview children in specialized interview rooms that have one-way glass through which related professionals like dcfs workers, law enforcement, and prosecutors can observe the interview rather than conducting their own. stuart house interviewers use a 10-thathe part of the memory, the primary te if a child initiates discussion of sexual abuse, the protocol calls for interviewers to ask follow-up questions directed at eliciting more detailed information. those questions should not suggest a particular answer. farrell interviewed d.j. and e.r. separately, using the 10-step protocol. both interviews were recorded and played for the jury. t 10 occasion, she told farrell, defendant stood behind her and put his d.j. also disclosed that defendant took pictures of her on a different occasio d.j. told farrell that defendant told her to do that to him but she moved away and he did not make her. . . touch me e.r. also said defendant showed her a video and that he would pull her back into the room by the hand when she tried to leave. farrell testified that e.r. was silent in response to some questions about the abuse. farrell attributed her silence sponded to it with more directed questions. farrell further testified that she has encountered some children whose accusations of abuse were false or coached. she in addition, she explained that children who are coached typically farrell 11 expert witness dr. susan hardie, ph.d., a developmental psychologist and registered nurse, offered further testimony about ld faces when considering making a disclosure of their abuse and talking about their of sexual abuse.3 hardie testified that the five categories in the hardie testified that secrecy and helplessness are realities of sexual abuse, which occurs privately between the child and the perpetrator. the expectation of secrecy can be explicit or unspoken, and is often heightened when the child and perpetrator have a close relationship. hardie opined that an abusermisbehaving would enhance secrecy. children often believe such statements from a trusted adult within the family or because they are generally taught to believe adults. she further opined that children often will keep abuse secret even when directly 3at the timjury: accommodation syndrome is not evidence that the defendant committed any of the crimes charged against him. [] you may consider this evidence only iwho has been molested and in evaluating the believability of 12 and the disbelief can be far more frightening to a child than the . hardie opined that children naturally feel helpless in the face of abuse, because they are not prepared for the possibility that a trusted adult will abuse them. hardie testified that the third category, accommodation, occurs when a child tries to find ways to cope with abuse. she explained that children can accommodate by blaming themselves, gaining or losing weight, using drugs, or engaging in rebellious or promiscuous behavior. the fourth category is delayed, conflicted, or unconvincing disclosure, in which the victim does not disclose child -loathing, self- disclosure may be triggered by anger, frustration, or removal of the perpetrator from the childa child may make a partial disclosure to see how their confidant will react, or may tell different people different things at different times. they may disclose to a sibling, friend, or classmate before disclosil more on an equal hardie explained that the final category of expected behavior is retraction or recantation. children may have many their abuse, including the reactions of others. children also may be concerned about the consequences stemming from their disclosure, such as their removal from their home or school. additionally, hardie testified, it is not unusual for a child to forget or become confused about incidents they previously reported. 13 d.j. and e.r. met with a social worker on may 20, 2015, about a week after their initial disclosure. the social worker, karmen pena, testified that d.j. disclosed that her clarified was both the vaginal and anal areas. d.j. also mentioned a picture, and told pena that she had not told anyone about the abuse because she had been scared. pena testified that sic] the same like her sister, he touched her e.r. also mentioned pictures and said she had been afraid to tell anyone about the abuse. they also met with elizabeth thighe, a nurse practitioner at the santa monica ucla rape treatment center. thighe testified that she performed non-acute sexual assault forensic examinations on both girls. she used cameras and sterile water to examine their genital and anal areas. re normal; thighe did not see any signs of previous or healed trauma to their genital or anal areas. in addition to testifying about the exam results, thighe also testified about the anatomy of prepubescent female children. using a diagram, thighe testifthe clitoris; the labia majora; the fossa navicularis; she explained prepubescent children as they are in adult women, such that would be really uncomfo 14 or manipulating the tissue, the contents in between the labia, the it feels uncomfortable to kids. so lots of times kids thighe testified that she would not expect to see a healed injury if such rubbing occurred. ii. defense evidence dcfs social worker vanessa diaz testified that she was assigned to make home visits to the family in 2013, when they were living with luis and maritza. when she visited in april 2013, no one reported that maritza was living in the home. dalia contacted diaz in june 2013 to report that she was being abused. dalia told diaz that she was living with her ex-boyfriend luis and his girlfriend maritza because they had offered housing for her and her children in exchange for sexual favors. dalia disclosed that luis threatened to kick her out and have her deported if she told anyone about the abuse or about maritza living there. when diaz interviewed d.j., she admitted she originally said maritza did not live at the house. she further told diaz that dalia had told her to lie about it. d.j. also told sandal, belt, and shoes about twice a week. diaz did not see any signs of injury on d.j. or the other children. e.r. told diaz that luis thousehold. another dcfs social worker, yareli alday, testified that she became involved with the family in 2014 after the agency received a report of physical abuse. during an interview in may 2014, d.j. told alday that e.r. once threatened to pull down her pants if she was not given the television remote. alday testified 15 that this report of sexualized behavior led her to inquire whether sexual abuse was occurring in the home. e.r. denied the incident but reported that dalia hit her in the arm with a belt. alday did not find any marks on e.r., and dalia denied hitting her. dalia during a later interview, e.r. told alday that she had lied about getting hit because she was upset with her mother. dcfs social worker diana martinez testified that she became involved with the family around september 2014. she testified that she was assigned to visit the family on a monthly basis to assess the home for safety and the children for any signs of abuse or neglect. during her visits, she spoke with the children individually and over time built a rapport with them. none of them ever disclosed any sexual abuse to her. bradley mcauliff, ph.d., testified that he was a professor of psychology at california state university, northridge. he prior to testifying as an expert in this interviews, and testimony from the preliminary hearing. suggestability is not synonymous with lying; it occurs when a person truly believes something. by repeated questioning, particularly among children, because the child may assume their original response was incorrect. also, abehavior to the children they are interviewing, which may when 16 presented with a hypothetical about children who observed their mother get into violent arguments with someone, mcauliff opined that the child might be influenced to believe that the person was he also testified that influence their memory a children might also [sic] what he opined that a younger child who overheard an older sibling disclose abuse might be influenced by that when subsequently disclosing. as they progress from early to late childhood and then to adulthood. even adults can succumb to suggestability, however. he opined that certain interview protocols can minimize the likelihood of suggestability, such as those recommending the use of open-ended questions with children. he also stated that discussion i. admission of exam and feelings evidence defendant contends that judicial misconduct, prosecutorial misconduct, and ineffective assistance of counsel led to the erroneous admission of two types of irrelevant and inflammatory evidence: (1) performed, and testimony about their feelings. he argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct by introducing the evidence, and that the trial court 17 sponte excluding the evidence under evidence code section 352. defendant further contends that his counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object to much of the evidence or the we reject these contentions. the alleged judicial and prosecutorial misconduct below has forfeited those claims here. claim also fails: the record sheds no light on the possible reasons demonstrated a reasonable probability that the outcome of the trial would have been different had the challenged evidence been excluded. a. exam evidence as discussed above, nurse practitioner elizabeth thighe testified that she performed non-acute sexual assault forensic examinations on both girls. she told the jury about the mechanics of the exams, including her use of a camera and sterile using a diagram, thighe also testified about the various structures of the female anatomy and the ways they are affected by puberty. she further testified about the discomfort that prepubescent girls experience with even minor genital manipulation, and told the jury that based on her review of the forensic interviews, in which they alleged genital rubbing, thighe testified that she did not expect to see signs of trauma during the exams. indeed, she found none; she testified that both girls had normal exams. in accordance with her results, thighe checked a box on her exam reports indicating that she could neither confirm nor rule out sexual abuse. 18 , on hearsay grounds. at sidebar, counsel argued that the forms documenting hearsay. the trial court agreed and contemporaneously instructed the jury that the information on the forms was witness and perhaps other people who work with her did and how they proceeded with their protocols. [] you cannot accept what is in there as proof of anything that is contained in there, the defense counsel did not raise any relevance objections, and the trial court did not otherwise limit b. feelings evidence during her examinations of dalia, d.j., and e.r., the prosecutor asked numerous questions regarding their feelings: how they felt about the abuse, how the abuse physically felt, how they felt about disclosing the abuse, and how they felt about testifying. the prosecutor asked dalia three such questions, including, crying, and, [d.j.] asked you that question or said that things are going to be defense counsel objected to the latter question on relevance grounds, and the trial court sustained the objection. he also objecte-the trial court sustained that objection pursuant to evidence code section 352. relevance obje 19 the prosecutor asked d.j. and e.r. many more questions about their feelings, approximately 25 each. she asked d.j. how she felt about testifying, how she felt when defendant told her to keep the touching a secret, how her body felt during and after various instances of abuse and during the forensic exam, and how she felt about disclosing the abuse. defense counsel objected on relevance grounds when the prosecutor asked d.j. what made her a little less scared on her second day of testimony; the trial court overruled the objection. defense counsel also objected, on evidence code section 352 grounds, when the prosecutor asked tape of her forensic interview. the trial court sustained that the prosecutor asked e.r. similar questions about how she felt about testifying, how she felt when defendant threatened to tell her mother she had misbehaved, how her body felt during and after various instances of abuse and during the forensic exam, and how she felt about disclosing the abuse. defense counsel lodged two objections to these questions on relevance grounds. the trial court overruled the first, to a question about how e.r. felt when defendant told her to lie on his bed. it sustained the second, to a question about the feelings e.r. had while watching the video of her forensic interview. aside from ruling on the objections defense counsel raised, the trial court did witnesses. c. judicial and prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends the court abdicated its statutory duty4 4control all proceedings during the trial, and to limit the 20 to control the trial proceedings by permitting the prosecutor to - he contends the prosecutor and therefore erred in asking them, because the questions relating to the exam were based on a report showing that the exams did not reveal abuse objections . both of these arguments are forfeited; defendant did not object to either alleged form of misconduct below. ule, judicial misconduct claims are not preserved for appellate review if no objections were made on (people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237.) likewi(people v. perez (2018) 4 cal.5th 421, 450.) defendant did not object or request admonitions regarding the alleged prosecutorial or judicial misconduct, and he lodged only a handful of relevance objections. he implicitly acknowledges as much, by arguing that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance in this regard. the failure to timely object to suspected prosecutorial or judicial misconduct may be excused in limited circumstances, none of which are present here. forfeiture [of a claim of prosecutorial misconduct]: (1) [t]he objection or the request for an admonition would have been futile; or (2) the admonition would have been insufficient to cure the introduction of evidence and the argument of counsel to relevant and material matters, with a view to the expeditious and effective 21 (people v. pettie (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 23, 74; see also people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 462.) here, the alleged prosecutorial misconduct was the elicitation of irrelevant evidence. a simple evidentiary objection could have cured the problem; indeed, the court granted the majority of the relevance objections defense counsel raised. an admonition to the prosecutor to cease asking questions the court determined to be improper, or to the jury to disregard certain evidence also could have been effective, given the nature of the alleged misconduct. defendant of the jury constitute the sort of misconduct that is not curable by admonition, thus eliminating the need for defense objection in the the cases he cites, however, are inapposite to the situation here, because they elicitation of irrelevant evidence. (people v. mcgreen (1980) 107 cal.app.3d 504, 519, disapproved of by people v. wolcott (1983) 34 cal.3d 92, 101 [inflammatory closing argument]; people v. wagner (1975) 13 cal.3d 612, 616, 618, 621 [inflammatory questions insinuating defendant engaged in drug use and sales]; people v. un dong (1895) 106 cal. 83, 88 [inflammatory questions insinuating defendant lived in a house of prostitution]; people v. duvernay (1941) 43 cal.app.2d 823, 828 [inflammatory questions and closing arguments insinuating defendant engaged in drug use].) the alleged problem here was not the content of the , but rather the content of the answers they prompted. timely objection to the questions could have prevented the jury from hearing the allegedly prejudicial answers. 22 a similar exception exists in the context of judicial misconduct. and an admonition could not cure the futile. (people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1237.) defendant has not suggested, nor does the record reflect, that a proper objection to the introduction of irrelevant evidence would have gone unheeded. if defendant was uncomfortable challenging the in front of the jury, he could have requested a sidebar to explain his concerns and seek an admonition. he did not. because he undertook no efforts to object to prosecutorial or judicial conduct below, he cannot assert his misconduct claims in this forum. d. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues that his counsel was ineffective in failing to object to or seek admonitions to mitigate the effects of the we disagree. counsel, defendant bears the burden of demonstrating, first, that objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing (strickland v. washington [1984] 466 u.s. 668, 688.) unless a defendant establishes the contrary, we shall presume that people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) on an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be 23 to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory e (people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 745-746.) tactical question for counsel, and a case in which the mere failure to object would rise to such a level as to ifederal constitutional right to the effective assistance of counsel (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1312.) reason for declining to object, and no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory (id. at pp. 1312-1313.) failure to object to all of the feelings questions defendant now alleges were problematic, or indicate why counsel did not object s testimony on relevance grounds. counsel was not asked for an explanation, and we can discern several possible reasons why counsel may have refrained from objecting to the feelings and exam evidence. first, counsel may have wished to avoid underscoring the emotional nature of the trial by objecting to all of the feelings questions. move to strike, or seek admonition regarding [undesired] testimony is highly tactical, and depends upon evaluation of the gravity of the problem and whether objection or other responses would serve only to highlight the undesirable testimony. (people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at 24 p. 1313.) second, counsel may have wished to avoid the appearance of insensitivity by repeatedly objecting and prolonging the testimony of witnesses who were visibly emotional. third, counsel may have concluded, in light of the directed at elicredibility. to prove or disprove any disputed fact or consequence, including (evid. code,  210.) a wgenerally bear on his or her credibility, which was a key issue in this case. (evid. code,  780, subds. (f), (j).) similar assessments of relevance may have led defense counsel to refrain from objecting to the exam evidence, which provided the jury with background information some jurors may have needed to understand and assess the allegations. he also may have believed the exam evidence would support his theory that defendant did not abuse the girls, given that the exam revealed no trauma. a defendant also must establish that he or she was s error, such that there is a reasonable probability of a different result absent the alleged error. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 694.) defendant has not made that showing here. defendant argues that the admission of the unchallenged a even if defendant is correct that the evidence was wholly irrelevant and should not have been admitted, a question that we do not resolve, he has not 25 demonstrated that the outcome of his trial would have been more favorable without it. the jury also was exposed to heightened the record reflects that dalia cried at least four times during her testimony, and d.j. broke down twice while recounting her interactions with defendant. in any event, the jury was followed this instruction. moreover, the other evidence against defendant was strong. d.j. and e.r. testified consistently with one another that defendant touched them inappropriately, took nude photographs of them, their testimony also was corroborated by prior interviews they gave, as well as testimony from a detective who spoke with them on a separate occasion. defendant has not carried his burden of demonstrating either deficient performance or prejudice. we accordingly reject his claim that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. ii. defendant was convicted of violating section 288.2, subdivision (a)(2), which prohibits the knowing distribution, transmission, exhibition, or offers to distribute or exknow, or believes is a minor, if the defendant does so with specific sexually oriented intent. person, applying contemporary statewide standards, appeals to the prurient interest, and is matter which, taken as a whole, depicts or 26 describes in a patently offensive way sexual conduct and which, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or ( 288.2, subd. (c), 313, subd. (a).) at least one court has likened this definition to hardcore pornography, a characterization the parties appear to embrace. (people v. powell (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1268, 1293-1295 (powell).) that same court explained that hardcore pornography -core counterpart aroused genitalia, and the depiction of actual rather than simulated sex acts. (id. at p. 1294.) defendant argues that the prosecutor failed to prove that the video(s) he showed to d.j. and e.r. met the definition of it was they he conteevidence about the context and content of the movie beyond the fact of nudity, any conclusion that the material seen by the girls unsupported by the record, and no reasonable juror could have concluded that the prosecutor satisfied that element of the we disagree. the evidence on appeal, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. hubbard (2016) 63 cal.4th 378, 392.) if the possibility that the circumstances might also reasonably be 27 reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant reversal. (ibid.) d.j. testified at trial she was able e.r. testified similarly. she stated that defendant showed her a d.j. was more descriptive about what she saw during her forensic detective brown corroborated the out the video: - - it was private parts. they were doing things to each other. and it was brown testified that she did not attempt to ascertain the precise video(s) the girls watched; whole the jury reasonably could conclude from this evidence that matt alone enough. (powell, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1293.) yet they were accompanied by testimony that the girls saw full nudity and actual or simulated sex acts, including oral copulation. powell movie in which actors engaged in simulated or unsimulated sexual activity while displaying all of those body parts [penises, 28 5 (id. at p. 1295.) (ibid.) the testimony before the jury here met that minimal standard. although the girls did not use the scientific words for genitalia, it was clear from their testimony that they saw full nudity and sex acts. the rationale in powell ourt reached the wrong not make a movie obscene. he suggests this case is more analogous to people v. dyke (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1377 (dyke). we disagree. in dyke, the 16-year-old victim was watching television with the defendant. and landed on two programs the victim testified about. (dyke, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1380.) in the second, the victim saw the upper bodies of a nude man and womseconds. (ibid.) she testified that both scenes made her uncomfortable. (id. at p. 1381.) the court concluded this (id. at p. 1384.) it concluded that neither nudity nor all 5the victim in powell, who was 10 years old at the time the movie the defendant showed her depicted fully nude men and women, and that she could see their penis, vagina, and breasts. (powell, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at pp. 1284-1285.) she further (id. at p. 1285.) on the stand, she testified that the man put his penis in the vagina. (powell, supra, at p. 1286.) 29 portrayals of sexual activity are per se obscene, and that the that what she saw crossed the threshold. -bones recital by a.s. of what she saw: a nude woman dancing and a naked couple having sex, shown from the waist up, and her own (id. at p. 1385.) from the television segments a.s. ob ( 313, (dyke, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at pp. 1386-1387.) cultural or tribal dance? there is no way to know and no reasonable basis for inferring it lacked such value. as to the 45-second glimpse of the couple presumably having sexual intercourse, was the clip part of a tawdry adult film, a former academy award winner being shown on television that night, or (id. at p. 1387.) here, the girls testified that defendant showed them videos, not network or cable television. though their testimony was not incredibly detailed, they plainly described graphic rather than waist-up sex acts. unlike the victim in dyke, they testified that they saw full frontal male and female nudity. the jury reasonably could conclude from this testimony that the videos the girls viewed with defendant iii. section 654 defendant contends that the court erred by sentencing him to a consecutive prison sentence for the section 288.2 offense. he argues th30 convictions [sicmultiple punishment because the record reflects his single intent and objective in committing these acts was to engage in the lewd acts which occurred simultaneously or close in time to the he again asserts that powellinstance because it failed to account for the two separate intents required by section 288.2. we are not persuaded. section 654, subdivision (a) provides in relevant part, act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one (people v. hester (2000) 22 cal.4th 290, 294.) the defendanproximity of his or her offenses, determine whether multiple offenses constitute an indivisible course of conduct. (people v. hicks (1993) 6 cal.4th 784, 789.) a defendant who acts pursuant to a single objective may be found to have harbored a single intent and therefore may be punished only once. (ibid.) separate punishment is usually allo (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 344, fn. 6.) the question whether section 654 is factually applicable to a given series of offenses is for the trial court, and the law gives the trial court broad latitude in making this determination. its findings on this question must be upheld (people v. hutchins (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1308, 1312.) we view 31 the evidence in the light most favorable to the sentence and presume in support thereof the existence of every fact the trier of fact reasonably could deduce from the evidence. (id. at pp. 1312-1313.) the attorney general urges us to follow powell. there, the an unavailing effort to arouse the victim (powell, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1296.) the court held that the defendant acted both with intent to arouse the victim and with the subsequent intent to gratify himself by means of the rape. the court concluded these were separate, divisible objectives that were independent of one another and accordingly could be punished separately. (ibid.) the court made this finding even though the offenses were immediately proximate in time. defendant contends that this analysis is incorrect because section 288.2 contains two separate intent elements. section 288.2, subdivision (a)(1)6 in fact enumerates three intents. it intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual desires of that person or of the minor, [(2)] and with the intent or for the purposes of engaging in sexual intercourse, sodomy, or oral copulation with the other person, [(3)] or with the intent that either person touch an to prove a violation, the prosecutor must prove that the defendant acted with intent (1) 6this same language applies to subdivision (a)(2), the provision under which defendant was convicted. (see  288.2, subds. (a)(1) & (a)(2).) 32 of a section 288.2 violation in the scenario common to both powell and this case necessarily includes an intent to arouse the victim defendant reads the statute too narrowly; he has ignored the intent element we have labeled (3), which requires an intent that either person touch an intimate body part of the other. d.j. stated during her interview that defendant showed her the video the court reasonably could conclude that this intentto have d.j. touch himwas distinct from the intent underlying the other abuse, which involved defendant touching the girls. even if he played the video close in time to his other abusive acts on d.j., as he suggests without record citation, the court reasonably could conclude he committed the acts with separate intents. we accordingly find no error in disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p.j. micon, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 