filed 5/31/19 p. v. richmond ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. detrick paul richmond, defendant and appellant. b283521 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na100228) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, judith l. meyer, judge. affirmed. janet gusdorff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and chung l. mar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant detrick paul richmond appeals his conviction of multiple counts of forcible rape and forcible oral copulation and single counts of burglary, robbery and dissuading a witness. he contends the trial court abused its discretion in permitting an experienced sex crimes investigator to testify that crime victims are not generally consistent in relating their version of events at different points in time. he further contends that the sentence -- totaling 185-years to life -- represented cruel and unusual punishment, and that the court erred in concluding he had sufficient opportunity to reflect on his actions to warrant imposition of a separate sentence on one of the counts of forcible rape. finding no error, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. information appellant was charged by information with three counts of forcible rape (pen. code,  261, subd., (a)(2),1 counts one through three), two counts of forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd., (c)(2)(a), counts four and five), one count of first degree burglary ( 459, count 6), one count of first degree residential robbery ( 211, count seven), and one count of dissuading a witness ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1), count eight).2 it was further alleged with respect to all counts that 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 a ninth count for assault with a deadly weapon was dismissed during trial. 3 appellant personally used a knife within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), and that the offenses in counts one through five occurred during the course of a burglary within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivision (a) and (d).3 b. evidence at trial 1. prosecution evidence carolina e. lived in a ground floor studio apartment on ocean boulevard in long beach. she testified that on september 7, 2014, shortly after midnight, she returned to her apartment after spending the evening with friends. she drove into the parking garage and went directly from there to her unit, without going outside. before going to bed, she opened the kitchen window slightly to let in some air. there was a screen on the window. carolina fell asleep on top of her covers, wearing underwear and a camisole. her television was on. carolina was awakened by the sound of someone in her apartment. she identified appellant in court as the intruder. she had never seen him before. she told him to get out. appellant, holding a knife in his right hand, approached the 3 section 667.61 provides for a 15-year-to-life sentence for a person who commits forcible rape or forcible oral copulation during the commission of a burglary of the first degree; if the burglary was committed with the specific intent to commit forcible rape or oral copulation, the term of imprisonment increases to 25 years to life. ( 667.61(a), (c)(1), (c)(7) & (d)(4).) 4 bed and told carolina to shut up or he would kill her. he pulled her underwear down and removed his pants. he touched her vagina and told her he would cut her if she did not open her legs. after putting his mouth on her vagina, appellant had vaginal intercourse with her while she was lying on her back, laying the knife down briefly. this to stop. appellant next removed his penis and turned her around so she was on her hands and knees, reinserted his penis into her vagina, and continued intercourse. after a period, he asked if she had a favorite position; she said on her back because she wanted to keep her eyes on his hands and the knife. appellant withdrew his penis, turned her around, reinserted his penis into her vagina and continued intercourse. he again put the knife to her throat. after he withdrew for the third time, appellant ordered carolina to give him oral sex and held the knife to her neck, again threatening to cut her. after appellant finished, he asked carolina if she had money. she said there might be $5 in her purse. he took several items from her home, including two michael kors handbags, a coach bag, and a pair of coach sunglasses, worth close to $2,000 in total. cell phone was in one of the bags. she told appellant to take anything he appellant left through the kitchen window. before he left, he threatened to kill her if she told anyone what happened. before he left, carolina saw that the window was fully open. 5 immediately after appellant left, carolina got up, wrapped herself in a blanket and went out into the hallway. she screamed anwhen no one answered, apartment. she told the manager there had been a robbery. the manager called 911.4 carolina waited in the lobby, but when the police did not arrive, she returned to the managerapartment to call again. this time, she said she had been raped and spoke directly to the 911 operator. a police officer arrived during the second 911 call. carolina told the officer she had been raped and was taken to a hospital for a sexual assault exam. the nurse examiner took a number of swabs from various places on her body. some of the dna in the swabs matched ; some partially matched his dna; some came back negative. the officers who came to investigate found the kitchen window screen in a meter box located in a breezeway outside the kitchen window. they found impressions from a size seven michael jordan shoe on the ground in the breezeway and on the kitchen table.5 the criminalist found 11 prints inside the apartment. ap four -- two on the inside of the kitchen wall near the window, one on the top of the kitchen table, and one on a kitchen chair. detec-tive louie galvan, assigned to investigate the crime, noticed 4 a recording of the 911 call was played for the jury. 5 when appellant was arrested he was wearing size seven air jordans. he was in possession of a knife. 6 that when standing in the breezeway, looking through the carolina testified she made a point of observing her long shirt, he occasionally pulled it up, allowing her to notice his unusual chest hair pattern. she gave a detailed description to the police, the examining nurse and a sketch artist. she also identified appellant from a photographic lineup, becoming very emotional and shaky when she saw in the lineup. along with her purses and sunglasses, were found in 2. defense evidence appellant testified that on the night of september 6, 2014, he was in the area of carwith friends, including ruben aispuro. he and some of his friends went into an hearing a car honking. he was standing in the alleyway e saw carolina walking in the alley and went to introduce himself. they chatted and she invited him back to her apartment.6 after talking for a while, they kissed and removed their clothing. when he was pulling his pants down, appellant 6 he saw appellant talking with someone in the alley, but was too far away to identify or describe the person. 7 took some items out of his pocket, including a box cutter. they engaged in oral sex. appellant put on a condom and they engaged in intercourse, first facing each other, then with him behind her, then with him facing her again. he changed positions because she said she preferred face to face. after he was finished, appellant went into the bathroom to flush the condom and carolina fell asleep. appellant dressed himself and made the decision to steal cell phone and purses. after gathering them, he noticed the kitchen window was open and decided to exit through there rather than the door. he climbed onto the kitchen table and left through the window, after removing the screen. once outside, he decided to hide the window screen, which was lying on the ground, in the meter box.7 appellant called dr. robert shomer, an expert in eyewitness perception. dr. shomer testified that when human beings are in stressful situations, they are generally unable to perceive details, and their subsequent descriptions of what they experienced will necessarily be affected. the presence of a weapon adds to the stress level, generally causing the person being threatened to focus on the weapon rather than the assailant. proximity to the assailant also increases stress. dr. shomer considered it unlikely that a 7 appellant acknowledged having pled no contest to a misdemeanor domestic violence charge in february 2014 and misdemeanor petty theft in march 2010. in addition, he acknow-ledged having been convicted of two counts of vandalism in april 2005. 8 person experiencing a sudden, stressful situation would be able to provide a detailed description of the event or the people involved. defense counsel recalled detective galvan to question him about discrepancies between cathe statement she gave him after the attack. on cross-examination, the prosecutor asked detective galvan if, in his experience as a sex crimes investigator, it was common for a victim to leave out some of the details during some of the interviews and provide them at other times. he responded on the ground the detective was court overruled the objection. the detective further stated: never come across a victim who can repeat the same story -- on the grounds of improper opinion testimony the court overruled the objections -years experience, adding, question. [] c. verdict and sentencing the jury found appellant guilty of all three counts of forcible rape, both counts of forcible oral copulation, and each count of first degree burglary, first degree robbery and dissuading a witness. it found true that appellant committed the rapes and oral copulation offenses during the commission of a burglary committed with the intent to 9 commit rape or forcible oral copulation within the meaning of section 667.61. it further found true that appellant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife, during the commission of all the offenses. the court imposed indeterminate terms of 35 years to life for each count of rape and oral copulation (25 years to life for the crime and 10 years for use of the weapon), and 10 additional years for robbery and dissuading a witness.8 the court ordered all sentences to run consecutively. at the hearing, the court expressed its understanding that section 667.6 subdivision (d) required the sentences on counts one through five to shifting from vaginal sex to oral sex required a break in his mental process, and that because the two acts of oral sex occurred at two separate points during the attack, consecutive sentences were required for those offenses. with respect to the vaginal sex, the court stated: [t]here was enough state of mind to ask if she wanted a different position. so if there was a different position being asked [sic] . . . then pursuant to that, i think there is a break in the state of mind, and that, by definition [section 667.5, subdivision (d) applies], which requires a mandatory its analysis concerning section 667.6, subdivision (d) was found to be incorrect, it would exercise its discretion to 8 the sentence on count six, the burglary, was stayed pursuant to section 654. 10 impose the same sentence under section 667.6, subdivision (c). the court noted the multiple threats of violence, actions. appellant noticed an appeal. discussion a. appellant contends the prosecutor elicited improper expert testimony from detective galvan that resulted in his vouching for the veracity of carolina, and that the trial court object-tions. we disagree. a witness may testify as an expert if the subject matter . . . that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon id. code,  801.) a person may be qualified to testify as an expert if or education sufficient to qualify him as an expert on the subject to which his testimony relates . . . . 720.) the determination that a witness qualifies as an manifest abuse . . . .people v. ramos (1997) 15 cal.4th 1133, 1175.) detective galvan had been a sex crimes investigator for 15 years. he did not claim to have inside knowledge of 11 whether carolina was telling the truth or claim that his experience allowed him to confirm her veracity. he merely testified that it is not unusual for victims of crimes to remember events differently when recounting the facts on different occasions. the testimony was properly admitted. (see people v. dunnahoo (1984) 152 cal.app.3d 561, 577 [police officers who qualified as experts in the field of child molestation permitted to testify based on their training and experience that sexually molested child has difficulty talking about sexual abuse with adults].) moreover, to the extent [s understanding or common experienceappellant contends, any error in admitting it was harmless. in light of the overwhelming evidence substantiating of events, we find virtually no possibility an account using identical words. b. cruel and unusual punishment section 667.61 provides an alternative sentencing scheme that applies to specified felony sex offenses, including forcible rape and oral copulation, when they occur under certain circumstances. (see people v. anderson (2009) 47 cal.4th 92, 102; people v. reyes (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 62, 79 (reyes).) the purpose of the law is to ensure serious and dangerous sex offenders would receive lengthy prison sentences upon their first conviction, where the nature or 12 method of the sex offense place[d] the victim in a position of elevated vulnerability. (reyes, supra, at p. 79, quoting people v. alvarado (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 178, 186 (alvarado), italics omitted.) appellant contends the sentence imposed under section 667.61 is cruel and unusual, in particular, the additional sentence imposed for the final act after asking which position she preferred. we conclude he has not met the heavy burden of establishing that his sentence violated either the eighth amendment or the california constitution. the eighth amendment to the united states constitution applies to the states and prohibits the (people v. baker (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 711, 723.) article i, section 17 of the cibid., italics omitted.) although (id. at p. 733.) the eighth amendment ban on cruel and unusual punishment embodies the precept that crime should be graduated and proportioned to [the] (in re coley (2012) 55 cal.4th 524, 538.) it does not require strict proportionality between crime and sentence,13 (id. at p. 542.) to determine the presence or absence of gross dispropor-tionality, courts offense and severity of the sentence. [citation.]ibid.) it is only in the rare case in which [this] threshold comparison . . . leads to an inference of gross disproportionalitythat the court should then compare the defendants sentence with the sentences received by other offenders in the same jurisdiction and with the sentences imposed for the same crime in other jurisdictions. (ibid.) a punishment may violate the california constitution inflicted that it shocks the conscience and offends people v. crooks (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 797, 806 (crooks), quoting in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424.) in deciding the question under of the offense and the offender, with particular regard to the degree of danger whthen prescribed for the same offense in other j(crooks, supra, at p. 806, quoting people v. thompson (1994) of facts of 14 s individual culpability in light of his age, prior criminality, perscrooks, supra, at p. 806, quoting people v. thompson, supra, 24 cal.app.4th at p. 305.) outside the death penalty context, challenges to the proportionality of particular sentences have been exceedingly rare. (reyes, supra, 246 cal.app.4th at p. 83, quoting ewing v. california (2003) 538 u.s. 11, 21.) there is no question that the fixing of prison terms for specific crimes involves a substantive penological judgment that, as a general matter, is properly within the province of legislatures, not courts. (reyes, supra, at p. 83, quoting harmelin v. michigan (1991) 501 u.s. 957, 998.) it is for this reason that when faced with an allegation that a particular sentence amounts to cruel and unusual punishment, [r]eviewing courts . . . should grant substantial deference to the broad authority that legislatures necessarily possess in determining the types and limits of punishments for crimes . . . . (reyes, supra, at p. 83, quoting solem v. helm (1983) 463 u.s. 277, 290.) lengthy sentences imposed under section 667.61 have been upheld by multiple courts. (reyes, supra, 246 cal.app.4th at pp. 86, 90; crooks, supra, 55 cal.app.4th at pp. 806, 809; alvarado, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at p. 201.) in alvarado, the appellate court, considering a challenge to the 15-year-to-life sentence of a defendant convicted of rape 15 during the commission of a burglary] defendant has failed to establish that his sentence is so disproportionate to his crimes that it shocks the conscience (alvarado, supra, at pp. 183, 185, 201; see  667.61, subd., (e)(2)legislative finding that the victims of a residential burglary are more vulnerable because they are inside a structure to deter by harsher punishment those who burglarize homes and exploit the vulnerability of people inside to commit sex alvarado, supra, at pp. 186-187.) addressing the that his sentence was roughly the same as for second degree murder, the court observed: murder make that crime categorically different from rape invaded and then being sexually violated is substantial. moreover, second degree murder does not require a specific intent to kill or commit a felony and requires only that a person willfully and knowingly perform an act dangerous to life with conscious disregard for life. [citations.] on the other hand, rape during a burglary reflects that the person se and also decided to commit a sexual assault inside. punishing such conduct as severely as second degree murder id. at p. 200.) although 16 the court found that california has taken the most aggressive approach toward punishing and deterring rape during the commission of a burglarydue to the mandatory nature of the punishment, it further found that other jurisdictions allow for the same or even harsher punishment . . . . (ibid.) the fact that sentences under the provision are mandatory and not subject to judicial discretion, toward the commission of sexual offenses against particularly vulnerable victimsand did not require a finding that the sentence was excessive as a matter of law. (id. at pp. 200-201.) in crooks, the court rejected the defendants challenge to his 25-year-to-life sentence for committing a rape in the course of committing a first-degree burglary, initiated with the intent to commit rape. in examining the specific facts of the offense, the court observed that the s, . . . choosing to prey on a sleeping were extremely serious and dangerous to society in themselves and that it was only by chance that he did not inflict far more serious injury on the victim, either through the act of rape itself or through use of the knife with which (crooks, supra, 55 cal.app.4th at p. 807.) the contention that the penalty was harsher than those imposed for any type of unlawful killing ignore[d] the fact that defendants acts involved both the commission of more than one kind of offense (rape and first degree burglary) and the 17 commission of one offense for the purpose of committing another. the penalties for single offenses, such as those defendant cites, cannot properly be compared to those for multiple offenses -- especially where, as here, one offense was committed in order to commit another. moreover, the gravity of the two crimes committed by defendant (burglary and rape) is greater than the sum of their parts: being raped in her own home is a womans worst nightmare.ibid.) the court further observed that make other offenses not involving homicide punishable by life imprisonment without the possibility of parole: kidnapping for the purpose of ransom, extortion or robbery with bodily harm short of death [citation] and attempted train wrecking [citation]. . . . a fortiori, if offenses such as aggravated kidnapping for ransom and attempted train wrecking, even absent death, may be punished by lwop [life without possibility of parole] without offending cannot offend that constitutional provision to punish the combination of offenses defendant committed by a life id. at pp. 807-808.) the court further found appellant had failed to establish that the punishment prescribed for his offense was excessive when compared to the punishment imposed for similar offenses in other jurisdictions, noting that in solem v. helm, supra, 463 u.s. 277, the u.s. supreme court had 18 at least four other jurisdictions provided for life sentences for crooks, supra, 55 cal.app.4th at p. 808.) here, appellant deliberately broke in on his sleeping victim and committed multiple acts of sexual aggression on her while she was alone, naked and vulnerable. he repeatedly threatened her with his knife, placing it near her vagina and pressing it against her throat. the sentence imposed, basically an lwop sentence regardless of whether the sentence for the final act of rape is included, was the multiple instances of forcible rape and forcible oral copulation inflicted over a period of time. appellant followed up his sexual assaults by robbing the victim of multiple valuable items, including the cell phone she needed to call for assistance. under these circumstances, the sentence imposed was not cruel and unusual under either the california or federal standard. c. consecutive sentencing section 667.6, subdivision (d), requires separate and consecutive terms to be served for rape and forcible oral copulation separate victims or involve the same victim on separate it goes on to state: committed on separate occasions under this subdivision, the court shall consider whether, between the commission of one sex crime and another, the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to reflect upon his or her actions and nevertheless resumed sexually assaultive behavior. neither 19 the duration of time between crimes, nor whether or not the defendant lost or abandoned his or her opportunity to attack, shall be, in and of itself, determinative on the issue of whether the crimes in question occurred on separate trier of fact could have decided the defendant had a reasonable opportunity for reflection after completing an people v. garza (2003) 107 cal.app.4th 1081, 1092.) appellant contends consecutive sentencing for the forcible rape count was improper because it was not preceded by a reasonable opportunity to reflect. we discern no error. preliminarily, we note that subdivision (c) of section 667.6 gives the trial court discretion to impose separate and consecutive terms for forcible rape ahere, the trial court made clear that in the absence of the mandatory directive, it would exercise its discretion to impose consecutive sentences under this provision. accordingly, even were we convinced the crimes were not sufficiently separated to meet the requirements of subdivision (d) of section 667.6, we would have no need to remand for imposition of a different sentence. (see people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 11required unless the record reveals a clear indication that the 20 trial court would not have reduced the sentence even if at moreover, we determination that the offenses were sufficiently separated to warrant imposition of separate terms under the statutory definition, upon his or her actions. (see people v. jones (2001) 25 cal.4th 98, 104 [under the broad standard established by penal code section 667.6, subdivision (d), the courts of appeal have not required a break of any specific duration or any change in physical location.]; see, e.g., people v. king (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1281, 1325-1326 [trial court reasonably concluded that sexual offenses occurred on separate occasion where defendant briefly paused when he saw the headlights of a passing car].) as the court observed, the fact that appellant paused long enough to inquire of only that he had the opportunity to reflect on his actions, but that he did so. / / / / / / 21 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, p. j. we concur: collins, j. currey, j. 