filed 1/8/19 p. v. smith ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david smith, defendant and appellant. b283278 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na098545) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark c. kim, judge. affirmed in part and remanded in part with instructions. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant 2 attorney general, roberta l. davis and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. defendant david smith and his brother, james smith, encountered christopher lane and his girlfriend, m. allen, on a long beach sidewalk.1 the foursome exchanged insults and then blows. the altercation turned deadly when defendant shot lane three times. defendant also threatened allen with the gun. -defense and defense of others and convicted him of second degree murder and assault with a firearm. it also found true a firearms enhancement allegation related to the murder, on which the trial court imposed the then-mandatory sentence. defendant raises numerous challenges to his convictions and sentence. he argues that the trial court committed prejudicial instructional error by providing inconsistent oral and written instructions and failing to instruct on self-defense in accordance with people v. ramirez (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 940 (ramirez). he also contends that the court committed prejudicial evidentiary error by admitting a photograph from his cellphone and statements james made to inmate informants, and excluding r firearms convictions. defendant further contends that the court improperly handled an incident involving a trial spectator taking photographs, that the prosecutor committed misconduct by arguing facts outside the record and violating doyle v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610 (doyle), that his 1we refer to the surviving victim by her first initial and last name to protect her personal privacy interests. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) his first name to avoid confusion. 3 counsel was ineffective for failing to object to the alleged prosecutorial misconduct, and that the cumulative effect of all the alleged errors deprived him of a fair trial. finally, defendant argues that he should be resentenced in accordance with penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (h),2 a recently enacted provision that vests the trial court with discretion to strike or dismiss firearm enhancements. the attorney general concedes the last point. we agree that defendant is entitled to resentencing in light of section 12022.53, subdivision (h) and accordingly remand the matter to the trial court to exercise its discretion in regards to resentencing. we affirm the judgment in all other respects. procedural history a joint information charged defendant and james with murdering lane ( 187, subd. (a)) and assaulting allen with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). the information further alleged that both crimes were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). in addition, the information alleged as to the murder count that defendant or a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury and death ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)), and alleged as to the assault count that defendant or a principal personally used a firearm ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). james pled guilty to an interlineated charge of voluntary manslaughter. defendant proceeded to jury trial on the original information. the jury found him guilty of second degree murder 2all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 and assault with a firearm. the jury found true the enhancement allegation on the murder, but found untrue the gang allegation and personal use enhancement on the assault. the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 40 years to life: 15 years to life on the murder count, an additional consecutive 25 years to life on the firearm enhancement, and the midterm of three years on the assault count, to run concurrently to the murder sentence. defendant timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution evidence3 allen testified that she and the victim, lane, were dating in february 2014. on the afternoon of february 21, 2014, she visited him in long beach. lane and allen decided to walk to allen brother nearby. allen was , lane was a member of the compton gang tragniew park. neither of them was armed. allen [the] same she did not know them at the time but later identified them as defendant and james in a photographic lineup and in court. another witness, a detective who was on duty when defendant and james were taken into custody, testified that allen said that lane was shorter than james. allen testified that she suggested to lane that they cross the street because defendant seemed to be holding a weapon at the waist of his basketball shorts. lane disagreed, and the pairs soon reached one another. a silent video from a surveillance 3because the jury found the gang allegations not true, we do not discuss the evidence primarily directed at proving or disproving those allegations. 5 camera across the street showed allen and lane walking between defendant and james, who were headed in the opposite direction. approximately three seconds after the pairs passed one another, they stopped, turned, and began walking toward one another. allen testified that defendant or jamesshe could not remember which she responded that they should not worry about it. defendant then asked allen and lane what they were doing in the neighborho allen anywhere she wanted, and told defendant as much. the video shows allen gesturing at defendant and james and apparently exchanging words with them. both defendant and james said something to the effect of allen understood as a me.4 allen told defendant and james she did not care about that; neither she nor lane said anything about compton or tragniew park. defendant or james invited allen and lane to meet them at the corner, which was out of view of the surveillance camera. allen feared defendant would shoot them, but she and lane went to the corner anyway. the corner was in the direction they were originally walking; defendant and james changed direction to get to the corner. at the corner, allen o face. we after james repeatedly called her a bitch, allen hit 4the broader insane crips gang. 6 him. james hit her back. lane tried to intervene, but he and lane hit defendant twice and knocked him to the ground. when defendant got up, allen noticed that he had drawn a gun. she also heard lane say, allen started to run away but tripped and fell. as she was getting up, she heard gunshots. she saw defendant aim the gun and shoot lane. lane fell to the ground. defendant then approached allen with the gun. he pointed it allen told him to do it, but he and james left instead. allen later this description was consistent with testimony from a criminalist, were .22 caliber and could have been fired from a revolver. in an interview that was played for the jury, allen described the incident thusly: down. while [defendant] was on his back, chris start [sic] coming my way and tried to get [james] and me to stop fighting. basically, he tried to get [james] to stop hitting me. [] . . . [] and when he come [sic] my way, all you hear is pow-pow-pow. on cross-you from three years ago who started fighting first. i see your client [defendant] get knocked to the ground. i see your client get a 14-second cell phone video taken by a passerby shortly after the shooting showed lane lying prone on the curb with his left side facing the camera. several people, including allen, were around him. no weapon was visible, and there did not appear to 7 be anything on the ground near him. a man walking in the tapped lane before continuing on his way. allen was using a cell phone in the video; she testified that she called the police and forensic pathologist and senior deputy medical examiner raffi djabourian, m.d. determined that lane suffered three gunshot wounds: two to the back and a through-and-through on the cheek. one that passed through the right lung and lodged in the chest cavity, and djabourian opined that both of those wounds were fatal. long beach police arrested defendant and james in los angeles on march 7, 2014. asia otts, defendant cousin, told police that defendant and james contacted her in late trouble in long beach and they needed her help and they needed at trial, otts denied making a statement to that effect, even after the prosecutor played a recording of her interview for the jury; she claimed that the voice on the recording at that portion of the interview was not hers. on cross-examination, otts testified that defendant took care of james a after his arrest, james was placed in a cell with two men who were paid to pose as inmates as part of a 5 during his conversation with the operatives, which 5in illinois v. perkins (1990) 496 u.s. 292, 296-297, the united states supreme court held that conversations between incarcerated individuals and undercover agents posing as 8 was played for the jury over defense objection, james identified he also said that he -- when one of the operatives asked . . happened was the only other person there. asked if he got rid of the gun, a revolver. one of the operatives asked how many times defendant shot, and james said he did not later in the conversation, james agreed with the operative that james admitted to with him. ii. defense evidence defendant testified that in february, 2014, he weighed 126 pounds. he joined the baby insane gang when he was 12 or 13. he never put in any work for the gang, however, and prevented his younger brother james from joining. he discontinued his membership a few years later when his first son was born, and never told police he was a gang member. he was not active in the gang on february 21, 2014 and had no intention he did, however, carry gang in the past. he had never fired the gun. inmates do not implicate the coercion and compulsion concerns underlying miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 9 on the afternoon of february 21, 2014, defendant and james were walking down the stree6 according to defendant, get through, and somehow we still bumped shoulders. and i shoulder. at that defendant told her to shut up, which lane then sa defendant took that to mean lane wanted to fight. lane then suggested they move to the corner, and defendant and james acquiesced. defendant denied that he or james proposed moving to the corner. he also denied that he or james mentioned insanes or babies, or asked where lane and allen were from. when they got to the remember what she was saying, but she was very aggressive, and i know she took a punch. defendant later clarified that allen struck james first, and that f 6defendant explained that he did not know lane or allen at the time, but had learned their names during the case. 10 lane turned around and punched defendant twice, in the face. defendant fell and hit his head on the sidewalk. from that defendant understood that to mean that lane was about to hurt or kill james. defendant then saw lane reach into his pocket with his left hand and withdraw a black gun. lane held the gun in his left hand and moved toward james, who was about two or three feet away from him. defendant, who was on the ground about six to eight feet away from the frayand fired four times. brother. i was stopping. . . what, i believe, chris was going to he denied threatening allen with the gun before leaving the scene. that he he did not turn himself in because he did not want to go to jail. was a member of the babies gang and james was not. she further testified that she did not raise her children to fight, and that defendant was peaceful around her and the family. iii. rebuttal evidence three long beach police officers, udom sawai, ricardo solorio, and hector gutierrez, testified that defendant admitted to them in 2009 and 2010 that he was a member of the insane 11 crips. -handed. discussion i. jury instructions a. discrepancy between oral and written instructions the trial court delivered 16 caljic jury instructions pertaining to self-defense and defense of others. one of those -defense by an aggres the written version of the instruction stated: right of self-defense is only available to a person who initiated an assault, if [] 1. he has done all the following: [] a. he has actually tried, in good faith, to refuse to continue fighting; [] b. he has by words or conduct caused his opponent to be aware, as a reasonable person, that he wants to stop fighting; and [] c. he has by words or conduct caused his opponent to be aware, as a reasonable person, that he has stopped fighting. [] after he has done these three things, he has the right to self-defense if his 7 (emphasis added.) when the court delivered the instruction orally, it misstated the opening -defense is not available to a person who initiated an assault if, 1, he has done 7caljic no. 5.54 has an optional second paragraph that [if] [t][h]he victim of simple assault responds in a sudden and deadly counterassault, the original aggressor need not attempt to withdraw and may use reasonably necessary force in self- defendant did not request that paragraph below and does not contend here that it should have been given. 12 all the following: a, he has actually tried in good faith to refuse to continue fighting; b, he has by words or conduct caused his opponent to be aware, as a reasonable person, that he wants to stop fighting; and c, he has caused by words or conduct, to be aware, as a reasonable person, that he has stopped fighting. [] after he has done these three things, he has the right to self-defense if his opponent continues to fight.8 defendant in the record demonstrated that the jury relied upon the written, he contends that the icting instructions on the right of an aggressor to act in self-defense prevented appellant from presenting his theory of defenseone which the prosecution had the burden of he further contends that the discrepancy between the oral and written instructions followed the conflicting instructions under caljic no. 5.54, which canceled each other out and precluded the jury from finding that an aggressor could have acted in self- we review these claims of error de novo (people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218) and reject them. our supreme court has explained: discrepancy between the orally delivered and the written instructions exists in every trial, and verdicts are not undermined by the mere fact that the trial court misspoke. 8defendant asserts that the trial court also misstated the the trial transcript does not support this assertion. 13 [citation.] this presumption includes the written instructions. [citation.] to the extent a discrepancy exists between the written and oral versions of jury instructions, the [citation.] because the jury was given the correctly worded instructions in written form and inand because on appeal we give precedence to the written (people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 200-201 (footnote omitted).) people v. mills controls here. defendant does not contend that caljic no. 5.54 is an incorrect statement of the law and does not dispute that the court provided an accurate copy of that instruction to the jury. the court also instructed the jury with caljic no. 17.45, telling the jurors to rely of the instructions. that final wording was, of course, the written one. applied caljic no. 5.54 as given in writing. (see people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 803.) we see no basis for departing with the written instructions to take into the deliberation room, they govern in any conflict with (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 717.) we are not persuaded otherwise by people v. anderson (1872) 44 cal. 65, to which defendant points. in that case, the trial court delivered two separate instructions that conflicted with one another. (see people v. anderson, supra, 44 cal. at p. 69.) here, the trial court gave two versions of a single instruction, an incorrect oral one and a correct written one; thus, 14 people v. anderson is not on point. ion that counsel was precluded from effectively arguing his theories of self-defense and defense of others due to an absence of jury instructions. there was not an absence of instructions here. the court provided the jury with 95 pages of instructions, including 16 instructions on self-defense and defense of others. counsel had the opportunity to refer to the written instructions during closing argument, and indeed highlighted two relevant instructions, caljic nos. 5.13 and 5.32. we also reject defendato address caljic no. 5.54 in closingfailure to seek clarification on the discrepancy between the oral which to conclude that the er our basis for concluding that no reversible error occurred is the rule that the written instructions control. therefore no further curing was needed. b. omission of second paragraph of caljic no. 5.55 over defense objection, the trial court instructed the jury -defense may not be -defense is not available to a person who seeks a quarrel with the intent to create a real or apparent necessity of exercising self-defendant did not request, and the trial court did not provide, the bracketed second paragraph of caljic no. 5.55, which states, nondeadly quarrel does not forfeit the right to self-defense if [his] [her] opponent[s] respond[s] in a sudden and deadly counterassault, that is, force that is excessive under the 15 circumstance. the party victimized by the excessive force need not withdraw and may use reasonably necessary force in lawful self- eliminated the right to self-constitutional rights to due process, jury trial, and to present a rtion of caljic no. 5.55. he argues that the instruction was inaccurate and incomplete without the second portion, because the jury could have found that he was the initial aggressor, intended only a fistfight, and responded with reasonable force when lane escalated the fight by drawing a gun. defendant rests these contentions primarily on ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th 940. the defendants in ramirez were two brothers and gang members who recruited a fellow gang member to join them in confronting and fighting a rival gang who had been harassing them. (ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 944.) though one of the brothers brought a gun with him, he testified that he did not intend to shoot any of the rivals. (ibid.) the friend who went with the brotherjust gonna go over there and just confront them and, if anything, we were just gonna fight. (ibid.) apartment complex, they encountered several gang members and testimony as to whether defendants or their rivals threw the first punch. (ibid.) d-by rivals. then, one of the rivals drew what one of the defendants believed to be a gun. that defendant pulled his own gun from his sweatshirt and shot the rival, killing him. (id. at p. 945.) 16 at their trial for murder, defendants argued self-defense. the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 3472, the first paragraph of caljic no. 5.55.9 (people v. eulian (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1324, 1333 (eulian).) during closing argument, the prosecutor repeatedly highlighted calcrim no. 3472 and argued that it prevented defendants from relying on self-defengun or used deadly force. (ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 946.) the jury found defendants guilty, but a divided court of appeal reversed on the ground that calcrim no. 3472 was inaccurate in light of the unique facts of the case. the majority acknowledged that calcrim no. 3472 namely, where an initial aggressor attempts to claim self-defense outset. (ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 950.) but the blanket rule articulated in calcrim no. 3472 and reiterated by [any] right to self-defense if he provokes a fight or quarrel with the intent to create an excuse to use [any in effect, the prosecutor and the trial court advised the jury that one who provokes a fistfight forfeits the right of self-defense if the adversary resorts to deadly force. (ramirez, supra, 233 9-defense: may self-defense if he or she provokes a quarrel with the intent to 17 cal.app.4th at p. 947.) instead, the correct rule is that a defendant may claim imperfect self-defense if the original victim escalates a quarrel by introducing deadly force. (id. at p. 950.) thus, where the record is such that a jury could conclude that the defendant was an initial aggressor who only intended a fistfight but was unexpectedly confronted with deadly force, calcrim no. 3472and its counterpart, the first portion of caljic no. 5.55is incorrect. defendant argues, without citation to the record, that this case is analogous to ramirez, such that caljic no. 5.55 was incorrect as given: evidence from which a reasonable jury could have found that either the defendants or lane and allen were the initial aggressors; and that appellant and james smith intended to initiate a non-whom they believed were rival compton gang members. . . . [] sic] were the initial aggressors [sic], there was also substantial evidence that lane responded to a simple assault with a sudden and deadly counterassault. therefore, appellant was entitled to use we disagree. (people v. vasquez (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 1176, 1180) that led to guns being drawn: lane bumped his shoulder, and invited defendant and james to the corner, and allen punched james. the jury could have accepted this version. or, it on, that defendant began the chain of events by insulting her and lane. but under neither scenario was the jury presented with evidence that defendant acted with the intent to start nothing more than a fistfight. allen 18 testified that defendant conspicuously carried his gun in the waistband of his shorts, and that she believed he suggested going to the corner so he could shoot her and lane there. additionally, he entered the fray only after allen and james began fighting, suggesting that he did not intend to provoke a fistfight. this is a non-deadly confrontation and the victim responds with deadly (eulian, supra, 247 cal.app.4th at p. 1334.) the instant case is further distinguishable from ramirez in that the prosecutor did not repeatedly misstate the law of self-defense or mislead the jury by arguing, based on the language of the applicable jury instruction, that even if the jury believed defendant sought to provoke only a fistfight, his intent to use force forfeited any claim of self-defense. (ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at pp. 943, 945-946.) the ramirez prosecutor repeatedly emphasized that it did not matter whether the victim (id. at p. 950.) -kill someone. . . . [] [i]f somebody is starting a fight, with the intent to use self-defense as an excuse, they are not allowed to do rather than repeatedly telling the jury that self-defense was not available under any circumstance if the jury found that defendant started the fight, she argued that defendant was he knows he is carrying. this is a gangster trying to use gang banging as an excuse for murder. in other words, she argued the exact scenario described by caljic no. 5.55 as given. 19 ii. evidentiary issues a. admission of cell phone gun photo prior to trial, the prosecutor expressed an intent to introduce several photographs retrieved from a cell phone defendant had in his possession when he was arrested. one of those photos showed a hand holding a semi-automatic gun over a denim-clad lap and reusable grocery bag. defendant objected to the photo as irrelevant and speculative. the court agreed that even know if this photo or not he had access more than that particular day. photo of the gun that was depicted was taken, who is holding the the court said it would be willing to revisit the issue if the prosecutor came forward with evidence linking defendant to the phone or the gun. at a subsequent 402 hearing at which the prosecutor raised the matter, photos that depict the guns because it is too speculative, and under 352 grounds, people cannot proffer that the cell phone, in fact, was registered to defendant. people cannot proffer . . . that defendant is, in fact, the person that is holding the gun. [] on the other hand, if the court is to allow that particular photo to come in, it would clearly show that and more likely than not jurors will be influenced by the fact that there is a person with a gun, and, therefore, it must be defendant, so more than likely he is the one that was involved with the shooting. [] another issue is, . . . there are two separate witnesses who indicate that the weapon that was used in this instance was a revolver, not a semiautomatic handgun that was depicted in the photo. so, 20 prejudice. therefore, i am going the prosecutor testified that she had never seen him act violent or carry a gun. at sidebar during cross-examination, the prosecutor told the court she wanted to impeach this testimony with the gun photo, which was taken from a phone that hubbard owned. the court ownership of the phone, and told the prosecutor she could ask hubbard if she owned the phone. if hubbard answered yes, the court said, the prosecutor could then ask her about the photos. defense counsel again objected to the photo of the gun and asked what the purpose was. after establishing that hubbard owned the phone, the prosecutor asked her about the photo and showed the photo to hubbard and the jury. hubbard, who previously said she was not familiar with all the photos on her phone, which was used by multiple people, denied that the gun photo had come from her phone. the prosecutor did not ask hubbard any further questions about the gun photo, and defense counsel did not revisit the topic on redirect examination. the photo came up again during cross-examination of defendant, after he admitted that he used the phone often and the phone. at sidebar, defense counsel argued that the photo was highly prejudicial and minimally probative. the court reiterated that those objections had been overruled. the prosecutor then asked defendant about the photo; he denied ever seeing it and a download from googl defendant admitted that 21 he had used the phone to take selfies, and agreed with the prosecutor that the gun photo looked as though it had been taken by the person holding the gun, but denied that he took the photo. he further denied that the gun belonged to any of the other people who had access to the phone. the issue of the photo arose a final time near the close of the defense case, when the prosecutor said she wanted to introduce evidence showing that the gun in the photo was a .22-caliber. she explained that she wanted to show that defendant had access to the .22-caliber ammunition used to kill lane. the neither side mentioned the gun photo in closing argument. defendant now contends that the gun photo should have been excluded as irrelevant, or as cumulative, speculative, or unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. quoting people v. henderson (1976) 58 cal.app.3d 349, 360, he further argues that that the defendant is the kind of person who surrounds himself with weaponsa fact of no relevant consequence to determination of the guilt or innocenc he also asserts that defendant as a person with a commando lifestyle and a g the relevance of evidence. [citation.] similarly, the court has broad discretion under evidence code section 352 to exclude even relevant evidence if it determines the probative value of the evidence is substantially outweighed by its possible prejudicial effects. [citation.] 22 regarding relevancy and admissibility under evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. [citation.] we will not he trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage (people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 74.) ion here. credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of (evid. code,  210.) it was not an abuse of discretion for the court to conclude that the gun photo was testimony. relevance to his culpability is inapposite. the photo was not admitted to show that he committed the crime, surrounded himself with weapons, or otherwise had bad character; it was admitted to sow doubt as to the credibility of his witnesses. the court likewise did not abuse its discretion by concluding that the photo, the sole one of its kind, was admissible under evidence code section 352. the court required the prosecutor to link the phone to hubbard and defendant before it permitted her to ask them about it, mitigating concerns about speculation. the court also mitigated any risk that the photo would be cumulative by excluding other gun photos, and acknowledged the limited ammunition. the risk of undue prejudice was minimal, because defendant admitted carrying and using a gun. 23 b. perkins statements the perkins operatives on numerous grounds. as relevant here, after james asserted his fifth amendment rights and the court found him unavailable, defendant argued that the evidence code section 1230 (section 1230) hearsay exception did not apply because the statements were not against penal interest and were not reliable or trustworthy. the court immediately overruled all of the objections except those pertaining to section 1230, which it took under advisement pending its review of the perkins transcript. later, after the court reviewed the transcript and heard additional argument from both sides, it overrulesection 1230 objections and ruled that all of the perkins statements were admissible. at the totality of the and concluded that statements to the perkins self of that are attributable to james smith that no objectionable [sic] reasonable person would make because it is clearly against his interest. he places himself . . .[at] the location where the crime took place. he basically places himself and states where the parties were, what they were doing at the time of the shooting, and then he also explains how the shooting took place, and what the court acknowledged that some o come in to show exactly what was the context in which speaker one, speaker 24 two [the perkins operatives] spoke to james smith, and how did the prosecutor played the entire recording, which was over an hour long, for the jury during trial. defendant now reiterates his arguments that the statements were not admissible under section 1230. he argues prosecution were not specifical he further contends that the statements were insufnot made in a reliable setting, but were made under circumstances wherein he had an incentive to deflect blame onto perkins operatives.10 section 1230 provides: evidence of a statement by a declarant having sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made, was so far contrary interest, or so far subjected him to the risk of civil or criminal liability, or so far tended to render invalid a claim by him against another, or created such a risk of making him an object of hatred, ridicule, or social disgrace in the community, that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unless he believed it the rationale underlying this exception to the rule that hearsay statements are not admissible (evid. code,  1200, 10the attorney general contends the latter argument is forfeited because defendant failed to develop it below. we disagree. 25 t against being criminally implicated heightens the veracity of statements made against with the admission of out-of- (people v. grimes (2016) 1 cal.5th 698, 711.) emonstrate that an out-of-court declaration is such evidence must show that the declarant is unavailable, that made and that the declaration was sufficiently reliable to [citation.] determining whether a statement is truly against interest within the meaning of evidence code section 1230, and hence is sufficiently trustworthy to be admissible, the court may take into account not the just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of the declarant, (people v. grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 711.) portions of an otherwise inculpatory statement that do not ultimately, courts must consider each statement in context in order to answer the ultimate question under evidence code section 1230: whether the statement, even if not independently inculpatory of the d not (people v. grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 716.) matters in determining whether a statement or portion thereof is admissible under the against- (id. at p. 717.) 26 under section 1230 for abuse of discretion. (people v. grimes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 711.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion here. although the statements did not implicate james as the shooter, they exposed him to possible aider and abettor liability. they indicated he was present and participated in the altercation, and revealed incriminating information such as where the crime took place, who fired the gun, how many times, and what happened to the gun and other evidence afterward. minimal participant in a crime by itself does not require exclusion . . . . only when there is both blame shifting by the declarant and other circumstances suggest some improper motive for the blame shifting have courts found admission of a hearsay (people v. smith (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 766, 792.) defendant argues that such present herein custody, after he was arrested for the murder, and after detectives had staged a dna test in the jail cell and had shown him photographs taken on a surveillance video at the liquor store located near the he further asserts that the statements werperkins operatives. the trial court reviewed the entirety of the perkins recording and concluded that those circumstances did not undermine the reliability of the incriminating statements james made. this was not an abuse of its discretion; the statements were informal ones made in the course of a conversation with people james believed to be other detainees. 27 defendant also emphasizes that many of the statements were made in response to queries the perkins operatives initiated. wearing, what did you do with the clothes. you burn them and all - they also asked him suggest that he was boasting, deflecting blame, or telling the operatives what he believed they wanted to hear. the back-and-forth nature of the conversation supported the conclusion that the statements were sufficiently reliable to be admitted. c. prior to trial, the prosecutor filed a motion to exclude evidence that lane was convicted of illegal firearm possession in 2010 and 2013. in her papers and at the hearing, the prosecutor argued that this evidence was barred by evidence code sections 352 and 1101, subdivision (a). defendant argued that the evidence was relevant and admissible under evidence code section 1103. have had prior convictions involving gun [sic] is irrelevant impeachment purposes, and it is not relevant because there is no issue of your client knowing this particular person or having so it do-defense. the court reiterated this ruling when defendant raised the issue again during trial. ing 28 trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her (evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) defendant contends that evidence code section 1103, subdivision (a)(1) provides an exception to that rule that should have applied here. that provision states that evidence of specific instances of conduct of a crime victim are not made inadmissible under to prove conduct of the victim in conformity with the character or defendant is correct on this legal point. has long been recognized that where self-defense is raised in a homicide case, evidence of the aggressive and violent character of the victim is admissi (people v. wright (1985) 39 cal.3d 576, 587.) however, as defendant also exclude otherwise admissible evidence pursuant to evidence code section 352 if admitting the evidence would have confused the issues at trial, unduly consumed time, or been more prejudicial than probative. [citation.] the trial court must always perform its gate keeping function pursuant to evidence code section 350 to exclude (people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 827-828.) convictions for firearm possession pursuant to its gate-keeping function. it found the evidence was not relevant to explain herefore could not have known about his previous convictions. defendant 29 argues that the convictions were relevant despite his lack of knowledge of them because they tended to support his testimony that lane drew the gun during the altercation. we cannot conclude the trial court abused its discretion in finding otherwise. involve lane using a gun and thus did not help establish he attempted to use a gun against james, which was what [defendant] would have wanted the jury to infer from the iii. spectator use of cell phone camera during a break in prosecutor of her, what she believes was a photograph of her from the audience. . . . detectives went and spoke to him, went through his phone. sic the court told the prosecutor it would admonish spectators not to take the following day, before allen resumed the stand, the prosecutor told the court that the detectives who searched the searcprosecutor told the court she wanted to present evidence of the incident, both through allen and the detective who searched the spectator. defendant argued that such evidence would be the court somebody is taking photos of her, and i mean, clearly that goes to [the] issue of how she would testify in this case. so, it is relevant. 30 contention that such evidence would be speculative, observing the court ruled tbelieved she saw because it goes directly to the issue of credibility of her testimony, how it affects her testimony in light of what she the court reserved ruling on the admissibility of the gang-so it could consider whether it mattered that there was no evidence linking the spectator to defendant. the prosecutor also told the court that the bailiff had reviewed the courtroom video from defendant objected that he had not seen the video and argued that he was entitled to discovery on it. the court agreed and ruled that a discovery motion would be necessary if the prosecutor wanted to call the bailiff. during re-direct examination, allen testified that she had -skinned guy with curly hair and a gray she testified that his phone was she recalled that she told the judge she had to go the restroom because she was scared that the spectator would come on re-cross examination, defense counsel asked allen if she knew if someone actually took a photo of her. i seen a big old flash go off. and i told the judge i had to go to the allen admitted that she did not tell the judge about her concerns, but rather relayed them to detective irving. 31 later, at sidebar, the prosecutor indicated that she wanted to call detective irving as a witness because he had contact with the spectator. defendant again contested the relevance of such evidence and further argued that he needed more discoverpoint because the people already got into that, that potentially he emphasized that there had been no link established between him and the spectator. the court overruled those objections, concluding it spectator were a baby insane crips member. the court much so that its exclusion was warranted. the court pointed defendant to caljic no. 2.05 and invited him to modify the instruction for delivery in the case. the court then asked how the prosecutor planned to show that the spectator was a baby insane crip. she explained that she planned to introduce a photo recovered from phone that depicted him throwing a gang sign and holding a gun in his waistband. the court said it would allow that evidence over defense objection. the prosecutor called long beach police detective sean irving, who testified that allen told him she was concerned that a spectator had taken a photo of her. he further testified that he viewed video from the courtroom, which the court admitted over defense objection. the video showed a camera flash coming from irving further testified that he spoke to the spectator, whose name was darryl williams, and searched the cell phone. irving did not find any photos of allen on the 32 phone, but found a photo of williams throwing a gang sign and holding a gun. irving testified that he remembered seeing williams in other photographs related to the case, and the prosecutor introduced a different photo of williams with james, defendant, and another unidentified person. testimony. he argued that the jury when the video was played, and expressed concern that they the court denied the motion for mistrial. during his own testimony, defendant admitted to talking to williams but denied having do with [williams] being in court, sitting in the back, taking his at the conclusion of trial, the court instructed the jury with a modified version of calcrim no. 2.05: effort to intimidate a witness was made by another person for the there has been no evidence presented that the defendant authorized the effort. this conduct is not sufficient by itself to prove guilt, and its weight 11 defendant argues that the court erred by admitting the above evidence. he contends the evidence should have been 11if you find that an effort to procure false or fabricated evidence was made by another person for the defends benefit, you may not consider that effort as consciousness of guilt unless you also find that the defendant authorized that effort. if you find defendant authorized the effort, that conduct is not sufficient by itself to prove guilt, and its 33 excluded under evidence code section 352 because it was speculative, cumulative of other evidence of gang membership, and unduly prejudicial. in particular, he asserts that the jury was required to speculate whether a photo was taken and was likely to conclude that he and williams were fellow gang members who were attempting to intimidate allen. we are not persuaded that the court abused its discretion. retaliation is relevant to the credibility of that witness and therefore is admissible. [citations.] an explanation of the basis [citation.] credibility of the witness, whether or not the threat is directly linked to the defendant. [citation.] necessarily the source of the threatbut its existencethat is (people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 429-430.) of evidence showing she was intimidated was high in this case. the court did not err in concluding that value outweighed the risk of prejudice to defendant. the jury had already heard evidence that he was a gang member and that gang members often retaliate against snitches. moreover, any prejudice was mitigated denying involvement with the photos and the limiting instruction the court gave the jury. defendant also contends that the court erred in denying his motion for mistrial. he argues that admission of evidence of determination was influenced by improper 34 insufficient to allow the prosecution to parade before the jury a motion for mistrial for abuse of discretion (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 984), and conclude the court was well within its discretion here. (people v. williams (2016) 1 cal.5th 1166, 1185.) a court should grant a mistrial if it concludes the defendant suffered incurable prejudice such that his or her chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged. (ibid.) ground for mistrial if the misconduct is of such a character as to (people v. lucero (1988) 44 cal.3d 1006, 1022.) here, the court balanced evidence by instructing the jury that it was not permitted to of guilt. it further modified the jury instruction to underscore the these efforts were sufficient to allay the potential prejudice defendant feared. the two ninth circuit cases defendant cites, norris v. risley (9th cir. 1990) 918 f.2d 828, and mach v. steward (9th cir. 1997) 137 f.3d 630, are inapposite. iv. prosecutorial misconduct of misconduct during cross-that deprived him of a fair trial. he contends the prosecutor 35 repeatedly committed doyle12 error during cross-examination and closing argument, misstated the law of self-defense, and argued facts outside the record. to the extent we may find these arguments forfeited, as he raised only the doyle issue below, he contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance. we ad a. doyle error doyle holds that it is a violation of due process for a prosecutor to impeach a testifying defendant with evidence that he or she remained silent after being arrested and advised of his or her right to remain silent. (doyle, supra, 426 u.s. at pp. 618-619.) it has been cabined to post-miranda13 silence: constitution does not prohibit the use for impeachment purposes no miranda (brecht v. abrahamson (1993) 507 u.s. 619, 628.) defendant argues that the prosecutor committed doyle error twice while cross-examining him and once during closing argument. during cross-examination, the following exchange occurred: when you were arrested on march 7th, you briefly spoke to police officers, right? yes. very briefly, right? yes. what you told them is not what you told us here 12doyle v. ohio, supra, 426 u.s. 610. 13miranda v. arizona, supra, 384 u.s. 436. 36 at that point, defense counsel objected. at sidebar, the prosecutor stated that after defendant invoked his right to the court ruled that the statement was doyle objection. the prosecutor and defendant then had the following exchange: by [the prosecutor]: mr. smith, you did not tell detectives what you are telling this jury, right? no. life. and you told them you are in school and stuff, right? life, right? this was not doyle error. the prosecutor impeached defendant with a statement he made, not his silence. doyle does not apply to cross-examination that merely inquires into prior inconsistent statements. such questioning makes no unfair use of silence because a defendant who voluntarily speaks after receiving miranda warnings has not been induced to remain (anderson v. charles (1980) 447 u.s. 404, 408.) doyle objection to the other cross-examination exchange he identifies, thus preempting the occurrence of any doyle error. doyle violation does not occur unless the prosecutor is permitted silence against him at trial, and an objection and an appropriate instruction (people v. 37 clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 959.) here, it is clear from the exchange that the court did not allow the prosecutor to use ilence as evidence against him: on james? this is doyle error. the final alleged doyle error to which defendant points occurred during rebuttal. while arguing to the jury that lane did not have a gun, the prosecutor stated: many times as you want. and whether it is the first time, the third time, the tenth time, the 20th time, the one thing that is never going to change is that there is no gun anywhere near none. none. [] like i said, chris was right handed. why would he be shooting with his left hand? [] if chris lane had she was forthcoming with everything else. [] why is the only thing he said is, i am laying low because some shit happened? t he say someone pulled a gun on james? [] if chris lane had a gun, defendant objected on doyle grounds, and the court overruled the objection. tsubsequent request for a mistrial based on doyle. doyle objection. affirmative statement, not his silence, and was contrasting it 38 with his testimony on the stand. (see people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 203-204.) because none of the three incidents to which defendant points constituted doyle error, the court was r mistrial on that basis. b. misstatement of the law defendant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by misstating the law of self-defense during closing argument. fistfight. this is another one of the instructions that you get, 5.31. and it clearly says, when there is an assault with fists, [you] [] and the reason that law is in place is exactly for situations like ours, where gangsters are trying to turn murder into self- defendant did not object at the time. he now argues, however, that the prosecutor -defense, misleading the jury into believing that the law categorically prohibited [defendant] from even bringing a firearm, let alone using a firearm, in for appeal, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection to the alleged misconduct and request the jury be admonished to (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1339.) defendant failed to do so and accordingly has forfeited this claim of misconduct on appeal. even if he had objected, however, we would not conclude that any error occurred. the prosecutor referred the jury to caljic no. 5.31, with which the court instructed the jury, and person being assaulted in using a deadly weapon in self-defense 39 unless that person believes and a reasonable person in the same or similar circumstances would believe that the assault is likely simplification of the concept explained by caljic no. 5.31 was not error. it tracked with the instruction and her argument that lane did not have a gun and therefore defendant was unjustified in shooting him. c. facts outside record the prosecutor twice referred to facts outside the record during rebuttal. first, while refuting the defense argument that the crime was not gang-related, the prosecutor asked the jury, as intimidate m[.] defendant did not object at the time but now argues that this contention is forfeited. even if it were not, we find no error. although it is misconduct for a prosecutor to refer to matters outside the record (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1026), a prosecutor is permitted to make fair comment on the evidence, including reasonable inferences or deductions. (people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 337.) a prosecutor is given even wider latitude during rebuttal if his or her arguments fall within the proper limits of rebuttal to arguments of defense counsel. (people v. cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 1026.) here, the jury heard evidence that defendant was a gang member and that the crimes were gang-related. the jury also heard evidence that trial spectator williams was affiliated with the same gang as defendant and at least gave the appearance that he was taking a 40 photo of allen during trial. it would be reasonable for the jury to infer that williams acted as he did to command respect for the gang and attempt to frighten victims into not cooperating with law enforcement. misconduct. defendant also claims the prosecutor improperly referred to matters outside the record when she told the jury during in the post-shooting cell phone video] is somehow involved in getting rid of the gun. first of all, ladies and gentlemen, just because you sic and you better believe, you better believe that if that car in any way was tied back to christopher lane or m[.] allen or any of their people, you this argument investigated, by the way, right? you have a license plate. why defendant did not object at the time but now argues that this statement record that police had eliminated any connection between the car in the video with lane, allen, or any of their people, and asked the jury to speculate, based upon such extrinsic evidence, that the car was not involthe defense theory by implying the existence of facts outside the this claim of error is forfeited. even if it were not, we find no error. 41 (people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1234, 1275.) moreover, the jury had the video and could draw its own conclusion about the involvement of the car or the individuals associated with it. d. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues that his counsel was ineffective for w and references to facts outside the record. we disagree. to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must deficient performance prejudiced the defense. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687.) the deficient performance (id. at p. 688.) defendant cannot make that showing here because the conduct to which he claims his counsel should have objected was not impermissible. v. cumulative error defendant contends that all of the alleged errors discussed above resulted in cumulative error sufficient to deprive him of due process and warrant reversal of his convictions. we disagree. error or assumed its existence, no prejudice resulted. the same conclusion is appropriate after considering their cumulative (people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 181.) the cumulative effect of any errors in this case was not prejudicial. vi. resentencing under section 12022.53, subdivision (h) defendant was sentenced to a term of 25 years to life under 42 section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e). at the time of his sentencing, the trial court was required to impose that sentence. senate bill no. 620, effective january 1, 2018, amended section 12022.53, subdivision (h) to give the trial court, for the first time, the discretion to strike a section 12022.53 enhancement. the appeal when the amendment took effect. (see people v. chavez (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 971, 1020; people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080, 1090.) defendant contends that the amendment is applicable to his case and that we should remand the case for the trial court to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). the attorney general agrees. we agree with the parties. record shows that the sentencing court clearly indicated that it would not . . . have exercised its discretion to strike the (people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896.) here, the court explicitly acknowledged that it had no sentencing discretion on either the murder count or the enhancement. behavior or its rationale when imposing the mandatory sentences on the convictions, and likewise offered no insight into its selection of the midterm on the assault count, or its decision to run that sentence concurrently. the record accordingly does not show how the court would have exercised its discretion. remand is appropriate to allow the trial court the opportunity to exercise its discretion with respect to the firearm enhancement. 43 disposition the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. micon, j.* * judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 