filed 6/28/18 p. v. brooks ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. solomon michael brooks, defendant and appellant. b283558 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na104340) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james d. otto, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and mary sanchez and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted solomon michael brooks (defendant) of two misdemeanor counts of resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer (pen. code,  148, subd. (a)(1)),1 and a trial court sentenced him to a 364-day jail term. in this appeal, defendant challenges his convictions on a variety of grounds. none of his claims has any merit, so we affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts on a friday night in june 2016, defendant was riding a bicycle along a street lined with houses and restaurants in long beach, california. it was after darknot have a light. riding a bicycle without a light is an infraction. (veh. code,  21201, subd. (d).) two uniformed long beach police department officers in a marked police car saw defendant on the bicycle, and decided to stop him to give him a citation or a warning. defendant kept riding. the officers chirped n t defendant turned his torso to face the police car; and kept riding. the officers then pulled the car into a driveway e car and kept riding. officer brady vriens (officer vriens) got out of the pas and started following defendant on foot. ,dismounted the bicycle in the front yard of a residence, and 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 turned to face officer vriens. defendant picked up the bicycle and threw it at officer vriens. the bicycle struck lower leg, causing some redness. [d] his fists raised. officer vriens removed his baton from its sheath and ordered defendant to get on the ground, but defendant ignored the order, proclaimed, punch missed. arm and also missed. defendant turned and ran, and officer vriens gave chasedriver, got out and joined the foot chase. over the next several minutes, defendant led the officers in a chase as he ran up, down, and into the street. at times, he stopped to confront the officers; when he did, he sometimes resumed a fighting stance with his fists up, other times balled his fists at his sides, and still other times threw a wild punch. defendant would then run away. during these confrontations and the ensuing flight, officer vriens repeatedly ordered defendant to stop running and to get on the ground. defendant did not comply. liance and to keep him out of the traffic-heavy street, officer newton used her taser on defendant four separate times, although it never had any effect. officer newton also sprayed defendant with pepper spray on two occasions, again to no effect. officer vriens swung his baton at defendant on five separate occasions, striking him in the forearm at least four times. officer newton tased defendant a fifth time, and he fell to the ground. because defendant kicked his legs and flailed his arms, it took several officersofficer vriens, officer newton, and other officers who responded to the 4 to subdue and handcuff defendant. by patrons at the restaurants lining the street. following his arrest, defendant was transported to a hospital, where he was treated for a scrape and for bruising on his forearm. within the past four weeks, but they were unable to determine when or how defendant sustained that injury. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with: (1) two counts of resisting an executive officer ( 69), one for each officer vriens and officer newton; and (2) assault upon a peace officer with a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (c)), for throwing the bicycle at officer vriens. the convictions for robbery and battery constituted strikes within the meaning of our three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)( 667, subd. (a)). the matter proceeded to trial. the trial court instructed the jury on the charged crime of resisting an executive officer as well as the lesser included misdemeanor offense of resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer. the court also instructed the jury on the charged assault crime as well as the lesser included misdemeanors of assault on a peace officer ( 241, subd. (c)) and simple assault ( 240). the jury found defendant guilty of two counts of misdemeanor resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer 5 ( 148, subd. (a)(1)). the jury acquitted him of the crime of resisting an executive officer and of any assault crime. immediately after the verdicts, the trial court sentenced defendant to 364 days in county jail for each misdemeanor count, exceeded that jail term, he was immediately released. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. motion to suppress defendant argues that the trial court erred in denying the motion he filed to suppress his arrest. we independently review review any subsidiary factual findings for substantial evidence. (people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 924.) a. pertinent background the in that motion, defendant argued that officer vriens of due process. he also argued that the offassault . . . exceeded the amount of force permitted by the fourth . . . of his] [defendant] renewing [the motion] after t defendant did not renew the motion. b. analysis the fourth amendment (and its equivalent in the california constitution) bars unreasonable searches and seizures. (robey v. superior court (2013) 56 cal.4th 1218, 1224; u.s. const., 4th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  13.) a defendant 6 thing obtained (a)(1)(a).) by styling his motion as a motion to suppress, the logical question becomes: suppress what? there is no tangible evidence to suppress because the police obtained no such evidence from arrest. and the only intangiblesthe arrest itself or eyewitness testimony about the arrestare not suppressible where, as here, the arrest occurred in public. (cf. kirby v. superior court (1970) 8 cal.app.3d 591, 5testimony about observations he made in location where defendant had reasonable expectation of privacy subject to suppression].) at bottom, defendant is asserting that the alleged unlawfulness of his arrest is a bar to his subsequent prosecution. but the united states supreme court has long rejected that argument. (united states v. crews (1980) 445 u.s. 463, 474 illegal arrest, without more, has never been viewed as a bar to subsequent prosecution, nor as a defense to a valid conviction defendant cites a number of cases in support of his argument, but none of them is relevant. most of them involve the suppression of physical evidence following the use of excessive force. (people v. jones (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 725, 729-731 [suppressing drugs obtained when police choked defendant to prevent him from swallowing them]; people v. trevino (1977) 72 cal.app.3d 686, 691-692 [same]; rochin v. california (1952) 342 u.s. 165, 166-172 [suppressing drugs obtained when police pumped depeople v. bracamonte (1975) 15 cal.3d 394, 397, 404-406 [suppressing drugs obtained when police forcibly removed 7 the other cases simply holds that a blanket strip-search policy of arrestees may violate the fourth amendment. (fuller v. m.g. jewelry (9th cir. 1991) 950 f.2d 1437, 1446.) and the final case, people v. white (1980) 101 cal.app.3d 161, holds that the use of excessive force is a defense to a charge of misdemeanor resisting arrest that, if supported by substantial evidence, must be presented to a jury. (id. at pp. 166-167.) here, the jury was so instructed and, as discussed below, its partial rejection of that defense is supported by substantial evidence.2 ii. batson/wheeler challenge defendant argues that the trial court erred in overruling remove two african-american jurors violated batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler), overruled in part in johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162. we independently review the people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 834.) a. pertinent facts 1. questioning of juror no. 23 as voir dire proceeded, the trial court questioned juror no. 23. juror no. 23 was an african-american man who worked as a computer programmer for the los angeles air force base. in explained that hlaw enforcement] for being black in the wrong part of town at the juror no. 23 told the court that the 2 in light of our conclusion on the merits, we have no occasion to decide whether defendant forfeited his right to challenge the suppression ruling by not renewing his motion after the officers testified. 8 incident would not affect his ability to be impartial. the prosecutor asked a few follow-up questions about the incident, including whether the juror evaluating this case. juror no. 23 the prosecutor concluded by asking if juror no. 23 2. the prosecutor exercised his first two peremptory challenges on white female jurors, and his third on a white male juror. the prosecutor used his fourth peremptory challenge to excuse juror no. 23. 3. questioning of juror no. 39 juror no. 39 was an african-american man who worked as a pastor and for the city of los angeles as a project coordinator. he had previously served on a jury in a criminal case that was unable to reach a verdict. would he told the trial court that it was use reasonable force and that citizens could lawfully resist law enforcement in certain circumstances. the prosecutor asked the juror a follow-up question about what caused the hung jury. 4. batson/wheeler challenge when the prosecutor excused juror no. 39, defendant made a batson/wheeler objection on the ground that the prosecutor had excused the only two african-american males in the jury box. two african-american women remained in the jury box. 9 the trial court overruled the batson/wheeler objection on two grounds. first, the court ruled that defendant had not nos. 23 and 39 had a discriminatory purpose. the court [] . . . for striking juror [no.race. equally clear was the reason for striking juror no. 39 second, the court invited the prosecutor to state his reasons for each peremptory strike on the record. as to juror no. 23, the prosecutor cited (1) the past the . . . demeanoraffirming the right to resist arrest more emphatically than the right of police to use reasonable force. as to juror no. 39, the prosecutor cited (1) the a hung jury, (2) the enforcement, and (3) the it was use reasonable force. the that the strikes were not . . . for [any] discrimina 5. ultimate jury composition the prosecutor went on to exercise another four peremptory challenges. of the 12 jurors who ultimately served, four were african-american,wo were b. analysis although a prosecutor may exercise a peremptory challenge t (people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 387 (scott)), he or she may 10 not the basis of group bias of an identifiable group distinguished on racial, religious, ethnic, or (people v. bell (2007) 40 cal.4th 582, 596 (bell), overruled in part in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 686protection set forth in batson, supra, 476 u.s. at page 88, and his right to a trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 of the california constitution set forth in wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pages 276 to 277. (accord, people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1157.) [t]here is a rebuttable presumption that a people v. parker (2017) 2 cal.5th 1184, 1211 (parker)), a defendant bears the ultimate burden of showing a constitutional violation (people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612-613 (lenix)). courts employ a three-step, burden-shifting mechanism in assessing whether a batson/wheeler violation has occurred. the defendant must first relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 383.) if the trial court finds that the defendant has established this prima face case, the prosecutor must then ibid.) lastly, the sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the non(people v. williams (2013) 56 proffered reasons are subjectively genuine or instead a pretext for 11 discrimination. (scott, at p. 383; people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 548; people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 917 (jones).) in assessing whetprima facie c . . . the entire record of voir dire as of the time the [batson/wheeler (scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 384.) in so doing, courts examine several factors: all of the members of the identified group from th(2) used a disproportionate number of strikes (4) whether the defendant belongs to the same identifiable group as the excused juror(s); (5) whether the crime victim belongs to the same identifiable group as a majority of the remaining jurors; s for a peremptory challenge . . . are apparent scott, at p. 384; parker, supra, 2 cal.5th at pp. 1211-1212; bell, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 597; people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 475, 516.) on the record before us, defendant did not establish a prima face case of discrimination at the time the prosecutor exercised peremptory challenges against juror nos. 23 and 39. to be sure, defendant and two excused jurors were african-american, and the prosecutor at that point in time had used two of his five peremptory challenges against african-americans. but the remaining factors counsel against an inference of discrimination. juror no. 23 had a very negative and race-charged experience with law enforcement, and juror no. 39 previously served on a hung jury. each is a valid, nondiscriminatory reason to exercise a peremptory challenge. 12 (lenix, suprawe have repeatedly upheld negative experience with law enforcement; people v. manibusan he circumstance that a prospective juror has previously sat on a hung jury is a legitimate, race- what is more, the prosecutor asked follow-up questions of each juror on precisely these grounds. further, the prosecutor did not exercise peremptory challenges on the two african-american women who were in the jury box at the time (and who ultimately served on the jury). no. 23 and juror no. 39 said they could be fair, and answered other questions in a way that lent credence to their ability to be fair and impartial. however, the ability of the jurors to be fair is of no moment because we are addressing peremptory challenges, not challenges for cause. (people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, ation for exercising a peremptory challenge cause iii. evidentiary challenges defendant raises several evidentiary and constitutional these challenges for an abuse of discretion. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 590 (clark)with the rules of evidence, those rulings do not offend a people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1102-1103.) a. admission of $30,000 arrest warrant the trial court took judicial notice of the fact that there was an outstanding $30,000 arrest warrant for defendant at the time 13 of the charged incident. the court ruled that the outstanding ive and relevant and under [evidence code defendant argues that the trial court erred because the warrant was not relevant and was more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding the outstanding warrant to be relevant because it provided a motive to explain why defendant refused to stop for the officersnamely, and a strong motive prpeople v. moore (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 73, 85; people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 655.) and the desire to avoid arrest for a prior (people v. scheer (1998) 68 cal.app.4th 1009, 1020, fn. 2.) the prosecutor asked the court to admit the outstanding warrant for precisely these reasonsthat is, to show . the prosecutor then argued to the jury that the want the trial court also did not err in concluding that the high probative value of this motive evidence d by the probability that its admission will . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice.(evid. code,  352; cf. people v. anderson (1978) 20 cal.3d 647, 650-651 [error to admit evidence of prior arrests of defendant and people v. hayes (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 1238, 1248 [not error to exclude evidence of for prostitution].) defendant raises three arguments as to why the trial court nevertheless abused its discretion. 14 first, defendant asserts that the outstanding warrant is s for stopping defendant because the officers were not aware of the warrant until after they took defendant into custody. defendant is right, but his observation is irrelevant because the warrant was never admitted for this purpose and, contrary to what defendant asserts, the prosecutor argued only that the warrant cast light on suggests that the jury might have nevertheless on its own misused the evidence, but this suggestion is not supported by the record and is for that reason wholly speculative. second, defendant posits that the outstanding warrant was not relevant to show his motive to flee because there was no proof he was aware of the warrant at the time of the incident. there was no direct evidence of his knowledge, but there was circumstantial evidencenamely, his conduct in ignoring and then actively refusing to comply with the officersthe jury also heard evidence that a person who flees and resists typically does so because just lastly, defendant contends that the trial court erred in not allowing the jury to hear that the charges that prompted the $30,000 arrest warrant were misdemeanor charges that were later dismissed. however, these additional facts are irrelevant to had no way to know what might happen with the charges in the future. and the misdemeanor status of the crime did not matter: the officers testified they would have arrested him on the warrant no matter what the status of the crime, and defendant 15 offered no evidence that he had any expectation that he would be arrested only if the warrant were for a felony. b. incident 1. pertinent facts in october 2015 (approximately eight months before the incident charged in this case), defendant walked into a starbucks in hollywood with a wooden stick that, from a distance, looked to have a sharp point. defendant walked out without incident, but concerned witnesses alerted police dispatch. a few hours later, a spear. walked into the middle of hollywood boulevard, and started waiving the stick back and forth toward the officer. the officer told defendant to put the stick down and to stop where he was. instead, defendant knelt on his knees with the stick between his legs. repeated requests to step away from the stick. eventually, other officers arrived and surrounded defendant; defendant physically resisted the arrest. upon closer inspection, the end of the stick was not a point but a crystal and a feather. the prosecutor sought to admit this uncharged incident, pursuant to evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), as proof the trial court admitted the incident for this purpose, and instructed the jury that the incident waose of deciding whether . . . [t]he defendant had a plan or scheme to curiously, however, before the officer who testified about the incident began to testify, the 16 court seemed to misspeak, telling the jury that the testimony was ted for a limited purpose and actions in interactin(rather than common plan or scheme). 2. analysis evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) authorizes the including subd. (b).) when admitted to prove motive or intent, the uncharged and charged acts neesimilarities to demonstrate that in each instance the perpetrator people v. daveggio and michaud (2018) 4 cal.5th 790, 827, quoting people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1097.) when admitted to prove a common scheme othat are so distinctive as to support an inference that the same (people v. armstrong (2016) 1 cal.5th 432, 456-457.) to be admissible as so-must find that (1) the purpose for which the uncharged act is offered is relevant to the pending case (people v. daniels (1991) 52 cal.3d 815, 857-858 (daniels)), (2) the uncharged act has the requisite degree of similarity (as delineated above), which ensures that it has a tendency to prove the purpose for which it is offered (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 22 (lindberg); people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 402-403, superseded on other grounds by evid. code,  1108), and (3) the probative value of the evidence is not substantially outweighed by the of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or 17 lindberg, at pp. 22-23). the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence regarding the so-starbucks incident. dresist, delay, and obstruct the officers during the incident charged in this case. what is more, the starbucks incident and the current incident had a concurrence of in both incidents, defendant repeatedly ignored the commands of the pthe officers (with the stick in the starbucks incident and with his fists in the charged incident), and physically resisted being handcuffed once he was on the ground. and the probative value of this evidence was not outweighed by substantial dangers of undue prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury because the trial court admitted only the evidence bearing on evidence of what happened inside the starbucks, the subsequent charges, and the ultimate disposition of those charges). the court also gave a limiting instruction, although its misstatement in the mid-trial instruction diluted the clarity of the purpose for which it was admitted; the court nevertheless consistently told the jury the starbucks incident was not to be considered as evid defendant makes four arguments in response. inconsistent with people v. hendrix (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 216. defendant is wrong. hendrix held that the trial court erred in admitting, as 1101(b) evidence, two prior incidents where the 18 defendant resisted arrest by police for the purpose of disproving the defense that he was resisting police in the charged case because he mistook the police officers for private security guards. hendrix reasoned that the prior incidents might have been relevant if they had also involved security guards, but they did not, and thus were not sufficiently similar. (id. at pp. 243-244.) here, there is sufficient similarity. second, defendant contends that the starbucks incident was more inflammatory than the charged incident, leading to unfair prejudice under evidence code section 352. a pointed spear, defendant reasons, is a more dangerous weapon than his fists or the bicycle he threw. any danger of unfair prejudice melts away, however, once we consider that the jury heard that what the officer thought at first was a pointed spear was, in actuality, a stick with a feather and crystal on the end. relatedly, defendant argues that the incident occurred far too long ago to indicate a similar intent. the time gap was eight months; this is not too great a gap, particularly in light of the (and somewhat inconsistently), defendant argues that the starbucks incident was too similar (and thus too prejudicial). as explained above, we disagree. third, defendan the prosecutor suggested no such thing. lastly, defendant asserts that the charges involving the starbucks incident were later dismissed. this is true, but irrelevant because section 1101(b) evidence may include acts underlying dismissed charges. (people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 596-597 (leon).) 19 c. admission of s 1. pertinent facts a. preliminary hearing defendant was represented by counsel at the preliminary hearing for the crimes charged in this case. his attorney called him to testify. while being administered the oath, defendant ] they refer to me as explained that defendant as a witness on direct examination, that would be an impermissible when defendant nevertheless launched into a procedure. there is strict protocol that we must follow, and that requires that you not give a narrative and that the lawyer ask questions and you respond to the questions pursuant to rules of confederation which actually states that all debts and all engagements prior to the adoption of the constitution should be interrupted, explaining, courtroom, what we follow is the constitution of the united states and the state of california as administered through the code of civil procedure and the evidence code. those are going counsel conferred with defendant, and then announced defendant would not be testifying. 20 b. letter of credence a few weeks later, defendant knowingly and intelligently waived his right to counsel and began representing himself. he in the letter, defendant invoked international treaty of peace and friendship 1787 concerning the moorish american estate,universe he as an native american moorish society,the rh genes found in [his] dna . . . implie[d] the lineage of a tribal immunity c. hearing regarding letter of credence at a pretrial hearing two weeks later, defendantwhile still representing himselftold the trial court that it subject matter jurisdictio he explained that he, as jurisdiction of ments and debts the articles of confederation as well as international treaty of peace and friendship defendant additionally said that he [his] right to [him]self over to corpora 21 d. admission of these statements -represented status when it declared a doubt about his competency. after defendant was assessed and determined to be competent, the court denied to resume self-representation. motion to admit, under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), the above detailed portions of the transcripts as well as the , and it is not unduly prejudicial or a consumption of time given its probative value under [eviden the court not admissible, but indicated that this ruling about religion did not bar admission of [the] law does during trial, the prosecutor read the portions of the transcripts outlined above, and the court admitted the letter of credence. 2. analysis the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the portions of the transcripts and the letter of credence as evidence as part of a common scheme or plan to resist such authority. as explained above, these uncharged acts are relevant to show , and obstruct the police acts of asserting that the laws do not apply to him in court are sufficiently similar to his charged acts of acting as if the laws do 22 not apply to him when he is out and about in public. although physical resistance, the uncharged acts are relevant for the intent or common plan those acts reflectnamely, that the law does not apply to defendant. and for the purpose of establishing that intent or that common plan, the acts are sufficiently similar and have the requisite concurrence of common features. the uncharged acts are also not unduly prejudicial and do not risk confusing the issues or the jury. (see generally daniels, supra, 52 cal.3d at pp. 857-858; lindberg, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 22-23.) defendant raises seven categories of challenges to the admission of this evidence. first, he argues that (1) the letter of credence, (2) his statements at the pretrial hearing while he was representing himselfprocedure to defendant wrong that statements a defendant makes while representing and must be excluded in all subsequent proceedings. that argument was rejected in people v. kiney (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 807, 814-815 (kiney). and in re calvin s. (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 522, 529 [indicating that a adjudication]), they were admitted solely to give context to the extent it was error not to redact them, that error was harmless given the mild and neutral nature of those comments. 23 second, defendant contends that his prior statements were not properly admitted as evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) evidence because his statements were made in november and december 2016, five and six months after the charged incident. they are too temporally remote, he reasons, to shed light on his intent at the time of the charged incident. they are not, particularly when viewed in conjunction with the starbucks incident occurring eight months before the charged incident. together, all of this evidence demonstrates a consistent intent and common plan to resist lawful authority, which is relevant to prove a key element of the offense of resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer. third, defendant asserts that this evidence emely section 352 because his statementswhich he now labels as -were likely to encourage the jury to prejudge him based on those statements and to confuse the issues. this danger was largely negated limiting instruction, which told the jury only to consider this evidence for the purpose of assessiexistence of a common plan or scheme, and for no other purpose. fourth, defendant posits that his prior statements were hearsay and should have been excluded on that basis. this position is incorrect for two reasons. first, hearsay is defined as testifying,statedrnational treaty of friendship and peace, the articles of confederation, his rh genes, or his connection to a moorish empire to prove they were 24 true. instead, the prosecutor introduced them as evidence of that is not a hearsay purpose. (people v. brackett (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 13, 19; people v. ortiz would in any event be admissible for their truth when introduced by the prosecutor because they are the statements of a party opponent. (evid. code,  1220.) fifth, defendant argues that use of his statements while he was representing himself (that is, the letter of credence and the post-letter hearing) violate his privilege against self-incrimination. they do not. (kiney, supra, 151 cal.app.4th at pp. 814-815 [so holding].) defendant cites (1984) 152 cal.app.3d 548, but simply applied the long-standing rule under the fourth amendment that a on hearing cannot be admitted as substantive evidence at the subsequent trial. (id. at pp. 553-statements while representing himself to be used in subsequent proceedings expressly distinguish the fourth amendment rule. (kiney, at p. 814.) sixth, defendant contends that his prior statements are inadmissible under evidence code section 789 because they t the credibility of a religious belief, his statements were admitted to prove , and a common scheme or plannot to not violate evidence code section 789. (accord, people v. king 25 (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1281, 1311-1312 [no violation where [a] witness of court procedure during the preliminary hearing impression the trial court disbelieved [defendant] and were otherwise so biased as to taint the jury. these assertions find no were about trial procedure (accord,  1044 [n . . . ad no bearing whatsoever on measured and neutral. contrary to what defendant argues, the statements were nothing like the statements in people v. sturm (2006) 37 defense witnuilt of first id. at pp. 1231, 1233.) d. exclusion of fbi investigation, internal affairs investigation, and citizen complaints of officers the trial court excluded evidence that the charged incident gave rise to an internal affairs investigation of, and citizen complaints against, officer vriens and officer newton. after officer vriens and officer newton indicated that they were unaware of any fbi investigation regarding their use of force during the charged incident, the court also excluded any evidence regarding the fbi investigation. the court found that the ould result in und[ue defendant argues that the trial court erred in excluding of excessive force, and (2) to show that the officers had a motive 26 to lie to protect themselves from adverse consequences in the pending investigations and as reported by the citizen complaints. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding this fbi and internal affairs investigations and citizen complaints did not show any use of excessive force because they were yet to be completed. what is more, any conclusions from those investigations would be inadmissible for invading the province of the jury (jones, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 950 [evidence may not people v. lowe (2012) 211 [] a general belief as haggerty v. superior court (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 1079, 1088 (haggerty) [evidence of conclusions of internal affairs investigation are not discoverable]), and at least some of the citizen complaints about the incident came from mother. nor did the pending investigations give the officers a motive to lie that was not otherwise already before the jury. the officers did not know whether the fbi was investigating them; officer vriens testified that a he or she used excessive force; and the jury was already aware that defendant was asserting that the officers used excessive force. the trial court also did not err in concluding that admission of the investigations and complaints would only shed adjudication of those matters would entail a trial within a trial. defendant makes two further arguments. first, he cites haggerty, supra, 117 cal.app.4th 1079, for the proposition that evidence of an internal affairs investigation was criminal case. (id. at pp. 1087-1088.) however, haggerty was 27 assessing whether evidence of such an investigation was discoverable under pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess), which haggerty acknowledged uses a differentand broaderdefinition of relevance than the definition used to determine admissibility. (haggerty, at p. 1087; evid. code,  1045.) second, defendant declares that admission of this evidence would not result in an undue consumption of time defendant does not spell out what those questions would be, or how they would elicit sufficient information to make the answers relevant and admissible. accordingly, defendant has not carried his burden of showing an abuse of discretion. iv. prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct by (1) eliciting false testimony, implying, and arguing to the jury that the officers stopped defendant because of the religious beliefs. neither the record nor the law supports these contentions. as explained above, the prosecutor in no way elicited false testimony or implied that the officers stopped defendant because of the outstanding warrant; to the contrary, the fact that the officers were unaware of the warrant was elicited at trial, and the prosecutor was careful to argue that the tribal priesthood or conn state. more to the point, the trial court specifically ruled that the outstanding -court comments and letter of credence were not religion-based attacks on 28 prosecutor does not commit misconduct by referring to properly admitted evidence (clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 577-578; people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 776), the prosecutor committed no misconduct in this case. v. sufficiency of the evidence defendant argues that there was insufficient evidence to convict him of resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer. in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence, whole record in the light most favorable to the [verdict] to determine whether it discloses . . . evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value . . . from which a reasonable trier of (people v. salazar (2016) 63 cal.4th 214, 242.) in undertaking this task, we may not people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890.) the crime of resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer has three elements: the defendant willfully resisted, delayed, or obstructed a peace officer, (2) when the officer was engaged in the performance of his or her duties, and (3) the defendant knew or reasonably should have known that the other person was a peace officer engaged in the performance of his or yount v. city of sacramento (2008) 43 cal.4th 885, 894-895, citing in re muhammed c. (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1325, 1329 (muhammed c.)only the particular act (resist, delay, obstruct) without reference (muhammed c., at p. 1329.) officer vriens, officer newton, and two restaurant patrons 29 testified that defendant did not stop when the officers chirped their siren and ordered him to stop; instead, these witnesses testified, defendant ignored their orders and continued riding away. the jury was specifically instructed that defendantresisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer. those same acts constitute resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer under the law. (muhammed c., supra, 95 cal.app.4th at pp. 1329-in re j.c. (2014) 228 ionable].) the officers were engaged in the performance of their duties at the time because they were attempting to enforce the vehicle code. and defendant knew or should have known that they were, because they were in a marked patrol car and in uniform. defendant makes five arguments against this conclusion. first, he argues that the evidence does not support a people v. olguin (1981) 119 caforce by a police officer . . . although the testimony from the officers and restaurant patrons indicated that one officer used his baton and the other used her taser and pepper spray, we need not decide whether that use of force was excessive because (1) that use of force came after excpreceded it (smith v. city of hemet (9th cir. 2005) 394 f.3d 689, 30 696). defendant points to the testimony of the restaurant employee he called as a witness (and who came forward to er but not to the police); that employee testified that an officer struck defendant from behind while he was still on his bicycle. even if we completely ignore the applicable standard witnesafter defendantstop and his flight. second, defendant contends that the officers were not engaged in the performance of their duties because both witnesses called by the defense said it was ,such that the officers had no right to stop him for riding his bicycle at night without a light. however, both officers and one of pletely testimony that supports the verdicts, we decline invitation to disregard the standard of review by reweighing the evidence. third, defendant asserts that his convictions are infirm because (1) he has a first amendment right to express himself by f and (2) officer vriens was not severely injured by the bicycle indehis continued flight, it does not matter whether they are also supported by the two acts defendant complains about here. felony counts of resisting an executive officer means that the jury did not believe all which in his view 31 means that none of their testimony is credible (and thus his misdemeanor convictions are invalid). this argument is inconsistent with the law and the facts. it is legally flawed because it has long been the law in california that jurors may people v. clark (1920) 183 cal. 677, 682; calcrim no. 226.) it is factually flawed because tmisdemeanor counts are proof that the jury believed at least part of the officers testimony (even if just the portion corroborated by the restaurant patrons). lastly, defendant cites the comments of the judge at the prelifrom the [testifying] officer [who was officer newton] and from mother found] are diametrically opposed. if this were a trial and evidence were received such as it was, the defendant would be found not guilty by the court. comments necessarily precluded any finding of guilt by a a new fact finder, and its view of the evidence is not constrained leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 596-597.) consequently, and as the trial judge correctly observed factually, the preliminary hearing explicitly premised on hearing from just two witnessesnot the larger universe of witnesses who testified at trial, which included the two restaurant patrons who corroborated various portions of the preliminary hearing 32 comments pertained to the felony charges of which defendant was acquitted, not the misdemeanor charges we are reviewing. vi. pitchess motion a. pertinent facts defendant filed two motions asking the trial court to review the personnel records of officer vriens and officer newton under pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531. in these motions, defendant sought information relating to prior complaints of: (1) acts behavior, dishonesty, false imprisonment or arrest, improper search and seizure, fabrication of charges and/or evidence, improper tactics and/or abuse or mistreatment . . . or acts constituting a violation of the statutory or constitutional rights of attempted violence, or acts of excessive force and/or attempted (cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. (f); evid. code,  1045, subd. (a)), as well as any witness statements made during the internal affairs inve after conducting an in camera hearing, the trial court partly denied and partly granted the requests. the court found no material information regarding officer newton and no exculpatory evidence discoverable under brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, 88. but the trial court ordered disclosure of information relating to complaints of false arrests and fabrication of evidence made against officer vriens. b. analysis of law enforcement officers and are conditionally 33 privileged under california law. ( 832.5, 832.7, 832.8.) those records are not wholly immune from disclosure however, and may be disclosed if a trial court (1) conduct an in camera review of the records; and (2) after such people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1226.) if the court determines than an in camera hearing is warranted, the materials to the court, and the trial court must review those materials and order any relevant records disclosed. (id. at pp. 1228-1229.) on appeal, we are to independently review the sealed records of the in camera hearing, and to review a trial (id. at p. 1228.) we have conducted this review and conclude that the trial court complied with the requirements for conducting such a hearing. there was no error. vii. cumulative error defendant finally argues that even if the individual errors in the trial court proceedings do not warrant reversal, their cumulative effect does. because we conclude that each of the 24 arguments defendant raises on appeal lacks merit, there is no error to cumulate. (people v. melendez (2016) 2 cal.5th 1, 33.) 34 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p. j. lui _________________________, j. chavez 