filed 12/18/18 p. v. morales ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arthur r. morales, defendant and appellant. b283548 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la064997) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael pastor, judge. appeal dismissed. mark yanis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald e. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________ 2 arthur r. morales appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after he pleaded guilty to two counts of second degree murder. the information charged morales with two counts of first degree murder, and specially alleged the multiple murders qualified as a special circumstance and morales personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of the offenses. morales pleaded not guilty to the underlying charges and not guilty by reason of insanity. subsequently, as part of a negotiated plea, morales conditionally pleaded guilty to two counts of second degree murder in exchange for dismissal of the first degree murder counts and the special allegations, conditioned on his being found sane in the sanity trial. morales did not withdraw his plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. after morales waived his right to a jury trial, the trial court found morales was sane at the time of commission of the offenses. in accordance with his plea, the trial court sentenced morales to an aggregate term of 30 years to life in prison. morales contends on appeal his sentence violated the punishment. because morales failed to obtain a certificate of probable cause pursuant to penal code section 1237.5,1 we dismiss the appeal. factual and procedural background a. the information the information charged morales with two counts of first degree murder ( 187, subd. (a)), of manuel reyes (count 1) and rita morales (count 2). the information specially alleged both 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 offenses together qualified as a multiple-murder special circumstance ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3)) and that in the commission of the offense, morales personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). on june 1, 2011 morales pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. b. the plea, insanity trial, and sentence on september 25, 2012 morales entered additional pleas of not guilty by reason of insanity to both counts, resulting in dual pleas of not guilty and not guilty by reason of insanity. on january 11, 2017 morales conditionally pleaded guilty to two counts of second degree murder pursuant to a negotiated plea agreement, pursuant to which the people agreed to reduce the charges to second degree murder and dismiss the special allegations and the special circumstance allegation. morales did not change his earlier pleas of not guilty by reason of insanity. morales agreed to waive his right to a jury trial on the issue of sanity. he trial court advised morales that if he was found sane in the insanity trial, he ould be sentenced [on the second degree murder charges] to 30 [years] to life in state prison. the trial court confirmed with morales that he signed a written advisement of rights, waiver, and plea form and understood everything on the form. the me . . . [] [to] a total state prison term of 30 years . . . . (boldface omitted.) it also stated morales understood the plea of 2nd degree murder consecutive in the trial court 4 also advised morales that if he was found insane, he would be hospitalized in a mental institution for the rest of his life. the trial court conducted a sanity trial and found morales was sane at the time he committed both offenses. in accordance with the plea agreement, the trial court sentenced morales to two consecutive terms of 15 years to life in prison, for an aggregate sentence of 30 years to life in prison. morales filed a timely appeal. however, it is undisputed he did not obtain a certificate of probable cause. discussion a. plea of not guilty by reason of insanity section 1016 enumerates six types of pleas a criminal defendant can enter to an information, including, inter alia, a plea of not guilty, guilty, nolo contendere, and not guilty by reason of insanity. ( 1016, subds. (1), (2), (3) & (6).) a defendant may enter dual pleas, under which he or she pleads not guilty to the substantive charges and denies any special allegations, and joins that plea with a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. ( 1026, subd. (a); people v. hernandez (2000) 22 cal.4th 512, 520 (hernandez); people v. dobson (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1422, 1430 (dobson).) in cases with dual pleas, the trial court conducts a bifurcated trial in which the issues of guilt and sanity are tried separately. ( 1026, subd. (a);2 hernandez, supra, 22 cal.4th at 2 section 1026, subdivision (a), provides: if a defendant pleads not guilty by reason of insanity, and also joins with it another plea or pleas, the defendant shall first be tried as if only the other plea or pleas had been entered, and in that trial the defendant shall be conclusively presumed to have been sane at 5 p. 520; dobson, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. 1431.) in the guilt phase of the trial, the prosecution bears the burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the defendant is guilty of the charged offenses. (dobson, at p. 1431.) if the defendant is found guilty, in a second trial the jury determines whether the defendant was legally sane at the time of the offenses. (hernandez, at p. 521; dobson, at p. 1431.) the defendant bears the burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence he or she was not sane at the time of the offense. ( 25, subd. (b).) alternatively, a defendant may enter a solitary plea of not guilty by reason of insanity, by which the defendant admits the commission of the offense charged, and therefore is entitled to the same advisements as if he or she were pleading guilty. ( 1016 a defendant who pleads not guilty by reason of insanity, without also pleading not guilty, thereby admits the commission of the offense charged.people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, , requiring the court to have advised him of his boykin-tahl[3] rights before allowing the time the offense is alleged to have been committed. if the jury finds the defendant guilty, or if the defendant pleads only not guilty by reason of insanity, the question whether the defendant was sane or insane at the time the offense was committed shall be promptly tried, either before the same jury or before a new jury in the discretion of the court. 3 boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238; in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122. 6 b. morales was required to obtain a certificate of probable cause to appeal his judgment of conviction morales contends his negotiated prison sentence violates punishment. the people respond that morales cannot appeal the sentence because he failed to obtain a certificate of probable cause under section 1237.5. morales contends the requirement to obtain a certificate of probable cause does not apply because he pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity, citing people v. wagoner (1979) 89 cal.app.3d 605 (wagoner). we disagree. section 1237.5 provides, with limited exceptions not applicable here, that a defendant may not appeal from a judgment of conviction upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere unless he or she obtains a certificate of probable cause from the trial court. however, because a plea of not guilty by reason of (wagoner, supra, 89 cal.app.3d at pp. 609-610; accord, people v. maultsby (2012) 53 cal.4th 1237.5 does not apply to insanity wagoner].) wagoner. the defendant in wagoner had withdrawn his not guilty pleas and entered pleas of not guilty by reason of insanity to the two charges. (wagoner, supra, 89 cal.app.3d at p. 609.) a jury found the defendant was sane at the time of the offense, and the trial court sentenced him to state prison. (ibid.) the defendant appealed from his conviction on the ground he was not fully advised of the possible penal consequences of withdrawing his not guilty pleas and pleading not guilty by reason of insanity. (id. at p. 610.) the court concluded that because the defendant 7 appealed following a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity, he was not subject to the requirements of section 1237.5, which only apply to a plea of guilty or nolo contendere. (wagoner, at pp. 609-610.) by contrast, morales does not appeal any aspect of his sanity trial or his pleas of not guilty by reason of insanity. rather, he seeks relief from his conditional guilty pleas. his guilty pleas were a result of a negotiated plea agreement in which he received the benefit of a reduction in the first degree murder charges to second degree and dismissal of the special allegations. indeed, the result in this case is no different from what would have transpired if morales retained his not guilty pleas on the underlying charges but the trial court held his sanity trial first.4 had morales waited until after the trial court found him sane to enter into the negotiated guilty pleas, there would be no question that a certificate of probable cause would have been required to appeal his conviction. we conclude the same result applies here. 4 section 1016 provides that a defendant who does not plead guilty may enter one or more of the other pleasection morales could have maintained his not guilty pleas to the underlying charges, while pleading not guilty by reason of insanity. the parties do not raise and we do not reach whether a provision for a dual plea of not guilty with a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity, but not a dual plea of a conditional guilty plea with a plea of not guilty by reason of insanity. 8 c. is a challenge to the validity of his plea, requiring a certificate of probable cause when a defendant challenges the sentence imposed after a ence is in substance a challenge to the validity of the plea, thus rendering the appeal subject to the requirements of section (people v. panizzon (1996) 13 cal.4th 68, 76 (panizzon); accord, people v. buttram (2003) 30 cal.4th 773 (buttram) [same].) challenge to the plea itself, triggering the requirements of section 1237.5. (panizzon, at p. 76.) in panizzon, the defendant agreed to plead no contest to the charges in exchange for a specific prison sentence. (panizzon, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 74.) although the trial court sentenced the defendant to the agreed-upon prison sentence, the defendant appealed his sentence, contending his sentence violated the punishment. (panizzon, at pp. 74-75.) the supreme court held that because the defendant had agreed to the sentence, his challenge was, in substance, a challenge to the validity of the plea, and therefore required a certificate of probable cause. (id. at p. 79.) because the defendant had not obtained a certificate of probable cause, the supreme court dismissed his appeal. (ibid.) the supreme court again considered whether a probable cause in buttram, in which the defendant agreed to a maximum sentence, but not to a specific sentence within the maximum. (buttram, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 787.) the supreme court concluded 9 sentencing discretion where the negotiated plea was to an agreed upon maximum sentence. (id. at pp. 790-791.) unlike the defendant in panizzon, the defendant in buttram had not agreed to a specific sentence, and thus his challenge to the sentence did not attack the validity of his plea. (buttram, at pp. 786-787.) panizzon because morales bargained for the specific sentence he receivedtwo consecutive terms of 15 years to life in prison for an aggregate sentence of 30 years to life. morales signed a waiver of rights form that made clear he the [c]ourt will sentence me . . . [] [to] a total state prison term of 30 years . . . . (boldface omitted.) further, morales acknowledged on the waiver form he counts of 2nd degree murder consecutive in exchange for [a] court unlike in buttram, the trial court did because morales did not obtain a certificate of probable case, we dismiss his appeal. disposition the appeal is dismissed. feuer, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 