filed 1/16/19 p. v. morris ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. pierre lakell morris, defendant and appellant. b283044 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba451577) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, renee korn, judge. affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded with instructions. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted appellant pierre lakell morris of rape, kidnapping to commit rape, assault, three counts of kidnapping, and two counts of second degree robbery. the trial court sentenced appellant to a term of 130 years to life in state prison. on appeal, appellant asserts evidentiary errors, instructional error, and prosecutorial misconduct. he also contends that the evidence was insufficient to support several of his convictions and sentence enhancements. finally, he argues that we should remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) whether to strike a firearm enhancement. we vacate the sentence and remand the matter for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancement. we otherwise affirm. factual and procedural history a. the charges the los angeles county district attorney charged appellant with: kidnapping g.n. and emma l. to commit rape (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1))1; assault of g.n. with intent to rape ( 220, subd. (a)(1)); rape of emma ( 261, subd. (a)(2)); kidnapping david r. and marcos c. ( 207, subd. (a)); and second degree robbery of david and marcos ( 211). the information also alleged that the crimes were 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 gang-related under  186.22, subdivision (b)(1), and included several firearm allegations under section 12022.53. b. evidence at trial 1. the crimes at central spa on the evening of september 18, 2016, g.n., emma l., and marcos c. were working at the central spa, on the second floor of the building at north vermont avenue in los angeles. at trial, the prosecution and the defense agreed that central spa was a known place of prostitution. g.n., emma, and marcos claimed they were there to clean. sometime between 9:00 and 9:30 p.m., a man entered the spa, posing as a customer. at trial, the victims identified the man as appellant. moments later, another man, later identified as jared santiago, entered the spa holding a gun. santiago pushed marcos to the ground, tied his hands, and covered his head with a towel. emma and g.n. locked themselves in the bathroom, but appellant broke the door open, directed them to a room at the front of the spa, and told them to get on the floor. appellant and santiago then covered heads with a blanket. after marcos was brought into the same room as the women, appellant and santiago took his wallet and keys. the men then took g.n.urse and began ransacking the spa. at some point, appellant took g.n. and emma to a large space in the back of the spa. he then took g.n. to a small room, leaving emma alone with santiago. appellant 4 began touching g.n. all over her body and tried to pull down her pants, but after g.n. told appellant she had aids, he stopped and left the room. meanwhile, santiago took emma s private rooms, forced her to undress, and raped her. either appellant or santiago then moved marcos to the bathroom. at around 9:30 p.m., david r. arrived at the spa. when the prosecutor asked david if he was seeking sexual ndavid tried to open the door, but it was chained. appellant opened the door, and david entered. none of the other victims were in sight. santiago then approached david, ordered him to the ground, tied his hands, and took his wallet and car keys. he then moved david to the bathroom, next to marcos. eventually, appellant and santiago left the spa. g.n. exited the room she was in, saw david in the bathroom, and led him out of the building. outside, david saw santiago drive away in david. emma left the room she was in and freed marcos. emma and g.n. called the police. david left the scene before officers arrived. later that night, he went to the police station with his daughters and reported that he had been carjacked. at trial, he explained that he had been embarrassed to admit he went to the spa. that same night, police found davidsantiago next to it. santiago tried to escape, but officers apprehended him. police brought david to the scene, and he identified santiago as one of the perpetrators. inside the car 5 were flat-screen monitors that had not been there before it was stolen. 2. identification of appellant after the crimes, the victims provided descriptions of the perpetrators to the police. at least one victim described one of the perpetrators as a younger hispanic man and the other as an older black man. david, g.n., and marcos later identified appellant as the black perpetrator in a photo lineup. emma identified santiago but was unable to identify the black perpetrator in a photo lineup. all four victims identified appellant at trial. 3. gps data appellant was wearing a global positioning satellite (gps) ankle monitor on the night of the crimes. parole agent gabriel rogers, of the california department of corrections and rehabilitation, testified about data from appellaankle monitor. the data showed that appellant arrived at the building in which the spa was located at 9:05 p.m., and left at 10:40 p.m. after leaving the spa, appellant travelled to the same area where police found santiago with david 4. uncharged 2009 robbery in 2009, patricia g. posted a newspaper ad for a []. a man contacted her and arranged to come to her home. at trial, when the prosecutor asked if she 6 to gwhen the man arrived at her home, roommates, karen and elly, were also there. the man entered, pulled out a gun, and ordered patricia to undress. after patricia complied, the man then opened the door to allow another man into the home. at trial, when the prosecutor asked if that second man was in court, patricia . . . appellant and his accomplice directed patricia and her two roommates into a bedroom. once there, they ordered elly to undress, and she complied. after karen started crying, appellant placed her against the wall and cut her dress off with a knife. appellant and his accomplice bound the women and covered their faces with curtains. the men then ransacked the home, taking televisions, jewelry, and other valuables. the trial court instructed the jury that it could consider the evidence only to determine whether a plan or scheme to commit the crimes . . . . 5. gang evidence los angeles police officers testified at trial that both appellant and santiago were admitted members of the 18th street gang. officer daniel rodriguez testified as the pert. he explained that 18th street was 7 other crimes. the gang within areas it controlled. in response to a hypothetical tracking the facts of the crimes at central spa, rodriguez opined that the offenses were committed in association with and for the benefit of the gang. he explained that members of 18th street commonly targeted prostitutes and illegal businesses because such victims were less likely to report the crimes. he also stated that m according to rodriguez, central spa was outside 18th streetterritory, on the edge of territory claimed by one of its chief rivals. he opined that committing a crime in rival territory increased he also explained that committing crimes with a younger gang member benefitted the gang by training the younger member. c. verdict and sentence following trial, the jury found appellant guilty of all charges except those relating to g.n. (kidnapping to commit rape and assault with intent to commit rape). as to those charges, the jury found him guilty of the lesser included offenses of kidnapping and simple assault. the jury found several firearm allegations to be true and several others to be untrue. it deadlocked on one of the firearm allegations, and the court dismissed that allegation. finally, the jury found all but one of the gang allegations to be true. 8 following a bench trial, the trial court found that appellant had suffered two prior strike convictions. the court sentenced appellant to 130 years to life in state prison, which included a consecutive term of ten years for one of the firearm enhancements. this appeal followed. discussion a. evidentiary challenges appellant challenges the admission of testimony about his parole status and the 2009 robbery. he claims the trial of discretion and violated his constitutional right to due process. we review state-law challenges to a evidentiary rulings for abuse of discretion. (see people v. goldsmith trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest ibid.) a miscarriage of justice result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson).) the admission of evidence, even if erroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally 9 unfair.people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439, italics omitted.)we consider appellants challenges in turn. 1. evidence of a. background at the time of the crimes, appellant was on parole and was wearing a gps monitor as part of the conditions of his parole. prior to trial, the parties discussed the introduction of gps data into evidence. defense counsel conceded that the gps data was admissible evidence but was worried that its jury. parole status had no probative value. it therefore precluded the prosecution from eliciting testimony that appellant was on parole. nevertheless, both the court and defense counsel acknowledged that it was unavoidable that the jury would realize appellant was on parole at the time of the crimes. in his opening statement, defense counsel acknowledged that wearing a gps monitor at the time of the crimes, placed on later at trial, officer paul quintana testified about his encounter with appellant during a traffic stop on september 1, 2016, two and a half weeks before the crimes. in his testimony, quintana stated, without objection, that appellant was on parole at the time of their encounter. during an unrelated smentioning of appe10 counsel if he wanted a limiting instruction. counsel agent rogers subsequently testified onitor. at the start of his testimony, rogers identified himself as a parole agent. b. analysis on appeal, appellant claims the trial court reversibly erred in failing to strike testimony about his parole status. respondent argues that appellant has forfeited this claim by failing to object to the testimony and by declining a limiting instruction. rather than merely forfeit his parole status, we conclude that appellant has waived such a challenge through exchange with the trial court. as noted, defense counsel did not object after quintana testified that appellant was on parole at the time of the traffic stop. in response to the trial concern about this testimony, defense counsel not only declined a limiting instruction, but also disclaimed any objection to the testimony, appellant has therefore waived any objection to the contested testimony. (see, e.g., people v. robertson (1989) 48 cal.3d 18, 44 11 moreover, regardless of waiver, s was harmless, as the jury almost certainly would have known that appellant was on parole at the time of the crimes even without it. defense that appellant was on parole, stating he was earing a gps corrections . . . . and any doubt in the jurors minds about dissipated after rogerss testimony (which appellant does not challenge), in which rogers identified himself as a parole agent and went on to relay and explain the monitor. given these strong indications that appellant was on parole at the time of the crimes, there is no reasonable nced the verdict. (see watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836; people v. lewis and olive (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1029 [no prejudice where people v. long (1957) 152 cal.app.2d 716, 722 [no prejudice fro accordingly, the trial court did not err in failing to strike the testimony. 12 2. evidence of the 2009 robbery a. background as noted, at trial, patricia testified about the 2009 robbery and said she thought appellant was one of the robbers. prior to trial, appellant moved to exclude evidence of the 2009 robbery. among other things, he argued that the prior crime was not sufficiently similar to the current offenses to be probative of any material issue, and that the evidence was unduly prejudicial. appellant conceded that the court should not consider the prior crime too remote in time, given that appellant was in prison for about seven years between the 2009 robbery and the 2016 crimes at central spa. the trial court denied the motion to exclude the evidence. admissibility to those matters. the court also concluded the evidence was not unduly prejudicial. though the court did its discussions with the parties suggest its focus was intent to commit sex offenses, as relevant to the charges of rape, kidnapping to commit rape, and assault with intent to commit rape. b. analysis exclude evidence of the 2009 robbery constituted an abuse of its discretion under evidence code sections 1101 and 352 13 and violated his constitutional right to due process. evidence of character in the form of specific instances of uncharged misconduct, to prove the conduct of that person on a specified occasion. subdivision (b) of section 1101 clarifies, however, that this rule does not prohibit admission of evidence of uncharged misconduct when such evidence is relevant to establispeople v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393 (ewoldt).) one matter, relevant here, for which evidence of uncharged misconduct may be used is proof of the 2 (see ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 402.) 2 as noted, the trial court also ruled evidence of the 2009 a common design or plan is admissible to establish that the defendant committed the act alleged. unlike evidence used to ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 394, fn. 2.) because we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling the evidence does not contest the occurrence of the crimes on appeal, we need not consider whether evidence of the 2009 robbery was admissible to establish a common plan. (cf. people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 122 (yeoman) [no possible prejudice from admitting evidence of prior crime to prove identity where same evidence was properly admitted to show intent and defendant seriously questioned 14 in order to be admissible to prove intent, the uncharged misconduct must be sufficiently similar to support the inference that the defendant probably harbor[ed] the same intent in each instance. [citationsibid.) if the evidence of uncharged misconduct is sufficiently similar to the charged crimes to be relevant to the must consider whether, under evidence code section 352, the probative value of the evidence is substantially outweighed by its prejudicial effect. (people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1328 (foster).) we review rulings under evidence code sections 1101 and 352 for abuse of discretion. (foster, supra, at p. 1328.) under this standard, a trial courts ruling will not be disturbed . . . unless [it] exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1004.) appellant contends that the evidence of the 2009 robbery was not relevant to his intent for purposes of evidence code section 1101 and was unduly prejudicial for purposes of evidence code section 352. as to relevance, appellant claims the 2009 robbery lacked sufficient similarities to the current crimes. we disagree. in both incidents, appellant, together with an accomplice, committed robberies targeting prostitutes, entered the location after one of the men posed as a customer, covered the faces, moved them, and committed offenses of a sexual nature against them. the similarities in the crimes were 15 sufficient to support an inference that appellant harbored a similar intent in each instance: to subject the victims to unwanted acts of a sexual nature. (see people v. yeoman, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 122 [defendants was similar enough to support inference that he harbored similar intent in both instances].) appellant challenges the conclusion that he targeted prostitutes in both instances, asserting that patricia did not testify to being a prostitute and noting that emma and g.n. testified they were only cleaning at the spa. but patricia tacitly acknowledged she intended to receive payment for the planned sexual encounter. and david[n]sexual favors at central spa and was embarrassed about going there suggested the business was known to provide such services. the jury could therefore reasonably infer that by targeting central spa, appellant intended to target prostitutes, regardless of whether emma and g.n. were prostitutes themselves. accordingly, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that evidence code section 1101 did not preclude admission of evidence of the 2009 robbery. nor did the court abuse its discretion in finding that the risk of unfair prejudice did not substantially outweigh the probative value of the evidence. while the 2009 robbery did not involve rape, as we explain in the section discussing the sufficiency of the evidence, evidence that appellant contemplated the commission of sexual offenses supported 16 reasonably foreseeable to appellant, rendering appellant guilty of rape as an aider and abettor . (see people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 920 (medina) a reasonably foreseeable consequenceabetted].) appellant argues that the evidence lacked probative value because patricia said, , when she identified appellant at trial. was a matter for the jury to consider. a jury may consider otherwise admissible evidence of uncharged crimes so long as it finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant committed those other crimes.alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1205, 1224, fn. 14.) the jury to make that finding. (see people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 595, 599 [evidence of prior crimes admissible where eyewitness identifying defendant as perpetrator of those crimes expressed uncertainty].) next, appellant contends that the 2009 robbery was so remote in time from the 2016 crimes at central spa that an inference of similar intent initially, we note that appellant has forfeited this contention by conceding below that the two incidents should not be considered remote in time. (see perez v. grajales (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 580, 591-17 of forfeiture, however, because appellant was incarcerated during almost the entire time between the two incidents, the passage of time between them did not affect the probative value of the evidence. (see foster, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 1330 [rejecting claim that passage of time between incidents reduced probative value of the evidence because defendant was incarcerated for much of that time].) finally, appellant claims that the 2009 robbery, in which he physically removed the dress of one of the victims, was more inflammatory than the crimes at central spa, in which santiago was the one who raped emma. the opposite is true. even putting aside the inflammatory nature of groped intimate parts of g.n.stopped only after she told him she had aids. in comparison to these acts, the 2009 robbery was not inflammatory. in short, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in robbery. a similarly fails. (see foster, supra, 5evidence was relevant to prove a fact of consequence, its additionally, even if admitting the evidence were an abuse of discretion, such error would have been harmless. first, the court instructed the jury on the limited foster, supra, 18 50 cal.4th at p. 1332.) further, evidence that appellant was one of the perpetrators of the crimes at central spa was overwhelming: all four victims identified him at trial, and showed he was at or near the spa at the time of the crimes and then travelled to the same area in which police found santiago with stolen property. (see people v. mungia (2008) 44 cal.4th 1101, 1131-1132 [any error in admitting evidence of prior crime was harmless because the evidence of guilt was overwhelming].) -- finding appellant guilty of lesser included crimes in the charges relating to g.n. and finding several enhancement allegations not true -- dispels any notion that the jury convicted appellant based on bias or passion. (cf. people v. roberts discrimination between charges in its penalty verdict showed it was not swayed by improper factors].) b. sufficiency challenges appellant contests the sufficiency of the evidence to support his convictions for kidnapping, kidnapping to commit rape, and rape, and the gang enhancements. in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence to support a convictionfavorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence -- that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable 19 (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) the same standard applies to the sufficiency of the evidence to support an enhancement. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60 (albillar)sufficiency challenges in turn. 1. kidnapping appellant was convicted of kidnapping g.n., david, and marcos. section 207, subdivision (a), person who forcibly . . . steals or takes, or holds, detains, or arrests any person in this state, and carries the person . . . into another part of the same county, is guilty of although the statute does not expressly include a long recognized . . . that the movement, or asportation, of the [citation] . . . people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 68.) appellant argues the evidence was insufficient to establish that his movement of the victims was substantial. in determining whether substantial movement occurred, people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225, 237 (martinez)only the actual distance the victim is moved, but also such factors as whether that movement increased the risk of harm above that which existed prior to the asportation, decreased the likelihood of detection, and increased both the 20 ibid.) the jury [must] consider whether the distance a victim was 3 (martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 237.) whether the movement was merely incidental to the commission of epeople v. rayford (1994) 9 cal.4th 1, 12.) movement is not merely people v. shadden (2001) 93 cal.app.4th 164, 169 (shadden).) applying these factors here, we conclude that the of g.n., randel, and marcos was substantial. all three of these victims were at some point at the front of the spa. appellant and santiago later moved each of them to either the bathroom or another room, reducing the likelihood of detection or escape and enhancing their ability to commit additional crimes, such as assault of g.n. (see martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 237; people v. delacerda (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 282, 295 (delacerda) [jury could reasonably infer that movement from 3 intends to commit where, in the course of its commission, the defendant also moves a victim by force or fear against his or her people v. bell (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 428, 430.) 21 front of apartment to bedroom closet enhanced opportunity to commit additional crimes and was meant to decrease likelihood of detection]; people v. robertson (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 965, 985 (robertson) away from the back door, appellant reduced the possibility appellant notes that the entrance to the spa was on the second floor of the building and that the door was chained, suggesting that the victims were hidden from public view even before he moved them, and thus that the movement did not decrease the likelihood of detection. however, moving the victims from the front of the spa made it less likely that persons attempting to enter would hear the victims if they screamed for help. (see robertson, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 985 [moving victim away from locked door decreased likelihood of detection bit was less likely that [her son] could have heard his mother if she had screamed for help.) appellant contends that his movement of the victims was merely incidental to the commission of the robberies. but appellant and santiago moved each victim after taking their personal belongings. this movement was unnecessary to the robberies and thus cannot be considered merely incidental to them. (see people v. james (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 446, 455, fn. 6 (james) [a movement unnecessary to a robbery is not incidental to it at all]; people v. leavel (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 823, 835 [movement of victim from kitchen to bedroom not incidental to robbery 22 where defendant had already taken the contents of her purse and did not need her assistance to obtain additional property from the bedroom].) g.n. merely incidental to her assault, as the movement was unnecessary to complete the crime. (cf. shadden, supra, 93 cal.app.4th at p. nother place, and then attempts a rape, the jury may reasonably infer that the movement was neither part of nor necessary to accordingly, the evidence was sufficient to 2. kidnapping to commit rape appellant was convicted of kidnapping emma to commit rape under section 209, subdivision (b), either directly or as an aider and abettor.4 like simple kidnapping, kidnapping to commit rape has an asportation requirement. (people v. bell, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at p. 435.) the standard for proving that element is different, however. (ibid.) the asportation requirement of kidnapping to commit rape has two prongs. first, the movement of the victim the [rape]. (martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 232.) second, 4 appellant does not contest the sufficiency of the evidence to establish that he possessed the requisite mens rea for kidnapping to commit rape. we therefore do not address that issue. (see alhusainy v. superior court (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 385, 395 [issue not briefed is forfeited].) 23 (ibid.) appellant conclusorily asserts that movement was merely incidental to the rape. however, the evidence appellant and santiago moved emma from the front of the spa to the back, and santiago then took her to a private room, where he raped her. because this movement was unnecessary to the commission of the rape, a jury could reasonably conclude that it was not merely incidental to it. (see shadden, supra, 93 cal.app.4th at p. 169; people v. salazar (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 341, 347 [movement of victim into motel room not incidental to rape because defendant could have raped victim on the walkway outside the motel room door and avoided moving her at all.) next, appellant contends that the movement did not increase the risk of harm to emma because she was moved only within the spa. -in which he is found is never (james, supra, 148 cal.app.4th at p. 456.) as with the movement of the other victims, emma from the front of the spa to the back decreased the likelihood of detection or escape and provided appellant and santiago a greater opportunity to commit additional crimes against her. (see martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 237; delacerda, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 295; robertson, supra, 208 cal.app.4th 24 at p. 985.) accordingly, substantial evidence supported 3. rape the jury convicted atheory of aiding and abetting. perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of committing, or of encouraging or facilitating commission of, people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 161, italics omitted, quoting people v. beeman (1984) 35 cal.3d 547, 560.) under section 31, a person who aids and abets the commission of a crime is a principal in the crime, and thus shares the guilt of the actual perpetrator. (people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 259 (prettyman), italics omitted.) an aider and abettor is guilty, however, not only of the intended crime, (people v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111, 1117, quoting prettyman, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 260.) liability position would have or should have known that the charged offense was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the act (medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 920, quoting people v. nguyen (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 518, 535 (nguyen)25 consequence need not have been a strong probability; a possible consequence which might reasonably have been (nguyen, supra, at p. 535.) the trial court instructed the jury on both theories of aider and abettor liability. athe jury to find appellant guilty if it found either that he aided and abetted the rape, or that he aided and abetted the kidnapping to commit rape and rape was a natural and probable consequence. appellant argues that the evidence was insufficient to prove that he possessed the requisite intent. he asserts that there was no evidence he knew santiago would rape emma, and notes that he did not help santiago take emma to the private room and was not present during the crime. however, aappellant and santiago targeted a location known for prostitution. officer rodriguez testified that gang members who target such locations from this evidence, the jury could reasonable infer that appellant and santiago planned to sexually assault women at central spa, and thus that the commission of rape was, at the very least, reasonably foreseeable to appellant. (see nguyen, supra, 21 cal.app.4th at p. 533 [sexual assault reasonably foreseeable inside, appellant separated emma and g.n. from marcos. appellant proffers no explanation for separating 26 the women, and we see no apparent purpose other than to facilitate their sexual assault. (cf. people v. lopez (1981) 116 cal.app.3d 882, 885 [defendant husband over on the bed, showing that he knew of his appellant then took g.n. to one of the rooms, leaving santiago alone with emma. in that room, appellant sexually assaulted g.n., tried to remove her pants, and stopped only after she told him she had aids. during that time, santiago took emma to a private room, where he raped her. this evidence strongly suggested not only that the rape was foreseeable to appellant (see ibid.), but also that appellant and santiago executed a concerted plan to rape women at the spa (see nguyen, supra, 21 cal.app.4th at p. 533). moreover, evidence of the 2009 robbery showed that appellant had committed a similar crime in the past, targeting a prostitute for robbery and forcibly removing one . this evidence supported an inference that at central spa, too, appellant intended to subject victims to unwanted sexual acts and thus that him. (see yeoman, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 122; nguyen, supra, 21 cal.app.4th at p. 535.) accordingly, the evidence rape. 27 4. gang enhancements the jury found all but one of the gang allegations to be true. section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), provides a d for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members . . . .felon-related promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang people v. weddington (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 468, 484, italics omitted.) appellant contends the evidence was insufficient to establish either prong of the gang enhancement. here, too, we conclude that substantial first, circumstances of the offenses, was sufficient evidence that the crimes were gang-related. an expert may properly track[ ] the evidence, whether the [crime], if the jury found it in fact occurred, would have been for a ganot only permissible but can be sufficient to support the penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), gang people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048 (vang).) 28 in response to a hypothetical tracking the facts of the crimes at central spa, rodriguez opined that the offenses were committed in association with and for the benefit of the gang. appellant and santiago were both members of the same gang. (see, e.g., people v. garcia (2016) 244 with known gang members can be substantial evidence that victim description suggested that appellant was older than santiago. according to rodriguez, committing crimes with a younger member benefitted the gang by training the younger member. rodriguez testified that the 18th street gang commonly prostitutes and illegal businesses because such victims were less likely to contact the police. while appellant notes that the crimes were not committed in 18th street territory, rodriguez testified that the spa was on the and that committing a crime in rival territory increased the status. this evidence was sufficient to support the association with and for the benefit of the gang.5 (see vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1048.) 5 the cases appellant cites in support of his argument that the evidence was insufficient to support the gang enhancements, people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650 and people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, are readily distinguishable. in people v. ochoa, the defendant was not accompanied by a fellow gang member and the crime was not committed in rival-gang (fn. is continued on the next page.) 29 as to the secsubstantial evidence establishes that the defendant intended to and did commit the charged felony with known members of a gang, the jury may fairly infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal (albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 68.) as discussed, the evidence showed appellant committed the crimes with a known member of the same gang. this was enough to show that appellant had the requisite specific intent. (see ibid.) in sum, substantial evidence supported the jurys findings on the gang enhancements. c. comments during jury selection 1. background appellant claims the trial court misinstructed prospective jurors on the presumption of innocence. shortly after the start of voir dire, the trial court made opening remarks, introducing the basic concepts of the presumption territory. (people v. ochoa, supra, at p. 662.) in people v. ramon, there were no facts linking the crimes at issue to a crime likely to be committed by the gang and thus nothing to support -related. (see id. that appellant committed the crimes with a fellow gang member, on the edge of rival-gang territory, and rodriguez testified that es such as central spa. 30 of innocence and the burden of proof to a panel of prospective jurors. the court told the panel the presumption of innocence was like over the defendant, it described the procedures of a criminal trial and told panel members it would provide jury instruction at the close of evidence. the court then stated, jurors who are selected go into the jury room does that cloak as to the burden of proof, the court explained that it was the prosecution burden to prove appellant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and that the defense was not required to present any evidence. appellant did not object to , and it is unclear whether any of the panel members who heard them were selected to serve on the jury. after the close of evidence, the court instructed the jury on the burden of proof and the presumption of innocence under calcrim no. 220: the fact that a criminal charge has been filed against the defendant is not evidence that the charge is true. you must not be biased against the defendant just because he has been arrested, charged with a crime, or brought to trial. [] a defendant in a criminal case is presumed to be innocent. this presumption requires that the people prove a defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. . . 31 2. analysis began deliberations violated his constitutional right to a fair trial. ce continues not only during the taking of the testimony, but during the deliberations of the jury, and until they reach a people v. arlington (1900) 131 cal. 231, 235.) respondent argues that appellant has forfeited the issue by failing to object below. we agree. (see people v. monterroso (2004) 34 cal.4th 743, 759 [challenge to courtcomments during voir dire forfeited by failure to object].) while appellant cites section 1259 for the proposition that no objection is necessary to preserve a claim of erroneous jury instructions for review, dire were not jury instructions. a challenge to such comments constitutes a claim of judicial error subject to forfeiture. (see ibid.; people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1357 (seumanu) [caljic no. 8.88 during voir dire was claim of judicial error requiring timely objection].) moreover, even if appellant had preserved his , he would fail to establish reversible error. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. unlikely that errors or misconduct occurring during voir dire 32 presentation of argument or evidence, obviously reach the jury panel at a much less critical phase of the proceedings . . . ibid., quoting people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 741.) comments misled jurors to think that the presumption of innocence expired when they began deliberations. though incorrect, the court made clear that the prosecution had the burden to guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, and that the defense was not required to present evidence. and by informing prospective jurors that it would provide formal jury instructions after the close of evidence, the court also indicated that it was speaking informally. after the close of evidence and shortly before the jury began deliberations, the court properly instructed the jury under calcrim no. 220 on the presumption of innocence and the burden of proof. accordingly, we find no reasonable possibility that the seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1358 [where trial court informed potential jurors they would receive formal jury instructions if chosen to serve and later properly instructed the jury, any error in ].) 33 d. the pro 1. background appellant argues the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument. in discussing the gang allegations during the initial portion of her closing argument, the prosecutor argued the crimes were committed at the [appellant] was certainly directing appellant did not object. in her rebuttal, the prosecutor invited the jury to play the role of the detective. she described some of the evidence introduced at trial and then at [appellant] . . . and we find out that he has committed a [nearly] identical crime a few years ago. appellant did not object. after closing arguments, during an unrelated sidebar, s comment in rebuttal improperly relied on a matter not in evidence. counsel noted there was no evidence the detective in this case discovered that appellant had committed another crime in the past. he further argued that the comment violated could not be used to show that appellant was the perpetrator of the crimes at central spa. regarding his failure to object counsel stated, he prosecutor] was moving on to something else before i really realized what she had said, and i felt that at that 34 point in time it was too late for me to object and ask for a he the trial court agreed that the evidence did not su and invited defense counsel to suggest remedial measures. defense counsel subsequently moved for a mistrial. the trial court denied the motion for a mistrial but stated that it was willing to admonish the jury. defense counsel offer. 2. analysis appellant claims the comments were improper, constituted reversible error under state law, and violated his constitutional right to due process. he contends the prosecutor urged the jury to conclude appellant was guilty based on his criminal predisposition. federal constitutional right to due process when it amounts to a pattern of egregious misconduct that infects the trial with unfairness. (see people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819, overruled on another point in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046render the trial fundamentally unfair will constitute deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. (ibid.) 35 respondent argues appellant has forfeited his claims by failing to make timely objections and seek admonitions below. we agree. prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection to the alleged misconduct and (seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1339.) if an objection has not been not have cured the harm caused by the prosecutors (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1000-1001.) only in extreme cases will a improper comment. (people v. fitzgerald (1972) 29 cal.app.3d 296, 312 (fitzgerald).) appellant did not object to the initial part of the closing argument; his objection to her rebuttal (after the conclusion of closing arguments) was untimely, and he did not seek admonitions for either of the contested comments. on appeal, appellant asserts that defense counsel did not request an admonition after the conclusion of closing arguments because he attention to [the comment in rebuttal] regardless, we conclude a prompt objection and admonition s would have cured any harm. tand relied primarily on the evidence that appellant committed the 2009 robbery. they were not so egregious or misleading that a timely admonition could not have 36 remedied them. (see fitzgerald, supra, 29 cal.app.3d at p. 312; people v. carrera (1989) 49 cal.3d 291, 320 [prosecutormisstatements were not so extreme or so divorced from the record that they could not have been cured by pr.) moreover, the court instructed the jury that the , and that it could not rely on evidence of the 2009 robbery to conclude that appellant committed the current offenses. together with these instructions, a specific admonition would have ensured that the jury gave no weight to any improper comment by the prosecutor. (see people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 519 [where jury was insstatements were not evidence, admonition could have avoided any potential harm from alleged misconduct].) consequently, appellant has forfeited his claims of prosecutorial misconduct by failing to seek admonitions. (see seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1339.) e. the firearm enhancement appellant claims that we must remand the case for the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike his firearm enhancement under section 12022.53. respondent agrees, as do we. apped a 10-year enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (b). at the senate bill no. 620, a trial court could not strike firearm enhancements under section 12022.53. (see former 37  12022.53, subd. (h) other provisions of law, the court shall not strike an allegation under this section or a finding bringing a person within the provisions of this section.; stats. 2010, ch. 711,  5.) however, effective january 1, 2019, senate bill no. 620 replaced the prohibition on striking section 12022.53 firearm enhancements with the following: interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that 12022.53, subd. (h); stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) senate bill no. 620 applies retroactively to nonfinal people v. chavez (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 663, 712.) under such circumstances, an appellate court must generally remand for the trial court to exercise its newly granted discretion. (see people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-78 [where statute enacted during pending appeal gave trial court discretion to impose a lesser penalty, remand was required for resentencing].) accordingly, we vacate the sentence and remand the matter for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the enhancement. we express no opinion how the court should exercise its discretion on remand. 38 disposition the convictions are affirmed, the sentence is vacated, and the matter is remanded for resentencing consistent with this opinion. not to be published in the official reports manella, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. dunning, j*. *judge of the orange county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 