 filed 6/13/19 p. v. vargas ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. abraham vargas, defendant and appellant. b283501 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba431537 appeal from an order and a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader and larry p. fidler, judges. affirmed. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and douglas l. wilson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant abraham vargas of eight counts of lewd act on a child under 14 involving two victims. on appeal, vargas does not challenge the evidence against him. instead, he contends the superior court abused its discretion in denying his motion to sever the counts involving the two victims. we find no abuse of discretion and affirm. facts and procedural background 1. ana z. 1 uncle. when ana was in the first grade, she and vargas were playing on the mouth. ana told her mom because she was scared. mom said it was probably an accident. made ana feel sad. ana then told her first grade teacher, sandra montalvo. a the social worker spoke with ana. when ana was six or seven, she and her mother moved into a house in east los angeles. vargas moved in too. vargas [d] fourth grade. vargas would call ana into his room. no one else was home. vargas touched ana two or three times a week. and rubbed it with his fingers. sometimes vargas put his hand under anaclothes. the contact sometimes was skin to skin. vargas also had ana touch his penis. he put her hand on his penis and 1 we refer to the victims by their first names. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) 3 moved it back and forth. vargas told ana he would kill her mother. vargas was doing to her. when ana was nine or 10, vargas licked vagina. he face vargas vagina. ana tried to get away but could not. day, ana told her what vargas had done. ana and her mom decided not to tell anyone else. take her to the police that day or ever. not kick vargas out, and he continued to live there until about 2013 when ana was 14 or 15. vargas stopped touching ana but like he was checking [her] out when she was 12 or 13. when ana was in high school, a social worker came to her house. she also spoke with the police. 2. tania c. girlfriend beatrice. tania first met vargas when she was about nine years old. beatrice and vargas would visit claudia and tania; claudia and tania would visit beatrice and vargas. eventually, beatrice and vargas had a child. tania would with the baby.2 at the time and in eighth grade. vargas sat near tania when he 2 this was the same house where vargas lived with ana, her mother, and other relatives. 4 had the chance. and it made her uncomfortable. vargas was 24 years old. foot while they were waiting near a christmas religious display. vargas also took an ornament off the christmas tree and gave it tania next saw vargas vargas vargas asked if she had a cell phone and gave her his number. at some point tania went outside to look for one of her siblings. vargas came toward her and tried to hug her, but tania stepped away. tania tried to go on the mouth with his tongue. at first, tania tried unsuccessfully to push vargas away but then she kissed him back. the next day, tania called vargas. she asked him why he had kissed her and he said he liked her. he proposed they meet tania met vargas at the bridge; they got into his suv and he drove to a park. vargas told tania he really liked her, he was with beatrice only because of the baby, and he was going to leave beatrice. tania and vargas sat on the grass at the park; he kissed her, using his tongue, and she kissed him back. vargas asked tania to sit in the back seat. she did. vargas got in the back seat too and they kissed. take them off but she held them up. because tania 5 and underwear. about two hours after they had met on the bridge, vargas dropped tania off at a park where she met her sister. on january 9, 2012, tania was walking to school when she heard someone call her name. it was vargas, standing outside his suv. [b]ecause he asked vargas drove tania to his house. no one was home. vargas and tania went into his the television was on. vargas turned up the volume and asked tania to sit on the couch. he sat next to her and hugged her. there were blankets on the floor. vargas pulled tania to the floor, laid her on her back, kissed her, and tried to pull down her pants. at first tania kept saying no but vargas she told him she to do it, and he just continued to hug on her, kiss on trying to pull her pants down. for [he tania continued to hold her pants. vargas kept trying with he was unbuckling his own pants. tania tried to stand up but vargas pulled her down. he pulled her pants and underwear off. pants were around his knees. tania saw his penis; it was hard. vargas told tania to open her legs. he opened 6 . . he was on top of her. she was not able to move because he was very heavy and big. vargas ejaculated. afterward, vargas sat next to tania on the sofa and told vargas told sometime after january 9, vargas took tania to a clinic for tania used a fake name and date of birth. the clinic also gave tania birth control pills. tania continued to call vargas on his cell phone through january and february of 2012. tania ditched school to see vargas. sometimes he would pick her up around the corner from her house. twice he picked her up from school. tania and vargas had sex in his car on more than one occasion. they also had interco in late july 2012, tania was at vargas-year-old son. the party was outside. tania went inside to use the bathroom; vargas followed her in and closed the door behind him. vargas her vagina. another day, vargas picked tania up. vargas had his son in the car and he drove to toys r us. vargas got into the back seat with tania. her to turn around. she got very angry, started crying, and told him to stop. vargas 7 once, vargas took tania to a motel. they watched television, then had sex. vargas told tania to turn around but she refused. her head. she was face down on the bed. ost of his body [was] on tania was sobbing and telling vargas to stop. he told her to be quiet and not to yell. in august 2012 tania finally told her mother about vargas. neither ana nor tania ever spoke with the other about what vargas had done to them. 3. the charges and the motion to sever the people charged vargas with four counts of committing a lewd or lascivious act on a child under 14 in violation of penal code section 288, subdivision (a), as to ana (counts 1 through 4) and five counts of that same offense as to tania (counts 5 through 9). the people alleged under section 667.61, subdivisions (b) and (e)(4), that vargas committed the offenses against more than one victim. the people also alleged under section 1203.066, subdivision (a)(8), that tania c. was under the age of 14 and that vargas had substantial sexual contact with her. on june 2, 2016, defense counsel filed a motion to sever the counts concerning ana from those concerning tania. counsel argued none of the evidence about the two victims would be cross-admissible, the evidence regarding ana 8 the parties appeared in the calendar court before judge katherine mader on june 3, 2016. judge mader said she had read the severance motion, was familiar with the governing law, and would read the preliminary hearing transcript over the weekend. the court discussed the issues with counsel and asked a number of questions. june 7, 2016. judge mader confirmed she had read the declaration and reviewed the case law. defense counsel argued the department of children and family services (dcfs) had found counsel also noted testimony at the preliminary hearing included more allegations than she initially had made to the dcfs investigator. the prosecutor argued that additional detail could be the prosecutor a child, seven years old. [] and when she was reinterviewed or testified at the preliminary hearing, she was an adolescent, more articulate and perhaps being more willing to be forthcoming the prosecutor also argued the evidence as to the two victims would be cross-admissible under evidence code section 1108.3 judge mader ruled: s a strong interest in the efficiency of joint trials. and as such, [the law] 3 undesignated statutory references are to the evidence code. 9 require[s] the defense not just to show prejudice . . . but to make a clear showing of prejudice. i do not believe that has been shown here. [] both offenses are of the same type. more inflammatory than the other. because of the passage of 1108, i do believe that each of these offenses would be cross-admissible. and of course, 1108 does not require similarity. the earlier offense is not particularly remote. it [is] particularly weak. [] in reading the testimony at the preliminary hearing of the first victim, she clearly was not willing to go beyond certain allegations. she said things. but she did remember other things, which made her, to me, more credible. [] i think that there are many reasons why a case, particularly a sex case, does not get filed when there is only one victim. i think a lot of times law enforcement generally waits to see if somebody else comes forward with a complaint against the same suspect. [] the fact is that, according to the first victim, she was being molested when she was between the 2nd and 4th grades. and the second victim met the defendant, who started, in a sense, grooming her for a sexual relationship when she was 11 or 12, which would place her around the 6th grade. [] so he clearly in both cases is attracted to very young girls and wants to get involved in similar types of sexual acts with them. [] they both involve [a] certain peculiar type of coercion. and while the 10 theor said that the victim is aor is going to say that the victim on the first instance was a liar, it seems to me thatand we always tell jurors . . . that people can lie about some things and tell the truth about others. [] lying about, whether she was lying about a dog ate her homework versus these sexual attacks by the defendant. and i factually as to what is true and what is not true. [] so for all of those different reasons, i am going to deny the motion to 4. the defense witnesses at trial vargas called several witnesses at trial to chall elementary school teacher4 testified she remembered ana but not much else, as ten years had passed. ana was after counsel refreshed her recollection with her notes, the teacher testified she had written the teacher said rudy perez was a social worker with dcfs in 2006. perez had read his notes and report to refresh his recollection. tball. her by the arm and scolded her, then gave her a kiss on the cheek 4 by the time of trial, sandra montalvo was sandra macias. 11 to say he was sorry. on cross-examination, perez admitted ana told him vargas kissed her on the mouth. george wilson investigates major assault crimes for the los angeles police department. he interviewed tania in may at stuart house in july 2014. tania said she and vargas never had anal sex, although he attempted anal sex during the toys r us incident. 5. the verdicts and sentence the jury convicted vargas on all counts.5 the trial court sentenced vargas to 45 years to life in the state prison. the court imposed sentences of 15 years to life on counts 1, 2, and 5, all to run consecutively. the court sentenced vargas to concurrent terms of 15 years to life on counts 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8. discussion 1. the governing law penal code section 954 authorizes the joinder of charged offenses connected together in their commission or belonging to the same class of crimes. charged offenses ordinarily promotes efficiency, that is the course (alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1205, 1220 (alcala); people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 574 (manriquez) of charges.) do not 5 at the conclusion of the evidence, the trial court granted a defense motion under penal code section 1118.1 to dismiss count 9 because tania was 14 years old on the date of the alleged offense. the prosecutor conceded the merit of that motion. 12 relate to the same transaction and were committed at different times and places . . . against different victims. (alcala, at p. 1218, italics omitted.) of the same class, the statutory requirements for joinder were (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1030 (kraft).) o (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1315.) denial of a motion to sever for an abuse of discretion (kraft, at pp. 1030, 1032), that is, whether the denial fell (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 408 (ochoa).) discretion in ruling on a motion for severance than it has in (alcala, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1221; cf. people v. arias of the factors favoring joinder, a party seeking severance must make a stronger showing of potential prejudice than would be necessary to exclude other-) our supreme court has developed criteria to guide evaluations of trial court decisions on severance motions. refusal to sever may be an abuse of discretion where: (1) evidence on the crimes to be jointly tried would not be cross-admissible in separate trials; (2) certain of the charges are unusually likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; and , or with anotevidence on several charges might well alter the outcome of some or all of the charges. (manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 574; 13 kraft, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 1030.)6 -admissibility of e (manriquez, at p. 574.) observed that if evidence underlying the offenses in question -that circumstance normally is sufficient, standing alone, to dispel any prejudice and (alcala, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1221.) in determining whether a trial court abused its discretion under section 954 in declining to sever properly joined charges, we consider the record before the trial court when it made its ruling. (people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 37-38, 46-49; people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 774 (soper).) but even if a it was made, a reviewing court will reverse the judgment if the defendant shows joinder actually resulted in gross unfairness amounting to a denial of due process. (people v. ybarra (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 1420, 1434 (ybarra); people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 162.) (merriman, at p. 49.) our supreme unfairness as a high burden. (ybarra, at p. 1438.) 6 the fourth criterionwhether any of the charges is a potential capital offense (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 27-28)does not apply here. 14 2. the court did not abuse its discretion in denying all of the charges against vargas alleged violation of the same provision of the penal codelewd act on a child under 14. accordingly, section 1108 authorized their joinder. vargas contends, however, the evidence as to ana and tania was not cross-admissible under section 1108 because section 352 would ha vargas says the offenses against the two vargas asserts the case was by vargas also argues cross-admission of the evidence we disagree. first, as the attorney general points out, the prosecution alleged vargas committed the offenses against multiple victims under penal code section 667.61. to prove this allegation, the prosecution had to present evidence as to both ana and tania. allegation . . . could have been bifurcated in order to protect [his] vargas fails to consider the practical problems the trial court properly could take into account in denying his severance motion: in a trial involving only tania, there would be no opportunity to voir dire prospective jurors on their views about molestation of a six or seven-year-old child. if the jury returned a guilty verdict on the crimes against tania, the judge then would have to tell the jurors they would be serving for another week or more to hear testimony about ana. any such 15 bifurcation certainly would result in the undue consumption of time vargas warns against. second, cross-admissibility of evidence is not required. our of a motion to sever charged offenses to be a proper exercise of discretion even when the evidence underlying the charges would not have been cross-admissible in separate trials (alcala, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1221. see also belton v. superior court (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 1279, 1286 (belton) -) in any event, hereas judge mader notedthe evidence was cross-admissible under section 1108 and section 352 did not require its exclusion.7 as to both victims, vargas took advantage of positions of trust he enjoyed because of family relationships and close friendships. ana began when she was in first or second grade and stopped when she was in fourth grade after she again told her mother what vargas was doing to her. even after that, vargas continued to look at ana as if ing 12 and 13. pursuit of tania began when she was 13 and one-half, and in eighth grade. she was barely a teenager. both victims resisted vargas to some extent. ana tried to kick him when he tried to lick her vagina. he was able to open legs nevertheless. the first time vargas had intercourse with tania she told him no and tried to hold onto her pants. she refused to follow his instructions to open her legs and tried 7 because we conclude the evidence as to the two victims was cross-admissible under section 1108, we need not address whether it also would have been admissible under section 1101, subdivision (b). 16 to keep them closed. he forced them open because he was much stronger. both victims tried to get away at one point but vargas used his strength to keep them in place. the testimony of other victim, and that probative value was not outweighed by a substantial risk of undue prejudice. (cf. people v. poon (1981) 125 cal.app.3d 55, 69, 74 [pre-1108 case; charges of lewd act on a child, assault with intent to commit rape, rape, and false common elements activity associated with juvenile victims characterized both nor is it clearas vargas contendsthat jurors would view the evidence as to ana as much more inflammatory than the evidence as to tania. certainly jurors would not approve of but his acts with tania involved forcing himself on her for both vaginal intercourse and anal penetration, even though she told him no, tried to hold onto her clothes, and cried from pain. his conduct subjected her to a risk of pregnancy. because of vargas, tania missed school and lied to her mother. young adolescent that he loved her and would leave the mother of his infant to be with her. (cf. ochoa, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 409 [no gross unfairness in denthe charges [sexual assault of one victim and rape and murder of .) finally, the case involving ana was not significantly weaker than the case involving tania. while ana answered at trial given the 17 acts. jurors heard from witnesses vargas presented to call into , and then reached their own conclusions. (ybarra, supra, 245 cal.app.4th at p. 1436. see also belton, supra, 19 cal.app.4th at p. 1284. cf. frank v. superior court (1989) 48 cal.3d 632, 641 [rape charges involving two frequently the case when rape is the charge, consists primarily of the testima after considering all of these facts, we conclude vargas has failed to carry his burden of making the clear showing of prejudice required to establish that the superior court abused its discretion in denying his severance motion. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 783; alcala, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1229; ybarra, supra, 245 cal.app.4th at p. 1438.) demonstrated that the potential for substantial prejudice outweighs the well-recognized benefits to the state from joinder of (belton, supra, 19 cal.app.4th at p. 1288.) 18 disposition we affirm abraham not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: lavin, acting p. j. dhanidina, j. 