filed 4/24/18 p. v. cyprian ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. nathaniel cyprian, defendant and appellant. b283088 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta141506) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, pat connolly, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. james m. crawford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and timothy , deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 introduction nathaniel cyprian appeals from a judgment and sentence following his convictions for two counts of second-degree burglary and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon. appellant contends the prosecutor committed batson/wheeler error.1 he further contends the trial court erred in imposing and staying sentence enhancements based on two prior prison terms, as no evidence was submitted to prove the prior convictions. finally, appellant contends that the matter should be remanded for the trial court to exercise its discretion under senate bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) (sb 620) whether to strike two firearm enhancements imposed. respondent concedes the sentence was unauthorized, and requests this court remand the matter for a new trial on the prior conviction allegations and for resentencing. for the reasons set forth below, we conclude that the sentence was unauthorized and that remand is the appropriate remedy. accordingly, we affirm the convictions, vacate the sentence, and remand for further proceedings. statement of the case appellant was charged by information with two counts of burglary in violation of penal code section 211 (counts 1 & 2), and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of penal code section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (count 3).2 as to 1 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler), overruled in part by johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162. 2 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 counts 1 and 2, it was further alleged that appellant personally used a handgun within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b). as to all counts, it was alleged that appellant had suffered two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b).3 a jury found appellant guilty as charged. it found the burglaries to be in the second degree, and found true the firearm allegations. appellant waived his right to a jury trial on the prison priors, and a court trial was scheduled for may 24, 2017. on that date, no trial was held, and no parties objected to the lack of trial. the trial court then sentenced appellant to a total of 16 years, four months in state prison as follows: on count 1, two years, plus 10 years for the firearm enhancement; on count 2, one year, plus three years, four months for the firearm enhancement; on count 3, two years, but stayed pursuant to section 654. the court also imposed but stayed the sentences on the prison priors. 3 although appellate counsel states that the trial court imposed but stayed sentences on three prior convictions, the record shows that only two prior convictions within the meaning of section 667.5 were charged in the information, and that the trial court imposed but stayed sentences on the two priors. the discrepancy likely stems from the fact that in count 3 (possession of a firearm by a felon), the information alleged that appellant had three prior felony convictions. 4 statement of the facts4 on august 19, 2016, at around 11:45 p.m., appellant and a male companion entered a wing stop restaurant in compton. briana rodriguez was working at the cash register, and stephanie hernandez was cleaning the dining area. appellant and his companion walked toward the register and placed an order. as briana was taking the order, the two men walked around the counter. appellant pulled out a black handgun and pointed it at her stomach. the store manager then came out and opened the register. after appellant and his companion took all the money in the register, they fled. when police arrived shortly thereafter, briana and stephanie provided the police with a description of appellant. on september 6, 2016, briana and stephanie identified appellant from a photographic six-pack. they also identified appellant at trial. the entire incident was captured by -recordings were played for the jury. discussion a. batson/wheeler motions appellant, who is african-american, contends he was denied his state and federal constitutional rights to equal protection and a jury drawn from a fair cross-section of the community when the prosecutor exercised peremptory challenges 4 as appellant does not challenge the factual basis for his convictions, we summarize the evidence supporting them. 5 to dismiss two prospective african-american jurors. (see batson, supra, 476 u.s. 79; wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d 258.) 1. general principles to exclude prospective jurors who the party believes may be consciously or unconsciously biased against him or her. people v. jackson (1992) 10 cal.app.4th 13, 17-18.) a peremptory challenge may be predicated on a broad spectrum trivial, from the virtually certa(wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 275; accord, people v. king (1987) constitutions prohibit the use of peremptory strikes to remove prospective jurors on the bpeople v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 383 (scott).) group bias is bias against people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 541.) trial courts engage in a three-step process to resolve claims that a prosecutor used peremptory challenges to strike totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of race-neutral a race-neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide . . . whether the opponent of the strike has proved 6 johnson v. california, supra, 545 u.s. at p. 168, fn. omitted.) in determining whether appellant has proved purposeful discriminationthe issue comes down to whether the trial court -neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can be measured by, among other factors, the the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted trial strategy. [citation] in reviewing a batson/wheeler motion, we examine only whether substantial evidence supports its conclusions. [citation.]people v. chism presume that a prosecutor uses peremptory challenges in a constitutional manner and give ability to distinguish bona fide reasons from sham excuses. [citation.] so long as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered, its conclusions are entitled to deference on appeal. people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 76.) 2. relevant factual background the prospective juror who first sat in seat no. 18 (prospective juror no. 18) stated he lived in carson and had been married for 59 years. he was a retired military industrial electrician, and his wife was a retired civil service worker. they had three children, one of whom was an adult daughter, described as he had sat as a juror on two cases: one resulted in a verdict, the other was pleaded out. during attorney voir dire, defense counsel presented a hypothetical about winning the lottery and deciding to purchase 7 a lamborghini from a car salesman (hank) at a volkswagen dealership. counsel stated: so you drive down to the volkswagen dealership, and you meet hank. hand. and hank takes you to the showroom floor, and there is now, this car has a very unique silhouette. if anybody knows what a beatle looks like -- like a super beatle, or a beatle volkswagen, it looks like a big circle that got cut in half and has four wheels attached to it; it has a very high arc. and you look at this car cover, and it looks like t look like a lamborghini. defense counsel asked prospective juror nos. 9 and 10 if counsel then asked if the prospective jurors would purchase the vehicle if hank were to lift up a corner of the car cover to reveal a hubcap juror nos. 5 and 12 stated that they would not be willing to purchase the vehicle. counsel then expanded on his hypothetical, asking the jurors to assume hank had called over two car salesmen tell you that they just looked under the car cover two days ago, and they swear it is the most beautiful lamborghini that thwould not purchase the vehicle the following colloquy then occurred: counsel: okay. juror no. 18, how about you, sir? are you going to buy that car? 8 prospective juror no. 18: take the cover off. pending half a million dollars, i want to see it. counsel: a hubcap. prospecno, i want to see the car. i just told you. ou had two nissan dealership salesmen tell you -- prospective juror no. 18: to the problem. end of story. subsequently, the parties exercised their peremptory strikes. the prosecutor excused the prospective jurors who sat in seats nos. 3, 12 (formerly no. 14), 1, 10 and 12 (formerly prospective juror no. 18).5 when the prosecutor dismissed no. 18/12, defense counsel made a batson/wheeler motion. at side bar, defense counsel stated that other prospective jurors had the elected - asked the prosecutor if he wanted to be heard. the prosecutor said: r honor. with regard to juror no. 12, that i just kicked, when . . . [counsel] was questioning him with regards to the reasonableness and the probability in using the hypothetical, 5 when prospective jurors sitting in the first 12 seats were dismissed, those seats were filled with other prospective jurors sitting in the jury box or in the venire. 9 he was fighting in regards to this hypothetical and what he was saying, how he was explaining himself. this is the only african-the i [6 that a response. i thought he was more joking than anything else. there was obviously a connection [with] [defense counsel] mr. miller. i used to be a prosecutor. i would have kept him. i like him. [but] i have no issue the court then a new prospective juror was called from the venire to sit in seat no. 12. the prospective juror stated that she lived in norwalk and had three children. she had been a victim of an automobile theft. her son and son-in-law had been convicted of crimes. the prospective juror teenager was a lookout for two other teenagers that robbed a and the crime happened in texas. she thought he was treated fairly by the justice system in texas. as to her son-in-law, he had been convicted of attempted murder and was serving time in los angeles county. she also thought he was treated fairly by the justice system. 6 none of the jurors who answered the lamborghini hypothetical -- prospective juror nos. 5, 9, 10, 12, 14 and 18 -- were seated on the jury. the court excused prospective jurors nos. 10 and 12. the prosecutor excused nos. 14 and 18, and the defense excused nos. 5 and 9. 10 subsequently, the prosecutor excused prospective juror no. 12. defense counsel objected on the basis that this was the second african-american the prosecutor had stricken and that no. 12 prospective jurors. before the trial judge ruled whether defense counsel had made a prima facie showing of a batson/wheeler violation, the n regards to the juror that i just kicked . . . , she stated that her son and son-in-law were involved in two separate incidents. son-in-law, i believe, convicted or charged with attempted murder. the son she said was a teenager and mentioned something about a robbery that he was involv regards to what her son was involved in. and my concern is since this case is k the same thing and the court then ruled that there was no batson/wheeler violation. it noted: as soon as she talked about the robbery of her son, i knew she was going was minimizing the amount or the person [robbed]. but i did hear the same thing. the defense and the prosecutor each dismissed an additional prospective juror before accepting the jury panel. no further batson/wheeler motions were made. 3. analysis appellant first contends that the trial court impliedly found he had made a prima facie case of discrimination with respect to the two batson/wheeler motions. we agree. as to the first 11 motion challenging the excusal of prospective juror no. 18/12, the court asked the prosecutor for the reasons before ruling whether appellant had made a prima facie case. however, court solicits an explanation of the strike without review of the ultimate question of purposeful discrimination. (people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 135 [the court cannot undo an implied ruling once made by stating after explanations have been received that it never intended to find a prima facie case(scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 387, fn. 1.) as to the second batson/wheeler motion, the trial court did not make a finding on the issue. this court likewise proceeds directly to review of the ultimate question of purposeful discrimination where a trial court skips over the first stage altogether.scott, at p. 387, fn. 1.) with respect to the excusal of prospective juror no. 18/12, the prosecutor explained that he dismissed no. 18/12 based on the hypothetical is reasonably construed to refer to the fact that even as counsel added facts to the hypothetical, the prospective juror was not inclined to change his mind. his insistence, even as counsel was elaborating on the hypothetical -- that nothing short of removing the cover would persuade him of the make of the car, may have suggested a reluctance to credit anything but his own sel excused the juror for reasons having nothing to do with race. we 12 note that none of the jurors who participated in answering the lamborghini hypothetical were ultimately selected, and that before excusing no. 18/12, the prosecutor had excused no. 14, who had stated that he would not trust the testimony of two witnesses about the hidden car. in short, substantial evidence -neutral reason for excusing no. 18/12 was credible. (people v. mai review of a trial courts denial of a wheeler/batson motion is deferential, examining only as to the second batson/wheeler stated reasons for excusing prospective juror no. 12 were that the prospective juror had family members who had been convicted of crimes, and that she appeared to be minimizing her on their face, the stated reasons were legitimate and race-neutral. (see people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 346 [finding no discriminatory intent in excusing a juror whose father and husband had prior convictions]; people v. dunn (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 1039, 1052-1053 [prosecutor did not improperly challenge juror whose uncle had been convicted of murder]; people v. douglas (1995) 36 cal.app.4th 1681, 1690 whose relatives and/or family members have had negative experiences with the criminal justice system is not u the prospective juror stated that her son son-in-law was serving time for attempted murder. substantial -neutral reasons for excusing no. 12 were credible. 13 reasons for dismissing the two prospective jurors. he does not explain what the trial court should have done differently. the people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, 205.) there was nothing to indicate that further detailed inquiry was required. in sum, appellant has not shown the two prospective jurors (johnson v. california, supra, 545 u.s. at p. 168). accordingly, the trial court did not err in denying the batson/wheeler motions. b. prior prison terms as noted above, a court trial of the prior prison term allegations was scheduled for the date of the sentencing hearing, but no such trial was held. instead, without objection from any party, the court went directly to sentencing. it imposed and stayed sentence enhancements for the two prison priors. however, as the people offered no evidence and appellant did not admit to the truth of the prior conviction allegations, it was not proven that appellant had suffered two prison priors. (see people v. delgado (2008) 43 cal.4th 1059, 1065 [each element of an alleged sentence enhancement beyond in addition, under section 1385, a trial court may either impose or strike a prior prison term enhancement. (people v. haykel (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 146, 151.) the court may not impose and stay such enhancements. accordingly, the challenged sentencing enhancements were unauthorized. (people v. white eagle (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1511, 1521.) 14 reversed, such reversal shall be deemed an order for a new trial, specifically, it is well-a new trial on the challenged convictions and resentencing afterward. (people v. morton (1953) 41 cal.2d 536, 544; see, e.g., people v. marin (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 1344, 1366 [reversing judgment as to true finding on strike allegation; allowing prosecutor to retry strike allegation on remand]; people v. cheatham (1968) 263 cal.app.2d 458, 464 [ordering retrial on a prior conviction allegation fe.) accordingly, we will remand the matter for a new trial on the prior conviction allegations and resentencing pursuant to the outcome of that trial. c. firearm enhancements section 12022.53 provides sentence enhancements for the use of firearms in the commission of felonies. prior to the enactment of sb 620, a trial court could not strike these enhancements. (see former  12022.53, subd. (h) court shall not strike an allegation under this section or a finding however, effective january 1, 2018, sb 620 replaced the prohibition on striking the firearm enhancement with the section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any 15 ( 12022.53, subd. (h).) respondent concedes that sb 620 applies retroactively to nonfinal ju here, the trial court imposed firearm enhancements on counts 1 and 2. accordingly, we vacate the sentence and remand the matter for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements. we express no opinion how the court should exercise its discretion on remand. disposition the convictions are affirmed, and the sentence is vacated. ts prior conviction allegations and for resentencing pursuant to the outcome of that trial and sb 620. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. collins, j. 