filed 4/5/18 p. v. small ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles small, defendant and appellant. b283288 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma068546) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, and noah p. hill, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 charles small (defendant) stands convicted of raping and -year-old daughter. on appeal, he argues that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting expert testimony thacounterintuitive behavior during and after the sexual assault was at of a person who had, in fact, been subject to an unwanted sexual assault. we conclude there was no abuse of discretion, and affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts a. the incident on a sunday in late april 2016, defendant moved in with 16-year-old daughter, t. that evening, t. get a slurpee. moments later, defendant blocked t.ushed her into the game room. he then pushed her onto the futon sofa behind her and removed her knee-length sweats and her panties. he proceeded to put his mouth on ,ina. he then pushhis [erect] penisning her wrists to her sides, thrust his hips back and forth. while he was doing if you tell somebody t. turned to the side, and his penis came out of her. defendant askedd his penis into her vagina. within minutes, he pulled his penis out of her and, while midriff. defendant then told t. to get cleaned up, and left the room. 3 throughout the entire incident, t. sa t. also attempted to squirm away from defendant as he held her down. when she succeeded in part came out of her, she did not respond to his fore he reinserted his penis. at no point did t. cry out for help or attempt to hit or kick defendant. b. the aftermath immediately after the incident, t. took a shower because d like she was going to vomit. when she was getting dressed in her bedroom, defendant came in and asked, scared, t. responded, t. thereafter called a classmate named josh, and, crying, told him that defendant had raped her. josh told t. that he and his mother would pick up t. at a nearby grocery store. t. told her mother, who had since returned home, that she needed to go next door to get her cell phone charger from her friend, brooke; t. did not at that time tell her mother about the incident. t. went next door, and she and brooke left for the grocery store. t. ran; as brooke ran to keep up with her, t. told brooke what had happened. josh and josh. and drove her to a nearby car , t. called her mother, told her that defendant had raped her, and asked her mother to pick her up. on the drive home, t. explained the incident in detail. t. the police. one officer interviewed t. on a video. at the beginning of that video, she giggled before relaying what had happened to her. blood and tissue samples were collected from defendant and t.; later testing revealed that .midriff. 4 ii. procedural background a. charges the people charged defendant with (1) two counts of forcible rape with a child victim over 14 years of age (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2)),1 one for each time defendant inserted his penis into t.; (2) forcible oral copulation with a child victim over 14 years of age ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)(c)); (3) two counts of unlawful sexual intercourse ( 261.5, subd. (c)), one for each time defendant inserted his penis into t.; and (4) oral copulation of a person under 18 years of age ( 288a(b)(1)), as a lesser included offense to forcible oral copulation. b. trial 1. opening statements in his opening statement, defendant noted that the videotaped interview would show t. short period of [the] time of tak 2. expert testimony the people called an expert witness on the topic of the have both during and after a sexual assault. with respect to a child conduct during an incident, the expert explained [] possumlay awake but do not kinds of attempts or to stop the sexual abuse. with respect to a child after an incident, the expert explained that some 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 5 o the expert further testified that some child victims immediately report the abuse to an adult, while others will tell a teenage friend first. when presented with a hypothetical question mirroring the facts of the case, the expert opined that the hypothetical child during cross-examination, the expert reaffirmed that she was not people understand the behaviors of people 3. jury instructions the trial court specifically instructed the jury that the [to] be considered . . . as proof that instead, it was ly for the limited purpose of showing . . . that the not inconsistent with her having been sexually assault 4. closing argument during closing argument, the prosecutor argued that .ng the defendant argued that t. was lying because [and] violently told alleging 6 5. verdict the jury found defendant guilty of all of the charged crimes except the lesser included offense of oral copulation with a minor. c. sentencing the trial court imposed a 28-year prison term. specifically, the court imposed an 11-year sentence on the first rape count, a consecutive 9-year sentence on the second rape count, and an 8-year sentence on the forcible oral copulation count. the court imposed, but stayed under section 654, three-year sentences on each of the unlawful sexual intercourse charges. d. appeal defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion defendant argues that the trial court erred in admitting the expert testimony on how child victims can react to sexual assault. we review the admission of expert testimony for an abuse of discretion. (sargon enterprises, inc. v. university of southern california (2012) 55 cal.4th 747, 773.) testimony is commonly referred to as child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome. its admissibility turns on why it is being admitted. it is not admissible to prove that sexual abuse occurred. (people v. bowker (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 385, 391-393; see people v. jeff (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 309, 338 (jeff) [expert testimony not admissible to show sexual abuse occurred on the logic that the victim in a particular typical child molest victims .) but it is admissible people v. stark (1989) 213 cal.app.3d 107, 116; people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1095 (conc. opn. of 7 brown, j.); people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1301.) even then, a court may admit the expert testimony only if (1) the testimony is misconception[s] suggested by the ev(2) the jury is bowker, at pp. 393-394; people v. wells (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 179, 188; humphrey, at pp. 1095-1096 (conc. opn. of brown, j.).) as a threshold matter, the people argue that we need not are forfeited if no objection is made. (evid. code,  353; people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1328.) defendant seeks to avoid this bar by asserting that any objection would have been this type of expert testimony. (see people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 994 [futility excuses duty to object].) we disagree. as noted above, the admission of this type of testimony is subject to carefully delineated boundaries that continue to be monitored and enforced by the courts (e.g., jeff, supra, 204 cal.app.3d at p. 338); where, as here, a defendant believes those boundaries have been transgressed, an objection is not futile. even if we overlook the forfeiture, however, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the expert testimony. that is because the people established both prerequisites for its admission. first, the testimony was narrowly tailored to address several instances of t.inconsistent with her being the victim of sexual assault. 8 defendant mentioned two of them in his opening and closing argumentsnamely, that t. giggled and looked devoid of emotion during her videotaped interview. others were elsewhere suggested by the evidence, including that t. did not cry out or physically fight back during the sexual abuse; that she did not respond when defendant asked her about trying a different nd that she did not immediately report the abuse to her mother, and instead told her friends josh and brooke. what is more, this type of testimony is relevant in this case because defendant attacked t.(see people v. patino (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 1737, 1745 (patino) clearly instructed the jury to use the expert testimony only to not as proof that the sexual abuse occurred.2 defendant raises three objections to the expert testimony. first, he asserts that the people never articulated what sought to dispel.[16 year old] might act after being raped by her these assertions ignore both the law and the record in this case. tion to expressly state on the record the evidence which is inconsistent with the finding ois 2 defendant argued in his opening brief that the trial court did not give such an instruction, but subsequently acknowledged that the trial court had done so and withdrew that argument. 9 placed in issue due to . . . trial. (patino, supra, 26 cal.app.4th at pp. 1744-1745.) we have outlined, above, the evidence of t.behavior, and defendant certainly placed t.based on some of that behavior. t. [s] abuse victim ignores his own arguments to the jury, in which he . giggling and emotionless demeanor on the videotape were not the conduct of someone who had been raped. defendant notes on appeal that t. exhibited some away during the sexual assault, and that she did tell her mother relatively soon after the attack. however, this overlooks that other aspects of t.(which we have detailed above) were inconsistent with what a lay juror might expect, and that t. told her mother only after first not telling her mother and then telling two of her teenage friends. second, defendant contends that the expert testimony vouching as to t.stand the behaviors her testimony was limited to an assessment of whether t.ictim. and the imony was only relevant on the question of whether t.with her having been sexually assaultednot 10 t. was telling the truth. we presume that the jury followed this instruction. (people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 834.) lastly, defendant argues that the hypothetical question posed to the expert was improper because it incorporated the facts of this case, thereby running afoul of the language in which recites either the facts of the case at trial or obviously people v. gilbert (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 1372, 1383-1384; people v. gray (1986) 187 cal.app.3d 213, 218; people v. roscoe (1985) 168 cal.app.3d 1093, 1098-1100.) the concern expressed in these cases does not erect an absolute bar to hypotheticals involving the behavior of the alleged sexual assault victims; hypotheticals posed to experts are usually required to be rooted in the facts of the case (e.g., people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1045), and some cases have allowed expert testimony regarding sexual assault victim behavior to be linked to the facts of the particular case (e.g., people v. harlan (1990) 222 cal.app.3d 439, 450). the reason why ibetter the line between the permissible and impermissible uses of this type of testimony. (gilbert, at pp. 1383-1384.) in this case, testimony fell comfortably on the permissible side of that line and that line was further demarcated by 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst _________________________, j. chavez 