filed 8/31/18 p. v. nila ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony jonathan nila, defendant and appellant. b283191 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka114455) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas c. falls, judge. affirmed. patricia s. lai, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, colleen m. tiedemann and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 appellant anthony jonathan nila challenges a judgment of conviction entered following a plea of nolo contendere, contending the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress evidence. we reject his contentions and affirm the judgment. relevant procedural background on january 28, 2017, appellant was arrested when pomona police department (ppd) officers conducted a traffic stop of a vehicle driven by appellant, and discovered that it had been stolen. on march 1, 2017, an information was filed, charging appellant with driving or taking a vehicle without consent (veh. code,  1085, subd. (a)).1 accompanying the charge were allegations that he had suffered a prior conviction constituting a strikes law (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegation. after the trial court denied appellant motion to suppress evidence (pen. code,  1538.5), appellant entered a plea of nolo contendere to the charge against him and admitted the special allegation. the trial court sentenced appellant to a term of four years in prison. discussion appellant contends the trial court incorrectly declined to suppress the evidence discovered following the traffic stop. the crux of his contention is that the officers lacked a reasonable basis for conducting the stop, which they purportedly undertook in order to investigate a potentially unlawful turn under vehicle code section 22107. as explained below, we discern no error in the ruling. 1 all further statutory citations are to the vehicle code. 3 a. governing principles under penal code section 1538.5, subdivision (a), a defendant may move to suppress evidence gathered in violation of the state or federal constitution. the california constitution bars the exclusion of evidence obtained as a result of an unreasonable search or seizure unless this remedy is required by the federal constitution. (cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. (d); people v. camacho (2000) 23 cal.4th 824, 830amendment of the united states constitution prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures by police officers and other government officials. [citation.] this constitutional proscription is enforced by an exclusionary rule, generally prohibiting admission at trial of evidence obtained in violation of the fourth in re tyrell j. (1994) 8 cal.4th 68, 75, overruled on another ground in in re jaime p. (2006) 40 cal.4th 128, 139.) when reviewing a ruling on an unsuccessful motion to express and implied factual findings, upholding them if they are supported by substantial evidence, but we then independently review the tion that the search did not violate the fourth amendment. (people v. lomax (2010) 49 cal.4th 530, 563 (lomax).) in evaluating the legality of the search, we examine reasons for its people v. dimitrov (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 18, 27.) the key issues concern whether appellant was lawfully detained. (people v. durant (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 57, 63 (durant).) generally, a police officer may detain a person in order to investigate possible criminal behavior. (terry v. ohio (1968) 392 4 standard. (idn justifying the particular intrusion the police officer must be able to point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with rational inferences from those ibid.) under these principles, officers conducting the investigation of a traffic violation are held to specific objective standards. (people v. suff (2014) 58 cal.4th 1013, 1053-1054; people v. miranda (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 917, 926-927 (miranda)only if the facts and circumstances known to the officer support at least a reasonable suspicion that the driver has violated the vehicle code or some other law. [citations.] . . . [] . . . [] . . . [a]n officer may order the driver out of the car [citation], ask for and examine the motoristviolation and listen to any explanation, write a citation, and obtain the drivers promise to appear. [citation.] (miranda, supra, at pp. 926-927.) during the stop, the officer may properly observe what is in plain view, as that is not an invasion of privacy. (id. at p. 927.) b. vehicle code section 22107 the focus of our inquiry is on whether the officers had a reasonable basis to suspect that appellant had violated section 22107. that statute provides: no person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after the giving of an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this chapter in the event any other vehicle may be a central function of the statute is to prevent possible dangers to vehicles to the rear of the signaling 5 car, including police vehicles. (miranda, supra, 17 cal.app.4th at p. 930.) under section 22107, the obligation to signal has a broad scope. the obligation turns. . . . [b]y its express terms, the statute applies to any movement to the left or right from a direct course, and this is people v. thompson (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 40, 61.) furthermore, because any other vehicle may 07, italics added), triggers the obligation to signal. (people v. logsdon (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 741, 745 (logsdon).) for that reason, the fact that an unsignaled movement did not actually cause another car to swerve or brake does not, by itself, establish that a signal was unnecessary. (id. at pp. 745-746.) the required signal is partially specified in section 22108. (people v. carmona (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1385, 1392-1393 (carmona).) that statute provides: any signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given continuously during the last 100 ( 22108.) viewed in conjunction with section 22108, section 22107 requires that a during the last 100 feet traveled before turning, but only in the event other motorists may be carmona, supra, at p. 1394.) an actual violation of that duty is not required for a lawful traffic stop. a traffic stop, the question is not whether appellant actually violated the may (durant, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 63, quoting logsdon, supra, 6 164 cal.app.4th at p. 746.) thus, a lawful traffic stop requires only a reasonable suspicion that the duty had been violated, which need not amount arrest. (ibid.) an instructive application of these principles is found in logsdon. there, a police officer in a patrol car saw the multi-lane street, and proceed forward in the middle lane. (logsdon, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at pp. 743-744.) the officer followed the defendant in the same lane, within 100 feet. (id. at p. 743.) when the defendant moved from the middle lane to the far right lane without signaling, the officer conducted a traffic stop pursuant to section 22107, and discovered that the defendant was driving under the influence of alcohol. (ibid.) the trial court concluding that there had been a car -- namely, the police vehicle -- r, traveling in the same lane and at the same speed, . . . id. at p. 745.) affirming, the appellate court concluded that the unsignaled lane change could have affected the sole driver behind the defendant -- the police officer -- because it suggested inattention, sudden illness, or sleepiness, thereby creating , including whether . (logsdon, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at p. 746.) the court explained that he purpose of the signaling requirement is to inform other drivers what the initial driver intends and thus, provide them with an indication as to his or her future course. without such an indication, a driver is bereft of necessary information by which (ibid., italics omitted.) 7 the court further noted that the lawfulness of the traffic stop required only an objective manifestation that section 22107 might have been violated, not an actual violation of that statute. (id. at pp. 745-746.) c. underlying proceedings motion sought to suppress all evidence discovered following the traffic stop, which he contended was unlawful. the sole witness called at the evidentiary hearing on the motion was ppd officer francesco sacca. according to officer sacca, on january 28, 2017, he and his partner were driving in a residential area of pomona. they were in a black unmarked and push bar, as well as sirens and spotlights. at approximately 11:42 p.m., they were on 7th street near rebecca street. as they were about to turn south onto rebecca street, a honda civic drove past them on rebecca, moving south. after the officers turned onto rebecca behind the civic, it over to the right curb without signaling. the officers regarded that as an unsafe turn under section 22107, pulled in behind the civic, and activated their lights in order to conduct a traffic stop. officer sacca further testified that when he walked to the civic, appellant -- -- remained inside it. upon looking inside the civic, sacca noticed that there was no key in the ignition switch. sacca inferred that the civic might have been stolen, and a check through confirmed his suspicion. on cross-examination, officer sacca was presented with eight photographs of different portions of the west curb side of rebecca street between 7th and 8th street. although sacca appears to have pointed to one photograph as showing the area of 8 the traffic stop, the record does not establish which photograph he identified. the record discloses only the following testimony: do you recall along what portion of the road you pulled him over? sure how far down or anything. following the presentation of evidence, defense counsel contended it was likely that there was a the two cars when appellant moved his car to the curb. he argued that if appellant had been travelling at 20 to 25 miles per hour as he passed in front of the police car on 7th street, and five seconds elapsed before the officers made the turn onto rebecca street, the distance between the two cars would have exceeded 100 feet. the prosecutor acknowledged that officer sacca had not specified the distance between the cars, but argued that his the prosecutor also the distance between the two cars would have been approximately 80 feet if three seconds elapsed before the officers made the turn onto rebecca street. relying on logsdon, the trial court concluded that the traffic stop was lawful, stating: police officer in the field who has to make snap decisions, snap judgments. he sees what he believes to be a violation. . . . finding, based on his testimony, he was within a hundred feet. 9 the court further concluded that there was no unreasonable sacca d. analysis appellant contends there was insufficient evidence to establish a reasonable suspicion that section 22107 had been violated. as explained above (see pt. b., ante), in reviewing his challenges, our primary focus is on whether there is adequate evidence of he had violated that statute, not whether he actually did so. (logsdon, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at p. 746.) apprincipal contention is that his unsignaled movement could not have affected the only other vehicle present -- the police car -- for purposes of a potential violation of section 22107. he argues that he was not making a turn or changing lanes, b we are not persuaded. according to officer sacca, near midnight on january 28, 2017, he and his partner turned onto rebecca street and drove behind appellant, who immediately made an unsignaled movement to the right curb. that movement -- which sacca -- raised the same uncertainties regarding future driving as were presented in logsdon. the lack of a signal suggested inattention, sudden illness, or sleepiness, raising the possibility (logsdon, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at p. 746), that is, an abrupt and unsignaled movement away from the curb as the officers moved past . there is thus sufficient failure to signal affected the car, for purposes of justifying the traffic stop. appellant also contends there is insufficient evidence that officer sacca 10 he made the unsignaled movement. he places special emphasis on defense argument that if five seconds elapsed before the officers made the turn onto rebecca street and followed , the distance between the cars exceeded 100 feet. as explained below, we reject his contentions. iwas lawful, we resolve all factual issues in support of the ruling, insofar as the court did not make express findings, provided there is adequate evidence for such implied findings. (lomax, supra, 49 whether express or implied, under the deferential substantial- evidence in a light most favorable to the order denying the motion , [a]ny conflicts in the evidence are [citation.] (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 979.) here, in addition to finding that the gap between the cars was actually less than 100 feet, the trial court impliedly found that officer sacca -- police officer in the field who ha[d] to -- reasonably judged the size of the gap to unsafe under section 22107. of these findings, only the latter is essential to a determination that there was a section 22107 had been violated, for purposes of establishing the lawfulness of the traffic stop. (durant, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 63.) we conclude that there is sufficient evidence to support each finding. although officer sacca did not specify the distance between the cars, he stated that appellant moved to the curb the turn from 7th street just south 11 that testimony is sufficient to support the trial determination of the actual distance between the cars. additionally, we note that officer sacca appears to have selected a particular photograph as depicting the area of the traffic stop. because that photograph is not identified in the record, we must people v. buttles (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 1631, 1639-fact observes is itself evidence . . . . when what the trier of fact observed has not been made a part of the transcript on appeal, a reviewing court must assume that the evidence acquired by such a viewing is sufficient to sustain the finding or judgment in for similar reasons, there is sufficient evidence that officer sacca had a reasonable suspicion that his own vehicle was within at the time of the movement. the incident occurred near midnight, when darkness ordinarily diminishes visibility. in view of those circumstances, officer saccaset forth a reasonable basis for judging the gap between the cars to be less than 100 feet, even if that estimate was incorrect. carmona, supra, 195 cal.app.4th 1385 and people v. butler (1988) 202 cal.app.3d 602 (butler), upon which appellant relies, are distinguishable. in carmona, as a police officer drove down a 0 yards away, driving toward him on the same street. (carmona, supra, 195 cal.app.4th at p. 1388.) when the vehicles were 55 feet apart, the defendant made an unsignaled right-hand turn onto an adjoining street. (ibid.) relying on section 22107, the officer conducted a traffic stop and found drugs vehicle. (ibidsuppress the evidence, the officer testified that the unsignaled 12 turn did not affect his car, and that the street was otherwise deserted. (id. at pp. 1388, 1390.) the trial court nonetheless failure to signal for 100 feet prior to the turn contravened section 22108, which it determined to be a distinct traffic violation. (id. at p. 1388.) reversing, the appellate court held that section 22108 is -the signal required under section 22017 when another car may be affected by the impending movement. (carmona, supra, 195 cal.app.4th at p. 1394.) concluded that he had no reasonable basis for investigating a potential violation of section 22107 or section 22108. (id. at p. 1394.) here, in contrast, officer sacca did not testify that his record discloses sufficient evidence that saccabeen affected by that movement. in butler, a police officer on night patrol saw a car stop near a liquor store, then speed away. (butler, supra, 202 cal.app.3d at pp. 604-605.) the officer followed the car, saw that it had tinted windows, and conducted a traffic stop predicated on section 26708.5, which bars certain types of tinting on vehicle windows, with specified exceptions.2 (ibid.) during the traffic 2 section 26708.5 states: affix, or apply any transparent material upon the windshield, or side or rear windows, of any motor vehicle if the material alters the color or reduces the light transmittance of the windshield or side or rear windows, except as provided in subdivision (b), (c), or (d) of [s]ection 26708. [] (b) tinted safety glass may be installed in a vehicle if (1) the glass complies with motor vehicle safety 13 stop, the officer found drugs and unlawful drug paraphernalia in the car. (ibid.) motion to suppress, the appellate court reversed, concluding that the mere presence of tinted windows did not support a reasonable suspicion that the statute had been violated, absent additional facts suggesting that no exception applied. (id. at p. 607.) for the reasons discussed above, no such error is presented here, as officer sacca established a reasonable suspicion that appellant had violated section 22107. in sum, the trial court did disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, p. j. we concur: collins, j. micon, j.* *judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. standards of the united states department of transportation for safety glazing materials, and (2) the glass is installed in a location permitted by those standards for the particular type of gl 