filed 8/1/18 p. v. morgan ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. willie morgan, jr., defendants and appellants. b283556 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va142171) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. raul sahagun, judge. affirmed. joshua schraer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney, shawn mcgahey webb and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant willie morgan, jr. (defendant) appeals from his conviction for attempted carjacking. he contends that the judgment must be reversed because the trial court admitted irrelevant evidence which was more prejudicial than probative. although the evidence was not relevant, we conclude that any error was harmless, and affirm the judgment. background defendant was charged in an amended information with a single count of attempted carjacking in violation of penal code sections 215, subdivision (a), and 664, subdivision (a).1 it was also alleged that defendant had suffered two prior serious or violent felony convictions, subjecting him to sentencing under law), and under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). a jury found defendant guilty as charged, and defendant admitted the prior convictions. on june 29, 2017, the trial court sentenced defendant to eight years in prison, comprised of the low term of 18 months, doubled as a second strike, plus five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a). the court imposed mandatory fines and fees and awarded custody credits. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. prosecution evidence zachery london (london) was a used car salesman at , at about 7:00 p.m., when he saw defendant on the lot looking at a honda. london approached and asked defendant whether he was car shopping. as he had the key in his pocket for a nearby acura, london suggested they look at the acura. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 london described the arrangement of the lot and identified photographs showing the location of the acura in relation to other cars and a nearby wall. n long rows. there were a number of rows of cars parked in front of the acura with a wall behind it. london could not recall whether the acura was obstructed by other cars that evening or whether it would have been easy to drive the car out. after defendant agreed to look at the acura, london got into the passenger seat and -- the usual arrangement when london showed a car. london handed the key to defendant who then started the car. defendant asked london whether he was the owner or a salesman, and when london replied he was a salesman, defendant told him he was going to steal the car. defendant told london that if he would participate, defendant would give him a jaguar. defendant proposed that they go for a test drive, and suggested that london later tell the owner that he was elbowed, hit, or something by defendant, which made london jump out of the car, and defendant then drove away. pretending to go along with the plan, london told defendant he would get his business card from the office, and reached over to take the key from the ignition. defendant then pulled london back into the car and struck him with right hand. london was unable to remove the key. london managed to get out of the car and alerted coworkers in the office. defendant also got out, ran around the front of the car toward london, who was now cornered between the wall and another london responded by punching defendant in the nose or upper mouth. as london tried to hold defendant in place, defendant punched london several times, hard in the upper arms and body and back. 4 faoud hamida, testified that he saw london jump out of a car, heard him call for help, and saw defendant attack london, aid. when hamida reached london, he was kneeling on the ground trying to protect his face from defendant, who was standing over london, looking like he was ready to throw a punch. hamida got defendant to the ground, where he and london held him until police arrived. the 911 call was played for the jury. in the call london described defendant, repeated several times that a man had tried to steal a car, and that he was being held there. defense evidence that in june 2016, defendant owned a 2001 or 2002 jaguar, which was not functioning, so they had been looking at cars at various dealerships during the first week or so of june. on june 3 or 4, defendant injured his right hand. she identified a deputy sheriff christopher avila initially testified that hamida told him that defendant punched london with his closed right fist while he was on the ground, but on cross-examination, deputy avila testified that hamida did not tell him anything about a right-handed fist. radiologist michael douek testified that he reviewed an x-the date it was taken, and found a fracture of the fifth metacarpal bone, that runs from the base of the little finger to the wrist. there was soft tissue swelling around the fracture and some bruising. emergency room physician cary gallardo testified to having treated defendant on june 4, 2016, after defendant came in with swelling and pain in the right hand. dr. gallardo ordered an x-ray and diagnosed him with a fracture. on cross-5 examination, dr. gallardo testified that he did not remember asking defendant how he injured his hand, but it was his usual and customary practice to do so as part of taking a medical history. dr. gallardo observed in the triage notes that the patient reported the injury occurred because of an altercation two days earlier. when dr. gallardo explained that it was sometimes called that, but in decrease due to pain, but defendant was still able to swing his arm, left to right, parallel to ground, and he could wiggle his fingers and close his hand into a fist. dr. gallardo could not give s condition or capabilities would have been on june 11. removable by the patient, and he was given medication for inflammation and pain. emergency room physician chun joey chang saw defendant on june 11, 2016, when defendant was brought there by deputies. defendant had what looked like a facial contusion, a shoulder contusion, and a fracture of a right fifth metacarpal, which runs from wrist toward small finger. dr. chang gave him a splint and instructions for rest. defendant was not in much pain, and refused tylenol. dr. chang wrote in his report that the patient did not tell dr. chang that he had injured his hand before june 11. defense investigator tamara gayden, interviewed london by telephone in august 2016. london told her that defendant passenger seat when he grabbed the key out of the ignition as he exited the car through the passenger door. he added that defendant assaulted 6 london by hitting his shoulder, neck, and chest areas after gayden made an unsuccessful attempt to obtain surveillance video from a nearby gas station. the court read from the preliminary hearing transcript in which the judge stated: has the last two fingers of his right hand bandaged, they are in a extends well up his wrist. defendant did not testify. rebuttal deputy avila testified that on june 11, 2016, he saw no and defendant did not tell him that he had injured his hand prior to that date. discussion i. evidence code section 352 objection defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting during an altercation. prior to cross-examining dr. gallardo, the prosecutor asked for a ruling on the admissibility of defendantthat he had injured his right hand in a fight with police, found in his medical records. the prosecutor argued that the statement was admissible because it was not hearsay, it was a party admission, forming his diagnosis. defense counsel argued that the statement was irrelevant and highly prejudicial. the court found the evidence relevant, but citing evidence code section 352, excluded the was with the police. dr. gallardo then testified that he did not remember asking defendant how he had injured his hand, but it was his 7 how the injury occurred, the location and quality of the pain, whether it radiates, and what makes it better or worse. the doctor said he customarily noted the answers under the heading, dr. gallardo explained that the manner in which the dr. gallardo was not asked, and did not tatement to form a diagnosis. later, while discussing jury instructions, the trial court observed the doctor relied on it to form his diagnosis, and that is was also admissible as a party-admission exception to the hearsay rule.2 . 360, found purpose, to be considered only to evaluate the experts opinion, not as proof that the information contained in the statement was true. defendant contends that the statement should have been excluded as irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative, and the trial court erred in refusing his proposed limiting instruction on the issue. ncy in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of code,  210.) the court in its discretion may exclude evidence, including relevant evidence, if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will create substantial danger of undue prejudice. (people v. scott (2011) 52 2 see evidence code section 1220. 8 discretion must demonstrate that it was exercised in an irratireasoned judgment and guided by legal principles and policies (people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977.) defendant also argues that the statement amounted to inadmissible character evidence under evidence code section 1101, which eroded his credibility. relevance and evidence code section 352 objections failed to preserve his claim that the trial court admitted the evidence in violation of evidence code section 1101. (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 437.) defendant reasons that the statement was irrelevant because the prosecution did not dispute that defendant fractured his hand the week before the charged incident, and the fact that the fracture occurred in a fight was not otherwise relevant to any disputed fact at trial. respondent contends that the evidence was relevant because dr. gallardo relied on the statement in forming his diagnosis. however, dr. gallardo did not testify that he relied on in making a diagnosis. when the prosecutor asked why it was important to know how an injury he did not indicate it was important in case. he did not remember asking defendant how the injury occurred. all he remembered was the swelling and pain in -ray, and diagnosing him with a fracture. the statement was in the triage notes because it was usual and customary practice to take a medical history, which included the manner in which any injury occurred. 9 respondent contends that the statement was relevant for its truth, but does not suggesa week earlier was of consequence to the determination of any disputed issue in the case. we thus do not agree that the manner of the previous injury was relevant or probative of any issue of consequence in this case. however, we agree with respondent that the error was harmless. error in the admission of evidence is generally reviewed for prejudice under the test of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. (people v. hernandez (2011) 51 cal.4th 733, 746.) under that test, we examine the entire cause, including the evidence, to determine whether the reasonable probability that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result had the evidence been excluded. (watson, supra, at p. 836; evid. code,  353, subd. demonstrate the reasonable probability of a different result. (see hernandez, at p. 746.) at the outsetis a close disagreement, it was easily resolved, as the jury reached a verdict just six minutes after the readback. the incident took place a year before trial, the events transpired quickly, and there was no expert witness testimony regarding record. london did not forget that he was in the passenger seat, and appeared to be certain, in that it was his usual arrangement 10 when showing a car. deputy avila testified that london told him that he (london) the passenger seat. this testimony merely created a minor inconsistency, as london was certain, and his testimony was supported by hamida, who saw defendant emerge from the attacked london. it was also supported by investigator gaydentestimony that when she interviewed london by telephone in august 2016, london told her he had been in the passenger seat remember whether he removed the keys from the ignition. in fact, london recalled that he was unable to remove the key. investigator gayden testified that london told her that he grabbed the key out of the ignition as he exited the car. this created another conflict in the testimony, but did not flaws in lond on the contrary, it was the fact pattern as respondent notes, is an unusual fact pattern, . . . very unusual. this thing just spiraled out of control, mr. morgan, but i do think the conduct does match the charge. i think the jury was well within their right to convict you construed the was prone to fight, such an inference would assist, not hurt the defense theory. if there had been no evidence of the manner in which defendant had fractured his hand, it would remain 11 undisputed that there was a physical altercation between london and defendant. defense counsel argued that london made up the conversation about stealing the car, and that the discussion in the acura instead involved insulting words and aggressive behavior by london, making defendant angry and causing him to react and continue the fight. counsel argued that such a scenario indicated that defendant intended to fight, not steal the car. as defendant points out here, london testified that the keys remained in the ignition, indicating that defendant could have this argument also suggests that defendant was prone to fight, and thus theft was not his motivation. instructing the jury not to consider ave undermined rather than furthermore, the prosecution case was strong. although the incident was indeed unusual, the testimony of london, corroborated by hamida, presented a compelling eyewitness account. adding to that, loexcited, contemporaneous statements to the 911 operator in which he repeatedly said that credibility and his version of the events. the jury believed london, and as we discern no reasonable probability of a statement, we conclude that defendant has not met his burden of demonstrating people v. hernandez, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 746.) 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, p. j. lui __________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 