filed 11/15/18 p. v. gardner ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael daniel gardner, defendant and appellant. b283873 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka109665) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert m. martinez, judge. affirmed. tracy j. dressner, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 may 7, 2015, michael daniel gardner (gardner) stole mercedes benz e350 and drove while intoxicated. while evading the police, gardner accelerated to 127 miles per hour and collided with honda civic, killing her. on appeal, gardner contends there was insuffici death as well as her cause of death. gardner also argues that the trial court committed reversible error by refusing to suppress the evidence from his warrantless blood draw. we affirm. background i. charges the los angeles county district attgardner with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); count 1)1 as well as gross vehicular manslaughter while intoxicated ( 191.5, subd. (a); count 2), driving or taking a vehicle without consent (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a); count 3), fleeing a police officer causing serious bodily injury (veh. code,  2800.3, subd. (a); count 4), and driving when privilege suspended/revoked (veh. code,  14601.2, subd. (a); count 5). gardner pleaded not guilty and proceeded to trial.2 ii. prosecution evidence 1 all further statutory references will be to the penal code, unless otherwise specified. 2 on the first day of trial, september 28, 2016, gardner said he wanted to represent himself and the trial court relieved the publiactually take place until april 11, 2017, at which time gardner was represented by deputy public defender joseph kang. 3 gardner and denman gambill (gambill) were longtime friends. gambill owned a 2014 mercedes benz e350, which he occasionally allowed gardner to drive. however, gambill did not allow anyone to drive the car unless he was also in it. the keys to the mercedes on may 7, gambill believed gardner had too much to drink. at 9:00 p.m. or 9:30 p.m. that night, gambill told gardner to go home. gambill thought that gardner would walk home given that he only lived across the street. when gardner left, his path took him in the direction of the car port later that same evening, claremont police sergeant robert ewing was inside his marked police car when he noticed a mercedes e350 traveling on towheadlights were off although it was about 10:45 p.m. and raining. sergeant ewing followed the mercedes and tried to initiate a traffic stop. the mercedes began to yield by driving into a gas station. however, the mercedes then quickly accelerated away from the gas station. sergeant ewing did not continue his pursuit because his police car was unable keep up with the mercedes.3 he radioed dispatch to notify pomona police about the mercedes. moments later, sergeant ewing saw a large flash of light, which he initially thought was caused by a blown electrical transformer. believing it might have something to do with the mercedes, sergeant ewing turned his police car around and travelled west on arrow highway. as he approached the 3 r was equipped with a dash cam and the video of the attempted traffic stop was played for the jury at trial. 4 intersection of arrow highway and garey avenue, sergeant ewing saw debris on the road. he turned on his overhead lights which again activated sergeant ewing soon saw that the mercedes had collided with a 2010 honda civic at the intersection of arrow highway and mariposa. the honda was overturned and severely damaged. the mercedes was also heavily damaged. the sole occupant of the hondavasquezwas she was wearing her seat belt. dash cam recorded him saying, you okay? hello? can you hear me? can you hear me? hey? 4 sergeant ewing continued calling out to vasquez by hey, can you hear me? inside the car. hey, come on. claremont police officer garrett earl joined sergeant ewing at the collision site. sergeant ewing was recorded telling officer earl, heard discussing how vasquez had no pulse. sergeant ewing saw that n the side of the street and told his captain thatobably ewing subsequently told his captain that vasquez was dead: and they just covered her up, so i believe they called it. uh, yeah. so i wanted to give you a heads up on nything else comes up. [] no, . . . i shut it down, because as soon as he was taking off, i well, obviously, he did. 4 the post-collision recording from sergeant cam was transcribed and played for the jury at trial. 5 later, sergeant ewing can be license] for the . . . deceased driver they pronounced. covered with a sheet right in the meantime, the police searched the area for the driver of the mercedes based on a description provided by witness jennifer mcleary (mcleary). although mcleary did not see the actual collision, she saw what appeared to be a huge electrical spark and a mercedes. she saw a man, who looked clearly dazed, get out of the mercedes using side door and walk toward the sidewalk. she said the man ran northbound on mariposa and wore either blue jeans with no shirt, or dark pants and a light-colored shirt. during the search, claremont police officer nicholas martinez spotted a person wearing blue jeans and a light-colored shirt running away from him. the person, later identified as gardner, was not wearing shoes or socks. officer martinez pointewhen officer martinez spoke with gardner, the officer noted that gardner smelled of alcohol and had a small amount of blood on his lip or mouth area and the key to the mercedes was in his front pocket. officer earl questioned gardner at the scene.5 gardner said he was in shock as a result of a collision and admitted he had stolen the mercedes from a friend. officer cesar rivera, who also noted that gardner smelled of alcohol, administered a horizontal gaze nystagmus test. based on the results of that test, 5 ardner was played for the jury. 6 officer rivera believed gardner was impaired. gardner was taken to an ambulance, where mcleary identified him as the man she saw running from the mercedes.6 inside the mercedes, police found a checkbook, an ebt card, and name on it. gardnepassport was in a bag on the floor. the gardner was transported to the hospital about an hour speech was still slurred but he indicated to officer rivera that he understood he was being arrested for driving under the influence. officer rivera explained to gardner that because they were in a hospital, the officer could not offer him a breath test and his blood would need to be drawn instead. officer rivera thought that gardner nodded his head, or engaged in some kind of affirmative conduct, which the officer interpreted as consent to the blood draw. at 12:25 blood was drawn and then booked into evidence. by the time officer rivera returned to the hospital and read gardner his miranda7 rpeech was clear and he spoke without difficulty. gardner waived his rights and agreed to speak with the officer. gardner drink that evening, including gin and a box of wine. gardner also admitted that he was involved in a traffic collision and said he had fled because he was afraid and panicked. gardner then said he no longer wanted to speak and the interview ended. 6 in addition to identifying gardner at the field show-up, mcleary also identified gardner at trial. 7 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694]. 7 officer martinez spoke with gambill, the owner of the mercedes. gambill said that gardner had been drinking in home that night. kitchen where there were bottles of alcohol on the counter. gambill said gardner drank from those bottles. gambill said gardner did not have permission to take the mercedes and that he had noticed one of the keys to the car was missing. bridgette pitcher, a criminalist with the los angeles county sheri, testified that most people with a .05 percent blood alcohol level are too mentally impaired to safely operate a motor vehicle, while all people with a .08 percent blood alcohol level and above are too mentally impaired to do so. based on her gas chromatography analysis, pitcher determined that gardneblood sample contained a 0.27 percent blood alcohol level. she testified that anyone with an alcohol concentration of 0.27 was definitely unsafe and mentally impaired to safely operate a motor vehicle. detective michael vandenberg was assigned to the major accident investigation team of the pomona police department and was trained in advanced accident reconstruction. based on the damage he observed, detective vandenberg determined that the front end of the mercedes collided with the rear of the honda. detective vandenberg also downloaded the data from the -board computer that monitored the airbags. according to the data, the mercedes was traveling 126 miles per hour five seconds before the collision, and at one point reached a speed of 129 miles per hour. the data also showed the pedal was pressed to the floor and at full throttle. at the time of the proximately 127 miles per 8 hour. at no time during this five-second period were the brakes activated. the speed limit at the crash site was 45 miles per hour. the honda was traveling at about 40 to 45 miles per hour at the time of the collision. the force that the 3,700 pound mercedes exerted on the honda was equivalent to almost two million pounds of kinetic energy.8 the force from the collision caused the seat, tore the metal skin from its rivets, and caused the honda to shear off a wooden power pole. the honda skidded into some bushes and rolled for 30 feet before coming to a stop and landing on its roof. approximately three pushed vasquez so far to the right that her seat-belted body was almost in the passenger area. the jury viewed surveillance video that showed the collision and the speed of the cars. the jury also heard evidence of a prior incident in which gardner was speeding, led police on a high speed pursuit, crashed into another car, and was found to be intoxicated. the defense did not seek a judgment of acquittal a case in chief pursuant to section 1118.1.9 nor did the defense present any evidence at trial. iii. verdict and sentencing 8 in comparison, a .45-caliber bullet fired from a gun produces only 369 pounds of kinetic energy. 9 prior to sentencing, the defense filed a motion for a new to the police. this was the only ground noted in the motion. 9 the jury convicted gardner on all counts. the trial court sentenced gardner to 18 years to life in state prison, calculated as life in prison for count 1 ( 187, subd. (a)), plus a consecutive prison term of 3 years for count 3 (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)). the trial court imposed and stayed prison terms for count 2 ( 191.5, subd. (a)) and count 4 (veh. code,  2800.3, subd. (a)) pursuant to section 654. the court imposed a concurrent term of six months in jail for count 5 (veh. code,  14601.2, subd. (a)). the court also ordered that gardner pay $40,136.87 in victim restitution. standards of review we review a sufficiency of the evidence claim under the familiar and deferential substantial evidence standard of review. (see people v. hicks (1982) 128 cal.app.3d 423, 429.) substantial (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) in reviewing for substantial evidence, we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (see people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 632.) justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for (people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 403.) verdict is attacked on the ground that there is no substantial evidence to sustain it, the power of an appellate court begins and ends with the determination as to whether, on 10 the entire record, there is any substantial evidence, contradicted or uncontradicted, which will support it, and when two or more inferences can reasonably be deduced from the facts, a reviewing court is without power to substitute its deductions for those of the jury. it is of no consequence that the jury believing other evidence, or drawing different inferences, might have reached a (people v. brown (1984) 150 cal.app.3d 968, 970.) whether the evidence presented at trial is direct or circumstantial, the relevant inquiry on appeal remains whether any reasonable trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 92.) furthermore, unless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction. (see people v. dominguez (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1351, 1356.) o suppress is well established. the appellate court views the record in the light most s factual findings, express or implied, when supported by substantial evidence. but in determining whether, on the facts so found, the search or seizure was reasonable under the fourth amendment, the appellate court exercises its independent judgment. [citations.] appellate review is confined to the correctness or incorrectness s ruling, not the reasons for its ruling. (people v. superior court (chapman) (2012) 204 cal.app.4th 1004, 1011.) discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence claim gardner first contends that insufficient evidence supports his convictions for murder, gross vehicular manslaughter, and 11 evading a police officer. specifically, gardner argues that although vasquez was an element of three of his charges, the prosecution failed to present any evidence that vasquez actually died. gardner also claims that even assuming there was any epresented substantial evidence from which the jury could reasonably infer that vasquez died and that the collision caused her death. a. on the record here, we conclude that substantial evidence the collision caused her death. homicide case the fact that the deceased met his death through the act or agency of the defendant must be proved. it may, of (people v. peters (1950) 96 cal.app.2d 671, 675 (peters).) nevertheless, the cause of death is a fact, which, like every other fact, need not be proved, even in a criminal case, if admitted or conceded by [the] defendantibid.) further, as noted above, the only question for light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a (people v. hatch (2000) 22 cal.4th 260, 272.) that standard has been satisfied in this case. we first note that defense counsel expressly conceded that vasquez had died. for example, during his cross-examination of sergeant ewing, defense counsel specifically referred counsel plainly acknowledged that vasquez had died by telling 12 . . easter just passed, and it is a celebration of rebirth. and i think that people forget before that rebirth, that someone suffered and died. and this part, i just want to say that i have no doubt that ms. vasquez10 indeed, prove vasquez died. rather, defense counsel argued that the prosecution had failed to prove that gardner demonstrated implied malice; that he intentionally disregarded human life.11 as gardner correctly notes, when proving that vasquez died, the prosecution did not use testimony from paramedics at the scene, or the pathologist who 10 gardner correctly observes that statements made by attorneys are not evidence and that the jury was so instructed. however, ty to stipulate to (people v. palmer (2013) 58 cal.4th 110, 118.) even at trial, counsel may stipulate to the existence or nonexistence of essential facts. (see people v. adams (1993) 6 cal.4th 570, 574, 577-583.) to that end, evidentiary stipulations have long been recognized as tactical trial decisions which counsel has discretion to make without the express authority of the client. (see linsk v. linsk (1969) 70 cal.2d 272, 277.) here, defense tantamount to a stipulation. 11 conversely, defense counsel appeared to argue that the prosecution failed to prove gardner actually drove the mercedes that evening. gardner does not re-raise this claim on appeal. furthermore, neither argument posits that vasquez did not die or that the collision did not cause her death. 13 rather, the prosecution relied on contemporaneous recordings from the police officers who responded to the collision. sergeant pulse or not. heard discussing how vasquez had no pulse. sergeant ewing saw that n the side of the street and told his captain thatewing subsequently told his captain that vasquez was in fact and they just covered her up, so i believe they called it. uh, yeah. so i wanted to give you a heads up lse comes up. [] . . . i shut it down, because as soon as he was taking well, obviously, he did. ewing could be [ . . deceased driver they pronounced. i covered with a sheet 12 gardner counters that although vasquez was covered up with a sheet at the collision site, such evidence was insufficient to show vasquez e 12 gardner contends that statements captured on the dash cam recorder are not proof beyond a reasonable doubt that [vasquez] died from injuries received in the traffic although [evidence code section] 352 -collision recording dash cam, gardner does not cite any instance where counsel raised a hearsay objection at trial. thus, any hearsay claim gardner may be raising now is waived. (see duronslet v. kamps (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 717, 726.) further, the recordings were not inadmissible hearsay. (evid. code,  1241; people v. perez (1978) 83 cal.app.3d 718, 725-726.) 14 when two or more inferences can reasonably be deduced from the facts, a reviewing court is without power to substitute its deductions for (people v. brown, supra, 150 cal.app.3d at p. 970.) it is of no consequence that the jury believing other evidence, or drawing different inferences, might have reached a (ibid.) the jury also heard evidence that the mercedes was traveling ahonda. the force from the collision was equivalent to almost two million pounds of kinetic energy. in comparison, a .45-caliber bullet fired from a gun produces only 369 pounds of kinetic energy. the collapse into the rear passenger seat and caused the honda to shear off a wooden power pole. the honda rolled for 30 feet before coming to a rest on its roof. the impact collapsed the side door approximately three interior and pushed vasquez so far to the right that her seat-belted body was almost in the passenger area. pomona police department officer jorge aleman, who had participated in hundreds of traffic collision investigations, testified that the honda was one of the most severely damaged vehicles he had seen in his career. the jury also saw photos of the overturned honda and crash site. although, as noted by gardner, the prosecution could have to decide which form of evidence was the superior choice. nor do we decide if the prosecution was required to present all the evidence at its disposal. (see people v. tuthill (1947) 31 cal.2d 15 there is no compulsion on the prosecution to call any particular witness . . . so long as there is fairly presented to the court the material evidence bearing upon the charge for which the defendant is on trial people v. smith (1959) 174 cal.app.2d 129, 134.) rather, we must determine whether the evidence ultimately used by the prosecution sufficiently supported the based on the recordings capturing police confirming the fatal nature of the collision, as well as the force, we conclude that the prosecution presented substantial evidence from which the jury could reasonably infer that vasquez did not survive the collision. b. it is well established that the principles of causation as they apply to tort law are equally applicable to criminal law and, as in tort law, the s act must be the proximate cause of the injury, death, or other harm constituting the crime. (people v. schmies (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 38, 46-47.) whether the s conduct was a proximate, rather than remote, cause of death is ordinarily a factual question for the jury unless undisputed evidence reveals a cause so remote that no rational trier of fact could find the needed nexus. (see people v. brady s finding of proximate causation will be not from which it may be reasonabs] 13 (people v. scola (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 723, 726.) 13 of a punctured lung, blood loss, heart attack, [or] a preexisting there is substantial evidence from which the jury 16 that standard has been satisfied in this case. viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, the ve occurred but for the collision. the evidence also established that was a substantial factor contributing to death. this is not a case in which undisputed evidence revealed a cause so remote that no rational trier of fact could find of proximate causation will not be disturbed on appeal. c. people v. peters in peters, supra, 96 cal.app.2d 671, a jury convicted the defendant of involuntary manslaughter, despite that fact that, although it was undisputed the defendant stabbed the victim, the prosecution allegedly failed to prove a fact it was required to s death. (id. at p. 675.) nevertheless, the appellate court affirmed the conviction, holding that the defendant effectively conceded this particular fact. (ibid.) spite of the fact that the district attorney offered no evidence of the cause or time of death), but of assumption by all concerned in the trial[]judge, jury, prosecution and defense[]that deceased died from the knife wound inflicted by [the] defendant, and that so far as the cause of death was concerned, it really was not an issue in the case. the only issue was whether [the] defendant could be excused from the stabbing of [the victim], under the claim of self-defense, or unibid.) the could conclude that the collision was a substantial factor in . 17 appellate court acknowledged that the prosecution had the burden of proving the defendant caused the victimthe defendant was not required to point out to the prosecution its failure to make a case against him; and that the defendant may sit back and require the prosecution to prove its case and then, and only then, be id. at p. 676.) however, the defendant cannot mislead the court and jury by seeming to take a position as to the issues in the case and then on (ibid.) the record in peters demonstrated that the defendant had raised self-defense and accident as defehimself of the fact that when the prosecution closed its case, it had not proved the cause of death, nor did the defendant avail himself of the defense [that he did not c(peters, supra, 96 cal.app.2d at p. 676.) instructions which [the] defendant requested, no hint is given that he was not conceding the cause of deatid. at p. 677.) the defendants] actions, although resulting in disaster to [the victim] as we have all admitted, were in defense of his life and that of id. at p. 678, italics omitted.) the proceedings at the trial . . . clearly shows that at no time was [the defendant] questioning either that the knife wound caused [the victims] death, or that that fact had not been established or was an issue to be resolved by the jury. it also shows that [the] defendant was conceding the cause of deatid. at p. 676.) under these circumstances, the appellate court concluded: would be a miscarriage of justice to set aside a verdict found by the jury on all issues which [the] defendant at the trial believed necessary to be submitted to the jury. after all, a criminal case 18 or court proceeding is not a game in which participants may be misled by a defendants attitude and conduct at the trial, and then the verdict be set aside on appeal, because [the] defendant contends there was no proof of a fact which he had conceded, not by express word, but by conducid. at p. 677.) here, gardner expressly conceded a fact essential to the case. although statements made by counsel are not evidence (people v. arnold (1926) 199 cal. 471, 486), that does not necessarily prevent its consideration as part of the whole record. (peters, supra, 96 cal.app.2d at p. 676 [specifically citing opening statement and closing argument in finding a concession].)14 well established that the defendant is bound by the stipulation or open admission of his counsel and cannot mislead the court and jury by seeming to take a position on issues and then disputing or repudiating the same on appeal (people v. pijal (1973) 33 cal.app.3d 682, 697.) while a criminal defendant is entitled to the benefit of every reasonable doubt, the record here shows that neither gardner, nor any other participant at trial, expressed any doubt that the . (see peters, supra, 96 cal.app.2d at p. 678.) rather, defense counsel argued that human life. taken together, the prosecution evidence and its reasonable inferences, in addition to the defense concession, 14 on appeal, gardner contends peters is distinguishable because, unlike gardner, the defendant in peters put on an affirmative defense and thus supplied the requisite proof. however, the holding in peters did not hinge solely upon the rather, the appellate court considered the record as a whole, as we do here. 19 provide substantial evidence in support of the verdict. viewing the evidence most favorably to the prosecution, and drawing all reasonable inferences in support of the judgment, we conclude crime beyond a reasonable doubpeople v. estrella (1995) 31 cal.app.4th 716, 725.) under the circumstances present in this case would allow gardner to treat the court proceeding like a game and result in a miscarriage of justice. ii. motion to suppress claim gardner also argues the trial court committed reversible error by refusing to suppress the evidence from his warrantless blood draw. freely and voluntarily consented to the blood draw is supported by substantial evidence. a. motion hearing gardner moved to suppress evidence resulting from a warrantless blood draw while the prosecution argued that a warrant was unnecessary because gardner consented to the draw. officer rivera testified at the suppression hearing. officer rivera testified that gardner was taken to the los angeles county-usc medical center, where he was arrested. by the time officer rivera arrived at the hospital, gardner had been there for about 30 minutes and was on a gurney. officer rivera told gardner that because they were at a hospital, the only choice they had to take his blood sample was a blood draw. officer rivera asked gardner and gardner did not object. officer rivera could not remember if gardner verbally communicated his consent but said that gardner had [a]bsolutel 20 believed that gardner had indicated his consent by nodding his head, although the officer could not actually confirm this was how gardner had physically demonstrated his consent. officer rivera, gardner was awake at this time but offered no resistance to the blood draw. gardner neither commented on the blood draw nor made any movements to resist it. officer rivera testified that he was familiar with the ds-367 form, which is a department of motor vehicles form a law enforcement officer completes when arresting an individual for driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs. if the arrestee refuses to have his or her blood drawn, then the officer ion of the form to that person. if the arrestee does not so refuse, then the officer fills out the front of the form. officer rivera testified that he was also familiar with the officer rivera advised gardner of his implied consent to the blood draw. a box was checked on the consent form indicating that officer rivera had advised gardner about the blood draw, although gardner did not sign this, or any other, form presented to him by officer rivera.15 although officer rivera could not remember 15 at trial, officer rivera acknowledged that he had however, officer rivera also testified that gardner did not say anything after he was advised a blood draw was necessary but rather physically demonstrated his consent. as orall, but it was some sort of indication to me that he 21 whether gardner provided verbal consent, the officer believed that, in dui cases, consent to a blood draw could be given confirmed he did not obtain a search warrant for the blood draw. however, had gardner refused or not submitted to the blood draw, officer rivera said he would have considered this an exigent circumstance and sought a search warrant. the trial court found that gardner had consented to the was awake. he was advised of the desire of this officer to get a blood sample for him to measure the alcohol content of his blood. there is nothing in the record to indicate a denial of that consent or any resistance to the draw. he appears to have been compliant, taking was anything other than with his consent. the motion to preclude the presentation of the evidence relating to the draw and its introduction, it is overruled. b. applicable law on appeal, the prosecution argues that the blood draw was conducted with of the specifically established exceptions to the requirements of both a warrant and probable cause is a search that is conducted (schneckloth v. bustamonte (1973) 412 u.s. 218, 219 [93 s.ct. 2041, 36 l.ed.2d 854]; see also people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 466 [search warrant not needed when voluntary consent to search has been given].) whether consent was voluntarily given is a question of fact, which depends (see u.s. v. drayton (2002) 536 u.s. 194, 206-207 [122 s.ct. 2105, 153 l.ed.2d 242]; schneckloth, supra, at pp. 248-249; people v. james (1977) 19 cal.3d 99, 106.) a court determines whether an 22 s belief that he or she had consent to a search or seizure is objectively reasonable under the circumstances; the inquiry is what a reasonable person would have understood by the exchange between the officer and the person providing consent. (florida v. jimeno (1991) 500 u.s. 248, 251-252 [111 s.ct. 1801, 114 l.ed.2d 297]; people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 974-976.) consent may be express or implied by conduct, including nonverbal conduct. evidence code section 125 defines [c]onduct evidence code section 225 defines a [s]tatement (b) nonverbal conduct of a person intended by him as a substitute nonverbal conduct may declarant as a substitute for oral expression.16 (in re dorinda a. (1992) 10 cal.app.4th 1657, 1663; see people v. meza (1987) 188 cal.app.3d 1631, 1646.) nevertheless, consent ca mere failure to object to a search. (people v. superior court (1970) 10 cal.app.3d 122, 127.) therefore, when the prosecution relies on consent to justify a warrantless search or seizure, it manifestation of consent was the product of his free will and not a mere 16 see, e.g., people v. harrington (1970) 2 cal.3d 991, 995-997; people v. guyette (1964) 231 cal.app.2d 460, 464 [subject tossed police officer key to enter premises, implying consent to enter]. 23 (people v. james, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 106; see people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 341.) thus, our analysis here involves distinguishing consent from assent. (see people v. fields (1979) 95 cal.app.3d 972, 977.) consent, in law, means a voluntary agreement by a person in the possession and exercise of sufficient mentality to make an intelligent choice, to do something proposed by another [while] [assent] means mere passivity or submission, which does not include consent. (ibid.) consequently, lack of vocal or physical resistance cannot constitute consent, especially when it reveals mere acquiescence to lawful authority. (see, e.g., florida v. royer (1983) 460 u.s. 491, 497 [103 s.ct. 1319, 75 l.ed.2d 229]; schneckloth v. bustamonte, supra, 412 u.s. at pp. 229-230; bumper v. north carolina (1968) 391 u.s. 543, 548-549 [88 s.ct. 1788, 20 l.ed.2d 797].) here, however, the trial court was presented not with passive acquiescence but rather with affirmative physical conduct rding to officer rivera, before the blood draw, gardner indicated his consent by nodding some kind of visibly demonstrative conduct with the officer. behavior applies only to his conduct after the blood draw had begun, when gardner neither commented on the draw nor made any movements to resist it. whatever the precise physical gesture used to indicate consent, officer rivera testified that the trial we do not reevaluate this determination on appeal. (see people v. reed (2018) 4 cal.5th 989, 1006- 24 testimony which is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor . people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 849.) thus, substantial evidence supports thgardner freely and voluntarily consented to the blood draw. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. currey, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 