filed 5/24/18 p. v. robertson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dejuan lamont robertson, defendant and appellant. b283054 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga099940) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. suzette clover, judge. affirmed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, idan ivri and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 dejuan lamont robertson (defendant) removed items from a storage shed less than ten feet away from the back door of an apartment located above a mortuary. a jury convicted him of first degree burglary and, because the apartment was occupied at the time, specially defendant asserts that the trial court erred in not declaring a doubt about his competence to verdict and special finding are not supported by substantial evidence. we conclude there was no error, and affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts the cabot and sons funeral home operates out of a two-mortuary; on its second floor, a three-bedroom apartment. just outside the rear door of the apartment is a three-walled structure housing a washer and dryer and, across from that but within eight feet of the rear door, a storage shed. the washer and dryer structure and the storage shed do not share any walls with the apartment, but they do share of varying heights; access between all three is by way of a covered breezeway. in october 2016, the funeral director was living in the upstairs apartment with his wife and two young children. the the funeral dlamps, at least one suitcase, and boxes of other household items. the family used the breezeway, laundry unit, ular, daily living 3 just after midnight on a friday morning in october 2016, the funeral director heard what he thought were footsteps on the rooftop of the apartment. moments later, he learned that the mortu when he went outside to meet the police, the funeral director saw that someone had entered the storage shed, taken several items, and then discarded them: the director found a suitcase in the breezeway, latex gloves scattered on the stairs and roofnorkel gear on the windowsill outside the hallway window. the hallway window frame was pushed inwards, and the glass was cracked. the police found defendant inside the mortuary itself. his fingerprints were found on the hallway window. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with first degree burglary (pen. code,  459).1 the people further alleged that the burglary )(21)). additionally, the people alleged that defendfor first meaning of our sthree strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j) & 1170.12, subds. (a)- felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). a jury found defendant guilty of first degree burglary and found true the allegation that a person was present during its commission. in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found true the allegations regarding defendan 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 the trial court sentenced defendant to a prison term of 13 years, comprised of an eight-year term for the first degree burglary (calculated as four years, doubled for the prior strike) plus five years for the prior serious felony. defendant filed this timely appeal. discussion i. competence to stand trial defendant argues that the trial court erred in not suspending his criminal proceedings to conduct a full competency trial. a. pertinent facts 1. immediately after arrest defendant was uncooperative during the booking process following his arrest at the mortuary and was for a few hours pcell. 2. pretrial hearing at a hearing held more than three months before trial, defendant requested a new court-appointed defense attorney pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. during the ensuing defendant told the court that he had ed to the department of o the charged burglary, and that he wanted an a . . . work things out with the defense attorney responded that he was attempting to work out a disposition with the prosecutor involving some sort of mental health treatment. defendant also complained that the e] did was walk in there, [and get] 5 3. first day of trial on the day trial was to begin and a panel of prospective jurors was waiting to be called into the courtroom, defendant because . . . [ed] [the cade that everything the trial court attempt to [], but defendant insisted upon remaining in his jail uniform. the trial court note moments later, defendant asked if he could . the trial court denied the request, explaining, you are section] 1368 [the competency statute]are defendant then asked for a different court-appointed lawyer. the court convened a marsden hearing outside the ence. defendant explained that he wanted the defense attorney [defendant] was operating under maybe a cloud of some mental had sought to fashion a plea that accounted for those issues, but the prosecutor and marsden the marsden hearing and pro se request is an effort to delay the matter with the jury 6 defendant then expressed a desire to enter a plea of the trial court refused to entertain the plea. 4. second day of trial on the morning of the second day of trial, defendant refused to come into the courtroom from the lockup. the court and counsel spoke with defendant over the phone, and he reason of after the court explained that such a plea would in a state mental cooperate and come up to the courtroom. the trial court noted jury selection proceeded. 5. third day of trial on the third day of trial, defendant refused to come out of his jail cell for the morning session. defendant eventually changed his mind, and trial resumed after lunchtime. during a break in the afternoon session, the court observed kept looking back at the chair in a way the jury could not see. the defense attorney tealth belthat operates like a seatbelt but is less visible to the jury. the , and defendant was secured to his chair with a belt that the jury could not see. 7 6. fourth day of trial despite being warned by the trial court the afternoon before that his refusal to come to court would be treated as his voluntary decision to absent himself, defendant refused to leave his cell on the morning of the fourth day of trial. the court , later that day, the bailiffs informed the court that defendant had refused to leave his cell because, in his words, 7. last day of trial defendant came to court without incident. b. analysis as a matter of due process, a criminal defendant may not be tried or convicted while mentally incompetent. (people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 464; pate v. robinson (1966) 383 u.s. 375, 384-386.) for these purposes, a defendant is ability to consult with his lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational understanding of the proceedings against him, or (2) sattiewhite, at p. 464, quoting dusky v. united states (1960) 362 u.s. 402, 402.) a trial court is required to suspend criminal proceedings and conduct a full competency trial if substantial evidence, even if conflicting, raises ( 1368, subds. (a) & (b); people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 691; people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 737-738 (welch).) 8 the trial court acted appropriately in not conducting a competency hearing because substantial evidence did not raise a to proceed pro se, then asking for new counsel, then asking to enter various pleas, and then refusing to come to court reflected a rational and well as factual understanding of the proceedings. indeed, as the trial court found, his conduct constituted a plea deal involving a mental health component, defendant demonstrated his ability to consult with his lawyer because he was able to cogently articulate his disagreement about negotiation strategy as well as possible defenses (such as the failure of the police to read him his ). defendant raises seven objections to this conclusion, none of which has merit. first, defendant argues that the circumstances of his arrest in the mortuary following the burglary itself and of his custody placement after arrestnamely, that the former occurred as defendant was about to attempt an act of necrophilia and the ellare evidence of mental incompetence. he is wrong because neither sheds any light on his capacity to understand the legal proceedings against him at the time of trial (which was six months later). (e.g., people v. corona (1978) 80 cal.app.3d 684, 713-714 incompetence second, defendant points to his actions to obstruct the proceedings. if anything, however, those efforts demonstrate his 9 understanding of those proceedings. and, as our supreme court people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1034.) defendant was not competent to represent himself. but the standard for competence to represent oneself is different fromand more onerous thanthe standard for competence to stand trial. (people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 530.) a finding of incompetence to represent oneself does not constitute substantial evidence of incompetence to stand trial. evidence of incompetence. (people v. cox (1978) 82 cal.app.3d 221, 227.) this is especially true when it is part of a broader pattern of conduct aimed at disrupting the criminal proceedings. fifth, defendant directs us to his comment that the trial ial evidence of incompetence. (welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 742.) again, this is particularly true when they are part of a larger pattern of disruption. sixth, defendant notes his desire to obtain a plea deal involving mental health treatment as well as the probation homeless. but the former was a negotiation goal and the latter came out after trial; more to the point, neither speaks to d the proceedings against him. lastly, defendant analogizes his case to torres v. prunty (9th cir. 2000) 223 f.3d 1103. the analogy does not hold because the defendant in torres v. prunty asserted that the trial judge 10 him. (id. at pp. 1108-aimed chiefly at disrupting the proceedings that he understood. ii. substantial evidence defendant contends that substantial evidence does not support (1) his conviction for first degree burglary, or (2) the special the time of burglary. in [all] conflicting and special finding, substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. people v. casares (2016) 62 cal.4th 808, 823.) a. first degree burglary burglary occurs when a person enters a variety of different enclosed spacesranging from buildings to sea vessels to aircraftwith the intent to commit a felony. ( 459.) as pertinent here, a burglary becomes a first degree burglary when the enclosed spainhabited dwelling house . . . or the inhabited portion of any other building( 460, subd. (a)); otherwise, it is second degree burglary distinction between first and second degree burglary is founded upon the perceived danger of violence and personal injury that is people v. cruz (1996) 13 cal.4th 764, 775-776 (cruz).) because defendant does not dispute that he entered the storage shed with the intent to steal items, the question we must 11 dw by statute, means currently being used for however, this term has been given a (cruz, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 776, 779), and reaches not only the structure where people actually sleep but also any structure that is an that is, any structure that is y contiguous to other portions of the houspeople v. ingram (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 1397, 1404 (ingram), overruled in part on another ground by people v. dotson (1997) 16 cal.4th 547; people v. moreno (1984) 158 cal.app.3d 109, 112 (moreno); people v. rodriguez (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 1101, 1107, 1109 (rodriguez).) immediately contiguous tofunctionally interconnected with the apartment because it is where the director and his family stored their personal belongings incident to living there. (people v. zelaya (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 73, 74-76 [burglary of storage rooms is first degree burglary]; people v. coutu (1985) 171 cal.app.3d 192, 193-194 [same].) it is also immediately contiguous to the apartment because it is connected by a breezeway and a roof common to the apartment, breezeway, and shed. (coutu, at pp. 193-194 [so holding]; cf. people v. picaroni (1955) 131 cal.app.2d 612, 613, 618 (picaroni) [detached garage with separate roof; not first degree burglary]; people v. hines (1989) 210 cal.app.3d 945, 949-950 [detached building with no breezeway; not first degree 12 burglary].) at least one decision is directly on point: in coutu, the court upheld a first degree burglary conviction when a defendant entered a storeroom connected to the main house by a breezeway, all under a common roof. (coutu, at pp. 193-194.) we have precisely the same facts here. defendant raises five arguments in response, none of which has merit. first, defendant asserts that the storage shed was not beneath the same roof as the breezeway and apartment. testimony that there constitutes substantial evidence of a contiguous roof. second, defendant argues that the storage shed does not share the same roof as the mortuary. but this is irrelevant because the first degree burglary is premised on the relationship between the storage shed and . third, defendant contends that he could not tell from the street that the mortuary had an apartment on its second floor. but this fact, and knowledge of this fact, are irrelevant. (see people v. derouen (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 86, 91 contain[] any requirement that a defendant have knowledge that a dwelling house is inhabited fourth, defendant points out that the funeral director had to exit his apartment to reach the storage shed. this is true, but of no consequence. the same was true in coutu, but burglary of the storeroom still constituted first degree burglary. (see also moreno, supra, 158 cal.app.3d at p. 112 [entry into attached garage that is only accessed by exiting residence; first degree 13 burglary]; ingram, supra, 40 cal.app.4th at p. 1404 [same]; in re edwardo v. (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 591, 592 [same].) fifth, defendant urges us to adopt the set forth in people v. grover (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 1182 and picaroni, supra, 131 cal.app.2d 612. grover states, in part, that a burglary is not first nothing more than burglarize the uninhabited portion of an grover, at p. 1187.) because this statement, when read in isolation, is inconsistent with just about every other case on this issue, the same appellate court that decided grover plete statement of our holding in grover is that burglary of an uninhabited portion of an inhabited building is burglary in the second degree unless the uninhabited portion of the inhabited building is an integral part of that inhabited dwelling (rodriguez, supra, 77 cal.app.4th at p. 1109, italics added)which, as noted above, is the test we apply. picaroni the garage alone would picaroni involved a detached garage without a contiguous roof; it is distinguishable. (picaroni, at pp. 613, 618.) b. person present in the residence a first degree burglary becomes a felony (and hence a strike within our three strikes lr person, other than an accomplice, was present in the residence during the people v. munguia (2016) 7 cal.app.5th 103, 110.) because this elevation potential for violence,it even though the defendant had no contact with the occupant.munguia, at p. 110, italics added.) 14 because the funeral director, his wife, and his two children were present in the apartment at the time defendant entered the storage shed, the question we must answer is: does substantial special finding that the apartment and storage shed are this conclusion is dictated by people v. harris (2014) 224 nt burglarized a guestroom in a converted garage that shared a roof with the main house but required the use of an exterior door to enter. (id. at p. 89.) in reaching this holding, the court noted that the potential for violence was greater because the defendant was id. at p. 91.) what is more, because the guestroof, and [was] functionally connecperson present enhancement was appropriately applied. (ibid.) here, defendant entered the storage shed, which was just feet defendant argues that people v. singleton (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1332 uses a different test than harris, that singletons analysis is the only analysis that avoids an absurd result, and that harris was wrongly decided. to be sure, the court in singleton noted that the trigger for first degree burglary (namely, entry into aerent than the trigger for the person present enhancement (namely, that a person be present in the residenceconstruction of the former term should not necessarily be applied to the latter. (id. at pp. 1336-1339.) but singleton did not 15 purport to hold that the two terms could never overlap (nor could it, as that would mean the person present enhancement would never apply). instead, singleton held that (1) a person was not hallway, and around the corner from that apartment but still within the apartment , and (2) the fact that the burglary may still have been first degree because the hallway was under the same roof as the apartment did not dictate application of the person present enhancement. (id. at p. 1338.) in our view and in the view of other courts, singleton exists harmoniously alongside harris in that singleton did not speak to the situation present in harris and in this casenamely, where the burglar was in a functionally interconnecting and contiguous from where residents were sleeping (thereby making the potential for violence greater). (accord, people v. debouver (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 972, 981-982 [harmonizing singleton and harris, and holding that the person present enhancement properly applied when burglary is in an apartment underground garage with a resident present].) nor, as defendant suggests, does this mean that a person could be convicted of two counts of first degree burglary for entering the adjoining structure and the main house, a result defendant calls absurd. where, as here, the two structures are considered the same dwelling or residence, only one conviction lies. (cf. people (1990) 222 cal.app.3d 517, 521 [person may be convicted of multiple counts of burglary for entering multiple dorm rooms].) 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p. j. lui _________________________, j. chavez 