filed 9/23/19 p. v. ingrassi ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. brittany ann ingrassi, defendant and appellant. b283049 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma068287) appeal from a judgment of the los angeles county superior court, andrew e. cooper, judge. affirmed. bartell, hensel & gressley, donald j. bartell and lara j. gressley for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general and david f. glassman, deputy attorney general for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction brittany ann ingrassi appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted her of second degree murder and related charges stemming from the death of a five-month-old infant entrusted to her care. she contends the trial court erred in (1) denying her request at sentencing to relieve her retained counsel and refusing to appoint a public defender, (2) denying her request for a continuance of the sentencing hearing to file a motion for new trial, (3) failing to properly instruct the jury on character evidence, and (4) denying probation under the mistaken assumption she was ineligiblecontentions has merit, we affirm. factual and procedural history a. aiden lopez dies while ingrassi is babysitting him, and ingrassi blames the family dog jessica torres and cesar lopez, the parents of five-month-old aiden lopez, left their apartment for work one morning and left ingrassi to take care of their child. ingrassi remained in the apartment with aiden and kirby, a 24-pound french bulldog. at 5:50 p.m., joseph carlos, who is ingrassi fianc, called lopez and sent him a text message stating: lopez tried calling ingrassi several times, and when she finally answered the phone, brealopez told ingrassi to call 911, but ingrassi said her phone was not working. lopez immediately left work and spoke numerous times with torres on his way home. 3 at 6:00 p.m. torres returned home from work to find ingrassi at the top of the stairs to the apartment, shouting at her to hurry because aiden was not moving or breathing. torres ran up the stairs, took aiden from ingrassi, and noticed he was torres yelled at ingrassi to call 911, but ingrassi stated her phone was not working. torres called 911 on her phone. torres observed there was was cold, and his arm was swollen. when the paramedics arrived a few minutes later, breathing was . aiden had a few scratches on his face, bruising all over his head, arms, and legs, and his right arm was deformed, indicating he had broken bones. aiden did not have any puncture wounds or heavy bleeding related to any of the scratches, but he displayed or involuntary muscle spasms associated with a head trauma injury. she left aiden on the baby mat while she used the restroom. she said she heard aiden cry, and when she came out of the restroom, she saw kirby next to aiden. ingrassi repeatedly screamed, without the officers asking her any questions, four days later, aiden died. b. law enforcement invpeople charge ingrassi ingrassi gave conflicting accounts to the detectives of what happened to aiden. ingrassi initially claimed kirby must have jumped on aiden. later, ingrassi said she may have and fallen while holding aiden, she may have picked up aiden blood alcohol content six hours after her arrest was .10 percent. a criminologist called by the prosecution who performed a forensic alcohol analysis estimated that, at the time emergency responders came to the apartment, 4 content was between .102 and .22 percent. detectives clothing and a long-sleeved onesie aiden wore that day, but his clothing did not have any puncture holes that kirby would have left had kirby attacked aiden. appeared only on the exterior of the fabric. n the underside of a rug in the apartment, suggesting ingrassi had turned it over, and on a paper towel recovered from the kitchen layers of trash. aiden did not have any blood on his body when medical staff examined him at the hospital, but was on the bathroom door, the bathroom floor, and the washer and dryer in the apartment, which suggested ingrassi had washed aiden to remove all the blood after he was injured. two baby wash cloths and a crib sheet with blood stains had been laundered before the paramedics arrived. an animal control officer and county veterinarian examined kirby and did not find any evidence of blood on the dog. kirby did not exhibit any aggressive tendencies and was and medical personnel who examined aiden told the detectives paramedics who treated aiden told detectives that injuries occurred at least an hour before they arrived and that, based on their observation of kirby, kirby could not have inflicted the injuries. the people charged ingrassi with assaulting a child by means reasonably likely to produce great bodily injury resulting in the child becoming comatose due to brain injury or suffering 5 paralysis (pen. code,  273ab, subd. (b)),1 child abuse ( 273a, subd. (a)), murder ( 187, subd. (a)), and assaulting a child by means likely to produce great bodily injury resulting in the , subd. (a)). the people also alleged ingrassi personally inflicted great bodily injury on aiden within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (d). c. the jury convicts ingrassi in addition to the forensic evidence, the people presented medical evidence ingrassi, and not kirby. an emergency medical technician testified any bite marks and kirby was not large enough to inflict the injuries aiden sustained. the technician testified that, even though ingrassi told her before ingrassi came out of the bathroom, must have occurred the technician arrived because the pediatric intensive care unit physician testified aiden suffered two fractures to his skull that a dog could not have caused because a dog would not have been able to inflict a skull fracture without deep tissue laceration. the physician also explained aiden the physician testified may have hit a linear object that ,was consistent with the side of face hitting the edge of a door or the edge of the top of a crib. eyes had extensive retinal damage, whicsuspicion of 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 6 the physician in the intensive care unit testified injuries occurred much earlier than ingrassi claimed because the ct scan showed substantial swelling of the brain, which takes several hours to develop. the physician explained that temperature was [his injuries] and that such a drop in temperature indicated brain had ceased regulating his body temperature hours before he arrived in the emergency room. the physician stated he was 100 percent certain a human being injuries. the coroner concluded that break [in aidendog attackand that kirby could not compress it and cause the two fractures. the coroner also stated that the coroner testified kirby could not have swung aiden with enough force to cause the fractures he observed. the coroner determined -force the people also presented evidence that, shortly before torres arrived home, ingrassi deleted all the records on her cell phone. data extracted from carlos, however, pointed to on the evening the police arrested ingrassi, carlos conducted an internet search on his telephone for sudden infant death syndrome. later that night and into the early morning sought information about how babies can sustain bruises, causes of skull fractures, the liability text messages from ingrassi to carlos revealed that she that she had been searching for another job so she could quit caring for aiden, and that aiden and need to be held 7 frustrated her. text messages from carlos to ingrassi also indicated ingrassi had a drinking problem and could lose her temper when intoxicated. ingrassi called several witnesses in her defense, including a dog expert who testified kirby inflicted the injuries on aiden because paw prints and teeth impressions matched the a forensic pathologist explained the believed kirby grabbed aiden by the arm and threw him back and forth, playing with him like one of toys. ingrassisisters testified ingrassi frequently looked after the children in the family, loved to be around children, and was kind and caring. carlos the jury found ingrassi guilty on all charges. the jury also found true the special allegation under section 12022.7, subdivision (d), that ingrassi inflicted great bodily injury. d. the trial court sentences ingrassi at the sentencing hearing, counsel for ingrassi, nancy mazza, advised the court ingrassi wanted to fire her and file a when the court asked was told ingrassi had retained an appellate attorney, but no attorney had contacted her. ingrassi interrupted mazza and marsden 2 the court told 2 a marsden motion allows a criminal defendant to seek substitution of court-appointed counsel if the record shows that that defendant and counsel have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is likely to people v. zendejas (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1098, 1108.) 8 mazza to continue. mazza again stated that ingrassi wanted to . she also problems withand that a motion for new trial one, no 1050 that has been filed, no motion for a continuance. number two, there is no marsden motion available. whether ingrassi wanted to represent herself. the following exchange occurred: half hour ago, she was firing me; [ingrassi said,] motion for new trial on her own. counsel. ms. mazza conducted the trial. there was no 1050 filed. impact statements that are going to be heard by the court, and today is the day of sentencing. i need to clarify whether ms. ingrassi is requesting to represent herself going forward. is that the request? requesting a public defender, please. counsel of record. there was no continuance motion that was filed, and today is the day of sentencing. the court again asked ingrassi whether she was asking to represent herself because mazza had stated that ingrassi wished to file a m ingrassi stated, the trial court gave ingrassi an opportunity to address the but ingrassi directed her comments to the issue of representation: 9 file a marsden motion. we contacted ms. mazza multiple ti after the court directed ingrassi to focus her remarks on sentencing, ingrassi statedi would like to speak with you. i feel that this whole entire situation has not been done properly. i the court again admonished ingrassi to address only the issue of sentencing. . . . believe i deserve any of these charges, this harsh punishment. i eel there should be anything. i did nothing at all. i am not responsible for any of heart, the lo the trial court stated there was in the courtroom for the sentencing hearing. ten people, including a 10-year-old child, gave statements of how d impacted them. he trial court sentenced her on her conviction for assault on a child causing death to a prison term of 25 years to life. the court imposed and stayed under section 654 execution of the sentences on her remaining convictions (15 years to life for second degree murder, the upper term of six years for child abuse, and life with a minimum parole eligibility of seven years for assault on a child reasonably likely to produce great bodily injury resulting in a coma or paralysis). the court also imposed and stayed under section 654 the upper term of six years imprisonment for the true finding on the allegation under section 12022.7, subdivision (d). ingrassi timely appealed. 10 discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in o replace her trial counsel 1. applicable law and standard of review nonindigent defendant is accorded the right to discharge his people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983 (ortiz); see people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 311; people v. lopez (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 40, 46 (lopez).the right to discharge a retained attorney is, however, not absolute. [citation.] the trial court has discretion to deny such a motion if discharge will result in significant prejudice to the defendant [citation], or if it is not timely, i.e., if it will result in disruption of the orderly processes of justice. ( (2016) 62 cal.4th 944, 1004; see verdugo, at p. 311 ide latitude in balancing the right to counsel of choice against the .) the trial court, however, must exercise its discretion reasonably: ousness in the face of a justifiable request for delay can render the right to defend with counsel an empty forortiz, at p. 984; accord, lopez, at p. 47.) otion to discharge retained disruption of the orderly processes of justice, the trial court considers the people v. maciel (2013) 57 cal.4th 482, 513.) discharge retained counsel for an (lopez, at p. 47; see verdugo, at p. 311.) 11 2. substitution of counsel at sentencing would have interfered with the orderly processes of justice the trial court did not abuse its discretion in implicitly finding that allowing ingrassi to discharge her retained counsel would have interfered with the orderly processes of justice. (see people v. dowdell (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1388, 1412 [trial court discharge retained counsel because it impliedly found that granting a continuance long enough to retain new counsel could cause an unreasonable disruption from the loss of too many jurors]; cf. lopez, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 50 [record did not support an implied finding that allowing the defendant to discharge his retained counsel would disrupt the orderly processes of justice].) relieving mazza would have caused an indefinite delay in sentencing because ingrassi had not retained an attorney to substitute into the case for mazza and because ingrassi made it clear that she did not want to represent herself. (see people v. maciel, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 512-513 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying discharge counsel because the defendant had not identified substitute counsel and had asked the court to appoint counsel].) and even if ingrassi qualified for the services of the public defender,3 a new deputy public defender would need substantial time to prepare for a continued sentencing hearing. the trial, 3 nothing in the record suggests ingrassi would have qualified for the services of the public defender. ingrassi retained private counsel throughout the trial, and her family hired private appellate counsel. (see gov. code,  27706, subd. defender shall defend . . . any person who is not financially able to employ counsel and who is charged with the commission of any . . . offense triable in the superior courts 12 which the court characterized , consumed 12 days of testimony involving 25 witnesses, including several experts, and more than 100 exhibits, including an audio two-hour interview with detectives and multiple pages of text messages between ingrassi and carlos. moreover, there were 10 witnesses at the sentencing hearing waiting to present victim impact statements. the court recognized it was going to be a difficult proceefamily, friends, and other people in the audience and the court emotional for a lot it was in this context, with a courtroom full of grieving people who undoubtedly needed closure to this tragic episode, that ingrassi asked the court to relieve her trial counsel and appoint a public defender, which would have necessitated continuing the sentencing hearing, sending everyone in the courtroom home, and requiring already distraught witnesses to return another day to revisit their lives. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in implicitly finding that this significant delay and disruption of many lives would interfere with the orderly processes of justice. (see people v. maciel, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 512-513 [trial court sallowing the defendant to discharge retained counsel where the ,and new counsel would have had to review the records of a co trial]; people v. keshishian (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 425, 429 [trial court was within its discretion to deny a last-because [a]n indefinite continuance would have been necessary,the defendant had neither identified nor retained new counselitnesses whose appearances had already been scheduled would have been further inconvenienced by an indefinite delay]; 13 cf. lopez, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. 50 [trial court abused its retained counsel because the charges straightforward, and there [was] no indication that people v. munoz (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 860, 870 [preparing the record for review by a new attorney would not lasted only ingrassi asserts she exercised her right to relieve the first available opportunityon the first day of sentencing. the record does not support this assertion. ingrassi knew she wanted to replace mazza well before the sentencing hearing because she admittedly had about making a marsden motion. urposes of obtaining new counsel] may be denied if the accused is [or she] (people v. courts (1985) 37 cal.3d 784, 790-791; see people v. dowdell, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at p. 1411.) the trial court did not abuse request to relieve her retained counsel. b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in proceeding with sentencing ingrassi contencontinuance without a hearing. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in sentencing ingrassi without continuing the hearing. 14 section 1050, subdivision (b), provides that a party may statute prescribes several procedural requirements, including that the party seeking a continuance file and serve written notice ( subdivision (b), the court must hold a hearing to consider whether there is good cause for failing to comply with the statute and, if there is, whether there is good cause for a continuance. ( people v. mora and rangel (2018) 5 cal.5th 442, 508; see people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, people v. jacobs (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 728, 735 [same standard applies to motions to continue a sentencing hearing]. after the jury returned its guilty verdicts, the trial court h do not or are not requesting more time, i expect sentencing at the sentencing hearing, ingrassi told the court she wanted a new attorney. mazza stated that ingrassi wanted to had not contacted mazza to substitute into the case or to file a motion to continue the sentencing hearing. mazza told the court 15 new counsel, and the court again s the trial court did not abuse its discretion in proceeding with the sentencing hearing. while ingrassi repeatedly stated she wanted a new attorney, she never asked for a continuance. nor did mazza. to the contrary, mazza stated she was ready to proceed with sentencing. there was no motion to continue the hearing, either written or oral, even though the court had explained at the end of the trial the procedure to request a continuance under section 1050. the trial court did not err in failing to rule on a motion ingrassi did not make. (see people v. beames (2007) 40 cal.4th 907, under no obligation to continue a matter for the defense in the c. the trial court did not err in instructing the jury on character evidence ingrassi argues the trial court failed to give the correct jury instructions on character evidence because the court instructed the jury it reputation for being a caring and nonviolent person, when in fact it only heard opinion evidence from sisters and fianc to show she was caring and nonviolent. ingrassi contends given the evidence [it heard] no weight because the instruction stated it was the evidence of reputation in the community that s, however, are on character evidence, and any error in the instruction was harmless. 16 1. relevant proceedings , tiffany lopez and tera ingrassi,4 testified . counsel for ingrassi asked tiffany, [ingrassi] character, as far as you know, within the family and community, if you can describe her tiffany answeredtiffany also testified, t they would think that she would do this. that is not her character. that is way out of her tiffany testified she based her opigood character on her personal observations. counsel for ingrassi asked tera and tera answeredis a very kind, loving, compassionate, caring person, willing to do anything that . . . she can for anybody . . . . tera also testified about babysitting skills based on tera observations of ingrassi caring for ter counsel for ingrassi also asked carlos family and in the community as far as being a nonviolent person carlos testifiedbeing the youngest of three sisters, i would always consider [ carlos stated, [ingrassi] would always try to bring us all the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 350: defendant has a good reputation for being a caring and 4 we refer to tiffany lopez and tera ingrassi by their first names for clarity because each sister shares the last name of another person we have already discussed in the opinion. 17 nonviolent person in the community where she lives. evidence of create reasonable doubt as to whether the defendant committed character may be countered by evidence of her bad character for the same trait. you must decide the meaning and importance of the character evidence. you may take that testimony into consideration along with all the other evidence in deciding whether the people have proved that the defendant is guilty 2. applicable law and standard of review [i]n criminal cases, even in the absence of a request, the trial court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and which (people v. diaz (2015) 60 cal.4th 1176, 1189; accord, people v. dearborne (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 250, 260.) the trial court need not instruct on specific points or special theories which might be applicable to a particular case, absent a request for such an instruction. [citations.] instruction and the court does not have a sua sponte duty to people v. garvin (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 484, 488-489; see people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 878 [pinpoint instructions relate particular facts to a legal issue in the case or required to be given sua sponte]; people v. hernandez (2010) 183 18 cal.app.4th 1327, 1331 (hernandez) [the trial court has no duty to give clarifying or amplifying instructions absent a request.) incorrect or misleading, we inquire whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury understood the instructions as asserted by the defendant. [citation.] we consider the instructions as a whole and assume the jurors are intelligent persons capable of understanding and correlating all the instructions . . . . (hernandez, supra, 183 cal.app.4th at p. 1332; see people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th e presume jurors are intelligent capable of understanding instructions and applying ].) 3. ingrassi has not demonstrated prejudicial error ingrassi has forfeited her argument the court erred in instructing on character evidence because she did not request the specific language she now argues the court should have given. ingrassi has not cited any authority supporting her contention the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give a detailed instruction distinguishing the two forms of character evidence the jury heard, opinion and reputation. indeed, the bench notes he court has no sua sponte duty to gs character; however, it must be given on request.f ingrassi wanted a more specific instruction, she should have requested it. but because ingrassi neither requested the language she now argues the court should have included in the instruction on character evidence nor objected to the instruction the court gave, she has forfeited this argument of instructional error. (see people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th a party may not complain on appeal that an instruction correct in law and responsive to the evidence was too 19 general or incomplete unless the party has requested appropriate clarifying or amplifying languagepeople v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 113 [failure to either object to a proposed instruction or request that the court give omitted language to the jury forfeits an instructional challenge on appeal].) ingrassi argues witnesses she called testified about her reputation in the community. to the contrary, the character witnesses ingrassi called were questioned on, and testified about, reputation. counsel for ingrassi asked tiffany and carlos about family and in the community and asked tera putation. all three witnesses answered the question with descriptions of character traits such the family ingrassi also argues the trial court failed to instruct the jury how to evaluate the witnes opinions character. the on character evidence, however, encompassed opinion evidence. the instruction informed being caring and nonviolent can create reasonable doubt as to whether [she] commbecause the jury heard character evidence both in the form of opinion and reputation, the jury could reasonably conclude that both forms of character evidence could create reasonable doubt. in addition, the court instructed the was received throughout the entire trial the jury instructions, considered as a whole, properly guided the jury on how to consider the character evidence the jury heard. (see hernandez, supra, 183 cal.app.4th e consider the instructions as a whole and assume the jurors are intelligent 20 persons capable of understanding and correlating all the instructions. finally, instruction, whether in giving an instruction that did not apply or in failing to give a pinpoint instruction, was harmless under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson). (see people v. rivera (2019) 7 cal.5th 306, 329; people v. larsen (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 810, 830.) the evidence ingrassi inflicted the fatal injuries on aiden was overwhelming. even if the trial court had referred to opinion evidence rather than reputation evidence here is no reasonable probability the outcome of the trial would have been any different. in a related argument, ingrassi contends the trial court compounded its instructional error when the court instructed the the attorney for the people was allowed to ask the s character witnesses if they had heard that the defendant had engaged in certain conduct. have you heard questions and answers are not evidence that the defendant engaged in any such conduct. you may consider those questions and answers only to evaluate the meanings and importance of the s testimony.-examination by the prosecution of the character witnesses did not include any like the instruction on character evidence, any error in this instruction was harmless. the trial court instructed the jury that that as discussed, we presume the jury understood and correlated all the instructions as a whole. (see 21 hernandez, supra, 183 cal.app.4th at p. 1332.) the trial court also instructed the jurors may not apply, depending on your findings about the facts of the case. after you have decided what the facts are, follow the instructions that do apply to the facts as you find thbecause the prosecutor did not ask the character witnesses any questions in we can presume the jury simply disregarded this instruction. (see people v. rowland (1992) 4 rstood the instruction in accordance with the common meaning of its plain words, judged [the instruction] to be mere surplusage, and passed finally, given the overwhelming here is no probability of a different outcome had the trial court revised the instruction questions. (see people v. debose (2014) 59 cal.4th 177, 205-206.) d. the trial court properly denied probation ingrassi contends ibecause the trial court erroneously determined she was . ingrassi argues section 273ab, subdivision (b), the offense the trial court selected as the base term for sentencing, does not require the jury to find she willfully inflicted great bodily injury, and because the jury did not make that finding, the trial court erred in concluding she was ineligible for probation under section 1203, subdivision (e)(3). ingrassi misapprehends the law and the record. 1. relevant proceedings the probation report summarized the facts of the case and devastated by the incident and it was a life-changing incident for 22 the worse torres stated i] be sente the probation report also stated ingrassi was ineligible for a grant of probation pursuant to sections 1203.75 and 1203, subdivision (e)(3), and listed two circumstances in aggravation and one circumstance in mitigation. at the sentencing hearing, after receiving the victim impact statements, considered the probation report in this case as well as the sentencing memorandums filed on behalf of the people . . . as well as . . . on behalf of . . . [ingrassi]. the defendant is ineligible for count. 2. standard of review reviewed under the abuse of discretion sorder denying probation will not be reversed in the absence of a clear abuse of discretion. [citation.] in reviewing the matter on appeal, a trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives in the absence of a clear showing people v. ferguson (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1070, 1091; see people v. nuno (2018) 26 cal.app.5th bears the burden on appeal to show that the denial of probation was, under the circumstances, arbitrary, capricious, or exceeding .) generally, when the record shows that the trial court proceeded with sentencing on the erroneous assumption it lacked discretion, remand is necessary so that the trial court may have the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion at a new sentencing hearing.(people v. dearborne, supra, 34 cal.app.5th at pp. 266-267.) we need not remand, however, when the record 23 indicates the court was aware of its discretion or the record is merely silent on whether the court misunderstood its sentencing discretionpeople v. bolian (2014) 213 cal.app.4th 1415, 1421; see people v. lee (2017) 16 cal.app.5th silents awareness of its discretionary authority in sentencingthe defendant has failed to sustain his [or her] burden o]; people v. gutierrez (2009) 174 cal.app.4th a silent record that the trial court is aware of the applicable law, including statutory discretion at sentencing, [the reviewing court] cannot presume error where the record does not establish on its face that the trial court misunderstood the scope of [its] 3. ingrassi has not shown prejudicial error ingrassi argues section 1203, subdivision (e)(3), which precludes probati[s] great bodily injury or torture in the perpetration of the crime of which she argues that, because the jury did not find she willfully inflicted great bodily injury, the trial court erred in finding her presumptively ineligible for probation. the trial court, however, did not find ingrassi was ineligible for probation under section 1203, subdivision (e)(3). the court found her ineligible for probation without citing any reasons. on a silent record, we cannot presume the court erroneously applied section 1203, subdivision (e)(3). (see people v. lee, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at p. 867.) there is no reasonable probability the court, even if it had not found ingrassi was ineligible for probation, would have found her suitable for probation. (see people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th does not necessitate probable that a more 24 favorable sentence would have been imposed in the absence of the ]; people v. gamble (2008) 164 cal.app.4th the record shows that the trial court would not have exercised its discretion even if it believed it could do so, then remand would be an idle act and is not required; people v. gutierrez (1987) 195 cal.app.3d 881, 884-erroneous determination a statute precluded probation did not require resentencing because it was not reasonably probable the court would have found the defendant eligible for probation had it considered the remaining statutory factors].) the trial court stated it had read and considered the probation report, which contained a statement of devastated torres and her family. at the hearing, multiple family members and friends recounted their personal anguish in the aftermath of crime. (see people v. mehserle (2012) 206 cal.app.4th 1125, 1158 [a sentencing court may consider the emotional and financial deny probation.].) in addition, the trial court imposed the upper term on convictions for child abuse and the true finding on the allegation under section 12022.7, subdivision (d), which indicates intention to impose the maximum punishment permitted on ingrassi. as the people put it, rassi] was strictly ineligible for probation . . . no reasonable judge would have granted [ingrassi] probation, and no reasonable attorney would have requested probation under the circumstances of this case, in which a jury 25 disposition the judgment is affirmed.5 segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. stone, j. 5 ingrassi also filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus, case number b291556, which she asks us to consider with her direct appeal. we deny the petition by separate order. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 