 filed 5/8/18 p. v. melendez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan pablo melendez, defendant and appellant. b284752 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya095808-01) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, judge. affirmed in part; remanded in part with directions. katja grosch, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant juan pablo melendez of methamphetamine possession for sale. (health & saf. code,  11378.) the trial court found true allegations that defendant had a prior first degree burglary conviction (pen. code,1  667, subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b)) and had served a prior separate prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced defendant to four years in state prison. opening brief in accordance with people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 requesting that we independently review the entire record to determine if there are any arguable issues. on february 1, 2018, we notified defendant that appointed appellate counsel had failed to find any arguable issues and defendant had 30 days within which to independently brief any grounds for appeal, contentions, or arguments he wanted us to consider. more than 30 days elapsed and we received no communication from defendant. we have appointed appellate counsel has fully complied with her responsibilities and no arguable issues favorable to defendant exist. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) as noted above, the trial court found a prior separate prison term enhancement allegation ( 667.5, subd. (b)) to be true. our review of the record reveals that the court neither 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 imposed nor struck that enhancement. defendant was facing a maximum seven-year sentencethe high term of three years for methamphetamine possession for sale, , plus one year for the prior separate prison term. the people asked the trial court to impose a four-year sentencethe midterm of two years doubledand to stay the one-year prior separate prison term enhancement. the people cited as mitigation that defendant had no parole violations since receiving parole on june 7, 2016, and requested that the four years pursuant to penal code sections 667 and 1170[, subd.] the trial court imposed a four-year term. we asked the parties to brief the question whether, having found the prior separate prison term enhancement allegation to be true, the trial court was required to either impose or strike that enhancement. (people v. langston found true . . . the trial court may not stay the one-year enhancement, which is defendant argues that although the trial court did not sentencing recommendation, which argued that the prior should be stricken.2 defendant therefore argues that remand would serve no purpose and would waste judicial 2 as set forth above, the peopthat the prior allegation be stayed, not stricken. 4 resources. the attorney general argues that remand is appropriate. we conclude that the sentence was legally unauthorized and it is necessary to remand this matter for the trial court to exercise its discretion under section 1385, subdivision (a) to either impose or strike the enhancement. (people v. bradley neither strike nor impose a prior prison term enhancement contain no statement of reasons as to why judicial leniency court concludes no section 1385, subdivision (a) order striking the prior prison term was issued].) on remand, the trial court must either impose or strike the one-year prior separate prison term enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). disposition this matter is remanded to the trial court to exercise its discretion under section 1385, subdivision (a) to either impose or strike the one-year prior separate prison term enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. if the trial court exercises its discretion to strike the enhancement, it must state its reasons for doing so orally on the record. ( 1385, subd. (a).) if the trial court exercises its discretion to impose the enhancement, it must prepare an amended abstract of 5 judgment and deliver a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports kim, j. we concur: kriegler, acting p.j. baker, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 