 filed 6/20/19 p. v. perez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan carlos perez, defendant and appellant. b284668 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga078620) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jared moses, judge. judgment of conviction affirmed; sentence vacated and remanded for further proceedings. c. matthew missakian, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant juan carlos perez of first degree murder, with firearm enhancements. perez contends: (1) the trial court erred by denying his nonstatutory motion to dismiss the information, based on his purported mental incompetence at the preliminary hearing; (2) the evidence was insufficient to prove the murder was premeditated and deliberate; (3) the trial court erred by admitting and excluding evidence related to firearms toolmark comparison; (4) the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during argument; and (5) the matter must be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike or dismiss the firearm enhancements penal code section 12022.53.1 we order the judgment of matter remanded for resentencing. factual and procedural background 1. facts a. (i) the murder on november 21, 2009, appellant perez attended a baby shower. also in attendance were the victim, noe martinez,2 son, ludbi martinez, and wife. ludbi and perez were friends. perez and noe had been drinking together that day prior to the baby shower, and they drove to the party together. noe 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 where witnesses share the same surname, for ease of reference, and with no disrespect, we sometimes hereinafter refer to them by their first names. 3 continued to drink at the baby shower. noe and perez conversed at the baby shower, and there did not appear to be any animosity between them. at approximately 11:00 p.m., ludbi and his wife told noe it was time to go home. point. noe protested that he wanted to go with perez to the el salvadoreno restaurant. ludbi tried to persuade him to go home, but perez stood between them and declared that noe was going with him. perez and noe arrived at el salvadoreno between 11:30 p.m. and midnight. there, they encountered marlon berganza and marvin gonzalez. noe was acquainted with berganza; they had worked at the same company. noe and perez at one point, berganza pointed out an attractive woman who was wearing a short skirt. told him to calm down so there would be no trouble. perez leaned close to berganza and told him not to worry because he had his during the evening there was no argument between the men, and everything seemed peaceful. noe, however, was so drunk that he was swaying from side to side. by the end of the evening, he was according to berganza, he kept hugging berganza and thanking him for his job. perez also drank at the restaurant, but did not appear to be drunk. at approximately 2:00 a.m. the next morning, november 22, perez, noe, berganza, and gonzalez left the restaurant and lingered for ten to fifteen minutes in the parking lot. by that and was wearing his jacket inside out. perez tried to convince 4 berganza and gonzalez to go to another bar, but they declined and left noe and perez in the parking lot. at 4:17 a.m. that morning, south pasadena police department officer myles fowlis was on routine patrol when he th condensation. fowlis pulled his patrol vehicle alongside the toyota, illuminated the car with his spotlight, and rolled down his passenger side window. perez, who was seated in the asked perez what was going on. perez said something in spanish about his girlfriend. fowlis parked behind the toyota. as he approached, perez exited the toyota and faced fowlis. he was wearing gloves, which appeared to be bloody. before fowlis could give any commands, perez fled into the arroyo, which was covered with heavy brush. passenger seat, dead. he had been shot twice in the head. (ii) perez lived in an apartment on edloft avenue in los angeles. father, lived in an apartment in the same building on edloft and was acquainted with perez. at approximately 6:20 that morning, when celada was in his car about to leave for work, perez got in troubled, and appeared to be crying. he had a small plastic bag in his hands. celada dropped perez at a bus stop. when perez exited the car, he told celada that he would not see him again, 5 over an equestrian trail and surface streets to an area near perezfour miles from the murder scene. mark froome was dispatched to investigate a road rage incident, during which one of the drivers reportedly displayed a gun. at the designated location, froome contacted perez, who was seated name. 3 , perez fled into a nearby house, entry. froome gave chase, struggled with perez, and pointed his firearm at him when he thought perez was pulling a gun; however, froome backed off because there were several small children in the house. perez fled out the back door. a police dog named kilo located perez in a metal shed in the backyard of a nearby home. after a struggle, officers pulled perez from the shed. in the corner where he had been hiding was a live nine-millimeter luger bullet, a glass methamphetamine pipe, and a baggie containing a white crystalline substance. everything else in the shed was covered with dust; these items were not. perez was booked under the false name he had given officer froome. he was released on bail and fled to illinois. in july 2010, a bail enforcement agent located and detained him, after perez put up a fight. perez was transported back to california. 3 the owner of the identification card testified that he had lost the card in october 2008. 6 (iii) the investigation noe had suffered two gunshot wounds to the head. one bullet entered behind his left ear, going from left to right, and penetrated his brain. the other shot penetrated the back of his head, into the brain, with a slight downward angle. the shots were fired from close range, probably less than six inches. each was independently fatal. they were not self-inflicted. the sequence of the shots was unknown. there was no other physical fresh bruises or other wounds. there were no defensive wounds. time of his death was two to three times over the legal limit. to perez. panel and the trunk lid. small ring, was still on his body. two spent nine-millimeter shell casings, or cartridge cases, were found in the rear passenger seat when a nine-millimeter semiautomatic gun is fired, the cartridge case usually ejects to the right. phil teramoto, a senior criminalist scientific services bureau, compared the two spent cartridges found in the back seat and determined they had been fired from the same gun. body was consistent with being fired from a nine-millimeter gun.4 teramoto also cartridge found in the shed with marks on one of the expended 4 comparison. 7 cartridge cases and determined the live bullet had been cycled or fed through the same magazine. 5 lt buckle. a bloody stain on the exterior trunk had a textured pattern, consistent with a glove print. . approximately a month before the murder, ludbi observed perez with a black nine-millimeter gun at a soccer game. celada had about a month before the murder, hugo rebolorio, who shared approximately 4:00 a.m. when perezwhom he barely knewblack, nine-millimeter semiautomatic pistol at him. b. defense evidence conclusion that the bullet found in the shed was cycled through the same gun as one of the casings found in the toyota.6 in his opinion, magazine lip mark analysis was very uncommon. 5 teramoto explained that a magazine holds the live rounds of ammunition in the gun, and bullets in place until they are fired or removed. marks from the magazine lips can sometimes be left on a bullet when the bullet is loaded, physically removed, or fired. 6 relevant, post. 8 a retired chief medical examiner testified that the two shots that killed noe were fired in rapid succession and targeted his head. they were likely fired from less than an inch away. there was hemorrhaging around both wounds, indicating the first shot did not immediately kill noe, but rendered him unconscious. however, either gunshot would have resulted in death ckly if there had been a delay of, for example, 20 minutes between the shots, there would have been no hemorrhaging around the second wound. noe had no defensive wounds. kenneth moses, the director of a private crime laboratory, testified that a gunshot wound to the head will create an aerosol spray of blood that will spray back toward the shooter in a fan-like pattern. in his opinion, the shots that killed noe could have come from the c. james carroll, the assistant crime laboratory director for magazine lip mark comparisons were commonplace. he the live cartridge and the spent cartridge case was inconclusive. 2. procedure a jury convicted perez of first degree murder ( 187, subd. (a)), and found he personally and intentionally used and subds. (b), (c), (d)). the trial court sentenced him to 25 years to life for the murder, plus 25 years to life for the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) firearm enhancement, for a total of 50 years to 9 life.7 it imposed a $10,000 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a suspended parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount ( 1202.45), a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), and a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373). he timely appealed. discussion 1. nonstatutory motion to dismiss the information approximately three and one half years after his preliminary hearing, perez moved to set aside the information pursuant to people v. duncan (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 765 (duncan) on the ground he was mentally incompetent when the preliminary hearing transpired. after an evidentiary hearing, ruling was not supported by substantial evidence. he is incorrect. a. additional facts and he was held to answer on february 9, 2012. neither defense counsel nor the court declared a doubt about his competence at that time. on february 23, 2012, perez appeared in court and entered a plea of not guilty. again, neither the court nor defense counsel expressed a doubt about his competence. approximately one year later, on february 15, 2013, defense counsel on reports from three mental health professionals, timothy d. collister, antonio e. puente, and arthur p. kowell, who 7 the court stayed the section 12022.53, subdivision (b) and (c) enhancements pursuant to section 654. 10 2012, and november 2012 (collister), june 2012 (puente), and october 2012 (kowell). all three concluded perez was not competent to stand trial. kowell opined that perez was mildly mentally retarded, had a mild learning disability, and had suffered past head injuries. puente opined that perez was mildly mentally retarded, had a mild brain injury, and a mild learning disability. collister did not conclude perez was incompetent after their first three meetings, but recommended a neuropsychological evaluation. in his november 28, 2012 evaluation, collister concluded perez was incompetent due to a cognitive disorder based on the kowell and puente repoperformance on the macarthur competence assessment tool, which involved a structured interview regarding criminal proceedings. the trial court ordered proceedings suspended and perez housed at patton state hospital. perez was committed there on may 28, 2013. a june 14, 2013 report from patton state found perez was incompetent, based on the collister, kowell, and statements that he had memory problems, had suffered past head injuries, and had auditory and visual hallucinations. in a july 23, 2013 report, patton state staff found perez competent. the report explained that the hospfinding of incompetence was based in part on the collister, hallucinations and his purported confusion and ignorance about his court case. after observing perez for a week, howevtreatment team ordered that he be evaluated for malingering. after providing a thorough and detailed summary of the testing and observations that underpinned its conclusions, the 11 report stated: e of his charges and related legal procedure. there is no present evidence of authentic irrational or disorganized thought processes or experiences, nor any legitimate cognitive deficiencies, that comprehend his forensic situation, related legal options, and potential implications. the ostensible ignorance, confusion, or loss of memory related to these matters have been ruled out as inauthentic . . . through observation of his actual functional capacity, and most reliably through . . . neuropsychological and malingering testing. as described in this report, these assessments ruled out that there is a truly debilitating cognitive impairment present, and they detected, repeatedly, a deliberate intention by mr. perez to feign cognitive impairment. as such, the report continued: attorney in preparation and presentation of a defense, and in any related discussion regarding his present legal case. he is considered to be asymptomatic, and his endorsed cognitive pathology has been ruled out to be exaggerated, presumably as an attempt to avoid or delay prosecution given the serious potential consequences he is facing. there is no evidence of true psychosis, mood impairment, or debilitating cognitive deficiencies that would hinder his ability to rationally and meaningfully assist counsel if he was so inclined, and even if there was some genuine cognitive limitation present, his demonstrated functional capacity during his hospitalization reveals that it does not at a november 22, 2013 hearing, the court indicated it had received a new, november 16, 2013 letter from dr. puente 12 opining that perez was incompetent and suggesting he be referred to a different facility. the court ordered perez returned to a hospital for treatment.8 in a july 17, 2014 report, patton state hospital staff again opined that perez was malingering. on july 23, 2014, the hospital certified that perez was competent. counsel contested the trial court ordered that criminal proceedings remain suspended. on november 21, 2014, the court held a competency hearing. the parties submitted on the existing reports detailed above. the trial court found perez competent and reinstated proceedings. it found the july 23, 2013 patton state hospital report most persuasive, reasoning . . . almost two months to observe him and they had reached the opinion that he anything in the other documents that is nearly as conclusive or in august 2015, perez brought a nonstatutory motion to dismiss or set aside the information based on his contention he had been incompetent when the preliminary hearing was held. at that hearing, the trial court considered the following testimony and materials. dr. kowell testified that, in his opinion, perez had not been competent at the february 2012 preliminary hearing. kowell relied on his october 10, 2012 examination of perez, during which he had administered two competence tests related to court 8 the court ordered perez sent to metropolitan state hospital but, because that facility could not accept him, he was transferred back to patton state hospital. 13 processes kowell did not administer a test used to detect malingering, but puente had done so, and detected no malingering. kowell did not examine records from patton state hospital. his analysis did not consiworld. kowell concluded that perez had suffered multiple incidents of head trauma during his life, resulting in concussions, he had mild mental retardation, a mild learning disability, episodic alcohol abuse, and episodes of dizziness and loss of consciousness. an mri did not show any developmental brain malformation. in addition to written by doctors puente and collister. the defense also presented a letter from dr. puente opining competent to stand trial, based on his prior analyses. dr. jose fuentes testified for the people, and also submitted a written report. fuentes met with perez twice, in march and april of 2016. on the first occasion, fuentes obtained among other things, perez was able to hold a variety of jobs; financially support one of his children born out of wedlock; carry on relationships with several women, including, in once instance, carrying on and concealing an affair; arrange travel to and from mexico without assistance; manage his own finances; save money to finance his letters to his girlfriend while in jail. his social history 14 and such that is really inconsistent with someone with mild testing previously reading comprehension was in the lower average range, and his reading and writing was in the average range. when fuentes advised perez of informed consent information at the start of the meeting, perez was able to paraphrase the information back to fuentes. perez was also able to listen to instructions and follow them. at the second meeting, fuentes intended to administer a battery of competency tests to perez. as soon as fuentes told began to slur his words, and he asked fuentes to repeat demeanor. in light of the patton state records, fuentes determined to administer malingering. perez failed all three. results were below the cut-off for credible effort, meaning that individuals with mild mental retardation, schizophrenia and traumatic brain damage would have scored better. fuentes concluded perez was malingering. in light of the effort test results, fuentes did not administer the battery of competence tests because any results would have been invalid . fuentes saw no indication perez was responding to internal stimuli such as auditory or visual hallucinations. however, when it became obvious fuentes was terminating the session without administering the stack of tests in front of him, perez stated he was not feeling well and was hearing voices. lack of effort in testing and his life history, fuentes questioned 15 the conclusion he was incompetent. was not intellectually disabled. after considering all the reports and the evidence presented at the hearing, the trial court denied the motion to set aside the information. it reasoned it h based on the patton state hospital reports and credible than the contrary information presented, the court concluded perez had failed to meet his burden to show incompetence. the court found the patton reports particularly persuasive because staff there had an opportunity to observe perez over an extended period. the court concluded the patton opinions. b. discussion substantial evidence. he is incorrect. defendant is (duncan, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 772; see people v. smith (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 492, 499 [trial of an incompetent 367, subd. (a).) a defendant is mentally incompetent if, as a result of a mental disorder or developmental disability, he or she is unable to understand the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist counsel in the conduct of a defense in a rational manner. ( 1367, subd. (a); people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 401; people v. smith, at p. 499.) 16 when a defendant is denied a substantial right at the preliminary hearing, the ensuing commitment is illegal, and the defendant is entitled to dismissal of the information upon timely motion. (duncan, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 772; harris v. superior court (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 1129, 1144.) where a come to light until after its completion, a defendant may bring a nonstatutory motion to dismiss the information. (duncan, at pp. 772773; cf. harris v. superior court, at p. 1144.) the defendant has the burden to overcome the statutory presumption of competence by a preponderance of the evidence. ( 1369, subd. (f) [defendant is presumed competent]; duncan, at p. 773; people v. smith, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 504.) we uphold evidence. (duncan, at p. 774.) here, there was ample evidence to sdecision. the patton reports concluded perez did not suffer from cognitive defects or mental retardation. he did not actually experience auditory or visual hallucinations. brain imaging showed no evidence of brain damage. his claims of ignorance, confusion, and amnesia regarding his court case were inconsistent with his ability to function appropriately, and thus were inauthentic. his observed behavior at the hospital, and his extremely poor performance on malingering tests, indicated he was deliberately attempting to underperform. the report was replete with concrete examples demonstrating his unimpaired functioning at the hospital: he expressed himself clearly and coherently, indicating an 17 visited and former girlfriends, and recalled and conversed about schedules, scores and standings. deficits were inauthentic and the result of his malingering. the evidence was thus sufficient to prove perez was not actually mentally retarded or cognitively impaired, the bases upon which the defense experts based their incompetence findings. thus, the perez contends the evidence was insufficient because the mental state in february 2012. he argues that a showing he was competent in july 2013 was not sufficient to show he was competent in february 2012, when the preliminary hearing was held. his own experts were equally inadequate. although kowell and , their conclusions were based on evaluations conducted months later. collister evaluated perez in september 2011 and may 2012, but did not, at that point, conclude perez was incompetent. instead, collister recommended further evaluation and made note of several facts suggesting perez was not mentally retarded. no expert evaluated the preliminary hearing. when the preliminary hearing transpired, no onenot the court and not counseldeclared a competence. that the value of the patton and fuentes evaluations was not limited to july 2013 and july 2016. the defense experts 18 variously determined perez was incompetent because he was mildly mentally retarded, had a cognitive defect arising from prior head injuries, or lacked sufficient understanding of the pending criminal proceedings. the patton report concluded perez did not have cognitive defects related to brain injuries, and was not mentally same. both the patton and the fuentes reports concluded perez was malingering, that is, deliberately underperforming on tests, feigning ignorance and confusion, and fabricating symptoms of mental illness in an effort to avoid or delay prosecution. thus, the court could reasonably conclude the evidence showed perez never was mentally retarded, never had a cognitive defect, and simply faked his confusion about legal proceedings, eviscerating the defense experts, was supported by substantial evidence.9 2. the evidence was sufficient to prove premeditation and deliberation perez does not dispute that the evidence was sufficient to establish he intentionally killed noe. however, he contends his conviction must be reversed because there was insufficient first degree murder verdict. we disagree. when determining whether the evidence was sufficient to the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable 9 forfeiture argument. 19 trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1104; people v. salazar (2016) 63 cal.4th 214, 242.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 172; people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; people v. penunuri (2018) 5 cal.5th 126, 142.) the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. salazar, at p. 242.) we must accept logical inferences the trier of fact might have drawn from the evidence. (ibid.) murder is of the first degree when it is willful, deliberate and premeditated. ( 189; people v. elmore (2014) 59 cal.4th 121, 133.) premeditation and deliberation require more than a showing of intent to kill. (people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1069.) an intentional killing is premeditated and deliberate if it is considered beforehand and occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection, rather than as the product of an unconsidered or rash impulse. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 443; people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th ful weighing of means thought over in advance. (people v. pearson, at p. 443; people v. williams (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 396, 409; people v. disa (2016) 1 cal.app.5th 654, 664.) however, to prove a killing was defendant maturely and meaningfully reflected upon the gravity 20 people v. disa, at p. 665.) the premeditation and deliberation does not require people v. salazar, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 245.) the true test is not the duration of time, but the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1216.) a reviewing court typically considers three categories of evidence when determining whether a finding of premeditation and deliberation is adequately supported: planning activity, motive, and manner of killing. (people v. houston, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1216; people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 2627; people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 663664.) these so-called anderson factors are not all required and are not exclusive, but are a framework to guide the assessment of the evidence. (people v. gonzalez, at p. 663; people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 294.) perez contends the record contains no evidence showing that he had a motive to kill noe, planned the murder, or committed the murder in a manner suggesting premeditation. we agree that the record is silent on the question of motive; perez killed noe for an unknown reason or reasons. but specific motive before affirming a judgment, even one of first degree murder. a senseless, random, but premeditated, killing people v. halvorsen, supra, 42 cal.4th at pp. 421422; people v. whisenhunt (2008) 44 cal.4th 174, 202 [although abuse inflicted by defendant appeared senseless and 21 inexplicable, the lack of a discernable rational motive does not preclude a conviction for first degree premeditated murder]; people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 519; people v. orozco (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1554, 1567; people v. lunafelix (1985) 168 people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 816 [motive is not an element of murder].) here, premeditation and deliberation were sufficiently established by the manner of killing. our supreme court has long held that an execution-style killing, such as shots to a particular and exacting to support an inference that the defendant killed pursuant to a preconceived design. (people v. gomez (2018) 6 cal.5th 243, 283 [fact victims were shot from close range in the head or neck showed premeditation and deliberation]; people v. casares defendant killed [the victim] (a gunshot to the back of the head at very close range) was sufficiently particular and exacting to support the inference he intentionally killed him according to a people v. dalton (2019) 7 cal.5th 166, 214; people v. cage (2015) 62 cal.4th 256, 277; people v. gonzales and soliz, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 295 [close-range shooting without provocation or evidence of a struggle supports inference of premeditation and deliberation]; people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 114115 [same]; people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 401 [where victim was killed by a single gunshot fired from a gun placed against his head, execution-style manner of killing supports a finding of premeditation and deliberation when . . . there is no indication of people v. halvorsen, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 422 22 [victims were shot in the head or neck from within a few feet, a method of killing sufficiently particular and exacting to permit inference that defendant was acting according to a preconceived design]; people v. stewart was accomplished by a single execution-style shot fired from close evidence of a struggle. this plainly supports a finding of people v. marks (2003) 31 cal.4th 197, 230; people v. morris (1988) 46 cal.3d 1, 23 [victim was shot twice, in the head and the abdomen, from close range; -blank range, evince a calculated and deliberate design to kill, not an , disapproved on another ground by in re sassounian (1995) 9 cal.4th 535, 543-545, fns. 5 & 6; people v. bloyd (1987) 43 cal.3d 333, 348.) such was the case here. perez shot noe twice in the head. according to the defense expert, the two shots were fired point-range of less than six inches. the evidence showed there was no struggle or argument between the men. noe had no defensive wounds, and there were no bruises or other signs of a struggle on his body. the jury could reasonably infer that if the men had been engaged in an argument, a struggle would have ensued when perez pulled the gun; certainly noe would have attempted conduct that would have interfered with or prevented perez from suggested it was unlikely noe provoked perez: he was extremely 23 when intoxicated. (see people v. lunafelix, supra, 168 cal.app.3d at p. is a strong factor supporting the conclusion that [the attack] was indeed, courts have found an execution-style manner of killing may provide sufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation, even in the absence of evidence showing planning or conclusion that the evidence sufficed for a finding of people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 863864.) in people v. hawkins (1995) 10 cal.4th 920, for example, the victim was shot twice in the back of the neck and head from close range, at an angle suggesting he might have been kneeling or crouching at the time, and little evidence suggested a struggle. (id. at p. 956.) the court concluded that not totally absent . . . the manner-of-killing evidence was sufficiently strong to permit a trier of fact to conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant committed the . . . murder with id. at p. 957, disapproved on another ground by people v. lasko (2000) 23 cal.4th 101, ; see also, e.g., people v. concha (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1072, 1084this court has . . . concluded that an execution-style killing may be committed with such calculation that the manner of killing will support a jury finding of premeditation and deliberation, despite little or no evidence of people v. boatman (2013) 221 24 evidence of premeditation and deliberation in the absence of the killing clearly suggests an execution-the manner of killingessentially an execution-style murder deliberation. additionally, there was some evidence of planning. when officer wearing a pair of bloody gloves. one of the defense experts testified that the gunshot would have caused aerosolized blood to emit from the wound in a fan-like pattern, causing blood to land on the from this evidence, the jury could reasonably infer perez brought the gloves with him and put them on before shooting noe to avoid leaving his fingerprints on the murder weapon, and the gloves became bloodstained due to the aerosolized blood spray. (see people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1253 [planning shown by evidence killer wore gloves; he planned far enough in advance to bring gloves or socks for his did not provide an alternative, innocent explanation for why perez would have brought the gloves along that evening, or why he would have donned them when driving or sitting in his vehicle in the middle of the night. perez argues that (1) the presence of the gloves did not show premeditation because they would not have assisted him in either carrying out the shooting or avoiding apprehension, and (2) it is unreasonable to infer he was trying to avoid leaving mself but, there is nothing unreasonable about the inference he wore the gloves to avoid fingerprints on the gun, as 25 opposed to the car. as for his second contention, certainly the jury could reason that, had officer fowlis not arrived when he did, perez would have in the arroyo,10 and cleaned up his car. planning was also shown by the fact perez brought a gun with him in the car. (see people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 636 [fact defendant brought a loaded handgun on the night of the murder indicated he had considered the possibility of a violent encounter].) we agree with perez that this evidence was not as compelling as it might have been, in light of the fact that the evidence showed he was often armed with a gun. nonetheless, we do not think the jury was required to discount the gun evidence entirely in determining whether perez planned the extensive people v. brady (2010) 50 cal.4th 547, 563.) perez relies on the principle that an especially brutal killing may be as consistent with an explosion of rage as with premeditation. (see people v. alcala (1984) 36 cal.3d 604, 626 multiple wounds, cannot alone support a determination of premeditation. absent other evidence, a brutal manner of killing is as consistent with a sudden, rapeople v. nazeri (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1101, 1118.) but the two gunshots in this case are not comparable to the type of injuries courts have characterized as 10 officer fowlis testified that on one side of arroyo drive, the street where perez was parked, 26 brutal or frenzied. in alcala, for excut and had been hit in the head with a blunt object; in nazeri, each victim had been stabbed multiple times in the neck, torso, and other areas. (people v. alcala, at p. 627; people v. nazeri, at p. 1109.) the two precisely placed gunshots in the instant case were not of this ilk. reweigh the evidence the fact the evidence might have been reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal. (people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 890; people v. solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 849.) 3. contentions related to expert testimony regarding firearm toolmark analysis perez contends the trial court erred by (1) declining to conduct a hearing pursuant to people v. kelly (1976) 17 cal.3d 24 (kelly)11 before admitting evidence regarding certain firearms 11 such motions have in the past also referenced frye v. u.s. (d.c. cir. 1923) 293 fed. 1013, and have sometimes been kelly-fryepeople v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 469, fn. 22.) because frye has been supplanted kelly.(ibid.) 27 toolmark comparisons, and (2) excluding evidence purportedly showing th a. additional facts taken from the shed where perez was found hion this point, or, alternatively, averred that before such testimony could be admitted, the trial court was required to hold a kelly hearing to determine the reliability of lip mark comparisons.12 conducted over the last decade, firearms comparison evidence is not generally accepted as reliable in the scientific community. in support of his motion, perez offered three reports and an article that addressed various forensic analyses, including firearms toolmark comparisons,13 as well as a declaration by the 12 made by teramoto. however, in his argument that the court erred by failing to hold a kelly hearing, perez addresses only the magazine lip mark sion that the two back seat cartridges were fired from one gun. accordingly, as to the kelly hearing issue, we address only the evidence regarding the shed bullet comparison. 13 these materials were: national research council of the national academies, ballistic imaging (2008); national research council of the national academies, strengthening forensic science in the united states: a path forward (2009); hon. harry 28 defense expert, nixon. these materials, considered in the aggregate, concluded or opined that: assessments are subjective and dependent upon intuition, experience, training and skill, a fact acknowledged in standards promulgated by the association of firearms and tool mark examiners (afte); uniquenessi.e., whether a particular set of toolmarks can be shown to come from one weapon to the exclusion of all othershas not been proven; there is no precisely defined process or specific comparison protocol for toolmark that an examiner may conclude two items have a common origin if their marks are in sufficient agreementis circular because sufficient agreement is defined as the examiner being convinced the items are extremely unlikely to have a different origin; there is no statistical foundation for the estimation of error rates; and firearms analysis fails to meet the scientific criteria for foundational validity due to insufficient study. the people opposed the motion and offered various documents showing disagreement with the studies offered by the defense, including, inter alia, responses from the afte, the fbi, the bureau of alcohol, tobacco, firearms, and explosives, and other organizations, criticizing or expressing disagreement with the pcast report. the trial court ruled that, based on people v. cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th 401 and other authorities, a kelly hearing was not t. edwards, the national academy of sciences report on forensic sciences: what it means for the bench and bar (2010); report to the president, forensic science in criminal courts: ensuring scientific validity of feature-comparison methods (2016) (pcast report). 29 required. firearm toolmark analysis was not a new scientific technique. toolmark evidence was not so foreign to everyday conclusions; instead, jurors could see and evaluate the comparisons for themselves. the parties also discussed limitations on the testimony of the defense and prosecution experts. initially, the court ruled work and could attack his analysis, methodology, and conclusions. however, the court precluded the defense from subsequently, the court modified its ruling and held the details of the dispute between the national academy of sciences (nas) (which had promulgated two of the reports offered by the defense) and the afte. nixon could testify, for example, that based upon his review of studies and his experience, firearms was subjective. under evidence code section 352, however, the court ruled that nixon could not go into the details of the reports the defense had presented or the such evidence, the court reasoned, would be unduly time consuming, would tend to confuse the jury, and lacked significant probative value. further, statements in the reports themselves were hearsay. b. kelly hearing perez contends that the trial court erred by failing to conduct a foundational kelly hearing to determine whether the 30 magazine lip mark comparison evidence was reliable enough to be admissible. he asserts that this form of toolmark comparison was a new science within the meaning of kelly. he points out that teramoto testified that lip mark comparison accounted for only five to ten percent of his caseload, and nixon testified such comparisons were very unusual. therefore, he insists, the matter must be remanded so the trial court can hold a kelly hearing. kelly its reliabilityto have gained general acceptance in the particular field to which (people v. cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 469; people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 315316.) kelly based, in whole or part, on a technique, process, or theory which is new (people v. cowan, at p. 470; people v. jackson, at p. 316.) the kelly influenced by procedures which seem scientific and infallible, but people v. cowan, at p. 470; people v. webb (1993) 6 cal.4th 494, 524.) we independently review a determination that a technique is subject to kelly. (people v. jackson, at p. 316.) people v. cowan there, compound, compared the markings on the mold with bullets llets were fired from the gun. (people v. cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 469.) at trial, the criminalist testified that neither he, nor any other ballistics expert, had ever testified about comparisons using 31 such castings. (ibid.) people v. cowan held the evidence was not subject to kelly. toolmark comparisons were not a new scientific techniquesballistics comparisons and toolmark identification using moldsto reach his conclusion. (people v. cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 470.) neither technique was so foreign to everyday experience as to be unusually difficult for laypersons to evaluate. (ibid.specifically, the pattern of lands and grooves and as well as the corresponding markings on the recovered bullets id. the process in producing that result is equally apparent and need kelly id. at p. 470.) people v. cowan science of ballistics is not new, the accepted technique involve[d] comparison of a test-fired bullet with bullets recovered from a technique and the identification of marks produced by dynamic forces acting on a bullet as it is fired. (people v. cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 471.) the court reasoned: static tool mark comparison and dynamic ballistics comparison was not a matter so beyond common understanding that lay jurors could not give it proper weight in evaluating [the ibid.) perez has failed to show that toolmark analysis involving magazine lip mark comparisons is qualitatively different from other firearms toolmark comparisons, which are not subject to the kelly test. both involve the same analysis: matching marks 32 on cartridges or bullets based on impressions left by a firearm component. that magazine lip mark comparisons are less common than other toolmark comparisons does not show this analysis amounts to a new both to science and to the law(people v. fortin (2017) 12 cal.app.5th 524, 531532; people v. jackson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 316.) further, teramoto showed photographs of the lip mark comparisons, explained the process he used to compare the two, and identified the points of similarity. the procedure he used simply isolated physical characteristics, whose appearance could be evaluated by the jury. (see cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 471; people v. webb, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 524 [expert testimony regarding fingerprint match based on laser-derived image was not subject to kellypeople v. venegas (1998) 18 cal.4th 47, 81 [contrasting dna evidence, which requires validation under kellycomparisons, which jurors essentially can perez acknowledges that firearms toolmark evidence has generally been ruled admissible under california law. but, he argues, even if magazine lip mark analysis falls within this category, the trial court should have conducted a kelly hearing because, as shown by the studies and materials he offered in support of his motion, the scientific community now has significant doubts about the reliability of firearms toolmark evidence. he argues that when a previously established forensic -evaluation under kelly is required. (see people v. kelly, supra, 33 17 based upon a new scientific technique, and that decision is affirmed on appeal by a published appellate decision, the precedent so established may control subsequent trials, at least until new evidence is presented reflecting a change in the attitude of the scientific community, we need not reach this claim, however, because even error was manifestly harmless. roneous admission of probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 247; people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1001; people v. wilson (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 559, 571572; evid. code,  353, subd. (b).) the magazine lip mark comparison evidence was offered for a single purpose: to connect perez to the shooting, by linking him to the gun used to kill noe. but, even if the shed bullet had never been discovered, there was overwhelming evidence perez was the killer. undisputed evidence showed perez possessed a nine-millimeter gun: ludbi and celada had seen it, ludbi heard perez talk about it, and rebolorio testified perez pointed it at him for no apparent reason. the undisputed evidence showed perez had the gun on the night of the murder, just hours before noe was killed: at el salvadoreno, perez confided to berganza that he approximately 2:15 a.m. on the morning of the murder. only two seat of a toyota registered to perez, with noe in the passenger seat, dead. perez was wearing bloody gloves. instead of seeking 34 help for noe or providing an innocent explanation for why he had a deceased individual in his car, perez immediately fled. a bloodhound tracked perez to an area by his apartment, and fowlis positively identified him. at approximately 6:30 that morning, perez accosted his acquaintance celada, told celada he would not see him again, and asked him to take care of his children. thereafter perez fled, assumed a false name, and violently resisted apprehension. and, all the evidence suggested perez was the shooter. two expended nine-millimeter cartridge casings were found in his -millimeter firearms generally eject cartridges to the right of the gun. this suggested suggested the same thing. there was not a scintilla of evidence suggesting an unidentified third party was actually the culprit. in short, the evidence that perez was the shooter was overwhelming without any reference to the shed bullet. had the challenged evidence been excluded, we cannot conceive that a better result for perez would have resulted. perez contends that the absence of evidence of motive made but the fact the shed bullet and the back seat cartridges were connected did nothing to assist the people on this score. perez also insists that the challenged evidence must and his robust efforts to discredit the defense expert and oppose the kelly motion. (see people v. louis (1986) 42 cal.3d 969, 995 [where prosecution treated evidence as important, there was no reason why the court should treat it as any less crucial], disapproved on another ground by people v. mickey (1991) 54 cal.3d 612, 672, fn. 9.) but we do not read people v. louis for the 35 proposition that whenever a prosecutor vigorously advocates for admission of evidence, we are required to assume that evidence louis, the challenged testimony was the most critical evidence in the case, and was the sole evidence identifying defendant as the (louis, at p. 989.) the same is not true here. c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding evidence; any purported error was manifestly harmless in a related vein, perez argues that the trial court abused validity of toolmark examination in general he prevented him from attacking the conclusions of the pexpert. relevant evidence under evidence is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or the admission or exclreview rulings regarding relevancy and evidence code section 352 under an abuse people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1181.) an expert witness may be fully cross-examined as to the matter upon which his or her opinion is based and the reasons for his or her opinion. (evid. code,  721, subd. (a); people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 695.) however, not under the guise of stating reasons for an opinion bring before 36 the jury incompetent hearsay evidence. [citation.] a trial court has considerable discretion to control the form in which the expert is questioned to prevent the jury from learning of (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 416.) was able to testify to many, if not all, of the issues raised in the pcast report and the other reports. nixon testified regarding he opined that firearms toolmark he explained that striations or scratch proven and, when a gun component is made with a particular tool which itself has a characteristic marking, the component will also have that characteristic marking; however, more than one gun will possess that characteristic. nixon also explained that firearms toolmark analysis is necessarily every person is going to come to the same conclusion a science, by contrast, should in any event, there was no real dispute on this point; teramoto testified that his work was subjective to the extent it involved his observations and comparisons. nixon also testified to his disagreement with the notion that toolmark analysis was definitive; he opined that one could compare striations and dete37 defense counsel asked teramoto about the error rate applicable to toolmark analysis, and elicited that teramoto could not provide one. perez appears to argue that the trial court erred by prohibiting detailed examination of both teramoto and nixon regarding the contents of the reports attached to his pretrial motion. he contends he should have been allowed to ask the raised in that literature, and whether they considered such but, as relevant here, evidence code section 721, subdivision (b) prohibits cross-examination of an expert scientific, technical, or professional text, treatise, journal, or referred to, considered, his or her opinion. there was no showing here that teramoto or carroll relied upon any of the reports provided by the defense; thus, the defense could not question them about those reports. before the trier of fact the inadmissible hearsay views of an absent expert, which may be contrary opinion, through the device of cross-examining the expert witness the testifying expert had not used or considered that publication or report in any way in arriving at or forming his opinion mcgarity v. department of transportation (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 677, 683.) overly restrictive, perez has not demonstrated prejudice. there is no possibility he would have achieved a better result had the 38 identiary ruling been broader. (see people v. prieto, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 247; people v. richardson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1001; evid. code,  353, subd. (b).) we have explained ante why evidence connecting the shed bullet and one of the back seat cartridges was harmless. the only other seat cartridges were both fired from a single gun. evidence that the cartridge cases were nine-millimeterthe same caliber as the gun perez was known to carrywas not derived through toolmark analysis; the caliber was contained in the headstamp on the cartridge. given that fact, it could not have come as a body was consistent with a nine-millimeter gun. that two shots . thus, evidence that the bullets were fired from a single gun was relevant only to prove that there was a single shooter. there was overwhelming evidence on this point. no one else was in the car when officer fowlis arrived. there was no dispute that noe was shot in the car, and no evidence he was killed elsewhere. the blood evidence the observed. there was no blood in the back seat. the shots were fired in rapid succession. there was a dearth of evidence suggesting an unidentified person played some role in the murder. and, tellingly, the defense did not even contest that the back seat cartridges were fired from the same gun; nixon was not asked to compare them. any purported error was harmless. 39 4. prosecutorial misconduct during argument perez further contends his conviction must be reversed because the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during argument to the jury. we disagree. a. additional facts during argument, the prosecutor described in detail how shots fired. a bullet fire. there was a bright flash. the explosion, the sound in this car must have been deafening shooting a gun off in this car. [] you heard that noe would have went unconscious. you heard because there was injury with the second shot. so noe goes unconscious, theback flash. . . . hand and his gun are covered with blood. the smell of gun powder is inside that car. and what does he choose to do? he takes that gun, he lifts that gun up again, he points it muzzle gets again within inches, and, bam, noe martinez is dead. two .9- the prosecutor urged that the fact perez shot noe twice showed premeditation and you need to pull that gun, you need to aim that after firing that was, did not kill him. why? because both those gunshot wounds 40 had trauma around the wounds, which indicates he was still he chose to murder him. right? [] willful, deliberately, and during closing, the prosecutor urgedas we talked about, you can tell by the shots in this case that it is a first degree murder. [] noe was not dead by the time that b. contentions [m]e evidence by arguing that the first shot did not kill martinez, but merely rendered him unconscious, and the first shot did not kill [noe], but only rendered him unconscious, and, as appellant sat there in the distinction between the consequences of the first shot and the c. applicable legal principles misconduct sufficiently egregious that it infects the trial with such a degree of unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial of due process, the federal constitution is violated. prosecutorial misconduct that falls short of rendering the trial fundamentally unfair may still constitute misconduct under state law if it 41 involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to people v. masters (2016) 62 cal.4th 1019, 1052.) to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument. (people v. linton, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 1205.) comments before the jury, we consider whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (people v. woodruff (2018) 5 cal.5th 697, 755; people v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 568.) we consider the challenged statements in context, and view the argument as a whole. (people v. covarrubias, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 894; people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 304.) it is misconduct for a prosecutor to misstate or mischaracterize the evidence, or to refer to facts not in evidence. (people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 494; people v. ellison (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 1342, 1353.) d. forfeiture perez did not object to the challenged portions of the would have been futile, or admonitions inadequate to cure any purported harm. accordingly, his prosecutorial misconduct claim has been forfeited. (people v. williams (2016) 1 cal.5th 1166, 1188; people v. covarrubias, supra, 1 cal.5th at pp. 893894.) recognizing this, perez contends his counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object. to establish ineffective assistance, a fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing 42 professional norms, and there is a reasonable probability that, been different. (people v. bell (2019) 7 cal.5th 70, 125-126; people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 109.) e. the prosecutor did not mischaracterize the evidence mischaracterize the evidence. first, the prosecutor did not state, expressly or impliedly, that a substantial period of time passed this point is untenable. second, the prosecutor did not misstate the evidence by arguing that the first shot did not kill noe. viewed in context, the prosecutor simply reiterated what the defense expert said: that when the second shot was fired, noe was still alive, based on the presence of hemorrhaging at both wound sites. reasonable jurors would not have understood the prosecutor to mean that the first shot only wounded noe, and perez committed the murder only by firing the second shot. (see people v. covarrubias, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 894 [we do not lightly infer that the jury drew the most, rather than the least, damaging meaning from the people v. shazier (2014) 60 cal.4th 109, 144.) nor did the prosecutor commit misconduct by arguing that the fact perez fired twice supported a finding of premeditation and deliberation. argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable (people v. sandoval (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 439; 43 people v. ellison, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at p. 1353.) there were is ear and one to the back of his head. certainly, it was a reasonable inference that after firing the first shot, perez chose to lift the gun again, required some contemplation; at the very least, perez had to reposition the gun and take aim before firing the second shot. that perez fired not one, but two, shots with precise placement tended to show he acted according to a predetermined design. (see people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1293 [manner of killing suggested premeditation and deliberation where victim was strangled into unconsciousness before her throat was cut, and the wound to her throat required two independent cuts or a single cut in which the knife was raised and pivoted midway through]; people v. elliot (2005) 37 cal.4th 453, 471 [defendant shot victim in the head four times; although victim was already dead, a reasonable jury could have construed these shots as a lated design to kill].) that the two shots were likely fired close in time did not he true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity people v. potts (2019) 6 cal.5th 1012, 1027; people v. san nicolas (2004) 34 cal.4th 614, 658659 [planning involving premeditation requires thought[ second and fatal shot was the 44 mischaracterization of the evidence and no misconduct. because the prosecutor did not mischaracterize the evidence, defense counsel was not remiss for failing to object. failure to raise a meritless objection is not ineffective (people v. bradley (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 64, 90; people v. thompson, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 122.) 5. senate bill no. 620 resentencing the jury found perez personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm, section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d). when the trial court sentenced perez in august 2017, imposition of a section 12022.53 firearm enhancement was mandatory, and the trial court lacked discretion to strike it. (see people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261, 273.) accordingly, the trial court imposed a consecutive term of 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), for the firearm enhancement. it stayed the subdivision (b) and (c) enhancements pursuant to section 654. effective january 1, 2018, the legislature amended section 12022.53, subdivision (h) to give trial courts authority to strike section 12022.53 firearm enhancements in the interest of justice. (sen. bill no. 620 (20172018 reg. sess.), stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) perez contends his case must be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancements. we agree. the amendment to section 12022.53 amendment became operative. (people v. watts (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 102, 119; people v. arredondo (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 493, 507; people v. vieira (2005) 35 cal.4th 264, 305306; people 45 v. nasalga (1996) 12 cal.4th 784, 792; in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2d 740, 745.) the people argue that remand is unnecessary because the stricken the enhancement even if it had possessed discretion to do so. (see people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896; people v. chavez (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 663, 713714.) at case like this. the legislature has determined what the penalties are and i have no discretion. but, if i did have discretion, i think the sentencsentence. [] so, as to count 1 . . . [i]t is a mandatory 25 years to life in the state prison. [] as to the [section] 12022.53(d) allegation, it is a consecutive 25 years to life. so it is a total of 50 a clear and unequivocal indication it would not have stricken the firearm enhancement. appropriate to allow it to exercise its discretion in the first instance. in people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, for example, the trial court observed at sentencing that it lacked discretion to strike a section 12022.53 enhancement, and stated in which] i would stay people v. billingsley, at p. 1080.) billingsley although the court suggested it would not have stricken the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (c), even if it had that discretion, the court was not aware of the full scope of the discretion it now has under the amended statute. 46 sentencing court. [citations.] a court which is unaware of the scope of its misinformation regarding a material aspect of a defendanid. at p. 1081; see people v. johnson (2019) 32 sympathetic to either defendant at sentencing]; people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 11101111; people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 425428.) we agree with the foregoing authorities that remand is required. we express no opinion about how the trial court should exercise its discretion on remand. 47 disposition vacated and the matter is remanded for resentencing to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion and determine whether to strike or dismiss the section 12022.53 firearm enhancements pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (h). the judgment of conviction is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: lavin, j. dhanidina, j. 