filed 4/30/19 p. v. brown ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john j. brown et al., defendants and appellants. b284779 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba452087 appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, jose i. sandoval, judge. affirmed as modified and remanded with directions. jeffrey j. douglas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant john j. brown. robert booher, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant dwayne hamilton. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and david w. williams, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendants john j. brown and dwayne hamilton of second degree robbery and found true several prior-conviction allegations as to both defendants. the trial court sentenced brown to 22 years in prison and hamilton to 20 years in prison. on appeal, both defendants contend the court erred testimony. defendants also challenge the courvarious prior-conviction enhancements. the court erred when it imposed two one-year prior prison term enhanceme. accordingly, we direct the court to delete all references to those enhancements ntencing. both defendants are entitled to resentencing under senate bill no. 1393 (20172018 reg. sess.) (s.b. 1393), which grants courts discretion to dismiss or strike a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes. we therefore remand for resentencing under s.b. 1393. we affirm the judgments in all other respects. procedural background in february 2017, the people charged brown and hamilton with the second degree robbery of julio vasquez (pen. code,1  211). as to brown, the people alleged he had suffered three prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (a), (d), & (e)) and served three prior prison terms based on the same convictions ( 667.5, subd. (b)). specifically, the people alleged brown had suffered three prior 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 robbery convictionsone in september 1987 and two on the same date in may 1999. as to hamilton, the people alleged he had suffered two prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes lawone robbery conviction in february 1982 and another robbery conviction in january 1992. the court bifurcated the trials on the underlying robbery charges and the prior-conviction allegations. in april 2017, the jury found defendants guilty of second degree robbery. s on the robbery charges, the people stated they would not proceed on the prior prison term allegations as to brown, but that they intended to pursue the other prior-conviction allegations against both defendants. hamilton and brown demanded a jury trial on the remaining prior-conviction allegations. during the bifurcated jury trial on the prior-conviction allegations, the court instructed the jury that the court had found defendants were the persons named in the prison records the prior convictions. the jury found true the allegations that hamilton had suffered two prior convictions for robbery and that brown had suffered three prior convictions for robbery. the jury never made, nor was it asked to make, any findings with respect to the prior prison term allegations against brown. before sentencing defendants, the court struck each of their oldest prior strike convictions under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) strike convictions from may 1999 constituted a single prior strike under section 667, subdivision (a). the court sentenced brown to a total term of 22 years in prison, consisting of 10 years for the robbery conviction (the upper term of five years doubled under 4 the three strikes law), plus five years for each of his two prior serious felony convictions, plus two years for the two prior prison term enhancements that the jury never found true. the court sentenced hamilton to 20 years in prison, consisting of 10 years for the robbery (the upper term of five years doubled under the three strikes law), plus five years for each of his two prior serious felony convictions. factual background 1. the -in-chief 1.1. the robbery around 11:30 p.m. on november 23, 2016, vasquez and raymond villarreal were sitting inside vasvassquez rreal was sitting in the front passenger seat. as vasquez and villarreal were talking, two african-american men, later identified as hamilton and brown, walked up to the front passenger window from behind the car. both men were wearing dark-colored sweatshirts with hoods pulled over their heads. one of the men tapped on the front passenger window and pointed a handgun at vasquez and villarreal. the man holding the gun told vasquez and villarreal to roll down the hamilton opened the front passenger side door while brown door.2 defendants made vasquez and villarreal get out of the car, 2 at trial, vasquez testified on direct examination that he believed 5 and hamilton real. brown told vas of value,cash, a cellular phone, and a set of car keys. about three minutes after approaching the car, hamilton and brown ran away. 1.2. vasquez identifies defendants after the robbers fled the scene, vasquez and villarreal drove around the neighborhood looking for them. after several minutes of searching, vasquez and villarreal went to a coffee shop to calm down. after taking vasquez home, villarreal left the neighborhood. around midnight, vasquez and his stepfather searched the neighborhood for the robbers. when vasquez and his stepfather returned home several minutes later, vasquez looking blue hyundai parked about 100 feet from vashouse. as vas saw one of the robbers walking down the sidewalk without his hood on. the man walked toward vasside door handle, but he the hyundai when he made eye contact with vasquez. once the man got in the passenger seat of the hyundai, the car drove off. vasquez and his stepfather tried to follow the hyundai but the car got away. when he returned home, vasquez called the police. around 12:30 a.m., los angeles police department officer francisco diaz responded to vass home. vasquez described the robbers to diaz. although the robbers had covered their heads with hoods, vasquez claimed he had a clear view of their but during cross-examination, vasquez testified he had misspoken during his direct examination, and that brown was the person who 6 lights, the interior lights of vasfrom vassquez also recognized the robbers because he had seen them about two weeks earlier walking through his neighborhood during the afternoon. vasquez described the robbers as african-american men in their mid-thirties .3 one of them wore a black, charcoal-striped hooded sweatshirt, shorts, high socks, and light-colored shoes with black markings. the other robber wore a black hooded sweatshirt, blue jeans, and black and white shoes. when diaz asked vasquez whether he would be able to identify the robbers, vasquez replied that he could most accurately i.e., the one who had but vasque identify the other robber because vasquez saw face after he passenger door [and] stuck his head in [the ca shortly after vasquez met with diaz, the police detained two african-american men driving a light-blue saturn. diaz brought vasquez to where the two men were detained to conduct a field show up. vasquez told diaz that the men who had been detained were not the same men who had robbed him and villarreal earlier that night. the next morning, while he was driving home from the locksmith, vasquez saw the robbers cleaning out a blue hyundai that was parked near vasthey were wearing the 3 at trial, vasquez testified the robbers may have been in their mid-forties. 7 same clothes they had worn when they robbed vasquez and villarreal. vasquez called the police. as the police approached the hyundai, the car took off. the police followed it until the car eventually stopped at the side of the road. after detaining , the police conducted a field show up with vasquez, who identified the occupants as hamilton and brown. vasquez confirmed that hamilton and brown were the same men who had robbed him and villarreal the night before. after conducting a search of the hyundai, one of the officers found a black airsoft handgun inside , which vasquez identified as the same gun used during the robbery. the officer also found two hooded sweatshirts, which vasquez identified as the same sweatshirts defendants wore during the robbery. 2. defense evidence dr. kathy pezdek, a professor of cognitive science, testified as an expert on eyewitness memory and identification. pezdek testified about the various factors that can affect ability to identify a suspect, including: (1) the amount of light illuminating the area where the witness views the suspect; (2) the distance from which the witness views the suspect; (3) the amount of time the witness has to view the suspect; (4) the presence of any factors that may distract the witness from focusing on the suspect, such as if the suspect is disguising his face or wielding a weapon; (5) the amount of stress the witness is under at the time he sees the suspect commit the crime; (6) the amount of time that elapses between when the witness first views the suspect and when the witness identifies the suspect for law enforcement; (7) whether the suspect is a different race or 8 ethnicity than the witness; (8) whether there are multiple suspects; and (9) the angle from which the witness was able to view the suspect. discussion 1. testimony defendants objections to several questions hamilton asked the expert. more specifically, defendants argue the cdeprived them of the right to present a defense because their defense at triali.e., whether vasquez could accurately identify the suspects who robbed him and villarreal. as we explain, any error 1.1. applicable law and standard of review evidence code section 801 allows an expert to offer opinion that is sufficiently beyond common experience [such that] the opinion of [the] expert would assist the trier of fact generally, an expert may render opinion testimony on the basis of facts given in a hypothetical question that asks the expert to assume their truth. [citation.] such a hypothetical question must be rooted in facts shown by the evidence, however. [citations.] (people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1008.) an expert may not, however, offer an opinion about the knowledge or credibility of a specific individual, such as whether a credible. (people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 82.) the general rule is that an expert may not give an opinion whether a witness is telling the truth, for the 9 determination of credibility is not a subject sufficiently beyond common experience that the experts opinion would assist the trier of fact; in other words, the jury generally is as well equipped as the expert to discern whether a witness is being truthful.(ibid.) an expert is also prohibited from testify[ing] to legal conclusions in the guise of expert opinion. such legal conclusions do not constitute substantial evidence. (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 950.) under evidence code section 352, the trial court has broad discretion to exclude evidence substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of ; people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 910 (rodriguez).) this discretion extends to the admission or exclusion of expert testimony. (people v. richardson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1008.) the ordinary rules of evidence do not impermissibly infringe on the accuseds right to present a defense.people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 305courts retain a traditional and intrinsic power to exercise discretion to control the admission of evidence in the interests of orderly procedure and the avoidance of prejudice.people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 611.) thus, w abuse of discretion. (rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th at pp. 910.) 1.2. relevant proceedings after pezdek outlined the various factors that can affect a defense counsel asked her several questions based on hypothetical scenarios and the facts of 10 this case. the court sustained several objections to those questions. on appeal, defendants rulings sustaining objections to the questions asked by hamilton. pezdek testified that it usually becomes more difficult for a witness to accurately identify a suspect as the number of factors increases. then asked hert if in addition to what you have told us about with regard to factors an individual after viewing a person to be identified states son what does that statement of theof the viewer do prior to the identification with the court sustained here any [e]ffect when one of those factors highlighted by the viewer so, for the court sustained the the question. later, hamiis it in addition to that a situation where if someone identifies one individual and that person is grouped in an identification with another individual that the first individual could spark a familiarity cue that then would be more likely to cause an identification of the second identity? [familiarity cue] could be also used with weapons so, for example, 11 1.3. harmless. even if we were to assume the court erroneously sustained objections to the questions hamilton asked pezdek, and that such harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). while expert testimony regarding identification and the jury viewed and listened to the video-recording of vasit therefore heard vasquez himself state what hamilton sought to elicit from pezdek: vasquez had difficulty identifying hamilton due to the circumstances surrounding the robbery, such as the positioning of the robbers with respect to vasquez. in addition, pezdek testified about the numerous factors that can impair a ately identify a suspect that were present in this case. relevant here, the jury heard that the decrease if the witness is distracted by the presence of another perpetrator or a weapon and if the witness does not have a clear line of sight of the suspect. as for questions addressing familiarity cuesspecifically the witness identifies the suspect for law enforcement, the suspect is shown to the witness with the same weapon used to commit the crime or with another suspect who was present when the crime was committedthose questions addressed the same issues the court allowed pezdek to address at other points during her testimony. for example, identification of a suspect may be less reliable if police officers 12 allow the witness to view the suspect while the suspect is near a weapon like the one used during the crime. and pezdek testified that such tacwhile she was being questioned by hamilton, pezdek testified more generally that a witness will be more likely to identify a person as the suspect of a crimeregardless of whether the person identified is in fact the perpetratorif the witness views that person under circumstances that are similar to those that existed when the crime was committed, such as if the person is wearing similar clothes as the perpetrator of if some of the same environmental stimuli that were present when the crime was committed are present when the witness makes the identification. finally, we disregard contention that the questions and to remark in front of the jury that it appeared prejudiced defendants. defendants cite no authority holding that a trial court cannot sustain its own objections to improper questions or explain why it sustained certain objections. in any during the trial as an indication of what [the court] think[s] about the facts, the witnesses, people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 139 [jurors are in sum, any error was harmless under chapman. 2. constitutionality of section 1025 hamilton next contends the court violated his federal constitutional right to a jury trial when it found he was the 13 person identified in the prison records the people used to prove his prior convictions. he argues section 1025, subdivision (c), is unconstitutional because it requires a judge, and not a jury, to find whether a defendant is the person alleged to have suffered a prior conviction.4 we are not persuaded. to be sure, [t]he sixth amendment to the united states constitution, together with the fourteenth amendment, entitle[s] a criminal defendant to a jury determination that [he] is guilty of every element of the crime with which he is charged, people v. gallardo (2017) 4 cal.5th 120, 128 (gallardo).) and a defendant has a increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 490.) a defendant does not, however, have a federal or state constitutional right to have a jury find that he suffered a prior conviction. (see descamps v. united states (2013) 570 u.s. 254, 269 [a defendant does not have a sixth amendment right to have ; gallardo, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 134 [a defendant does not have a sixth necessarily found in the course of entering the [prior] 4 section 1025 identifies who serves as the trier of fact during a trial on prior- of whether or not the defendant has suffered the prior conviction shall be tried by the jury that tries the issue upon the plea of not guilty, or in the case of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, by a jury impaneled for that purpose, question of whether the defendant is the person who has suffered the prior conviction shall be tried by the court wisubd. (c).) 14 .) rather, to a jury trial of prior conviction allegations derives from sections 1025 and 1158, not 5 (people v. epps (2001) 25 cal.4th 19, 23.) while the united states and california supreme courts have held that the right to a jury trial applies to certain disputed factual issues concerning the proof of prior-conviction allegations, rise to, or the factual basis for, the prior conviction at issue (gallardo, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 124; mathis v. united states (2016) 136 s.ct. 2243, 2252), it is well established that a defendant does not have a sixth amendment right to have a jury determine the fact that he suffered a prior conviction. for example, the california supreme court recently reiterated in gallardo that a defendant does not have a right to have a jury gallardo, at p. 125.) and in mathis, the most recent united states supreme court decision cited by hamilton, the high court recognized that, consistent with sixth amendment principles, a judge is not prohibited from mathis, at p. 2252.) because section 1025, subdivision (c), is consistent with these principles, the court did by finding hamilton was the person who suffered the february 1982 and january 1992 prior robbery convictions alleged in the information. 5 section 1158 grants a defendant the right to a jury trial to determine ( 1158.) 15 3. hancements brown contends, and the people concede, that the court erred when it imposed two one-year prior prison term enhancements because the jury never made, nor was asked to make, any findings with respect to those enhancements, and brown never admitted the truth of the prior prison term allegations. we agree. prior-conviction allegations must be alleged in the accusatory pleading and either admitted by the defendant in open court or found to be true by the trier subd. (e).) the people bear the burden of proving the allegations beyond a reasonable doubt. (in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857, 862863.) a defendant has the right to a jury trial on the prior-conviction allegations, or to a court trial if he waives a jury trial. ( 1025, subds. (b), (c).) if the defendant does not waive his right to a trial on the prior-conviction allegations, the trier of fact must of true before the court may impose the prior-conviction . ( 1158.) here, the people alleged under section 667.5 that brown had served three prior prison terms for his three prior serious felony convictions. however, before the bifurcated jury trial on -conviction allegations, the people informed the court they would not pursue the prior prison term allegations against brown. during the trial on the prior-conviction allegations, the court never instructed the jury on the elements of the prior prison term allegations, and the jury never made, nor were they asked to make, any findings with respect to those allegations. since brown never admitted the truth of the prior prison term allegations, and the jury never made any findings 16 with respect to those allegations, the court erred when it imposed two one-year enhancements under section 667.5 as part of . (see people v. palmer (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 440, 444 [it violates fundamental notions of due process to deem a defendant convicted of an offense on which the jury was never instructed. 4. prior serious felony conviction enhancements and s.b. 1393 as noted above, the court imposed two five-year prior serious felony conviction enhancements under section 667, when it conviction enhancements, the court lacked discretion to strike or dismiss those enhancements. (see people v. jones (1993) 12 cal.app.4th 1106, 11161117.) on january 1, 2019, s.b. 1393 went into effect, amending section 667, subdivision (a), and section 1385, subdivision (b), to allow a court to exercise its discretion to strike or to dismiss a prior serious felony conviction enhancement for sentencing purposes. the parties agree that s.b. 1393 applies retroactively to s.b. 1393 with discretion, which they formerly did not have, to dismiss or strike a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes.(see people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 972973.) in their supplemental briefs, hamilton and brown argue we should remand this case for a new sentencing hearing to allow the court to exercise, in the first instance, its newfound discretion to strike their prior serious felony conviction enhancements. relying on people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, the people argue 17 remand is unnecessary because the record shows the court would not have sentenced defendants any differently even if it had the discretion to do so at the time of the original sentencing hearing. the record before us does not clearly indicate that the court would have declined to strike or to dismiss the prior serious felony conviction enhancements if it had the discretion to do so. (see people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 427428.) accordingly, we remand the matter for resentencing to allow the court to determine whether it should strike or dismiss we offer no opinion on how the court should exercise that discretion. 18 disposition as to brown, the court shall modify its sentencing minute order and the abstract of judgment by deleting any reference to the prior prison term enhancements under section 667.5. sentence is vacated and the matter is remanded for resentencing, including resentencing under s.b. 1393. as to hamilton, the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the court to exercise its sentencing discretion under s.b. 1393. in all other respects, we affirm the judgments. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j. 