filed 10/4/18 p. v. reyes ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos mauricio reyes, defendant and appellant. b284102 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la081621) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, susan m. speer, judge. affirmed and remanded. adrian k. panton, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and gregory b. wagner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant carlos reyes of shooting at an occupied vehicle (count 1), assault with a firearm (count 2), and discharging a firearm with gross negligence (count 3), and found true that defendant personally used a firearm. the trial court sentenced defendant on count 2 to a 14-year prison term, which included the 4-year high term for assault with a firearm and 10 year high-term for the firearm enhancement under penal code section 12022.5, subdivision (a).1 the trial court imposed prison terms on counts 1 and 3, but stayed the sentences on those counts pursuant to section 654. the only relief defendant seeks on appeal is a remand of senate bill no. 620 (stats. 2017, ch. 682,  1). the amended section 12022.5 became effective after the trial court sentenced defendant, and gives trial firearm enhancement.2 ( 12022.5, subd. (c).) respondent agrees, as do we, that remand for resentencing is appropriate because the amended section 12022.5 applies retroactively to cases, such as this one, that are not yet final. respondent, however, seeks to expand the scope of remand sentence to count 1. because the people failed to object at the time the trial court 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 section 12022.5, subdivision (c) provides: the court may, in the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur 3 orally pronounced sentence and thus the people have forfeited doing so now. accordingly, we remand the matter to the trial court to exercise its sentencing discretion under section 12022.5, subdivision (c) and otherwise affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background we limit our statement of the facts to those relevant to this appeal. on july 6, 2017, a jury convicted defendant of shooting into an occupied vehicle in violation of section 246 (count 1); assault with a firearm in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(2) (count 2), and discharge of a firearm with gross negligence in violation of section 246.3, subdivision (a) (count 3). the jury also found true that defendant personally used a firearm within the meaning of sections 1203.06, subdivision (a)(1) and 12022.5, subdivision (a). in its sentencing memorandum, the people contended defendant was ineligible for probation and recommended imposition of the high term on count 2 and the firearm enhancement, for a total prison term of 14 years. the people emphasized that defendant had threatened the victim with a similar make revolver two months before defendant committed the crimes for which he was tried. those crimes involved neighborhood, and then firing two more shots at a nearby location when the victim was attempting to flee defendant. the 4 people asserted because the shots occurred at three different locations, section 6543 did not apply. defendant also submitted a sentencing memorandum in which defendant sought probation, or in the alternative, the mid-term on count 2 (three years) and the firearm enhancement (four years), for a total prison term of seven years. defendant further requested that the sentences on the remaining two counts be stayed under section 654. defendant cited as mitigating factors prior threats by the victim directed at defendant and his family, at the sentencing hearing on july 17, 2017, the trial judge -request for consecutive sentences on the three counts. the trial ntions that the circumstances giving rise to the crime were unusual on the unlikely to reoccur. as factors militating against imposition of mid-term sentences, the trial court noted defendanthree separate rounds within minutes and threatening the victim with a similar make revolver two months 3 section 654, subdivision (a) provides: an act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. an acquittal or conviction and sentence under any one bars a 5 earlier. trial and escalating criminal record. counts consecutively, the trial court recognized that it was y occurred in such a brief period of time and it was based upon the single objective to either kill or to shoot the victim in his the trial court orally pronounced the following sentences: as to ch as to the special allegation under section 12022.5, 10 ; as to cenced to the low termthree years in state prison. as to cterm of three years in state prison. sentence on this count is 4 pronouncement of a three-year sentence as to count 1 even though the high term for that count was seven years. the minute order recorded the following: high term sentences on count 2 and the firearm enhancement, the trial the three- 4 the trial court further stated, all of these counts will remain permanently stayed once the term imposed on count ii is 6 reported that the stay of the sentences in counts 1 and 3 pursuant to sectiocompletion of the sentence imposed in count judgment similarly reflects imposition of the four-year upper term for count 2 and 10-year upper term for the firearm enhancement, the three-year low term for count 1, and the three-year upper term for c defendant filed a timely notice of appeal on july 17, 2017. discussion when the trial court sentenced defendant, section 12022.5, subdivision (c) did not give trial courts discretion to strike or dismiss the firearm enhancement.5 effective january 1, 2018, the statute gives trial courts discretion to strike or dismiss the (stats. 2017, ch. 682,  1.) the statute applies retroactively to defendant because his conviction was not final as of the effective day of the amendment, and he may benefit from a potential reduction in sentence. (see people v. robbins (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 660, 678.) decisions made in the exercise (people v. belmontes which is unaware of the scope of its discretionary powers can no than one whose sentence is or may have been based on misinformation regarding a 5 previously, section 12022.5, subdivision (c) read: notwithstanding section 1385 or any other provisions of law, the court shall not strike an allegation under this section or a finding 7 ibid.) thus, where a trial court has imposed a sentence in the belief that it lacked discretion to strike an enhancement, remand is necessary to permit the trial court to exercise its discretion. (people v. brown (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1213, 1228.) respondent agrees that we should remand as to count 2 so that the trial court may exercise its discretion under the amended section 12022.5. respondent, however, seeks remand for the additional purpose of seeking clarification of the trial count 1. among other arguments, defendant contends the people forfeited seeking any such clarification. more specifically, the very ambiguity respondent asserts here was apparent at the time the trial court orally pronounced sentence on count 1 because three years was not the high term for count 1 despite the trial term for that count. the prosecutor failed to object at that time. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 353 [defendant forfeited objection to the for discretionary sentencing choices during oral pronouncement of sentence by not objecting at that time].) as our supreme court reasons are easattention. as in other waiver cases, we hope to reduce the number of errors committed in the first instance and preserve the (ibid.) 8 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court to exercise its sentencing discretion under section 12022.5, subdivision (c). the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: johnson, acting p. j. currey, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 