filed 10/5/18 p. v. cohen ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eugene morris cohen, defendant and appellant. b284216 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa089594 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark zuckman, judge. affirmed. andrew flier, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted appellant eugene michael cohen of misdemeanor vehicular manslaughter and leaving the scene of an accident in connection with a fatal hit-and-run. on appeal, appellant challenges both convictions, asserting that the trial court committed multiple evidentiary, instructional, and other procedural errors, and that there was insufficient evidence to s. finding no reversible error and concluding that sverdicts, we affirm. procedural history an information filed by the los angeles county district attorney charged appellant with misdemeanor vehicular manslaughter (pen. code,  192, subd. (c)(2))1 and leaving the scene of an accident (veh. code,  20001, subd. (a)). following trial, a jury convicted him on both counts. the trial court sentenced appellant to four years in prison for leaving the scene of an accident and a concurrent term of one year in prison for vehicular manslaughter. facts a. the -in-chief eleanor nett testified that on saturday, march 22, 2014, at around 1:00 a.m., she and her mother, kathryn theis, left a restaurant in santa monica and started crossing ocean avenue, heading west there was no crosswalk where the two were crossing. as theis and nett reached the southbound traffic lanes, a taxi in the number one 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 lane yielded for them to cross. when they reached the number two lane, another car, later determined to be driven by appellant, struck them. nett was knocked to the ground. theis was critically injured. the force of the impact caused her body to fly forward and slam into a parked car. upon seeing theis on the ground, nett began screaming for help. theis later died at the hospital. three additional eyewitnesses testified at trial. julia sommer, who was inside the parked car when the accident occurred, stated that she felt an impact to her car and heard a loud noise followed by a woman screaming. sommer then saw a car speed away at what she estimated to be 50 to 60 miles per hour. scott johnson was driving south on ocean avenue before the accident. johnson testified that he observed a gray sports car driving aggressively between traffic lights, accelerating rapidly when a light turned green and braking abruptly at the next light. johnson was able to see the driver, whom he identified at trial as appellant. johnson stated that appellant appeared relaxed and seemed to be johnson later witnessed the collision from about 150 feet behind appellantcar. according to johnson, following the collision, appellant continued driving and made a sharp right turn at the next street. johnson immediately pulled over to assist the victims and call 911. minuk davtyan, a taxi driver, testified he was driving southbound in the number one lane on ocean avenue when he saw a car speed past him in the number two lane. moments later, he heard a woman scream and saw another woman on the ground. the car that had sped past davtyan then accelerated 4 and immediately turned onto another street. dashboard camera captured the collision, and the video was played to the jury. shortly after the incident, police officers and investigators from the santa monica police department arrived at the scene and secured it for further investigation. officer veronica baez gathered information from other officers and witnesses, photographed the scene, marked areas containing vehicle debris, and took various measurements. detective jason olson, the lead investigator, examined the evidence and reconstructed the events. based on the video from appellanttraveling at 37 miles per hour before the collision, above the 30 miles per hour speed limit in that area. the video also showed had yielded to theis and nett and had its brake lights on. should have alerted appellant that there was a hazard on the road, which in turn should have caused him to slow down. instead, the video showed appellant continuing to accelerate after the brake lights came on. olson also reviewed a video captured from a surveillance camera at casa martin, a restaurant located near the accident site. olson testified that using that video, he identified the point at which appellant car hit theis and nett.2 olson was then able 2 utilized the casa martin video in conducting his speed analysis. as discussed later in the opinion, that is incorrect. according to the time it took appellant to travel between two points visible in 5 to calculate the distance between appellant car when nett and theis first became visible in the number two lane (based on ) to the point of impact. according to olson, that distance would have allowed a reasonable driver to brake and avoid the collision. olson requested a copy of the casa martin video, but the restaurant provided him with a copy of the wrong time frame. by the time olson discovered the error, the restaurant had overwritten the correct time frame. the investigation soon led police to appellant. the investigators subsequently learned that immediately following the incident, appellant made a series of phone calls to acquaintances, seeking a body shop that could fix his car that day -- a saturday. later that day appellant rented a car from a dealer who knew one of his friends. further investigation revealed that the following day, appellant placed the car involved in the incident in a storage facility owned by his father. about two weeks later, on appellantthe car from the storage facility and towed it to a chop shop, where the car was cut into pieces. b. the defense the defense revolved around appellant appellant testified in his own defense. while he did not deny driving the car that hit theis and nett, he testified that he had that video. olson testified that he identified the location of both thus, as the prosecutor later clarified to the court, i 6 no recollection of the incident. according to appellant, he felt tired while driving on the night of the accident. he stopped at the side of the road and checked his blood-sugar level, which tested normal. as he was approaching the santa monica pier, he he testified he had no clear recollection of the rest of his path home. according to appellant, when he awoke that morning, he was surprised to see damage to the front side of his car. he later saw news coverage of the fatal collision and realized he might have been involved in the accident. he testified he became scared and thus rented a car, stored his car at torage facility, and later made arrangements to dispose of it. dr. michael hirt, appellantappellant hirt confirmed that appellant was diabetic and had to inject insulin to maintain a normal blood-sugar level. according to hirt, symptoms of a low blood-sugar level could include anything from light-headedness and dizziness to death. the defense also called cole brewer, a traffic-collision reconstruction expert. using the dashboard-camera video from davtappellantbrewer agreed with olson that appellant was travelling at about 37 miles per hour. based on a traffic survey he conducted, brewer estimated that cars travelling 40 miles per hour represented the 85th percentile of cars driving at the site of the accident at around 1:00 a.m., meaning that 85 percent of the cars traveled at 40 miles per hour or a lower speed. he explained that authorities typically determine appropriate speed limits based on the speed of the 85th percentile at nonpeak hours but conceded 7 on cross-examination that the survey he conducted would not provide a sufficient basis to decide the speed limit. in response to a question by the prosecutor, brewer confirmed that a reasonable person should adjust when confronted with a stopped vehicle in the adjacent lane. c. rebuttal dr. omar deen, an internal medicine specialist, reviewed appellantblood-sugar level in 2014 appeared to be well controlled. deen opined that a diabetic patient suffering from a low-blood sugar level would not appear relaxed but instead would exhibit symptoms that would be visible even to a layperson, such as lethargy and excessive sweating. according to deen, only a dangerously low blood-sugar level could produce memory loss, and a person in that condition would be unable to operate a car. d. closing the prosecution argued that appellant caused the accident by negligently speeding or, alternatively, by negligently driving with knowledge of his compromised medical condition at the time of the incident. it also contended that the evidence showed appellant was fully aware of the collision but chose to flee the scene, and later attempted to conceal the evidence of his crime. the defense asserted that appellant was travelling at a reasonable speed and that nett and theis conduct caused the accident. the defense argued that holding appellant liable for driving with knowledge of his medical condition was tantamount to saying that diabetics must never drive. finally, the defense reiterated appellant contention that he was unaware of the collision due to his medical condition at the time of the collision. 8 discussion a. sufficiency of the evidence appellant contests the sufficiency of the evidence to support his convictions for vehicular manslaughter and leaving the scene of an accident. in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence -- that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) we discuss each of appellant 1. vehicular manslaughter to prove vehicular manslaughter under section 192, subdivision (c)(2), the prosecution must establish: (1) while driving, the defendant committed a misdemeanor, an infraction, or a lawful act in an unlawful manner; (2) the relevant act was dangerous to human life; (3) the defendant committed the relevant act with ordinary negligence; and (4) the act caused the death of another person. ( 192, subd. (c)(2).) here, the prosecution alleged that appellant committed the infraction of speeding in violation of the basic speed law (veh. code,  22350). the prosecution also alleged, in the alternative, that appellant negligently committed a lawful act in an unlawful manner, namely, driving with knowledge of his compromised medical condition at the time of the incident. appellant asserts the evidence was insufficient to prove that he was speeding or otherwise driving negligently. we disagree. under the basic speed law, a person must not drive at a greater speed than is reasonable or prudent considering the 9 weather, visibility, traffic, and other conditions of the highway or at a speed that endangers the safety of persons or property. (veh. code,  22350.) trial testimony established that shortly before the accident, appellant was driving aggressively and faster than the speed limit. the evidence also showed that appellant continued to accelerate, even after the taxi in the adjacent lane had stopped in the middle of the road and had its brake lights on. the jury heard twitness opine that a reasonable driver should slow down under such circumstances. appellantown expert agreed that under those circumstances, a reasonable driver should adjust his driving and exercise caution. this was sufficient evidence for the jury to conclude that appellant was driving negligently and at an imprudent speed considering the conditions of the road. appellant further claims that theis stepped in front of his vehicle and that her own conduct served as an intervening cause that should relieve him of criminal liability for her death. but cause must be an unforeseeable and extraordinary occurrence. (people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 847.) the defendant remains criminally liable if either the possible consequence might reasonably have been contemplated or the defendant should have foreseen the possibility of harm of the kind that could result from (ibid.) here, a jury could reasonably find that the inability to avoid striking an emerging pedestrian is a foreseeable result of driving at a high speed while passing a stopped vehicle. in sum, substantial evidence the vehicular manslaughter charge. 10 2. leaving the scene of an accident vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (a), provides, he driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to any person, other than himself or herself . . . shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident and shall fulfill the in turn, vehicle code sections 20003 and 20004 require the driver to, among other things, provide specified information, render aid to any person injured and, in the event of death, notify authorities of the accident without delay. appellant does not contend he complied with these requirements after the incident. instead, he argues that the evidence was insufficient to prove he was aware of the accident, as he claimed he suffered a diabetic attack and had no memory of the collision. there was, however, ample evidence tending to show that appellant was aware of the accident but chose to flee rather than stop. first, given the damage to his car and the fact that nett began screaming loudly after the impact, the jury could conclude that appellant must have been aware of the collision. evidence that he sped away and turned onto a different street at his first opportunity and later engaged in extensive efforts to conceal his involvement in the accident also suggested his awareness. additionally, the prosecution presented evidence tending to refute appellantspecific claim that symptoms of a low blood-sugar level caused him to have no recollection of the accident: johnson testified that appellant appeared relaxed just before the accident, and dr. deen opined that a person with severe symptoms of a low blood-sugar level would not appear relaxed and, in fact, would be unable to operate a car. in short, 11 sufficient evidence supported appellantscene of an accident. b. failure to order a mistrial or continuance in response to the prosecutionx 1. background appellant argues that the court erred in denying a mistrial or, in the alternative, a continuance after discovering that the prosecution failed to disclose a measurement index that officer baez prepared. the existence of the measurement index first became known baez testified that she marked and measured certain locations at the scene based on witness statements, debris, and blood splatter. on cross-examination, baez revealed that she had prepared a measurement index, which recorded the various measurements she took at the scene. the parties agree that neither detective olson nor the prosecutor knew this measurement index existed. appellant then moved for a mistrial, asserting that the prosecution had violated its discovery obligations by failing to tender the measurement index. the court ordered the prosecutor to provide the index to appellant that day and after the prosecutor complied, denied the motion for a mistrial. several days later, appellant requested a continuance to allow brewer, his expert, to make calculations based on the measurement index. the trial court denied the motion, noting that brewer still had time to visit the location and perform his calculations before he was scheduled to testify. brewer testified the next day, and the defense rested the following day. the trial court later instructed the jury that late disclosure of the measurement index in evaluating the evidence. 12 2. analysis on appeal, the parties agree that index was subject to disclosure prior to trial. appellant contends that the trial compelled the trial court to declare a mistrial or at least grant a continuance. we review the on a motion for a mistrial for abuse of discretion. (see people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 282.) rial have been irreparably damaged . . . . (people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 372.) aside from abstract assertions that the information in the appellant fails to explain either the relevance of any particular measurement or how the late disclosure of the document might have impacted his defense. he has therefore forfeited any argument in this regard. (see, e.g., sviridov v. city of san diego (2017) 14 cal.app.5th 514, 521 [arguments not developed are forfeited].) thus, appellant has shown no irreparable damage to his chances of receiving a fair trial and no abuse of discretion in (see people v. ayala, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 282.) turning to appellantreverse a conviction based on the denial of a continuance absent (people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 840.) as with the denial of his motion for a mistrial, appellant asserts without elaboration that had brewer received the index earlier, again, however, he fails to explain how brewer could 13 have used the index or what opinions he would have formed based on it. thus, appellant fails to show any prejudice from the continuance. c. evidentiary challenges appellant challenges multiple evidentiary rulings. we review a trial courts ruling on the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. (see people v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 266.) in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that (ibid.) it is the miscarriage of justice. (pool v. city of oakland (1986) 42 cal.3d 1051, 1069.) a miscarriage of justice results only if reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 1. admission of the casa martin video a. background appellant claims the trial court should not have permitted detective olson to testify about the content of the video from casa martin that he had reviewed shortly after the incident. the video itself was unavailable because, as noted, the restaurant later provided olson with a copy of the wrong time frame, and its recording system had overwritten the relevant time frame before olson discovered the error. testimony about the content of the casa martin video based on the secondary evidence rule (evid. code,  1521, subd. (a)). 14 appellant objected, arguing that such testimony would violate his right to cross-examination. the trial court sustained the objection and declined to allow the testimony. the prosecutor renewed the motion later during trial, again asserting that requirements of the secondary evidence rule. the prosecution argued the video was lost or destroyed through no fault of , that it was highly relevant, and that olson could be cross-examined about his observations. appellant rested on the objections he had previously made, and the court again denied the request. prior to olvarious calculations, which were based in part on his observations from the casa martin video. appellant countered that the issue had already been litigated and decided, but the court responded that this was the first time the parties were litigating to examine olson on the casa martin video as the basis for his opinion, as opposed to appellant then reiterated his objection to testimony regarding the casa martin video, arguing that he would be unable to cross-examine olson about his observations. after hearing from olson about the circumstances surrounding the casa martin video, the court found that olson had exercised due diligence in attempting to obtain the video, which, through no 15 fault of his, had been inadvertently overwritten.3 the court then allowed olson to explain to the jury how he had identified the point of impact from the casa martin video. b. analysis appellant contends: (1) about the video constituted improper hearsay testimony; (2) the video had not been properly authenticated; and (3) the testimony should have been precluded under the secondary evidence rule. respondent argues that appellant has forfeited his hearsay and authentication objections by failing to raise them below. we agree. although he martin video, appellant argued only that he would be denied the right to cross-examine olson on it. an objection on that ground does not preserve hearsay and authentication objections. (see people v. polk fails to make a timely objection on the precise ground asserted on appellant . the objections he points to, however, concerned other videos, including the one . moreover, the court initially sustained appellanttestimony about the casa martin video. subsequently, when the prosecutor asked for permission to elicit that the casa martin mination of the point of impact, appellant protested that the issue had already been litigated. the court then clarified that the admissibility of 3 relatedly, the court also found no violation of due process under california v. trombetta (1984) 467 u.s. 479 (addressing ). 16 his opinion, as opposed to testimony about that video as independent evidence, had not been litigated. faced with a clean slate of objections, appellant argued only that the testimony would violate his right to cross-examine the witness. he did not he casa martin video as the basis for his opinions on hearsay or authentication grounds. accordingly, appellant has forfeited the hearsay and authentication objections by failing to raise them below.4 (see perez v. grajales (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 580, 591-592 e generally .) we now turn to appellantcontentions under the secondary evidence rule. under thwriting may be proved by otherwise admissible secondary 4 hearsay. under evidence code section 1200, of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the evidence code further defines a s]tatementession or . . . nonverbal conduct of a person intended by him as a substitute for (evid. code,  225) the casa martin video is not a statement of a person under the evidence code. (see people v. goldsmith, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. accordingly, it was not hearsay. (see ibid.) video hearsay. (see evid. code,  1200 [hearsay does not include while 17 5 (evid. code,  1521, subd. (a).) the rule also provides, however, that courts must exclude secondary evidence of the content of a writing if its admission would be unfair. (evid. code,  1521, subd. (a)(2).) appellant argues that the admabout the casa martin video was unfair. in his opening brief, he offers only a perfunctory statement that it was unfair for olson to testify about evidence that was not available to the defense and which denied [appellant] the right to cross examine olson on only in his reply brief does appellant attempt to support this contention with argument. axiomatic that arguments made for the first time in a reply brief will not be entertained because of the unfairness to the other (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1075.) in any event, we perceive no testimony that cruling an abuse of discretion. notably, according to the tdestruction of the video came through no fault of olson, and appellant had an opportunity -- albeit limited -- to cross-examine olson about his observations. finally, even if the trial court had abused its discretion in allowing oral testimony about the casa martin video, appellant makes no showing that this testimony prejudiced his defense. he asserts that olson used the casa martin video to estimate his carcollision, and that the speed analysis was critical to the verdict. but that assertion misreads the record: 5 secondary evidence rule. (people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 475.) 18 in calculating the speed of appellantvehicle. appellant makes no meaningful attempt to explain how any calculation olson actually made using verdict. accordingly, we discern no error in the admission of testimony about the casa martin video. 2. exclusion of the measurement index at the conclusion of trial, appellant moved to admit a police report containing officer when the prosecution objected on hearsay grounds, appellant responded that he was offering the index for impeachment purposes and to ,an for the truth of the matters asserted in the index. the trial court excluded the report. on appeal, appellant asserts in conclusory fashion that the measurement index was not hearsay, and that the measurements it contained could have been useful for the defense, suggesting that the jury could have taken the index for the truth of the matters asserted in it. because he fails to offer a meaningful legal argument and advances a position he expressly disclaimed before the trial court, we deem the matter forfeited. (see silva v. (2016) 7 cal.app.5th 235, 250 [a conclusory statement is insufficient to challenge a courts evidentiary ruling; perez v. grajales, supra, 169 cal.app.4th at pp. 591- time on appeal are ) 19 3. admission of evidence of appellantrecommendation for medical marijuana a. background appellant evidence that he had obtained a recommendation for medical marijuana following the accident. prior to cross-examining appellant, the prosecutor asked the court for permission to ask appellant if he had used marijuana at the time of the collision and, if he denied such use, whether he had a recommendation for medical marijuana, either at the time of the accident or at the time of trial. appellant objected on ground that the recommendation for medical marijuana was irrelevant and unduly prejudicial, but the court overruled his objection. the court reasoned that a recommendation for medical marijuana before the accident would be probative of appellantmarijuana at the time of the incident. it further reasoned that if appellant denied having a recommendation for medical marijuana at the time of the incident, evidence that he possessed such a recommendation at the time of trial could serve to impeach him. on cross-examination, appellant admitted having smoked marijuana, but denied using it close to the time of the incident. in response to the prosecutors questions, appellant also denied having a recommendation for medical marijuana in 2014 but acknowledged obtaining one in 2015. the prosecutor made no mention of this testimony in closing argument. b. analysis appellant argues that evidence of his 2015 recommendation for medical marijuana was irrelevant and unduly prejudicial. we agree that any connection between 20 potential drug use prior to the accident in 2014 was tenuous. however, assuming admission of this evidence was erroneous, it did not result in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (see people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) initially, we observe that the contested evidence played the prosecutor made no further mention of this evidence to the jury. its theory regarding the vehicular manslaughter charge was that appellantspeeding or, alternatively, his driving with knowledge of his compromised medical condition at the time, caused the accident. the prosecution never alleged that drug use played a part in causing the accident. moreover, the evidence against appellant was strong. as previously discussed, the evidence showed that before the accident, appellant was driving above the speed limit and continued to accelerate even when a taxi in the adjacent lane stopped in the middle of the road to allow theis and nett to cross. given the circumstances of the accident, i.e., the force of the lp, it was highly unlikely that appellant failed to notice the collision. and his conduct immediately following the collision and thereafter strongly suggested he was aware of his involvement in the incident but chose to conceal it. appellant claims that the evidence of his 2015 recommendation for medical marijuana was crucial because it driving erratically and struck the pedestrians. he apparently suggests that absent such an explanation, the jury would have concluded that diabetes-related symptoms caused him to drive 21 aggressively and to lose all recollection of what he had done. however, his account of a diabetes-induced memory loss was effectively refuted by the testimony of johnson and deen, and the prosecution neither attempted nor was obligated to provide a motive for appellant aggressive driving. in view of the extensive evidence against appellant and the minimal effect his 2015 medical marijuana recommendation could have had on the jury, any error in admitting the recommendation was harmless. (see people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 117 [no manifest miscarriage of justice where prosecution evidence was strong and challenged evidence was peripheral to the case].) d. challenges to the jury instructions next, appellant advances two challenges to jury instructions. we review assertions of instructional error de (people v. selivanov (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 726, 751.) when evaluating whether jury instructions are misleading, we consider the instructions as a whole to determine if there was a reasonable likelihood that the jury applied the challenged instruction in a misleading manner. (people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 677.) even where an instruction, or the failure to give an instruction, was erroneous, we will not reverse a conviction unless the error resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (see people v. avena (1996) 13 cal.4th 394, 416; people v. johnson (1993) 6 cal.4th 1, 46, disapproved on another ground in people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 879.) we discuss each of appellantchallenges in turn. 1. calcrim no. 306 the trial court gave the jury the following instruction pursuant to calcrim no. 306: 22 both the people and the defense must disclose their evidence to the other side before trial, within the time limits set by law. failure to follow this rule may deny the other side the chance to produce all relevant evidence, to counter opposing evidence, or to receive a fair trial. [] an attorney for the people failed to disclose: measurement index within the legal time period. [] in evaluating the weight and significance of that evidence, you may consider the effect, if any, of that late disclosure. appellant argued that this instruction also should have included , but the court overruled the objection. on appeal, appellant requested instruction was erroneous. requested jury instructions must be supported by substantial evidence. (soule v. general motors corp. (1994) 8 cal.4th 548, 572.) the discovery obligations that calcrim no. 306 discusses, and which appellant claims the prosecution violated, stem from section 1054.1. that provision requires the prosecution to disclose certain information to the defendant before trial. ( 1054.1.) as our supreme court has explained: [u]nder section 1054.1, evidence is subject to disclosure, if at all, only to the extent it is ion of the prosecuting attorney or [known by [him/her]] to be in the [actual] possession of the investigating (people v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, 1163, quoting  1054.1, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) appellant does not assert that either the prosecutor or any investigating agency actually possessed the casa martin video. rather, appellant claims detective olson was negligent in 23 failing to discover that he had received a video of the wrong time frame from the restaurant destruction. from this, he suggests that theoretical ability to obtain a copy of the correct video gave him it. regardless of any theoretical constructive possession of the casa martin video, obligations were not triggered. the prosecution was not required to provide appellant with a video that neither it nor any investigator had obtained. the trial court reasonably concluded correctly refused to instruct the jury on a discovery violation relating to the video. (see soule v. general motors corp., supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 572.) moreover, just as he fails to show any prejudice resulting appellant also fails to show prejudice flowing from the absence of the instruction he sought regarding the video. in fact, he makes no attempt to establish any resulting prejudice. 2. calcrim no. 593 as previously discussed, to prove a charge of vehicular manslaughter under section 192, subdivision (c)(2), the prosecution must prove, among other things, that the defendant negligently committing a misdemeanor, an infraction, or a lawful act in an unlawful manner. ( 192, subd. (c)(2).) at trial was that appellant negligently speeding or negligently driving with knowledge of his compromised medical condition. the relevant portion of the trial 24 to prove that the defendant is guilty of vehicular manslaughter with ordinary negligence, the people must prove that: while driving a vehicle, the defendant committed an infraction or a lawful act in an unlawful manner; the infraction or otherwise lawful act was dangerous to human life under the circumstances of its commission; the defendant committed the infraction or otherwise lawful act with ordinary negligence; and the infraction or otherwise lawful act caused the death of another person. the people alleged that the defendant committed the following infraction: speeding. [] . . . [] the people also allege that the defendant committed the following otherwise lawful act with ordinary negligence: drove with knowledge of medical condition. use reasonable care to prevent reasonably foreseeable harm to he or she does something that a reasonably careful person would not do in the same situation or fails to do something that a reasonably careful person would do in the same situat finally, the court instructed the jury that it had to agree whether speeding or driving with knowledge of medical condition caused appellant objected to the inclusion of the reference 25 to driving with knowledge of medical condition, but the court overruled his objection. appellant renews his objection on appeal. he asserts that the very language appellant challenges refutes this contention. that language set forth theory that appellant committed the otherwise lawful act -- driving with knowledge of his medical condition -- with ordinary negligence instruction could be read to refer generally, rather than to his claimed condition at the time of the incident, the instruction appropriately charged the jury with determining whether appellant was negligent. accordingly, we instruction under calcrim 593.6 e. failure to excuse jurors for cause 1. background appellant claims the trial court abused its discretion in denying his for-cause challenges to four prospective jurors during voir dire, thereby violating his right under the federal and state 6 ear the negligence element of the offense, but his decision to continue driving while conscious that he was medically compromised. the prosecutor emphasized that even were the jury to credit continued to drive instead of pulling over: [a]sk yourself: if you want to believe his story, was it reasonable to drive with your well . . . ? was it reasonable not to pull over . . . 26 constitutions to a fair trial by an impartial jury. appellant used peremptory challenges to remove three of those prospective jurors. he exhausted his peremptory challenges, and did not remove the fourth contested juror, juror no. 4802, after the court rejected his request to remove her for cause. juror no. 4802 lived in santa monica and was familiar with the case. she revealed during voir dire that later, at a sidand daughter were hit in the crosswalk at 1:00 a.m., and that the the juror stated she would keep an open mind but thaopinions about guilt. she added that she felt it noted that her father was a defense attorney. he juror confirmed that she understood that what she read in the newspapers might not be accurate. and she think i formed that opinion [that the defendant is guilty] necessarily. . . . i think it sounds suspicious, kind of like evidence where the juror confirmed she could give the defense a fair trial. the court subsequently denied dismiss the juror for cause, and she ultimately remained on the panel. 2. analysis a party may challenge a prospective juror for cause based on actual or implied bias. (code civ. proc.,  227.) actual bias is reference to the case, or to any of the parties, which will prevent the juror from acting with entire impartiality, and without 27 (code civ. proc.,  225, subd. (b)(1)(c).) implied bias exists in a few mind in the juror evincing enmity against, or bias towards, either (code civ. proc.,  229, subd. (f).) is a matter falling within the broad discretion of the trial court. [citation.] (people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 910.) the (ibid.) confusing answers regarding his or her impartiality or capacity to responses in deciding whether to remove the juror for cause. (ibid.) the trial courts resolution of these factual matters is binding on the appellate court if supported by substantial evidence. (ibid.) prospective jurors who should have been removed for cause, a exhausts his peremptory challenges and an incompetent juror . . . (people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912, 920.) we therefore focus our discussion on juror no. 4802, the only contested prospective juror who ultimately served on the jury. appellant argues that juror no. 4802 was biased against him and therefore incompetent to serve on the jury. he highlights that she was familiar with the case, had read articles about the accident, had we agree that these 28 circumstances could suggest bias. but the juror later clarified that her opinion was not firm and that she had not formed an opinion that appellant was guilty. she also assured the court that she would remain fair and impartial. people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, is instructive. there, a prospective juror gave what the supreme court described as equivocal and somewhat conflicting statements. (id. at p. 488.) the juror relayed that based on what he had read in the newspapers, he believed the defendant was guilty, yet he base his decision on the evidence at trial rather than what he read in [the] newspapers, and he said he would try to be impartial. (ibid.) denial of the defhe supreme court stated: on this record, the trial court could reasonably conclude the juror was trying to be honest in admitting to his preconceptions but was also sincerely willing and able to listen to the evidence and instructions and render an impartial verdict based on that evidence and those instructions. (ibid.) we reach the same conclusion in the instant case. though she admitted to some preconceptions, juror no. 4802 recognized that she had to decide the case based on the evidence presented at trial and affirmed her ability to remain impartial. given the the trial court reasonably found that the juror could be fair and impartial and would follow the law. (see people v. hillhouse, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 488.) substantial evidence supports this finding. (see people v. weaver, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 910.) 29 f. denial of a pitchess motion without in camera review7 1. background appellant argues that the trial court erred by denying his motion under pitchess to obtain detective olsonrecords. he maintains the court should have held an in camera hearing to review . in his motion, appellant sought discovery of personnel records related to any misconduct, dishonesty, or improper investigative techniques by olson. in a declaration attached to the motion, defense counsel asserted his belief inappropriate behavior,his ,that he was not being truthful. counsel stated that appellant believed that olson appellant and to potential witnesses. finally, counsel maintained misconduct and improper investigative techniques [were] very the city of santa monica opposed the motion. at a hearing on the motion, counsel added threatened her. following the hearing, the trial court found appellant had failed to show good cause and denied the pitchess motion. 2. analysis on appeal, appellant maintains that he complied with the necessary procedures to obtain the discovery he sought, and that the information sought was relevant to his defense. we review a pitchess motion for abuse of discretion. 7 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 30 (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1226.) when a defendant under pitchess, the defendant must make a preliminary showing of good cause. (id. at p. 1228.) if the court determines that good cause has been established, the custodian of records brings to court all m (people v. mooc, at p. 1226) the court then conducts an in camera review of the documents and, subject to certain limitations, discloses to the defendant any information that is relevant to the subject matter of the . (ibid.) to establish good cause for an in camera review, the defendant officer misconduct that is plausible when read in light of the (warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1025.) that factual scenario must either support information that would. (id. at pp. 1026-1027.) factual scenario of misconduct by detective olson. it provided no behavior, the alleged inaccuracies in his reports, or the content of the threats he allegedly made. nor did cprovide any concrete explanation of how the information sought might support appellant under these circumstances, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding appellant had failed to show good cause and in denying his pitchess motion. (see warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1026.) 31 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. collins, j. 