filed 1/24/19 p. v. castiblanco ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael castiblanco et al., defendants and appellants. b284319 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka104924) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas c. falls, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded. eric r. larson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant michael castiblanco. charlotte e. costan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant juan cortez. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant 2 attorney general, steven d. matthews and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ i. introduction a jury convicted defendants and appellants michael castiblanco and juan cortez of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and second degree robbery ( 211). the jury found true the special circumstance allegation that the murder was committed while the defendants were engaged in the commission of a robbery ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)(a)) and the allegation that a principal was armed with a firearm during the commission of the offenses ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)). the trial court sentenced defendants to terms of life in prison without the possibility of parole for their murder convictions plus one year for the firearm enhancements. sentences on the robbery convictions were stayed under section 654. on appeal, castiblanco contends insufficient evidence supported his murder conviction in light of senate bill 1437 (sb 1437), insufficient evidence supported the special circumstance finding, the prosecutor committed misconduct in misstating the requirements for a true finding on the special circumstance allegation, and the parole revocation fine should be stricken if the special circumstance finding is not reversed. cortez contends insufficient evidence supported his murder conviction in light of sb 1437; the trial court abused its discretion in admitting gang evidence, other crimes evidence, and in 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 witness who identified him was untrustworthy; there was insufficient evidence identifying him as a perpetrator; the trial court abused its discretion in failing to sever his trial from the jury on the natural and probable consequences theory; and the cumulative effect of the errors requires reversal.2 we special circumstance findings, otherwise affirm the judgment, and remand for resentencing. ii. background a. evidence about colombian theft crews methods of operation los angeles police department detective marcelo raffi testified as an expert on the methods of operation used by south american theft groups or crews when committing take-down or smash and grab robberies. a colombian crew that steals jewelry will focus on an area within a city where there is a high density of jewelry stores. the crew drives by jewelry stores looking for traveling jewelry salesmen. such salesmen carry as much as $2 million in jewelry in a satchel or rolling bag which they attempt to sell to jewelry stores. the crews are experienced at identifying jewelry salesmen. once a jewelry salesman is spotted, a member of the crewis deployed to look through the jewelry store 2 without providing further legal authority or contentions, cortez joins in the briefs filed or to be filed by castiblanco and adopts any argument that might accrue to his benefit. 4 window, or to enter the jewelry store posing as a customer, to try to determine the nature of the jewels the salesman is carrying. the crew then surveils the salesman as he travels from store to store, learning where the salesman keeps his jewelryin which bag and in which the crews are very patient and will follow a salesman all day waiting for an opportunity to rob him. the crews prefer to rob a jewelry salesman while he is inside his car typically, a crew will use two to three cars and four or five members in executing a robbery. when the salesman stops his smash his windows. one member of the crew is assigned to hold a knife to the driverpursue the robbers. a third is assigned to remove the bags containing the jewelry from the car. the crew members then return to their cars and flee in what just happened. all they know is the window is imploding. the crews employ different tactics with respect to banks. a crew member will go to a bank, stand in a teller line, and look for someone who withdraws a large amount of cash. if no customer makes a sufficiently large withdrawal, the crew moves on to a new bank. if a victim is identified, the crew follows him. 5 according to detective raffi, many people who withdraw a large amount of money from a bank will make a subsequent stop. during that stop, they often will hide their money in their car to avoid being robbed. the crew members know this and prefer not to have a confrontation. so, when the victim exits the car during the subsequent stop, the crew members will approach the car, smash the windows, and grab the cash. b. evidence about the february 1, 2013, robbery at about noon on february 1, 2013, sheron khemlani and his brother nimon bought jewelry from a store as gifts for family members. at around 2:30 p.m., veronica carmona and her 14-year-old daughter victoria gonzalez drove to the eastland shopping center in west covina to get some food and to shop. carmona parked and turned off the car. when she took the keys out of the ignition, she saw two men walk to and get in a ford fusion parked to the right of the car facing hers. carmona twice heard a whistling sound. she then saw three men, including castiblanco and cortez, approach the fusion. cortez broke the passenger window and struggled with man broke the rear passenger windows. a car blocked in the fusion. gonzalez testthe car: one next to the driver and the other next to the passenger seat behind the driver. the man next to the driver struggled with the driver and the person beside the passenger seat reached into the car and took some laptops. 6 carmona saw cortez reach and lean into the car, struggle with the passenger to open the door, and punch the passenger several times. she shifted her focus from the passenger to the driver when she heard gonzalez gasp. carmona saw the driver slump over. he was bleeding profusely. castiblanco appeared to castiblanco and the third man took items out of the car while cortez continued to struggle with the passenger. the men then left with the items and placed them in their car and drove away. carmona told gonzalez to call 911. the police and fire departments responded to the scene. sheron died from a gunshot wound near his left ear. the bullet traveled left to right, back to front, and upward. nimon told the police the perpetrators took a black backpack from him containing $9,000ight. just let an officer found a pocket-type knife underneath the right rear tire of the khemlanis the knife. c. the district attorney extradited cortez from illinois, based on an arrest warrant for murder. the police held cortez and castiblanco in neighboring cells at the west covina jail to stimulate conversation between them about the murder charge. their conversations were recorded. 7 [t]hese ddude. [] . . . [] otherwise, they would have had us by, by the against us just ng specific against us, [they] would not be asking cortez and castiblanco discussed possible sentences they might receive or negotiate. they speculated that they might receive between 10 and 20 years. cortez explained that if they held out in their plea negotiations, they might get less time. d. other crimes evidence 1. the torrance robbery on april 19, 2012, bodil adkison withdrew $5,000 from a bank of america branch in torrance. from there, adkison drove to grocery store and then home. after she parked her car in the garage and got out, she heard a wheezing sound coming from one of her tires. as she was examining her tire, two young men approached and stole her purse. the men ran to a car and drove away. a police detective investigating the robbery determined that adkison video surveillance from the bank of america branch showed a man walking ahead of adkison. when adkison reached a teller, the man watched her. when a teller tried to speak with the man, he did not conduct any business. while adkison was still at the teller, the man left the bank while talking on the phone and walked to a vehicle that appeared to be a jeep. 8 at the same time, another man walked into the bank.3 he exchanged some $1 bills for a $5 bill. when the teller gave adkison her money, the man watched her. when she left the teller window, the man left with her while talking on his phone. adkison vehicle arrive followed by a jeep. adkison got out of her car and walked toward the store. although there were many available a man got out of the passenger side of the jeep and entered the store. another man got out of the jeep and went to the area next to right rear tire. the passenger who had entered the store left the store and returned to the jeep. 2. the cypress robbery on february 15, 2013, detective raffi was part of a task force that investigated south american theft groups. during a surveillance of an area of cypress with many jewelry stores, an officer spotted castiblanco. with officers following him, castiblanco got into a white toyota camry and drove to eight banks. at each bank, castiblanco got out of the car and entered the bank, returning to his car a short time later. a passenger always remained in the car. after visiting the eighth bank, castiblanco drove to the lily garden restaurant. castiblanco parked near the restaurant, taking up several spaces. castiblanco and velasquez got out of the car and walked 3 at sidebar, outside the presence of the jury, the detective identified this man on the videotape as cortez. no testimony was presented to the jury identifying cortez as the second man. 9 around the restaurant repositioned the car closer to the restaurant. velasquez entered the restaurant while a second passenger got out of the car and served as a lookout. shortly thereafter, velasquez ran from the restaurant and jumped into the camry. he was holding a black purse. the car drove away. officers pursued the camry. it ultimately stopped, and castiblanco was apprehended. detective raffi interrogated castiblanco. castiblanco admitted that he and his companions were following bank customers trying to get money. they followed a customer who had obtained money from the last bank at which they stopped to the lily garden restaurant. velasquez volunteered to be the one to take the castiblanco pleaded guilty to commercial burglarythe unlawful entry into the lily garden restaurant with the intent to commit larceny, conspiracy to commit a crimeburglary, and grand theft of personal property. 3. the anaheim robbery on july 24, 2013, jeweler bahram famenini and his employee dario jimenez drove to three jewelry plazas trying to sell jewelry. they were carrying jewelry worth $200,000 to $220,000 in a bag. at around 2:00 p.m., famenini and jimenez drove to a -thru lane, two men in masks broke cars window. one of the men, who tried to enter the car, carried a knife in each hand. 10 away, but his path was blocked by the patron in front of him in the drive-thru lane. the assailants grabbed the bag and fled in a grey hyundai. d by paper. the car s. two men and a woman walked away from the car. inside the hyundai. his dna was found on a pair of reading glasses and on a can recovered from the car. casta water bottle recovered from the car. castiblanco pleaded guilty to two counts of second degree robbery. 4. the evanston burglary on april 25, 2014, police in evanston, illinois were conducting a sting operation arising from vehicle burglaries that . at about 10:00 a.m., cortez and yorsi ortiz flores entered the as part of the sting operation, a female undercover officer purchased $9,800 worth of cigarettes from the sam. the undercover officer left followed by cortez and flores. flores went to a vehicle while cortez followed the undercover officer to determine which car she was driving. the undercover officer loaded the cigarettes in her car and drove away, followed by cortez and flores. the undercover officer drove to a nearby food 4 less grocery store, parked, and got out of her car as if she were going to shop at the store. cortez and flores followed the undercover officer to the food 4 less and parked next to her car. after the undercover officer left her car, cortez pried open the car door 11 and tried to remove the cigarettes. flores stood watch at the cortez was arrested. e. in guilty to robbing a jeweler with others in illinois. flores and her fellow robbers followed the jeweler to a gas station where they anothe flores testified that cortez told her he stole from peopleabout his work. on one occasion, cortez told flores there had been a down and fighting with them for his bags when someone else was shot. cortez told flores that they needed to leave los angeles. a few days later, they left for chicago. f. defense evidence dr. kathy pezdek, a professor of cognitive science, testified as expert on eyewitness memory and identification. she explained the various factors that impact eyewitness identification: exposure timethe length of time looking at the , distraction, obstructions, the stress of an event, disguiseanything that might cover the face, 12 same-race identification, time delay, biased identification test, and the inherent bias of in-court identification.4 iii. discussion a. sb 1437 during the pendency of this appeal, sb 1437 was signed into law. sb 1437 was enacted to amend the felony murder rule and the natural and probable consequences doctrine, as it relates to murder, to ensure that murder liability is not imposed on a person who is not the actual killer, did not act with the intent to kill, or was not a major participant in the underlying felony who s. 2018, ch. 1015,  1, subd. (f).) substantively, sb 1437 accomplishes this by amending section 188, which defines malice, and section 189, which defines the degrees of murder and addresses liability for murder. it also adds section 1170.95 to the penal code, which natural and probable consequences theory . . . [to] file a petition with the court that sentenced the petitioner to have the d on after sb 1437 was signed, castiblanco, at our request, and cortez, with our permission, filed supplemental briefs in which they contend insufficient evidence supports their murder convictions in light of 4 detail below in ctestimony was improperly restricted and disparaged. 13 in closing argument, the prosecution did not argue that either defendant was the actual killer. instead, it argued defendants were guilty as aiders and abettors or co-conspirators either under the felony murder rule or the natural and probable consequences doctrine. we adhere to our holding in people v. martinez (jan. 24, 2019, b287255) ___ cal.app.5th ___ <http://www.courts.ca.gov/opinions.htm> enactment of the petitioning procedure in section 1170.95 means the changes worked by the legislation do not apply retroactively on direct appeal. defendants are entitled to pursue the procedure set forth in section 1170.95, but they are not entitled to sb 1437 relief without doing so. b. the special circumstance findings castiblanco, joined by cortez, contends that insufficient evidence supports the robbery special circumstance finding because there is no evidence that his participation in the robbery demonstrated a reckless indifference to human life. we agree. 1. standard of review evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any 14 rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of [citation.] in so doing, a existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the [citation.] the same standard of review applies to the sufficiency of the evidence supporting special circumstance findings. [citation.]people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715.) 2. analysis section 190.2, subdivision (d) provides: subdivision (c), every person, not the actual killer, who, with reckless indifference to human life and as a major participant, aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces, solicits, requests, or assists in the commission of a felony enumerated in paragraph (17) of subdivision (a) which results in the death of some person or persons, and who is found guilty of murder in the first degree therefor, shall be punished by death or imprisonment in the state prison for life without the possibility of parole if a special circumstance enumerated in paragraph (17) of subdivision (a) has section 190.2, subdivision (d) is the codification of language from tison v. arizona (1987) 481 u.s. 137, 158 (tison) that held reckless indifference to human life, is sufficient to satisfy the enmund [v. florida (1982) 458 u.s. 782 (enmund)] culpability i.e., culpability sufficient to permit, for eighth amendment purposes, the imposition of a death sentence on a defendant guilty of murder as an aider and abettor. (people v. 15 banks (2015) 61 cal.4th 788, 800 (banks).)5 there is significant overlap between being a major participant and having reckless participation, the more likely it is that he acted with reckless indifference to human life. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 614-615 (clark).) as we explained above, the prosecution did not argue to the jury that either defendant was the actual killer, arguing instead that defendants were guilty as aiders and abettors either under the felony murder rule or the natural and probable consequences doctrine. accordingly, our concern is whether the evidence was sufficient to show that defendants were major participants who acted with reckless indifference to human life when they robbed the khemlanis. ( 190.2, subd. (d).) we apply the principles set forth in banks, clark, enmund, and tison as follows: a. major participant sufficicitations]. clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 611 5 although developed in death penalty cases, the standards articulated in banks apply equally in cases involving statutory eligibility under section 190.2, subdivision (d) for life imprisonment without parole. (banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 804.) 16 [citation.]banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 805.) among the relevant factors to be considered in determining what role did the defendant have in planning the criminal enterprise that led to one or more deaths? what role did the defendant have in supplying or using lethal weapons? what awareness did the defendant have of particular dangers posed by the nature of the crime, weapons used, or past experience or conduct of the other participants? was the defendant present at the scene of the killing, in a position to facilitate or prevent the actual murder, and did his or her own actions or inaction play a particular role in the death? [fn. omitted.] what did the defendant do after lethal force was used? no one of these considerations is necessary, nor is any one of them necessarily sufficient.banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 803.) castiblanco concedes there was sufficient evidence to support the conclusion that he was a major participant in the robbery. in support of his argument above that insufficient evidence supports his murder conviction in light of sb 1437, and without citing any authority addressing the major participant requirement or discussing any of the factors set forth in banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at page 803 for determining major participant status, cortez argues that [he] acted with malice as now defined in section 188, construing was not a major participant, we conclude there was sufficient evidence that he was a major participant. although there was no direct evidence that cortez planned the robbery, the evidence supports the conclusion that cortez was 17 part of a criminal ring that carried out sophisticated smash and grab armed robberies, including the robbery in this case. cortez had a specific role in the robbery. he was to smash the passenger window next to nimon and prevent nimon from thwarting the robbery. in carrying out that role, cortez smashed the front passenger side window and repeatedly punched nimon. a knife was found near the right rear tire of the khemlanisof the car where cortez stood, suggesting that cortez was armed with a potentially lethal weapon. cortez was in close proximity to sheron when sheron was shot. after sheron was shot, cortez continued to struggle with nimon to allow castiblanco and the third robber to take such s]. [ ]clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 611.) b. reckless indifference to human life [t]he culpable mental state of reckless indifference to life is one in which the defendant knowingly engag[es] in criminal activities known to carry a grave risk of death [citation]. . . . (people v. estrada (1995) 11 cal.4th 568, 577.) the defendant must be aware of and willingly involved in the violent manner in which the particular offense is committed, demonstrating reckless indifference to the significant risk of d (banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 801.) [i]t encompasses a willingness to kill (or to assist another in killing) to achieve a distinct aim, even if the defendant does not specifically desire that death as the outcome of his 18 actions.(clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 617.)in re loza (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 38, 51-52.) recklessness has both subjective and objective elements. risks known to him or her. but recklessness is not determined he or she is engaging in risky activities. rather, recklessness is also -abiding (clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 617.) resence of (id. at p. 622.) among the relevant factors to be considered in determining whether a defendant acted with reckless indifference to human life are: knowledge of weapons, and use and number of weapons; physical presence at the crime and opportunities to restrain the crime and/or aid the victim; duration of the felony; the the felony. (clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 618-623.) no one of nor i (clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 618.) castiblanco argues that, although there was sufficient evidence he was a major participant, there is insufficient evidence he acted with reckless indifference to human life. we construe cortez argument evidence that [he] acted with malice as now defined in section 19 as asserting there was insufficient evidence that he acted with reckless indifference to human life. i. knowledge of weapons, and use and number of weapons , on its own and with nothing more presented, is not sufficient to support a finding clark, supra, 63 be used sufficient. (id. at p. 618.) ]y including a firearm to the instant robbery, [defendants] radically increased the danger of the crime in a way that demonstrated a reckless moreover, the attorney general argues, that defendants continued to remove property from the knew their cohort was armed. there is, however, no direct evidence that either defendant knew in advance of the robbery that a gun would be used. knowledge of the gun came during the police interview of castiblanco. during the interview, an offithereafter, the officer and castiblanco discussed whether the gun used was an automatic or a revolver. castiblanco was not asked if he knew in advance of the robbery that a gun would be used or if he learned of the gun only after sheron had been shot. in addition, carmonathat when she saw sheron slumped over and bleeding profusely, castiblanco 20 w suggests that he did not know that a gun would be used. there was evidence that castiblanco brought a knife to the robberyhis dna was on the knife found underneath the right rear tire on the khemlanis. consistent with testimony from the and based on where the knife was found, it appears the robbers intended to use the knife to puncture the khemlanisalthough detective raffi testified that typically a robber used a knife to restrain a driver, the prosecution did not present any evidence that any of the robbers used the knife to force the khemlanis to turn over their property. accordingly, the weapons evidence was insufficient to support the conclusion that defendants exhibited reckless indifference to human life. ii. physical presence at the crime and opportunities to restrain the crime and/or aid the victim presence is important to culpability because it allows a s and determine whether their behavior tends to suggest a willingness to use lethal force. (clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 619.) presence also provides a defendant opportunities to act as a restraining influence on his cohorts and to render aid to a wounded victim. (ibid.) both defendants were present at the scene and so were in a position to stop the shooting or assist sheron. castiblancoed the shooting was sudden and unanticipated such that he would not have had the 21 opportunity to intervene. there is no evidence that cortez attempted to intervene or about his reaction to the shooting. there also is no evidence that either defendant attempted to render aid to sheron. instead, the evidence showed that cortez continued to struggle with nimon so that castiblanco and the after securing the property, the robbers fled. in clark, supra, 63 cal.4th 522, the court observed that the circumstances surrounding the was ambiguous. (id. at p. 620.) a police officer had arrived at the scene and the defendant fled without the shooter. (ibid.) the court reasoned such conduct may have been a rejection of the tting the shooting or a reflection of the (ibid.) but, the court unlike in the tison case, defendant would have known that help in the 6 (ibid.) sheron was shot in a parking lot with others present, including nimon who attended to his brother before the police and firemen arrived. the evidence concerning sical presence at the scene, viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment, weighs in favor of a finding of reckless indifference to human life. neither defendant may have been in a position to stop an unanticipated shooting, but neither rendered aid when the need arose, inproperty. 6 the victims in tison were shot in an isolated part of the desert. (tison, supra, 481 u.s. at p. 140.) 22 iii. duration of the felony otherwise restrained in the presence of perpetrators for prolonged f opportunity for violence [citation]clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 620.) as described by detective raffi, the smash and grab robberies were designed to be carried out quickly. gonzalez testified the smash and grab robbery here lasted only three minutes. the evidence of duration was insufficient to support the conclusion that defendants exhibited reckless indifference to human life. iv. defendantsknowledge of c likelihood of killing a defendants willingness to engage in an armed robbery with individuals known to him to use lethal force may give rise to the inference that the defendant disregarded a grave risk of death. (tison, supra, 481 u.s. at p. 157.)clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 621.) the prosecution presented no evidence that the shooter had a propensity for violence, let alone evidence that defendants were aware of such a propensity. accordingly, this v. efforts to minimize the risks of the violence during the felony detective raffi testified colombian crews preferred not to have confrontations with or to harm their victims. the smash 23 and grab robberies appear to have been well-scripted and designed to disorient their victims so the robbers could take their easily and without seriously injuring them. fnothing in the [smash and grab] plan that one can point to that elevated the risk to human life beyond those risks inherent in clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 623.) considering the totality of the circumstances from the (banks, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 802) and the factors identified in clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at pages 618 through 623, we conclude there was insufficient evidence that either defendant acted with reckless indifference to human life. accordingly, defendantspecial circumstance findings are reversed. special circumstance finding, we need not address his argument that the prosecutor committed misconduct in misstating the requirements for a true finding on the special circumstance allegation. c. the parole revocation fine castiblanco argues his $1,000 parole revocation fine under section 1202.45 should be reversed if we do not reverse his sentence of life without the possibility of parole (lwop)parole revocation fine may not be imposed for a term of life in prison without possibility of parole, as the statute is expressly inapplicable where there is no period of parole. (people v. jenkins (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 805, 819.) because we reverse special circumstance finding, castiblanco is no 24 longer subject to an lwop sentence, thus mooting his parole revocation fine argument. d. the admission of evidence cortez contends the trial court abused its discretion when it permitted the prosecution to introduce detective raffitestimony about the manner in which colombian crews commit smash and grab robberies. he argues that although the word gang member and did not prove his identity. cortez forfeited appellate review of this issue by failing to object in the trial court. moreover, even if the issue had been preserved and cortez was able to show the trial court erred in admitting the testimony, any error was harmless. 1. standard of review testimony is reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 426.) 2. background during direct examination, the prosecutor asked detective rms of these south american and colombian groups, detective, can you explain what procedures they actually use to conduct take-objected that the testimony was irrelevant. 25 in a hearing outside the presence of the jury, castiblcounsel stated she understood the people were gang allegations or proceeding on any additional facts that this is some sort of yet, the prosecution was or south american argued the testimony was irrelevant and prejudicial. the prosecutor responded that he had neither elicited nor training and experience how these groups work together. this goes to the modus operandi of the group. no one is saying that them, saw the word gang in here, but i might have missed it, but, proceeding on a conspiracy theory. that the defendants belong to a group of individuals who committed robberies as basically their the trial court ruled that testimony was admissible to prove the conspiracy theory. it added, however, that it would make clear to the jury that this was not a criminal street gang case. defense counsel further objected that she had not received discovery concerning . after a brief again stated that it was important to explain to the jury that this was not a cthe trial court 26 after detective raffi explained to the trial court the thods of operating were unique to them or shared by other south american groups. detective raffi methods for conducting jewelry salesman and bank patron robberies were unique to them. he also testified that colombian crews typically were then examined detective raffi on voir dire. 3. analysis a defendant forfeits appellate review of the admissibility of evidence by failing to object to the evidence in the trial court or to join a co-people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 792-793.) cortez did not object that detective even if cortez had preserved the issue for appellate review and were able to show the trial court erred in admitting detective any error was harmless because, as discussed below, eyewitness and other evidence showed that cortez was one of the robbers. in his reply brief, cortez argues that if the issue has been forfeited for appellate review, then defense counsel provided ineffective assistance of counsel. in reviewing a claim of court need not determine whether counsels performance was deficient before 27 examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies. . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that course should be followed.(strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697; in re welch (2015) 61 cal.4th 489, 516.) as we have explained, the admission testimony was not prejudicial. e. evidence identifying cortez cortez makes a number of claims with respect to the identity evidence adduced at trial: (1) the trial court abused its testimony on eyewitness identifications, (2) the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted other crimes evidence under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), and (3) testimony was untrustworthy. cortez argues that without the curt of other crimes evidence, there was insufficient evidence identifying him as one of the robbers. we disagree. 1. standards of review expert testimony on psychological factors affecting eyewitness people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, 377 overruled on another ground by people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896, 914.) likewise, we review a he admissibility of evidence under 28 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) for an abuse of discretion. (people v. whisenhunt (2008) 44 cal.4th 174, 203.) 2. analysis a. [u]nless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181; people v. leigh testimony of a single witness is sufficient to uphold a judgment even if it is contradicted by other evidence, inconsistent or false .) at trial, carmona and gonzalez identified cortez as one of the robbers. carmona testified that cortez was the person ng with the the passenger. carmona was within eight to 10 feet of the person she identified as cortez. sufficient to support . (people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181; people v. leigh, supra, 168 cal.app.3d at p. 221.) gonzalez also identified cortez as the person who broke the passenger window and fought with the passenger. she testified that the person she identified as cortez was wearing a dark hoodie and pants and sunglasses. the entire incident lasted about three minutes; cortez struggled with the passenger for about two or two and a half of those minutes. gonzalez testified she was able to identify cortez as one of the robbers because, 29 except his eyes. she also was able to see his skin tone and hair color. like testimony, ony on its own was sufficient people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181; people v. leigh, supra, 168 cal.app.3d at p. 221.) castiblanco called dr. pezdek. the trial court appointed dr. pezdek to consult with the defense about witness examinations and to testify as an expert. prior to her testimony, the prosecutor requested an evidence code section 402 hearing because he was that dr. pezdek was going to testify as to applying the facts of this case rather than just being like most identification experts, describing different factors [] . . . [] that affect specifically, the prosecutor noted the trial court ruled that dr. pezdek was permitted, under the law, to testify about factors that affect identification, but not the specific facts of this case. the trial court asked dr. pezdek if she understood its ruling limiting her testimonyi.e., that she could not talk about the facts of the case. dr. pezdek said she understood. i understand that the letter includes this language, but this is not whati understand that s allowed under the evidence code, and i 30 during her testimony explaining the biased identification test factor, dr. pezdek testified that she believed the police identification procedure in which a suspects photograph is placed in a six-pack lineup provides reliable identifications. she then circumstances, perhaps when only one person is shown, or, you know, there isthe prosecutor objected and the trial court sustained the objection. castiblanco resumed her examination about six-pack lineups. the prosecutor objected again and the trial court heard the matter outside the presence of the jury. the prosecutor objected that dr. pezdek was using testimony about identification factors to tell the jury about specific facts in the case. he questioned the need to address six-pack lineups when one was not conducted in this case. the trial court observed that dr. pezdek was an eyewitness identification expert and not an expert on police procedures or whether a six-pack identification should be conducted. on why a six-pack identification should be conducted. counsel also argued dr. pezdek was an expert and qualified to testify. the trial court found dr. pezdek was not such an expert and ruled she would not be permitted to testify about why a six-pack identification should be conducted. it explained that it would not permit dr. pezdek to testify about matters that were not part of the case. the prosecutor further objected that dr. pezdek was using examples in explaining the eyewitness identification factors that matched the facts in this case. the trial court ruled that dr. 31 pezdek was not permitted to tailor her testimony to the specific facts of the case. on cross-examination, the prosecutor asked dr. pezdek, just to talk about factors that can influence a particular person to make an identification, that i can only comment for legal reasons on factors that apply to the general population and not to any particular witness in this case just for the trial the factors-examination then resumed. spoke with the attorneys outside the presence of the jury d limited her testimony. it stated it had tried to correct the impression left with the jury that she had relevant testimony that she was prevented from giving. the trial court stated that to address the matter further. it asked counsel for the parties to consider appropriate corrective actions. 32 after a break, the prosecutor presented a proposed instruction. counsel for both defendants approved the instruction. the trial court said it would modify the instruction when the jury returned, the trial court instructed it as follows: believe something is inappropriate for a jury to hear. you are not to consider whether an objection was made and why it was made. from testifying is not evidence and should not be considered by you for any matter. and i am ordering you to disregard it. made. my duty is to rule on the law and to make sure jurors hear cortez claims the trial court erred when it instructed dr. pezdek not to discuss any facts of the case and when it barred her -pack identific when the trial court ruled at the evidence code section 402 hearing that dr. pezdek could not testify about case specific facts, neither defense counsel objected. instead, agreed by failing to object, cortez forfeited his claim that the trial court erred in preventing dr. pezdek from testifying about case facts. (people v. clark (1992) 3 cal.4th 41, 125- 33 timely and specific objection on the ground sought to be urged on gs on admissibility of evidence will -pack lineups, to testify. thus, the issue was preserved for appellate review. nevertheless, cortez fails to demonstrate that the trial court -pack lineup testimony. (people v. mcdonald, supra, 37 cal.3d at p. 377.) people v. bell (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 282, paterno v. state of california (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 68, 106.) in his opening brief, ntion of the trial -pack lineup ruling is as follows: pezdek from testifying generically about the efficacy of six-pack identifications because she allegedly was not an expert in police procedures or bias identification tests even though that is part of cortez does not explain was an abuse of discretion. that is, he does not discuss the admissibility of the six-pack lineup testimony or set forth dr. for the same reasons. there, sole apparent reference to the six-pack lineup testimony complaint is that the expert should have been permitted to educate the jury on various procedures accordingly, cortez has failed to meet his burden of demonstrating prejudicial 34 error. (paterno v. state of california, supra, 74 cal.app.4th at p. 106; people v. bell, supra, 61 cal.app.4th at p. 291.) cortez also claims the trial court erred in declaring dr. pezdek a biased witness.7 cortez does not develop this issue and has therefore forfeited appellate review. (people v. gionis (1995) 9 cal.4th 1196, 1214, fn. 11 [matters perfunctorily asserted without argument or supporting authorities are not properly raised].) moreover, the trial court made the comment outside of the presence of the jury, and thus the comment was harmless. b. other crimes evidence cortez contends the trial court abused its discretion in admitting other crimes evidence under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b)8 to prove his identity. primary issue of fact is whether defendant rather than some other person was the perpetrator of the crime charged, evidence 7 at sidebar, the trial court commented that dr. pezdek gave retained in cases in which witnesses have been wrong in their 8 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) provides: nothing in this section prohibits the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, or whether a defendant in a prosecution for an unlawful sexual act or attempted unlawful sexual act did not reasonably and in good faith believe that the victim consented) other than his or her disposition to commit such an act. 35 of other crimes is admissible only if it discloses a distinctive modus operandi common to both the other crimes and the that distinctiveness, he argues, was missing from the other crimes evidence. even assuming the trial court erred in admitting the other crimes evidence, any such error was harmless. the erroneous admission of evidence prohibited by section 1101, subdivision (b) is reviewed for prejudice under the harmless error standard in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. under that standard, a judgment may be overturned only if the favorable to the [defendant] would have been reached in the id. at p. 836.) as discussed above, the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction unless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable. (people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181; people v. leigh, supra, 168 cal.app.3d at p. 221.) carmona and gonzalez each identified cortez as one of the robbers. moreover, cortez made self-incriminating statements to castiblanco while they were being held at the west covina jail and flores gave testimony incriminating cortez. given that evidence, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have acquitted cortez if the other crimes evidence had not been admitted. (people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) c. f cortez was insufficient to support his identification as one of the robbers. he argues 36 floresuntrustworthy because flores had been hoping for leniency in a federal illegal re-entry case against her and she was afraid law enforcement would remove her son from her custody. when considering a claim that insufficient evidence supports a judgment, we do not (people v. whisenhunt, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 200.) witness credibility is a matter for the jury. (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) the jury heard the evidence that cortez asserts rendered incriminating statements and testimony untrustworthy and decided whether she was credible. people v. elliott, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 585; people v. whisenhunt, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 200.) to his convictions through his challenge to floresty is ultimately unavailing for another reason. as we discuss identity as one of the robbers. (people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181; people v. leigh, supra, 168 cal.app.3d at p. 221). in addition, cortez made self-incriminating statements to castiblanco while they were being held at the west covina jail, defendants, the police must not have sufficient evidence because f. cortez contends the trial court abused its discretion in failing ial. we disagree. 37 1. standard of review reversed only if the court has abused its discretion. [citations.] (people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 439 (ramirez).) 2. analysis castiblanco moved . cortez joined the motion. castiblanco argued the prosecution intended to introduce a tape recording of a police interview of flores in which she related statements by cortez about the charged crimes that also implicated castiblanco. those statements, castiblanco argued, could not be sanitized in a way that would allow him a fair trial. also, the prosecution intended to present evidence about the evanston burglary that only involved cortez. cortez made no arguments in support of severance at the hearing on the motion. on appeal, cortez tries to recast the severance issue addressed in the trial court, arguing a joint trial was unfair to him because without severance the jury was permitted to hear testimony about uncharged crimes castiblanco committed that were not admissible against him (cortez), the uncharged crimes evidence was inflammatory, and the case against castiblanco was stronger than the case against him. those grounds had nothing to do with the severance motion castiblanco brought and the trial court ruled uponthat is, that severance was required because evidence admissible against cortez would be prejudicial 38 in the case against castiblanco. because cortez did not raise any of the grounds he asserts on appeal in the trial court, he has forfeited severance. (ramirez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 439 [a limited on appeal to arguing that the trial court erred in failing to g. natural and probable consequences first degree murder instruction cortez contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury that it could find him guilty of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. we agree, but hold the error was harmless. ee premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. rather, his or her liability for that crime must be based on direct aiding and abetting principles. [citation.]people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 158-159 (chiunatural and probable consequences doctrine operates independently of the felony-id. at p. in chiu limit an aider and abettors liability for first degree felony murder ibid.) s a jury on two theories of guilt, one of which was legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in the record to find chiu, supra, 39 the jury based its verdict on [a] legally valid theoribid.) here, the trial court instructed the jury on murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine9, a conspiracy theory10, and the felony murder rule11. it erred in instructing 9 the trial court instructed the jury with caljic no. 3.02 as follows: crime is not only guilty of that crime, but is also guilty of any other crime committed by a principal which is a natural and probable consequence of the crimes [sic] originally aided and abetted. sic] of murder under this theory, as charged in count one, you must be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that: the crime of robbery [was] committed; that the defendant aided and abetted that crime; that a co-principal in that crime committed the crime of murder; and the crime of murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the crime of robbery. defendant actually intended, but on what a person of reasonable and ordinary prudence would have expected likely to occur. the issue is to be decided in light of all of the circumstances within the normal range of outcomes that may be reasonably expected to occu 10 the trial court instructed the jury with caljic no. 6.11 joint responsibility) as follows: 40 each member of a criminal conspiracy is liable for each act and bound by each declaration of every other member of the conspiracy if that act or declaration is in furtherance of the object of the conspiracy. the act of one conspirator pursuant to or in furtherance of the common design of the conspiracy is the act of all conspirators. a member of a conspiracy is not only guilty of the particular crime that to his knowledge his confederates agreed to and did commit, but is also liable for the natural and probable consequences of any crime or act of a co-conspirator to further the object of the conspiracy, even though that crime or act was not intended as a part of the agreed upon objective and even though he was not present at the time of the commission of that crime act [sic]. you must determine whether the defendant is guilty as a member of a conspiracy to commit the originally agreed upon crime or crimes, and, if so, whether the crime alleged in count one was perpetrated by a co-conspirator[ ] in furtherance of that conspiracy and was a natural and probable consequence of the agreed upon criminal objective of that conspiracy. in determining whether a consequence is natural and probable you must apply an objective test based not on what the defendant actually intended but on what a person of reasonable and ordinary prudence would have expected would be likely to occur. the issue is to be decided in light of all of the circumstances surrounding the incident. a natural consequence is one which is within the normal range of outcomes that may be reasonably expected to occur if nothing unusual has intervened. probable means likely to happen. the trial court instructed the jury with caljic no. 6.23 commit robbery. 41 11 the trial court instructed the jury with caljic no. 8.21 -as follows: the unlawful killing of a human being, whether intentional, unintentional or accidental, which occurs during the commission of robbery is murder of the first degree when the perpetrator had the specific intent to commit that crime. the specific intent to commit robbery and the commission or attempted commission of that crime must be proved beyond a reasonable doubt. in law, a killing occurs during the commission of a felony, so long as the fatal blow is struck during its course, even if death does not then result. the trial court instructed the jury with caljic no. 8.26 irst degree felony-murderin pursuance of a conspiracyas follows: if a number of persons conspire together to commit robbery, and if the life of another person is taken by one or more of them in the perpetration of that crime, and if the killing is done in furtherance of the common design and to further that common purpose, or is the natural and probable consequence of the pursuit of that purpose, all of the co-conspirators are equally guilty of murder of the first degree, whether the killing is intentional, unintentional, or accidental. in determining whether a result is natural and probable, you must apply an objective test, based not on what the defendant actually intended, but on what a person of reasonable and ordinary prudence would have expected would be likely to occur. the issue is to be decided in light of all of the circumstances surrounding the incident. a natural consequence is one which is within the normal range of outcomes that may be reasonably expected to occur if nothing unusual has intervened. probable means likely to happen. 42 that defendants could be found guilty of first degree murder on a natural and probable consequences theory. (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 158-159.) the error was harmless, however, because we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt, based on the that the jury based its verdict on a legally valid theoryi.e., felony murder. (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 167.) 8.80.1, in relevant part, as follows: if you find that a defendant was not the actual killer of a human being but was an aider and abettor or co-conspirator, you cannot find the special circumstance to be true as to that defendant unless you are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant acted with reckless indifference to human life and as a major participant, aided, abetted, counseled, or assisted in the the trial court instructed the jury with caljic no. 8.27 -murderaider and abettor) as follows: if a human being is killed by any one of several persons engaged in the commission of the crime of robbery, all persons, who either directly and actively commit the act constituting that crime, or who with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator of the crime and with the intent or purpose of committing, encouraging, or facilitating the commission of the offense, aid, promote, encourage, or instigate by act or advice its commission, are guilty of murder of the first degree, whether the killing is intentional, unintentional, or accidental. in order to be guilty of murder, as an aider and abettor to a felony murder, the accused and the killer must have been jointly engaged in the commission of the robbery at the time the fatal wound was inflicted. 43 commission of the crime of robbery which resulted in the death of a human being, namely sheron khemlani.jury found true the special circumstance allegation as follows: we further find that the murder of sheron khemlani was committed by defendant juan alejandro cortez while the said defendant was engaged in the commission of the crime of the jury thus concluded that cortez committed a felony murder. h. cumulative error cortez contends the cumulative effect of the errors in his trial requires reversal of the judgment. we disagree. cortez evidentiary rulings on the colombian crew testimony, the uncharged crimes evidence, deprive him of a fair trial. even if each of those rulings was erroneous, there was no cumulative prejudicial effect. (people v. melendez (2016) 2 cal.5th 1, 33.) was not close. two eyewitnessescarmona and gonzalezidentified cortez as one of the robbers and cortez had made incriminating statements to castiblanco while in jail. 44 iv. disposition special circumstance findings are reversed. the judgments are otherwise affirmed. the matter is remanded for resentencing. not to be published in the official reports. kim, j. we concur: moor, acting p. j. seigle, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 