 filed 12/5/18 p. v. balvaneda ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. julio balvaneda, defendant and appellant. b284292 los angeles county super. ct. no. ga095466 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stan blumenfeld, judge. affirmed. james m. crawford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stacy s. schwartz and pamela c. hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant julio balvaneda of assault with a deadly weapona truckon victim rayjon trial court denied him his constitutional right to testify on his own behalf. we find no error and affirm. facts and procedural history 1. the events of january 1, 2015 because balvaneda does not challenge the evidence against him at trial, we only summarize it briefly. on january 1, 2015, around 11:00 a.m., balvaneda, driving a dodge ram 1500 truck, sideswiped a mercedes benz driven by rayjon mooreexchange information but the truck made a sudden u-turntires screechingand fled, driving very fast. moore followed, although it was very difficult for him to keep up with the speeding truck. the truck made turns and ran five or six stop signs. the truck finally stopped and moore stopped his car five to ten feet behind it to try to exchange information. a number of people, , got out of the truck. moore waited inside his car. balvaneda got out of the truck, ts, and shouted, avoid being hit. balvaneda ran around the car and punched the back window with his fists. k out the balvaneda got back into his truck. he put the balvaneda twice air bag deployed and moore hit his head. the impact also injured 3 moore moved out of the way. balvaneda put the truck in reverse, floored it again, and ran into a nearby wall. moore. witnesses called 911. balvaneda apparently returned. police arrived and spoke breath. a blood draw later that afternoon showed a blood alcohol level of .18 percent. balvaneda was driving that day with a suspended license. 2. the charges and trial the people charged balvaneda with two counts of assault with a deadly weapon on moore.1 the court arraigned balvaneda on september 4, 2015. five successive pretrial conferences followed. on march 17, 2016, balvaneda failed to appear in court as ordered. the court forfeited his bail and issued a warrant. on april 11, 2016, balvaneda walked in on the warrant. the court admonished him, rearraigned him, and reinstated his bail. on may 12, 2016, balvaneda again failed to appear in court as ordered. the court again forfeited his bail and issued a warrant. some nine months later, balvaneda finally was apprehended on the warrant. five more pretrials followed. the case finally proceeded to trial in late june of 2017. moore testified at the trial. moore was a reluctant witness. when first called to the stand, he answered, [n]o co 1 the information balvaneda in fact was driving a truck. 4 every question. the trial court, anticipating a possible contempt moore. moore later testified but answered, umber of questions. the prosecution also called as witnesses a motorist who saw the speeding truck and called 911, two bystanders who witnessed the ramming, a traffic collision and skid mark expert, and a police officer who went to the scene. balvaneda called his fianc aracely hernandez as a truck, then threw a chocolate drink at the windshield. was going to kill balvaneda. hernandez testified balvaneda -by-4 balvaneda also called his 16-year-old stepdaughter and a bystander as witnesses. 3. to balvaneda of his right to testify midway through the defense case, after hernandez had asked defense counsel if the court could address balvaneda directly. may not, i want the court told balvaneda, understand i do this in every single criminal case. i am not trying to direct you or pressure you to do anything. my sole purpose is to make sure you know what your rights are. you have the constitutional right not to testify as i have 5 already explained in the process to you. i think u also have , ultimately is yours and yours alone. no one can force you to testify or not to testify. no one can coerce or pressure you to decision. you can consider the advice and you can accept it or reject it. the ultimate decision is yours as to whether you wish to you, sir? just answer yes or no2 2 [s]to to him as he apparently was objecting to testimony of the [y]lied write notes to his attorney if necessary. the court explained notice[,] in my view[,] which actually may hurt you rather than help you.[,] in my judgment[,] for your lawyer to focus on the evidence when you 6 defense counsel then mentioned a concern about a conversation in spanish.3 decision any time up to the point where the trial is over[,] where your counsel say[w] need to make sure right before your counsel says[, we are going to rest,[] you need to make sure you communicated with him, that you do want to testify. does that make sense to believe that anyone is coercing or pressuring you in any way, including your lawyer, either to testify or not to testify[,] and you feel pressured or coerced, that you will let me know that[?] will make sure none of them ng] from what i [am] trying to again asked me. it is his decision and he has to make that decision and he will do so. the court is telling him that it is his is that correct? if so, say[, yes. do you understand this is [you] and your counsel rest[ ] or i see you are taking the stand, i will 3 balvaneda was assisted throughout the proceedings by a court-certified spanish language interpreter. 7 assume this is your decision alone [and] no one has coerced you in any shape or fashion. is that a fair way to proceed, sir? defense counsel told the court he would like just to confirm with his client, before resting, that he did not wish to testify. the court told counsel to let the court know if he needed a moment when they got to that point in the trial. later, during another break in the defense case, defense counsel said he planned to rest shortly. the court inquired, counsel in time [, no. two days later, at the conclusion of the defense case, flect i gave five minutes. they have had more than 20 minutes [apparently referring to defense his client], and i also asked mr. balvaneda to consider this and he has had a long time to consider what he is doing. am i correct, ybalvaneda the prosecution called several rebuttal witnesses. when [,] and i know the court has seen the lively exchange between me and my client. i am making a strategic move not to call any other witnesses. the purview is all mine, no one else, although my client is rt responded, 8 record, this is just an observation. i really do not want a response from you, mr. balvaneda. but i have noticed throughout this trial more than lively communication coming from the defendant than i have seen in probably any other case. certainly it is ranked among the highest i have seen. throughout the trial[,] as counsel has been attempting to focus on the evidence, mr. balvaneda seems to be very animated and repeatedly asking questions orally and in writing. i have been looking at [defense counsel]. at times he has been trying to be able to handle both the constant questioning from his . . . client as well as dealing with the matters that have been going on in trial. so that has been my observation, and it has been fairly constant throughout this balvaneda. you continue to want to interject in every way throughout this process. . . . that is your right to speak with him and do that. i explained to you it makes it difficult for him. i know if i were in his shoes, if i was trying to concentrate on the evidence, it would be very difficult. if you are trying to listen, trials are not easy. you are trying to listen to what is happening. you know what you have to do next. you know to remember that to come back to it, to bring on a different point and to respond to that point. there is a lot that goes on in a trial. it is not easy for lawyers to do. 9 they have a lot they are juggling. when you have someone constantly in your ear or in your face, it becomes difficult and he has training but it is not only [to] use the training but also to make strategic decisions and do it quickly. it is obvious[ ] he has been struggling throughout 4. the verdicts and sentence on july 11, 2017, the jury informed the trial court that it was deadlocked on the second count of assault with a deadly weapon. the court took the verdict on the first count, on which the jurors had reached a unanimous decision: guilty. on july 27, 2017, the people moved to dismiss the second count and the court granted that motion. the court sentenced balvaneda to the midterm of three years in the state prison. discussion exercise his fifth amendment constitutional right to testify and permit [him] to testify. with no citation to the record, balvaneda argues his either before or during the trial over [sic] his fundamental right offered significant testimony that would have undermined the tify in people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1332; see also people v. robles (1970) 2 cal.3d 205, 215.) 10 objection of, and contrary to the advice of, defense counsel.(bradford, at p. 1332.) a trial court is not required to obtain an affirmative waiver on the record whenever a defendant fails to testify at people v. alcala (1992) 4 cal.4th 742, 805 (alcala).) waiver of the right to testify may be made by counsel, and the courts have wisely refused to impose a sua sponte obligation on (people v. hayes (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 1226, 1232 (hayes).) that a defendant, who is ably represented and who does not testify[,] is merely exercising his fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination and is . . . . (alcala, at p. 805. see also people v. mosqueda (1970) 5 cal.app.3d 540, 545; people v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 1052-1053 [trial court has no record fails to disclose a timely and adequate demand to testify, seek reversal based on his claim that despite expressing to counsel his desire to testify, he was deprived of that (bradford, at p. 1053; accord hayes, at pp. 1231-1232.) here, even though the trial court had no obligation to do so, it explained to balvaneda at great length his rights to testify or not to testify and, instead, to remain silent. the court emphasized the decisiosecured a promise from balvaneda to tell the court if anyoneincluding his attorneywas pressuring him one way or the other. balvaneda does not acknowledge this lengthy and thorough exchange between the trial court and himself. instead, he asserts 11 (1) he did tell the court he wanted to testify but the court ignored his request, and (2) his lawyer later told the court he was not calling balvaneda as a witness even though balvaneda was on the first point, as noted, just before the defense rested the court again asked if balvaneda intended to testify. defense intend to court then said, balvaneda himself to be confirming he did not intend to testify. phrased somewhat as a double negative. balvaneda now asks us to consider only the first (asking for a yes or no answer to the question of whether balvaneda planned to testify). but the reasonable, common sense interpretation of the exchangein light of all of the surrounding circumstancesis that balvaneda affirmed what his lawyer had just told the court: he did not intend to testify. had anyone understood balvaneda to be telling the judge, [n]o, you are not court had explained to balvaneda at length his absolute right to testify. his attorney had just reaffirmed, again, that he chose not to testify. balvaneda never said anything to suggest his lawyer or the judge had misunderstood him or that he wanted to testify. nor does the later exchange, after the prosecution completed its rebuttal case, persuade us that the trial court by balvaneda of his right to testify. (hayes, supra, 229 cal.app.3d at p. 1231.) when the prosecutor told the court she had no more witnesses, the 12 counsel d to like a moment if i may, five minutes at the most[,] just to see the court granted that request. after the recess, defense counsel referred to his just-am making a strategic move not to call any other witnesses. the purview is all mine, no one else, although my client is insisting, as a strateg[ic] his and other witnesses. in any event, balvaneda neverneither then nor at any other time during the trialtold the judge he wanted to testify and his lawyer would not let him. again, the court not only explained to balvaneda, in great detail, that the decision was his; it asked for and received a promise from balvaneda that if anyone interfered with his exercise of that right, he would tell the judge. he never did so. objection . . . is subject to one significant condition: the (hayes, supra, 229 cal.app.3d at pp. 1231-1232 & fn. 9 behalf to take the witness stand during the prtestimony . . . interjecting claims the testimony was biased or ] assert[ion] [of] desire ; see also alcala, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 805 [defendant did n) 13 in sum, the trial court here did not preclude balvaneda from testifying. disposition we affirm julio conviction. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 