 filed 5/20/19 p. v. gonzalez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus gonzalez, defendant and appellant. b284616 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va141226) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, roger ito, judge. affirmed. benjamin owens, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________ 2 jesus gonzalez appeals from a judgment entered after a jury convicted him of multiple counts of forcible lewd acts and rape of his two daughters, beginning when each was in fifth grade. at trial, the people presented testimony from an expert on child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome (csaas) to in response to the sexual abuse. gonzalez urges us to reject settled california law holding evidence of csaas is admissible to dispel common misconceptions about sexual abuse. gonzalez also contends the trial court erred when it instructed the jury it could consider evidence of the sexual abuse of each as to the other daughter. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. the information the amended information charged gonzalez with eight counts of forcible lewd acts on a child under the age of 14 (pen. code,  288,1 subd. (b)(1); counts 21-282), two counts of forcible rape of a child under the age of 14 ( 261, subd. (a)(2); counts 29 & 30), and two counts of forcible rape of a child over the age of 14 ( 261, subd. (a)(2); counts 31 & 32). the information further alleged as to all counts the special circumstance gonzalez was convicted in the current case of sexual offenses against more than one victim ( 667.61, subds. (b) & (e)(1)). 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 counts 1-20 were dismissed pursuant to section 1385. 3 gonzalez pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. b. the evidence at trial 1. the prosecution case a. the family gonzalez and blanca becerra had three children together, including daughters ath. and a.g. gonzalez also had another son, aurelio, who previously lived with the family, but gonzalez sent him to live in mexico after he became involved in fights at school. gonzalez and becerra were married in 2010, after their children were born, but separated in december 2013. gonzalez told becerra he had fallen in love with another woman and house after they separated because he was the sole provider and continued to pay for rent, groceries, and other bills. however, gonzalez slept in the bedroom while becerra slept in the living room. the children took turns sleeping with becerra and gonzalez. in the summer of 2014 gonzalez moved to a separate home. b. the abuse of ath. ath. was 16 years old when she testified at trial. during ath. her and did not allow her to have friends. he yelled at her and hit her if she did something trivial, such as accidentally spilling a cup of water. afraid of gonzalez. gonzalez started sexually abusing ath. when she was 10 or 11 years old and in the fifth grade. gonzalez and ath. were taking a nap in the same bed, and ath. 4 ath. did not know his actions were wrong and believed that because he was her when gonzalez inquired whether ath. had told her mother about his actions, ath. assured him she had not. when ath. was in the sixth grade, gonzalez started rubbing her breasts and vagina underneath her clothes. sometimes ath. would push his hands away, and gonzalez would [l]et ath. believed she would get in trouble if she continued to push his hands away. towards the end of sixth grade, gonzalez began putting his finger inside ath. to count, but more than 10 times. ath. would try to push his hands away, but she was only sometimes successful. when she was in the seventh grade, gonzalez would lie in ath. to rub it. gonzalez asked ath. ath. understood to mean ath. saath. continued. he had sexual intercourse with ath. times,which continued until ath. was in the ninth grade. ath. realized what gonzalez was doing was sexual abuse when she took a sexual education class in the seventh grade. she doing to her was wrong, and understood then why gonzalez wanted to keep it a secret. ath. was scared gonzalez would hurt her if she disclosed the abuse. she was also concerned about the impact of 5 disclosure , and she feared her mother would be deported, causing ath. and her siblings to be placed in an orphanage. ath. was also upset gonzalez was physically abusing a.g., and she assured gonzalez later that year becerra noticed ath. no longer wanted to visit gonzalez, and she would not bathe for weeks. becerra asked ath. if anyone had inappropriately touched her, and ath. denied she had been touched. even after becerra revealed a.g. had disclosed gonzalez sexually abused her, ath. continued to deny the abuse. ath. feared the impact the disclosure would have on her mother. ath. still loved her father, wanted him in her life, and maintained hope he might one day stop abusing her. ath. admitted in cross-examination she was upset at gonzalez for cheating on her mother, and she blamed him for breaking up the marriage. c. the abuse of a.g. a.g. was 12 years old when she testified at trial. from a as born with a dislocated hip and sometimes had difficulty walking straight. gonzalez would hit her behind the head and tell her to walk straight. he would not allow a.g. and ath. to laugh and would say mean things to their mother. when a.g. was 10 or 11 years old and in the fifth grade, gonzalez began sexually abusing her. by this time gonzalez lived in his own home. a.g. and gonzalez would sleep in the his arm away or dig her 6 nails into his hands to get him to stop. this touching happened more than five times over the course of six months. gonzalez once placed his hands inside her underwear and tried to touch her vagina, but a.g. dug her nails into his hand. she refused by saying she was tired. on one occasion gonzalez , and gonzalez did not persist. gonzalez told a.g. not to disclose the abuse to anyone. although a.g. was angry about the abuse, she was too embarrassed to talk about what was happening. she was also afraid of gonzalez because he would hit her and her sister and scream at them. gonzalez apologized to her and told her he deserve a.g. disclosed the abuse to becerra after the first few times, but her mother did not believe her. a.g. also told ath., but felt ath. similarly did not believe her. after one visit, a.g. told becerra that gonzalez had touched her breasts, and becerra responded by asking if he had touched her a.g. ,she did not have to continue visiting gonzalez, but she instructed a.g. not to tell anyone about the abuse. becerra never contacted the police. a.g. continued to visit gonzalez because she still loved her father and believed he could change. a.g. thought about and did not want to upset her mother. a.g. always 7 joke about sexual abuse. when she was in sixth grade, a.g. decided to tell one of her teachers (teacher) about the sexual abuse because she felt she could trust him. on cross-examination, a.g. admitted she was upset gonzalez sent aurelio away. becerra told a.g. that aurelio could not retuhis that might come out of her disclosure was that aurelio could return from mexico. d. disclosure of the abuse on february 12, 2016 the teacher was working as an [a] the teacher asked a.g. what was wrong, and she disclosed her father was sexually abusing her and she was afraid to go home. the teacher contacted his supervisor and social services. a.g. and ath. were later interviewed at the police station, and they both disclosed the sexual abuse. the next day gonzalez called becerra. becerra asked him, confronting him about the allegations, gonzalez statedmy in e. the forensic examination forensic nurse malinda wheeler examined ath. and a.g. wheeler found no evidence of sexual abuse in her examinations, 8 but noted injuries are found in only five to 10 percent of sexual assault examinations of child abuse victims. f. expert testimony about csaas clinical psychologist jayme jones testified as an expert in csaas. although the initial author of the work referred to dr. jones referred to the concept as a d the term syndrome implied specific symptoms or a specific diagnoses, neither of which are part of the model. the purpose of the model is to explain the context in which sexual abuse occurs and to address some of the common myths associated with children who are abused by someone they know. the model contains five components. secrecy refers to the abuse taking place in private, which sends a message to the children they child keeps the abuse secret, the harder it becomes to disclose it. the closer the relationship between the abuser and the child, the less likely it is the child will disclose the abuse. if the abuser tells the child not to say anything, that also decreases the likelihood of disclosure. even though the child does not like the abuse, he or she will hold out hope it will stop, ignoring the bad aspects of the relationship and focusing on the good. the child may also worry disclosure would get the abuser in trouble, and he or she would be taken away. helplessness has two components. the first component explains that children are not likely to yell or fight back because fight back. the second component is that children are taught to obey adults. children may feel helpless to disclose abuse because 9 they fear upsetting the adults, getting in trouble, or not being believed. additionally, depending on the age of the child, he or she may not understand fully what is happening. the third part of the model, accommodation, addresses how children cope with the abuse when they feel helpless to change the situation. abused children often return to the care of their abusers or display affection towards them to keep the abuse a secret. if the child is aware the abuser is the sole provider for the family, the child will be concerned about the negative financial consequences of disclosure. accommodation also occurs when a [es] []m abuse. delayed disclosure is the fourth component of the model. one common myth is that children will disclose abuse immediately. as dr. jones opined, or s the fifth component is recantation or retraction, which typically occurs when a child has made a disclosure, but then may never again disclose, may wait an extended period of time before disclosing again, or may keep disclosing until the child finds someone who believes him or her. about 10 to 15 percent of victims disclose abuse within a year of the first abusive incident, and an additional 20 to 25 percent disclose within the first five years. 10 dr. jones stressed the model does not assess the credibility diagnostically to determine if abuse occurred, but instead, should be used to explain the particular behavior of children who have been abused. dr. jones confirmed she had no knowledge of the specific facts of the case and had not spoken to ath. or a.g. 2. the defense case interviewed becerra a few days after gonzalez was arrested. becerra told detective lemus that [gonzalez] also admitted she knew about the sexual abuse. c. the verdicts and sentencing the jury found gonzalez guilty on all counts and found true the special allegation applicable to all counts that he was convicted of sexual abuse of more than one victim. the trial court sentenced gonzalez on each of the 12 counts to consecutive terms of 15 years to life, for a total aggregate sentence of 180 years to life. gonzalez timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court properly admitted csaas evidence 1. proceedings below gonzalez moved before trial to exclude expert testimony about csaas, arguing dr. jones had no personal knowledge of 11 the case and had not spoken to ath. or a.g. gonzalez asserted the testimony would be unfairly prejudicial by supporting the credibility of ath. and a.g. he also argued the expert was not necessary to explain the behavior because they would be able to testify about their conduct. the prosecutor responded the csaas expert witness was necessary to rebut several misconceptions she anticipated would arise during trial, including ath.delayed disclosure of the abuse and their continued association with gonzalez. she proffered the anything in this particular case. on those specific guidelines as because gonzalez would likely call into question to some extent [ath.added, e if you were to acknowledge that they were tellingeverything were true and they were not incorrect, then perhaps i would exclude it. the court the objection. did not dispute he would question the credibility of ath. and a.g. ath. he stated, [ath. and a.g.], two young women, two girls, who at the time of their disclosure are going through the divorce of their parents, a divorce where the father is alleged to have been cheating on the mother, fallen in love with another woman, that he left their mother. . . . [] . . . you are the deciders watching this testimony, is this evidence proof? is it proof beyond a reasonable doubt? or do you require more. [] and 12 how do you decide that? you can look at their demeanor. you can think about motive to lie. motive to be biased. what may during cross examination of ath. attorney repeatedly asked questions directed at their credibility. ath.education] class they actually taught you a lot about reporting anything that g angry with gonzalez for divorcing their mother. he also asked a.g. about her anger at gonzalez for sending aurelio to mexico. prior to dr. jury with a portion of calcrim no. dr. testimony with child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome is not evidence that the defendant committed any of the crimes the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 1193 a second time after the close of evidence. dr. jayme jones regarding child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome. [] dr. abuse accommodat[ion] syndrome is not evidence that the defendant committed any of those crimes charged against him. [] you may consider this evidence only [in] deciding whether or not conduct was not inconsistent with the conduct of someone who has been molested, and in evaluating the 13 during her closing argument, the prosecutor acknowledged the case largely turned on ath.highlighted dr. the jurors should evaluate ath., to dispel the myths that sexually abused children would fight back or immediately disclose the abuse. case turned largely on ath.. he argued they happened, . . . based on accath. and a.g. had a 2. standard of review should be inadmissible for all purposes. (people v. gonzales (2018) 6 cal.5th 44, 49 [questions of law reviewed de novo]; people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 894 [appellate courts . . . . independent or de novo standard to admit specific csaas evidence for an abuse of discretion. (people v. powell (2018) 6 cal.5th 136, 162 [rulings on admissibility of evidence reviewed for an abuse of discretion]; people v. covarrubias (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 942, 947 [same].) 14 3. csaas testimony is admissible to dispel common misconceptions about how children react to sexual abuse molestation victims is not admissible to prove that the complaining witness has in fact been sexually abused; it is e.g., a delay in reportingis inconsistent with his or her testimony is needed to disabuse jurors of commonly held misconceptions about child sexual abuse, and to explain the emotional antecedents of aself-people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1300-1301 [discussing with approval court of appeal opinions admitting csaas expert testimony to support its holding expert may explain why the parent of a sexually molested child would not report the abuse]; accord, people v. brown (2004) 33 cal.4th 892, 906 [expert testimony admissible to show why a victim of domestic violence might recant previous report of abuse, noting admissibility of csaas expert testimony]; people v. gonzales (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 494, 503 [instruction on csaas testimony proper where evidence admitted to explain why child victim of sexual abuse would still act loving and trusting toward abuser]; people v. mateo (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1063, 1069 [trial court did not err in admitting csaas expert testimony without limiting instruction where defense counsel did not request instruction]; people v. patino (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 1737, 1744 disabusing a jury of misconceptions it might hold about how a 15 people v. housley (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 947, 957 [csaas testimony was admissible to charges, with certain limitationsbe used to disabuse the jury of common misconceptions concerninpeople v. bowker (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 385, 394 [csaas expert testimony solely reactions as demonstrated by the evidence are not inconsistent he defense attorney places the credibility of the child victim at issue, the prosecution may offer csaas evidence in its case-in-chief, for example, to explain why a child victim would delay reporting the abuse. (patino, at pp. 1744-1745.) 4. the trial court properly admitted csaas expert testimony to address common misconceptions about children who are victims of sexual abuse citing out-of-state and federal cases, gonzalez urges us to break from well-settled california law and follow other states in excluding csaas testimony. the cases relied on by gonzalez exclude csaas evidence for all purposes because of the danger the testimony may invade the province of the jury and lead the jury to rely on the testimony as evidence of abuse. (see, e.g., newkirk v. commonwealth (ky. 1996) 937 s.w.2d 690, 694 [expressing concern csaas testimony may invade the province of the jury and holding testimony determination of credibility is synonymous with the ultimate fact ; state v. stribley (iowa app. 1995) 532 16 may incorrectly be used by a fact-fi as an initial matter, we are not bound by out-of-state and federal cases. (people v. troyer (2011) 51 cal.4th 599, 610 [out-of-state cases not binding on california courts]; ammerman v. callender (2016) 245 cal.app.4th out-of-state authority is at odds with california law, it lacks even people v. williams (2013) 56 cal.4th 630, 668 [federal appellate authority not binding on california courts].) moreover, as discussed, california courts have concluded to the contrary, holding csaas evidence may be used to explain a child ing to sexual abuse in appropriate circumstances. (see people v. mcalpin, supra, 53 cal.3d at pp. 1300-1301; people v. brown, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 906; people v. housley, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at pp. 955-956.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence. (people v. powell, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 162; people v. covarrubias, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 947attorney urged the jury in his opening statement to consider ath. during cross-examination, he questioned ath. about her continued visits with gonzalez and why she did not disclose the abuse, even after learning in school about sexual abuse and the importance of disclosure. he questioned a.g. about her decision to continue visiting gonzalez, her lying to her mother about whether she was being abused, and her anger at gonzalez for sending aurelio away. attorney again argued during closing argument ath. and a.g. had a motive to fabricate their testimony because they were angry gonzalez broke the family apart, initiated a divorce, sent aurelio away, and verbally abused them. as further proof of 17 these questions focused on the specific misconceptions and seemingly self-impeaching behaviordr. testimony concerning accommodation and delayed disclosure. (people v. brown, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 906.) in addition, the trial court instructed the jury both before and after dr. 1193, including that the jury could only consider dr. jone conduct, not as evidence gonzalez committed the charged crimes. dr. jones testified she had no knowledge of the specific facts of this case, and the model cannot diagnose whether someone has been abused. b. the trial court properly instructed the jury with calcrim no. 1191b 1. proceedings below the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. presented evidence that the defendant committed the crimes of forcible lewd act on a child, and rape, as charged in counts 1 through 12. [] if the people have proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant committed one or more of these crimes, you may, but are not required to, conclude from that evidence that the defendant was disposed or inclined to commit sexual offenses, and based on that decision, also conclude that the defendant was likely to commit the other sex offenses charged in this case. [] if you find that the defendant committed one or more of these crimes, that conclusion is only one factor to consider along with all the other evidence. it is not sufficient by 18 itself to prove that the defendant is guilty of another crime. the people must still prove each charge and allegation beyond a giving the instruction. 2. the trial court properly instructed the jury with calcrim no. 1191b gonzalez contends the trial court violated his due process rights by instructing the jury with calcrim no. 1191b, allowing the jury to consider the charged sexual offenses committed as to one child to prove the charged sexual offenses committed as to the other child. the people assert gonzalez forfeited his challenge to the instruction by failing to object to the jury instruction at trial and, in any event, the instruction was proper. we agree the instruction was proper. to object to instructional error forfeits the issue (people v. burton (2018) 29 cal.app.5th 917, 923; accord, people v. cardona (2016) 246 failure to object to an instruction bars a defendant from substantial rights are affected when a trial court commits reversible error under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. (cardona, at p. 612; people v. mitchell (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 442, 465].) in his reply brief, gonzalez contends he did not forfeit his challenge to the instruction because he is asserting a violation of his due process rights. even if gonzalez preserved his constitutional due process challenge to the instruction, the supreme court in people v. villatoro (2012) 54 cal.4th 1152, 1160, 1162, held evidence code 19 section 1108 properly permits the jury to rely on currently charged sex offenses to find the defendant guilty of other charged sex offenses. further, the villatoro court approved the trial no. 1191, similar to the instruction given here, which provided, if you decide that the defendant committed one of these charged offenses, you may, but are not required to, conclude from that evidence that the defendant was disposed or inclined to commit the other charged crimes.villatoro, at pp. 1166-1167.) the law. (k.r. v. superior court (2017) 3 cal.5th 295, 308 established that a holding of the supreme court binds all of the lower courts in the state, including an intermediate appellate courtpeople v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 527-528 [decisions of supreme court are binding on appellate courts].) given that the trial court here instructed the jury using similar language to that approved in villatorocontention of instructional error. 20 disposition the judgment is affirmed. feuer, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. stone, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 