 filed 7/18/19 p. v. moore ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. reginald deshawn moore, defendant and appellant. b284327 los angeles county super. ct. no. na093030 appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. dawn s. mortazavi, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and lindsay boyd, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 the trial court found defendant and appellant reginald deshawn moore in violation of his felony probation and sentenced him to state prison. moore appeals. we affirm. facts and procedural background in august 2012 the people charged moore with corporal injury to a cohabitant in violation of penal code section 273.5, subdivision (a).1 according to the probation department report,2 police arrived at an address on 8th street in long beach where they encountered dolly s.b.3 victim had iher dolly said moore punched her in the jaw, grabbed her by the shoulders, threw htold the stomping on her face and body with his shoes to the point where he left a shoe mark on her fa on august 14, 2012, moore entered into a plea agreement with the people. moore pleaded guilty to the charge. on september 4, 2012, in accordance with the plea agreement, the court suspended imposition of sentence, placed moore on five years formal probation, and ordered him to serve 365 days in the probation officer in a plan for completion of [a] 52 week 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 2 as the case settled before preliminary hearing, we take our facts from the probation department report. 3 we refer to the victim by her first name. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.90(b)(4).) 3 victim restitution to dolly under section 1202.4, subdivision (f), of after reading moore all the terms of his probation, the court ore, do you understand and accept the terms in march 2014, about 19 months after the court put him on probation, moore appeared before the court, apparently as instructed by his probation officeto give him the money that is required to get the proof of the 4 right ing with his brother and his rent, food, or transportation. the court read aloud from the report, apparently quoting group counseling, page 1 of the report, that counselor at 4 the record on appeal does not contain this probation report. 4 adhering to his financial agreement. he is n[the public defender] has told you part of what you agreed to was to do this program, the contract that you made with the cause i . . . think the offered to terminate probation and impose sentence, but moore . you got to to to you if you want to stay on probation . . . . that is acceptable to your probation officer in terms of getting into or a different one or holding off having to make payments until you g in mid-june 2014 moore came to court for reinstatement that you were dealing with it. please make sure you stay in the for that in late september 2014 for re-violence partial componentfrom the program stated he had been dismissed. the court asked 5 to get re-is counsel conceded he had done no additional classes. even though moore had told the court in july been in treatment, all because you have been trying to figure out how many additional classes you needed. [] mr. moore, go to the been making progress, getting closer to the end of your probationary period, you should be done with this class. and instead you have been going back and forth, to and from the five-year grant of probation back in 2012. . . . this was the deal . and life skills classes in custody were not the same as domestic violence classes. but, the court said, if probation could show the court that the moore credit. the court permission to get back in, reinstated in the domestic violence he would go back into custody. moore was back in court about seven months later. have 6 the court was going to check to see if the court could give him . . . more classes l i up to you to talk to probation, and probation could confirm for me that i am seeing does not tell me that it qualifies for [a] domestic want you to do a 52-that meets once a week to talk about those specific issues. . . . [t]here are certain other things that happen in the class in terms of talking to you and having you do whatever the paperwork is for you to proof that you finished 52 classes. thatyou to moore told the court he was going to a different group. the parties next appeared before the court on may 26, 2017, more than four years and nine months after moore had been placed on probation and some three months before his probation was due to expire. a different judge was presiding from the one before whom moore had appeared in 2014 and 2015. prepared a report for the hearing. probation reported moore had not completed his domestic violence counseling and had not paid dolly the court-ordered 7 of [about] his lack of cooperation with completing counseling and ort attached the letter moore had written.5 to to demonstrate to the financial evaluator that he does not have had a receipt from the program showing an april payment. the court remanded moore and set june 19, 2017 as the next best of his ability to pay for it and his probation officer was not violation hearing in july 2017. at the formal hearing on july 31, the prosecutor called he refused to pay. when i asked him to pay he calls her the devil finished his domestic violence counseling. when asked about it, 5 the record on appeal does not contain a copy of the letter. 8 marked as an exhibit the letter moore had written to the court and given to davis. the court read the entire letter into the record. n the case concerning me and dolly satan mars,6 the law and god allows me to which was to defend myself and in terms of religion to respect my life and protect my life. i never hit anyone. dolly satan mars admitted she was the aggressor. it was her that acted the beast and started the violence. . . . [] after i get out of jail i have come to the courthouse including many times, including seeing probation for help to call this injustice out and the whole courthouse told me nothing until 120 were up [sic] and then they told me it was too late to get justice. . . . [] the reason i missed a few sessions is because i become lost in getting to the library and searching on how to bring this courthouse to justice. . . . [] i have done all my moore also wrote at some length that he was being treated unfairly because of his race. on cross-examination, davis testified moore had completed 35 classes. she said moore did discuss his financial problems a combative situation. you try to talk to him about getting to other clas 6 ,it 9 davis testified moore was unemployed andaccording to himhis grandmother supported him. davis said moore had made some payments toward victim restitution between december 2012 and november 2014. davis added moore did not had not told her within the past year that he planned to get back into the program. moore testified on his own behalf. moore said he walked to moore seemed to refer to two counselors by their first names whom he liked. when asked if he attended class regularly, moore said he had to pay ahead of time for the classes. asked if he was the court asked what moore meant. moore said he had a sic] with the car and he was still selling it to me. he only charged me $1,000. he gave it to me recently, the car and he gave me $260 for the 35 of chhaving told his probation officer that he would not pay victim restitution to dolly. on cross-examination moore said he wrote the letter to the ly bought a with 10 the court heard arguments from counsel. the prosecutor noted moore had had five years to comply with the terms of his opportunities to obtain money, but none of it has gone into this because as the court can see from his statement he was angry about the fact that he was convicted in this case to begin with. referring to the victim as satan is a clear indication of how he as the court can see from the photographs this was a pretty severe beating that the defendant inflicted. he stomped on the all kinds of severe conduct. it was done in front of her children, who were both quite young at the time. i think he has had his opportunity. he did not go to state prison initially. he did not go when judge laesecke found him in violation and told him to go. defense counsel argued moore had enrolled in the classes unusual for [his] clients to fall out of the programs because of spent money on some things that were not related to these things is not enough to prove a violation. he still gets to take care of arrested while on probation and had reported more than 30 times to his probation officer. the court found by a preponderance of the evidence that moore had violated his probation. the court noted both the judge supervised his probation for two years had given him every interaction with the court at progress reports and hearings. 11 the contact on what he was doing with the classes. he did not ask for lity of the probation and sentenced him to the midterm of three years. discussion the standard of proof required to revoke probation is a preponderance of the evidence to support the violation. (people v. kelly (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 961, 965.) the court has broad discretion in determining whether a probationer has people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 443.) probation for substantial evidence, according great deference to people v. urke (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 766, 773.) we also do not reweigh the evidence or determine the credibility of witnesses on appeal. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206-begins and ends with the determination as to whether, on the entire record, there is substantial evidence, contradicted or (people v. superior court (jones) (1998) 18 cal.4th 667, 681.) probation in a domestic violence case. the statute provides, defendant shall attend consecutive weekly sessions . . . and shall complete the program within 18 months, unless, after a hearing, the court finds good cause to modify the requirements of consecutive attendance or completion within 18 ( 1203.097, subd. (a)(6).) the penal code lists specific 12 (p).) the statute a deferred payment schedule, but shall pay a nominal fee, if the defendant has the ability to pay the nominal fee. upon a hearing and a finding by the court that the defendant does not have the financial ability to pay the nominal fee, the court shall waive this best of but failed to the record belies moore never asked the court for an ability to pay hearing. instead, he repeatedly told the judge he was going to reenroll and finish his classes. when probation directed moore to meet with the financial evaluator, he refused or failed to bring any of the documents or materials he was supposed to bring. his own lawyer urged him to cooperate with the financial evaluator and probation. moore chose to buy a car: that $1,000 was more than enough to finish his remaining required classes. for the two years before the probation set-on in 2017, moore made no progress on his classes and never asked the court, the public defender, or his probation officer for help. the two cases on which moore relies are distinguishable. both involved different statutes. people v. trask (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 387 was a deferred entry of judgment case. the statute at issue permitted termination of diversion only for specified reasons. inability to pay program fees was not one of them. people v. self (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 414 involved a failure to pay victim restitution under section 1203.2, subdivision (a). as the attorney general notes, that statute does not prohibit a court from revoking probation for violating 13 the conditions of probation, including the requirement to requirements.7 moore not only did not complete his program within 18 months, as the penal code requireshe did not complete it at all. after five years, he remained unrepentant, calling the woman he a fee reduction or waiver order or any other relief; and there is no evidence that an inability to pay program fees. we see no abuse of discretion to probation. 7 moore also argues the court should have accepted the after a suitable amount of custody time instead of sentencing him. both moore and the probation department apparently are probationary term to five years. accordingly, the court had no to permit probation to expire even though moore had not completed the mandatory counseling, or to terminate probation and sentence moore. 14 disposition moore in violation of his probation and imposing sentence. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. murillo, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 