filed 10/2/18 p. v. bland ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ricky lee bland, defendant and appellant. b284205 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba443230) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, frederick wapner, judge. reversed. rene paradis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 introduction failed to authenticate or lay a foundation for the admissibility of recorded telephone calls, the trial court received a compact disc (cd) into evidence. based solely on that evidence, the trial court determined defendant made a series of telephone calls to the person with whom he was prohibited, by the terms of his felony probation, from having any contact. the trial court revoked dfour years in prison. we reverse. factual and procedural background defendant has had a lengthy and periodically violent relationship with victim ryan w. on may 17, 2016, as part of a plea bargain in which certain allegations were stricken, defendant pleaded no contest to one felony count of violating penal code section 273.5, subdivision (a).1 at that hearing, the deputy district attorney noted she had not spoken with ryan w., who declined to cooperate with the prosecution, evaded service of a subpoena, and failed to voluntarily appear for any court proceeding. defendant was sentenced to five years of probation under various terms and conditions, including that he serve one year in jail, obey all laws, and have no contact with ryan w. defendant stated he understood a violation of any term of probation could 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. section 273.5, subdivision (a) provides the willful infliction of corporal injury on a cohabitant or former cohabitant may be punished as a felony or a misdemeanor. 3 on april 7, 2017, and april 10, 2017, ryan w. reported separate domestic violence incidents perpetrated by defendant. defendant was arrested and taken into custody after the april 10, 2017 incident. the police report indicated defendant was on both summary and formal probation and had been issued three restraining orders identifying ryan w. as the protected person. the police report noted the victim and defendant had one child in common and the victim was pregnant with their second child. on april 12, 2017, the los angeles county district attorney filed a motion this case. the declaration accompanying the motion advised defendant violated probation by committing new offenses, specifically, the most recent assault on ryan w., battery on a against a cohabitant or former cohabitant, and misdemeanor vandalism for breaking a door handle in a police car. the motion attached police reports from the april 10, 2017 altercation and vandalism incidents and a declaration by the deputy district attorney advising a new criminal case would be eby move to present eliminary hearing to establish the defendant violated the terms and conditions of his[ new allegations were filed against defendant; and after a preliminary hearing, he was charged in an information with felony infliction of corporal injury within seven years of a previous conviction ( 273.5, subd. (f)(1)), felony violation of a protective order ( 166, subd. (c)(4)), misdemeanor battery ( 243, 4 subd. (e)(1)), and misdemeanor vandalism ( 594, subd. (a)). (super. ct. no. ba456334)2 jury voir dire in case no. ba456334 began on july 10, 2017. the following day, before the prospective jurors returned to motion under evidence code section 13903 to admit out-of-court statements by victim ryan w. the prosecution intended to establish the victim was unavailable to testify at trial as a direct resu,i.e., his contacting the victim to dissuade her from coming to court. at the outset of this hearingviolation concurrent with the trial which includes . . . this motion the prosecution called two witnesses for the evidence code section 1390 motion/probation revocation hearing. an she had one telephone call with the victim, who stated she would not cooperate with the prosecution. the investigator never met the victim in person and did not check a number of sources or databases to locate an address or telephone number for her. it was established during the hearing that the victim had at least 2 only selected documents from this matter are included in the record on appeal. the cd at the core of this appeal is actually part of the superior court record in case no. ba456334. 3 evidence code section 1390 permits the introduction into a party that has engaged, or aided and abetted, in the wrongdoing that was intended to, and did, procure the unavailability 5 one outstanding arrest warrant, but the investigator never learned of that fact. the second witness was los angeles police department officer isaac gonzalez. before the officer testified, defense nderstanding is . . . the purpose of this witness is to testify that the voice on the alleged jail to the calls based on lack of foundation and . . . the trial court responded officer gonzalez testified he detained defendant on april 10, 2017. the officer transported defendant from the location of his arrest to the police station, a hospital, and, finally, the jail. the entire process took approximately five or six hours. the officer never saw defendant in the presence of, or even near, the victim. officer gonzalez was not asked if he had any contact with the victim; based on the police reports, it appears he did not. nor was he asked about the pending vandalism charge, even though the police report indicated the damage occurred to officer patrol vehicle and in his presence. a cd and asked that they be marked for identification as she provided dates for each call, although the recordings themselves were not marked with any dates or times.4 4 the prosecutor also provided the trial court and defense counsel with transcripts for each recorded telephone call. the transcripts were never received into evidence. when this court issued an order on september 11, 2018, for production of the cd, well. as the trial court noted, the transcripts include dates and 6 the prosecutor then played six telephone calls. each recording involved a conversation between a male caller and one or more females. in most of the calls, defendant did not use the name of the person to whom he was speaking, but called in one call, the male speaker talked about ryan w. to a female he addressed as the male appeared to be very careful not to use the given name of the person to whom he was speaking, prompting a female in one officer gonzalez recognized the male voice on each call as ier. the officer testified he identified voice [d][t]he court accepted, but made no ruling at the time, on defendaobjection to each played call. defense counsel did not cross-examine officer gonzalez. no evidence was offered to demonstrate the calls were made to any telephone number associated with the victim. no one attempted to identify any of the female voices. objections based on lack of foundation and failure to authenticate prosecutor] kept referring to these as jail calls, quote unquote, are jail calls. [] [a]nd i do purport to identify each speaker by name, although none of that information is found on the recordings. 7 not accept the dates . . . that are on the front of these transcripts, nor do i take the transcripts as the evidence. [] i take what i on the basis it contained statements by an adverse party. the trial court agreed with the defense that the cd was not admissible as a business record, as no foundation for admissibility under that exception to the hearsay rule had been laid. the trial court acknowledged not the strongest testimony in the world,judge observe[d]5 but observed that officer gonzalez spent an unusually long time with defendant and the court dates talking about [defenda the trial court found and the s having resolved the admissibility issue, the trial court turned to the evidence code section 1390 motion. the trial court denied the motion, finding the efforts to locate the victim and secure her presence for trial did not meet its threshold burden to show the victim was unavailable. without a finding of the victim unavailability, the trial court concluded evidence code section 1390 was inapplicable. at that point, the trial court charges in the current prosecution. 5 we listened to the phone calls, too, and agree there does not appear to be anything particularly distinctive about the male 8 the prosecution offered no additional evidence in the probation revocation portion of the hearing. the defense renewed its lack of foundation and authentication objections to the recorded telephone calls and rested without presenting any evidence. relying solely on the telephone calls, the trial court found defendant violated the terms of his probation and sentenced him to the upper term of four years. discussion defendant raises two issues on appeal. in the first, he contends his constitutional right to due process was violated because he did not receive sufficient notice of the probation violations alleged against him. the attorney general argues defendant forfeited this argument by failing to raise it in the trial court. we need not reach this issue, however, because we find second claim. (people v. mosley (2015) 60 cal.4th 1044, 1071.) we conclude reversal is required because the trial court prejudicially erred in admitting the recorded telephone calls into evidence. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson).) i. applicable law an order revoking probation is appealable as an order made after judgment affecting a defendants substantial rights. (pen. code,  1237, subd. (b); people v. vickers (1972) 8 cal.3d 451, 453, fn. 2.) our standard of review for evidentiary error is abuse of discretion. (people v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 266; people v. rodriguez (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 355, 373.) an audio recording is a writing, as defined in evidence code section 250. before an audio recording may be received into evidence, it must be relevant and authenticated. (evid. code,  350, 1401; people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 952.) no 9 writing may be authenticated or proved -be authenticated by evidence that [it] refers to or states matters that are unlikely to be known to anyone other than the person who is claimed by the proponent of the evidence to be the author typically, however, the proponent of a writing must produce evidence that demonstrates its authenticitywhat it purports to be.(jazayeri v. mao (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 301, 321.) ibid.) oruling that an audio recording has been authenticated and is as a preliminary fact ([evid. code,]  403, subd. (a)(3)) and is statutorily defined as the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is . . . . when the object sought to be introduced is a writing, this preliminary showing . . . usually entails some proof that the writing is authentici.e., that the writing was made or signed by its purported maker. [citation.] [] other items of writing, such as audio recordings, must also be shown to be what they purport to be, i.e., that [they are] genuine for the purposes offered. [citation.] essentially, what is necessary is a prima facie case. . . . [] . . . [t]he foundation [for an audio recording] may . . . be supplied by the person witnessing the event being recorded. it may be supplied by other witness testimony, circumstantial evidence, content and location, or any other means provided by law, including statutory presumption.(people v. 10 dawkins (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 991, 1002, most internal quotation marks omitted (dawkins).) ii. analysis the trial court determined the audio recordings were authenticated based on two factors: and the content of the calls, which referred to hearing dates and courtroom locations cocriminal matter. the trial court also found april 10, 2017 arrest. the attorney general concedes no participant in any of the calls testified and agrees the authentication evidence was entirely circumstantial. as dawkins, supra, 230 cal.app.4th at page 1003 held, omputer systems that automatically record data in real time, especially on government-maintained computers, are presumed to be accurate. . . . no elaborate showing of the accuracy of the recorded data is required.a witness with the general knowledge of an automated system may testify to his or her use of the system and that he or she has downloaded the computer information to produce the recording.(ibid.) but no such evidence was offered here. there was no testimony or declaration under penalty of perjury concerning the creation of the cd or the chain of custody for it. while expert testimony is not required to authenticate a government-maintained audio recording (ibid.), credible evidence is necessary before a court may find the audio recording to be part of a government-maintained system and not a rogue or manipulated 11 digitization. (see, e.g., people v. beckley (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 509, 515 (beckley).) nor may we conclude the audio recording was self-authenticatingmatters of public knowledge, not confidential information code,  1421.) there was no showing that ,defendant. (1990) 224 cal.app.3d 241 (), disapproved on other grounds in flanagan v. flanagan (2002) 27 cal.4th 766, 768, is also helpful to our analysis. as the attorney general points out, the proponent of the evidence in sought to admit only the transcript of a recorded telephone call, not the audio recording itself. (, at p. 249.) nevertheless, the court of appeal analyzed the issue as if the tape had been offered into evidence and concluded the ibid.) the court of appeal in agreed the trial court properly excluded the transcript of a recorded telephone call: there is no way to know whether the tape is what [the proponent of its admission] claims it is. no declaration or other sworn testimony of the [preparer and at least one participant to the conversation] was offered to describe when, where, how or by whom the tape was made. (see evid. code,  1413; people v. spencer (1963) 60 cal.2d 64 . . . .) . . . [] furthermore, [the proponent] failed to introduce any evidence regarding the completeness or accuracy of the tape. (people v. patton (1976) 63 cal.app.3d 211, 220, [133 cal.rptr. 533].) . . . [there was no 12 evidence concerning] the true and complete extent of the conversationand . . . whether the tape had been altered or edited or whether it included the entire conversation. [] since no foundation for the tape was laid, the trial court properly excluded the transcript and there was no error in this regard.(223 cal.app.3d at pp. 249-250, fn. omitted.) for the same reasons, no foundation was laid here. the audio recording was the only evidence presented to support the finding that defendant violated the terms of his probation, and we cannot find the error in its admission to be harmless. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818; beckley, supra, 185 cal.app.4th at p. 518.) although defendant was charged in the new information with vandalism of a police vehiclea crime that did not involve ryan w.and one term of his probation was that he violate no law, we cannot rely on that offense to support rprosecutor did not elicit testimony from officer gonzalez concerning the vandalism; instead, she dismissed the charge without presenting any evidence the crime had been committed. neither the prosecution nor the trial court relied on vandalism as a basis for revoking ; nor may we. 13 disposition the order is reversed. dunning, j.* we concur: rubin, acting p. j. stratton, j. * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 