 filed 3/12/19 p. v. smith ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dayvon lamar smith, defendant and appellant. b284766 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba449253) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig richman, judge. affirmed with directions. lenore de vita, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 a jury convicted appellant dayvon lamar smith of intimidating a witness (pen. code,  136.1, subd. (a)(1) & (2)),1 also finding that he acted maliciously with use, or threatened use, of force ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)) and that he committed the offense for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)). smith admitted a prior serious felony conviction constituted a strike ( 667, subds. (a)(1), (b)-(i), 1170.12). the trial court sentenced smith to 14 years to life, plus five years for the prior conviction. on appeal, smith contends the evidence is insufficient to support his conviction, and the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to strike his prior conviction strike and the gang enhancement. we disagree because substantial evidence supports his conviction decision was well within its discretion. smith also claims, and the people agree, he is entitled to 56 days of conduct credit. the people further request correction of the abstract of judgment in certain respects discussed post. in a supplemental letter brief, smith claims the matter must be remanded to permit the trial court to exercise its discretion as to whether to strike his section 667, subdivision (a) enhancement, pursuant to section 1385, subdivision (a). we affirm the judgment of conviction. however, we remand with directions to the trial court (1) to exercise its discretion as to whether to strike (a) enhancement, and (2) to award smith his conduct credit. we also order correction of the abstract of judgment. 1 unless otherwise indicated, subsequent section references are to the penal code. 3 background i. prosecution a. overview the people presented evidence at trial that a pimping victim (a 15-year-old female) and a prosecutor were sitting and talking in a courthouse hallway before afternoon preliminary hearing. someone took a photograph of the two. there was evidence that the pimp and smith were members of the same gang, and that, testimony, smith posted on his facebook account the photograph and related comments disparaging the victim. the victim later saw the posting, and an issue at trial was whether smith did the posting and thereby committed the crime of intimidating a witness. b. t.r. was the 15-year-old victim in the above-described pimping case that the people filed against reginald washington. washington, a prominent member of the bacc street crips, had the moniker baby ticc. los angeles county deputy district attorney lowrie mendoza prosecuted washington in the pimping case. on august 2, 2016, deputy district attorney mendoza went to division 30 to determine where preliminary hearing would occur. t.r. was in the courtroom. mendoza did not see smith in the courthouse (and, therefore, did not see smith take the photograph of t.r. discussed post). the judge in division 30 scheduled the preliminary hearing for that afternoon in division 110. 4 mendoza asked t.r. to speak with her, and the two sat on a bench outside division 30. signs in the hallways announced the prohibition against taking photographs there. nevertheless, someone took a photograph of mendoza and t.r. sitting on the bench outside the courtroom. los angeles police officer vanessa rios arrived at division 30. she saw t.r., who appeared calm. she also saw 2 sitting together outside division 30. t.r. reluctantly attended waaugust 2, 2016 preliminary hearing. mendoza testified that the hearing began about maybe 2:00 p.m. t.r. was an uncooperative witness, and her testimony was evasive.3 officer rios met in the courtroom vestibule. t.r. held her cellphone. she was shaking and upset. she told officer please take me officer rios observed a facebook post cellphone. the post (later identified as smith), consisted of a photograph and the comment #rtenow yah lookn [emojis representing two pairs of eyes] at the bitch [emojis of three fingers pointed down at the photograph] dat tld on the homie baby ticc [three emojis of a thumb and forefinger making a 2 the amended information in this case named mckinney mckinney is not a party to this appeal. 3 mendoza testified that, descorted jonathan powell from the courtroom. powell was upset. 5 circle, plus four rat emojis] #t[.]w[.] [four gunshot and three gun t.w. was t.r.facebook username. officer rios and t.r. exited the vestibule. crying, t.r. told officer rios that she feared for her life because the bacc street crips knew where she lived and would kill her. a few days after the preliminary hearing, officer rios spoke with t.r. about relocating t.r. for her safety. however, after that conversation, any attempt to relocate on august 12, 2016, los angeles police officer manuel mendieta saw smith outside residence at 861 east 118th street. officer mendieta arrested him, searched the residence, and found a plum cellphone. smith told officer mendieta that smi facebook username . c. the facebook and cellphone investigations los angeles police officer thorsten timmermans conducted facebook records investigations. he had conducted hundreds of investigations involving facebook, instagram, twitter, and all social media. a facebook user can access facebook accounts via a device permitting internet access, such as a cellphone equipped with a facebook application. a facebook business record showed that at 2:01 p.m. on august 2, 2016, sowe beeh es queen replied, that on august 2, 2016, a device uploaded the previously mentioned photograph of t.r. to the facebook account of sowe beeh. a facebook tracking function identified the approximate location of the device, and the 6 approximate time, when the upload occurred. at 2:07 p.m. and 41 seconds, the device was at 116th street and wadsworth avenue. at 2:07 p.m. and 55 seconds, the device uploaded the photograph. at 3:07 p.m., someone used the device to modify the photograph. at commentedcircled your made a comment not pertinent here.4 at 3:40 p.m., sowe beeh replied to the above 3:39 p.m. post, stating, at 3:41 p.m., respondedc, at 3:42 p.m., added at 5:02 p.m., es queen told so steven ching, a surveillance specialist in the technical investigation division of the los angeles police department, extracted data from the plum cellphone. specifically, he obtained information from the facebook messenger application in the phone, to wit: at 3:37 p.m. on august 2, 2016, someone wrote to sowe beeh, at 4:40 p.m., .at 6:02 p.m., es queen, using the facebook messenger application, wrote to sowe beeh. between 6:19 p.m. and 6:20 p.m., someone sent to [s]tay yo ass out the way 4 officer rios investigated the facebook account of a person at person was username. 7 [t][d]elete [s]he can screensho officer mendieta, a gang expert, testified concerning bacc street crips. borders are 111th place and wadsworth avenue, respectively. trafficking, assault with a deadly weapon, and gun possession. its symbols included the letter b and the letters bsc. the gang also uses a symbol consisting of a lowercase b formed by a thumb and index finger touchingthe aimeant telling law enforcement personnel about someone committing crime. gang members do not tolerate snitching, and those who have snitched may be beaten or killed. gang members use social media for numerous reasons, including, in the present case, to notify other gang members that t.r. snitch and the gang wanted members to commit acts of violence against her. officer mendieta had previous contacts with smith. smith had admitted that he was a bacc street crips member whose moniker was tiny bear. smith resided at 118th street and wadsworth avenue.5 officer mendieta indicated that the person who posted the photograph of t.r. on facebook signaled disdain for t.r. the person had t.r. and indicated that she had snitched on washington. is a pound sign followed by numbers or letters, signifying a searchable link. a person can 5 officer mendieta opined powell was a bacc street crips member; powell had admitted this to the officer. officer mendieta knew mckinney; she had tattoos consistent with her being a bacc street crips member. 8 also in a photograph. if someone tags a facebook s notice of the tagging. tagging gives people an opportunity to join a discussion. hypothetical question based on the evidence, officer mendieta testified as to how the post of a photograph and comments benefited the bacc street crips. the posts notify other gang members that a person has snitched and that they should commit acts of violence against the person. the violent acts punish past, and deter future, snitching. the post also benefits the person who made the post by demonstrating the gang allegiance. ii. defense smith testified that in 2015, he was convicted of selling a controlled substance. he committed that crime for the benefit of a gang. smith claimed that in november 2015, after his release from jail, he left the bacc street crips. he was leaving the gang when washington, who allegedly was a pimp, joined. smith denied having anything to do with any facebook posts. the plum cellphone belonged to smith. he denied possessing the phone on august 2, 2016. he nonetheless testified that he had used the phone that morning to call the mother of his child several times. he then spent the day with her. according to smith, the phone remained at his house that day; his mother listened to music on it, and she would know who else in the house used his facebook account on his phone. on one occasion, someone hacked his phone. smith acknowledged the facebook account for sowe beeh was his account. the account contained numerous photographs and comments entered after november 2015 and related to the 9 bacc street crips. someone so, on august 3, 2016, smith tried to delete it. during an august 30, 2016 recorded jail conversation between smith and the mother of his child, the two discussed whether mckinney needed to take a deal. smith stated that mckinney [s] to say she posted it. she need[s] to confuse also stated: say she did not take the picture. but she posted it on my phone[. smith testified that and a bacc street crips member. mastin hunter, a former bacc street crips member and best friend of smith, testified that about november 2015, he saw gang members expel smith from the gang. discussion i. sufficient evidence supports smith claims (1) there was insufficient evidence identifying him as the person who posted photograph and who made the related comments in the post, and (2) there was insufficient evidence that the post was a malicious attempt to prevent or discourage t.r. from testifying. we reject these claims. a. standard of review and applicable law in analyzing whether the evidence is sufficient to support a we review the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime . . . beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch 10 that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substaupon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial people v. penunuri (2018) 5 cal.5th 126, 142.) section 136.1, subdivision (a), provides that any person who does any of the following is guilty of a public offense: 1) knowingly and maliciously prevent[ing] or dissuad[ing] any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any trial, proceeding, or inquiry authorized by law. [] (2) knowingly and maliciously attempt[ing] to prevent or dissuade any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any trial, (italics added.) doing any of the acts described in subdivision (a) . . . knowingly and maliciously under any one or more of the following circumstances, is guilty of a felony . . . : [] (1) where the act is accompanied by force or by an express or implied threat of force or violence, upon a witness or victim . . . 11 expressly dispute that if he was the person who posted the the meaning of section 136.1, subdivision (a); rather, he focuses ] attempt[ ] to ent to vex, annoy, harm, or injure in any way another person, or to thwart or interfere in any manner with the orderly 136, subd. (1); see people v. wahidi (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 802, 807 (wahidi).) section 136.1, subdivision (d), provides: attempting the commission of any act described in subdivisions (a) . . . and (c) is guilty of the offense attempted without regard to success or failure of the attempt. the fact that no person was . . . in fact intimidated, shall be no defense against any prosecution restricts the means a defendant selects to commit the offense, nor does it require that [a] defendant personally deliver the message to the witness. a threat need not actually deter or reach the witness because the offense is committed when the defendant people v. foster (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 331, 335.) from e just the statement itself, must be considered to determine whether the statement constitutes an attempt to dissuade a 12 statements are ambiguous, but reasonably may be interpreted as intending to achieve the future consequence of dissuading the witness from testifying, the offense has been committed. wahidi, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 806.) b. analysis as to the sufficiency of the identification evidence, there is no dispute that on august 2, 2016, someone posted the photograph of t.r. and related facebook page. smith told officer mendieta that his facebook username was sowe beeh. smith conceded during his testimony that the sowe beeh facebook account belonged to him. wp.m. the facebook account reflected that at about 2:01 p.m., sowe beeh and es queen had an exchange during which sowe beeh expressed disapproval of a female whom es queen identified as t.w. at 2:07 p.m., someone uploaded the photograph of t.r. and the comments to sowe beeh facebook account. es queen later told smith to take it down; smith expressed no confusion regarding what post es queen was referring to or why es queen told him to take it down. smith testified that on august 3, 2016, he attempted to delete his facebook page; the jury reasonably could have concluded this action evidenced consciousness of guilt (see people v. williams (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1767, 1780) and was probative on the issue of the identity of the person posting the information . the jury also could have reasonably rejected as self-serving ion that he 13 tried to delete the page because someone hacked it. (see people v. windfield (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 739, 758.) as smith conceded during his testimony, the plum cellphone belonged to him, and it contained a facebook application. when, at 2:07 p.m. on august 2, 2016, someone uploaded the photograph, that plum cellphone was 116th street and wadsworth avenue. smith lived at 118th street and wadsworth avenue. after the posting of the photograph, other facebook users sent messages to the cellphone referencing the photograph, including a message that told d to stay out of the way. moreover, the evidence supported a reasonable inference that at about 3:40 p.m., powell (jondoe numbanine) indicated ticc [washington] . . . [and] you [smithsimilarly, at on you too pointed you out and circled your pic. the jury reasonably could have concluded that powell and mckinney were saying that t.r., by her preliminary hearing testimony, accused smith of being . the jury also as an adoptive admission that t.r. had in fact identified him. (see people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1188-1189; people v. preston (1973) 9 cal.3d 308, 313-315.) this in turn provided substantial evidence that smith had a motive to commit the present offense. there was also substantial evidence from the testimony of officers mendieta and rios that smith and washington were bacc street crips members. coupled with officer testimony to the effect that smith committed the offense for the 14 benefit of the gang, these elements provided further evidence of a motive for smith to commit the present offense and that he was the person who committed it. (see people v. gomez (2018) 6 cal.5th 243, 294.) further, the jury also reasonably could have disbelieved in light of his failure to call logically appropriate witnesses with information germane to his defense. this included his failure to call his mother who, according to smithself-serving testimony, used his cellphone the day in question to listen to music and supposedly knew who else in the home used the cellphone to access his facebook account. smith presented no evidence that any person other than himself used the plum cellphone to post content to his facebook account. (see people v. alaniz (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 1, 7;6 accord, people v. gomez, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 299.) in jail, smith made statements to the mother of his child to the effect that mckinney needed to confuse the jury and say mckinney posted the photograph of t.r. ; the jury reasonably could have concluded these statements were evidence of consciousness of guilt, supporting smith. (see people v. fritz (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 949, 959.) in sum, there was sufficient identification and access evidence to convince 6 people v. alaniz, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at p. 7, quoting people v. vargas [i]t is now well established that although griffin [v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 [14 l.ed.2d 106, 85 s.ct. 1229]] prohibits reference to a the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call 15 a rational trier of fact, beyond a reasonable doubt, that smith was the person who posted the photograph of t.r. and related comments on his facebook account. (cf. people v. penunuri, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 142.) as to the sufficiency of the evidence that smith maliciously attempted to prevent or discourage t.r. from testifying, smith argues that because the photograph and related comments were posted after t.r. reluctantly testified at preliminary hearing, there was insufficient evidence the post was a malicious attempt to prevent or discourage her from testifying there is no need to decide the issue. the evidence established that t.r. and mendoza sat outside division 30 and someone took a photograph of them. t.r. later in division 110. there was also evidence that the t.r. photograph and related comments were posted after she testified preliminary hearing: the post indicated t.r. was dat tld (sic; italics added) on washington. the emails that and jondoe numbanine exchanged from 3:39 p.m. to 3:42 p.m., included similar reference to what happened . these emails considered together support a reasonable inference that the posting of the t.r. photograph and related comments occurred after she testified. however, the controlling inquiry is whether smith intended to achieve the prospective consequence of dissuading t.r. from testifying. (people v. foster, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 335; see wahidi, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 806.) as 16 discussed below, there was substantial evidence that smith posted the photograph and related comments, intending to trial. the comments on the photograph referenced who had told on washington. the comments contained emojis of rodents. the later comments, following r name, included gunshot emojis, gun emojis, and the statement, the four gunshot emojis and three gun emojis were evidence smith was seeking to encourage other viewers of his facebook page to shoot t.r. his comments included three emojis, each representing a hand with the thumb and forefinger touching and the other fingers pointed up, representing the letter the jury could have reasonably concluded from the photograph and comments that smith intended to communicate that t.r. was a despised female who had told on washington, and snitch whom members of the gang should kill to assure she did not testify against washington at his trial. additionally, smith t.r., notifying her of the post. this evidenced an intent that she see the photograph and comments and cower accordingly, i.e., by not testifying against washington at his trial. facebook account and cellphone received posts stating that he should remove the photograph and related comments from his facebook page. the jury could have reasonably concluded that those posts reflected concern the photograph and related comments were incriminating. smith expressed no confusion about the removal requests and did not then dispute the photograph and comments were, in fact, incriminating. thus, the jury could have reasonably concluded 17 that effort on or after august 3, 2016, to delete his facebook page manifested consciousness of guilt. (see people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 620-621.) the same is true of child that mckinney needed to confuse the jury and say she posted the photograph of t.r. to have a third party fabricate evidence is evidence of consciousness of guilt. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 604-605 & fn. 60.) as indicated below, there was substantial evidence that the facebook posts did, in fact, have the effect of dissuading t.r. from testitrial. t.r. hearing. after that testimony, she saw the photograph of t.r. and its related comments, feared gang retaliation, and feared for her life. officer rios and t.r. discussed relocating t.r. for her safety; however, officer rios was subsequently unable to locate t.r. thus, there is substantial evidence that smith, by posting the photograph of t.r. and the related comments, knowingly and maliciously prevented or dissuaded, and knowingly and maliciously attempted to prevent or dissuade, t.r., a witness and victim, from attending or giving testimony at any trial within the meaning of section 136.1, subdivision (a). (italics added.) additionally, substantial evidence supports that accompanied by an express or implied threat of force or violence upon a witness or victim for purposes of section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1). further, substantial evidence establishes that an intent to vex, annoy, harm, or injure to thwart or interfere . . . with the orderly administration of justice within the meaning of section 136, 18 subdivision (1). (see wahidi, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at pp. 807, 809.)7 accordingly, substantial evidence comprehensively ii. the trial to strike his prior and the gang enhancement a. background the amended information alleged that smith had a prior conviction for transporting or selling a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a)), which was a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and a strike ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12). according to the preconviction probation report prepared for a september 2016 hearing, smith, born in february 1996, sustained convictions for trespassing and vehicle theft in 2007 and 2011, respectively. in september 2015, he suffered his felony conviction for transporting or selling a controlled substance; the trial court placed him on formal probation for 36 months. while on probation, he committed the current offense. the report also noted smith was involved in gang activity with the bacc street crips. the report stated that smith had a minimal arrest record and was suitable for community based supervision. the report alleged as aggravating circumstances that involved great violence, great bodily harm, [a] threat of great 7 in light of our conclusion that there was sufficient evidence that smith attempted to prevent, and prevented, t.r. whether smith attempted to prevent, or prevented, t.r. from testifying at w 19 bodily harm, or other acts disclosing a high degree of cruelty, viciousness, or callousness; the manner in which he carried out the crime indicated planning, sophistication, or professionalism; and he was on probation or parole when he committed the crime. there were no mitigating circumstances, and the aggravating circumstances warranted impositio- recommended supervised probation for three years. on january 26, 2017, after the jury reached its verdict in this case, smith admitted that in september 2015 he had been [and] safety code section 11352[, subdivision] (a) with a gang allegation enhancement pursuant to . . . section 186.22[, subdivision] (b), making that conviction a serious felony . . . as well as a strike . . . after the court excused the jury, defense counsel informed the court that he intended to file a motion to strike the prior conviction pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). on july 12, 2017, the people filed a sentencing memorandum requesting the court to sentence smith 20 to prison for 19 years to life,8 unless the court decided to exercise its discretion under romero and section 186.22, subdivision (g).9 on august 21, 2017, smith filed a combined sentencing memorandum and motion to strike (1) his prior conviction under romero and (2) the current gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (g), and people v. fuentes (2016) 1 cal.5th 218. smith requested a prison sentence of 12 years, consisting of (1) the high term of four years for the present offense, plus five years for the prior conviction and (2) a consecutive three-year term for violating probation in an independent case. smith emphasized that the prior conviction had occurred when he was 18 years old: the nonviolent offense of selling rock cocaine. smith asserted that only his admission of the gang enhancement allegation in that case made that crime a strike, and the court in that case had sentenced him to time served. smith also noted as mitigating factors that washington was 17 years old when he allegedly engaged in pimping as to t.r. smith and mckinney were 20 years old when the current crime 8 the people listed as additional aggravating factors that t.r. was particularly vulnerable; smith had threatened witnesses, unlawfully prevented or dissuaded witnesses from testifying, suborned perjury, and illegally interfered with the adjudications were numerous or of increasing seriousness. 9 section 186.22, subdivision (g), provides: notwithstanding any other law, the court may strike the additional punishment for the enhancements provided in this section . . . in an unusual case where the interests of justice would best be served, if the court specifies on the record and enters into the minutes the circumstances indicating that the interests of justice would best be served by that disposition. 21 occurred. officer older than 21 years old was involved in this case. additionally, the threat had been conveyed through social media, not personally. smith supported his motion with a report from dr. timothy collister, a clinical psychologist. dr. collister indicated that, stressorsby the time smith was 18 years old, he had developed an antisocial personality disorder. dr. collister found it smith] has a severe chronic mental disorder . . . to minimize risk of future criminal behavior. however, despite the collister of [smith] being a productive, responsible citizen if given the at the august 23, 2017 sentencing hearing, the trial court confirmed that sentencing memorandum. the court stated that the sentence for the [section] 136.1[, subdivision (c)(1) conviction] with force and a gang allegation is life, with a minimum term of seven years. the strike would double that, and the serious felony conviction would add five years to that. so it would be a life term with a minimum of 19 years the court noted defense counsel was asking for something significantly different than that. you asked that i strike the gang allegation, and ultimately impose a term of i believe 19 defense counsel argued that given youth and dr. collisterwould thwart the interest of justice. counsel also argued a life 22 sentence would be catastrophic, because smith was the father of young children. he also pointed out there was no allegation of personal contact between smith and t.r. the prosecutor noted that smith was the sole source of information for the patient history underlying dr. collisterreport. the prosecutor provided the court with additional posts slitting the throat of a uniformed officer. the prosecutor represented that the post preceded the current offense by about five weeks. the trial court observed the above additional posts extremely dangerous. after further argument, the court opined the problem with saying the present offense involved merely a facebook post was that the intimidation and its exposure [were] people might have acted on the post. the court also notified the parties that it was including in the court file documents it had received that morning. these were a school progress report indicating smith had performed well in class, and a certificate pertaining to career, technical, education, anger management, and domestic violence programs.10 the court commenteddent, the way things are right now, that mr. smith will not serve a life term in state prison, but i am going to impose the sentence currently prescribed by law. the court sentenced smith to prison for 19 10 the court announced it would include these documents and dr. collistsidered by parole authorities. 23 years to life. the court did not expressly rule to strike the strike and gang enhancement. b. analysis smith claims the trial court abused its discretion by denying the motion. he argues, inter alia, the court erroneously believed imposition of the strike and gang enhancement was mandatory sentence currently prescribed by law. pursuant to section 1385, subdivision (a), a trial court may strike a prior conviction for purposes of the three strikes law. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 158.) in deciding whether to strike a prior convictionconsider whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious id. at p. 161.) we review the ruling for abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 152.) we consider whether the trial id. at p. 164.) pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (g), a trial court may strike the punishment pertaining to a section 186.22 enhancement. (people v. fuentes, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 224.) we ruling on whether to strike the enhancement for abuse of discretion. (cf. people v. gibson (2016) 2 cal.app.5th 315, 325; see people v. sinclair (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 848, 855.) 24 the burden is on smith to demonstrate the court misunderstood its sentencing discretion. (cf. people v. white eagle (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1511, 1523.) smith has failed to meet that burden. to the contrary, the record affirmatively demonstrates the trial court was aware of its discretion. in january 2017, the court gave the prosecutor notice that smith would file a romero provide with the motion any specific information he wished the court to consider. on august 21, 2017, smith filed a combined sentencing memorandum and motion to strike the strike and gang enhancement. the motion addressed to strike the strike under romero and to strike the gang enhancement under fuentes. at the august 23, 2017 sentencing ing moreover, before argument from , the trial court indicated was asking prison sentence be significantly less than 19 years to life. the court also indicated counsel had asked that the court strike the gang allegation and impose a less severe prison sentence. these comments confirm the trial court was aware that the defense had been asking it to exercise its discretion to strike the strike and gang enhancement. the court said nothing that clearly indicated it did not believe it had discretion to strike the prior conviction or the gang enhancement. where, as here, the record demonstrates on its face that the sentencing court was aware of its discretion to make a sentencing choice, we that choice was an exercise of that discretion. (cf. people v. belmontes (1983) 34 cal.3d 335, 348, fn. 8.) smith has failed to 25 demonstrate that the court erroneously believed it lacked discretion to strike the strike and gang enhancement. additionally, when deciding whether to strike a strike, a trial court is presumed to have considered all relevant factors in the absence of an affirmative record to the contrary. (people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 308-310; see cal. rules of court, rule 4.409.) this presumption also applies to a trial y decision to strike a gang enhancement. (cf. people v. myers, supra, at p. 310.) smith asserts that it was only because he admitted a gang enhancement allegation as to the offense underlying the strike that that offense became a strike. however, we presume the trial court considered this alleged mitigating factor.11 smith the offense was serious, it was in essence a moot effortdissuade someone [from] doing something they already chose not as discussed above, however, the jury reasonably could have found that smith intended to dissuade t.r. from testifying at dissuade t.r. was not moot. 11 smith notes in passing that the trial court did not mention whether it read or consiwarrant a state prison sentence. we presume the court read and people v. black (2007) 41 cal.4th 799, 818, fn. 7.) in any event, a probation report is advisory only (people v. llamas (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 35, 40), and the trial court was not bound by it (people v. welch (1993) 5 cal.4th 228, 234; people v. butler (1988) 202 cal.app.3d 602, 607-608). 26 the trial court considered all relevant factors in deciding not to strike his prior conviction or the gang enhancement. his gang involvement, and the fact he was on probation when he committed the current offense, we cannot and do not say the trial was an abuse of discretion or was people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377; accord, people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 429-430.) iii. smith is entitled to 56 days of conduct credit the trial court awarded smith 377 days of custody credit for the time he spent in custody from august 12, 2016, when officer rios arrested him, to august 23, 2017, the date of his sentencing hearing, inclusive. there is no dispute that this award was correct. following that credit award, the court stated s good smith claims, and the people concede, he is also entitled to 56 days of presentence conduct credit. section 2933.1, subdivisions (a) and (c), limit an award of conduct credit under section 4019 to 15 percent of the actual period of confinement where the conviction is of a felony offense listed in section 667.5, section 136.1, which would constitute a felony violation of section smith is entitled to 56 days of presentence conduct credit. we will remand to permit the trial court to award that credit. 27 iv. remand is appropriate under senate bill no. 1393 -year section 667, subdivision (a) enhancement. in a supplemental brief,12 smith claims that, as a result of senate bill no. 1393, which became effective this year, we should remand this matter so that the trial court can exercise its discretion as to whether to strike, pursuant to section 1385, subdivision (a), the enhancement. as respondent concedes, the claim is well-founded. 1393 which, effective january 1, 2019, amends sections 667[, subdivision] (a) and 1385[, subdivision] (b) to allow a court to exercise its discretion to strike or dismiss a prior serious felony conviction for sentencing purposes. (stats. 2018, ch. 1013,  1-2.) under the [previous] versions of these statutes, the court [was] required to impose a five-year consecutive term foperson convicted of a serious felony who previously has been 667[, subd.] (a)), and the court [had] felony for purposes of enhancement of a sentence under section 1385[, subd.] people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 971 (garcia).) in garciaapplies retroactively to all cases or judgments of conviction in which a five-year term was imposed at sentencing, based on a prior serious felony conviction, provided the judgment of conviction is not final when senate bill 1393 becomes effective on 12 we asked for and received supplemental briefing on the issue of the impact, if any, of senate bill no. 1393, on the trial enhancement. 28 garcia, supra, 28 cal.app.5th at pp. 971-972.) garcia agreed. (id. at p. 972.) garcia observed that, under the rule of in re estrada legislature intends ameliorative criminal statutes to apply to all cases not final when the stgarcia, supra, at p. 972.) garcia estrada rule, as applied in [subsequent cases], it is appropriate to infer, as a matter of statutory construction, that the legislature intended senate bill 1393 to apply to all cases to which it could constitutionally be applied, that is, to all cases not yet final when senate bill 1393 garcia, supra, 28 cal.app.5th at p. 973.) accordingly, we will remand to permit the trial court to exercise its discretion under section 1385, enhancement. we express no opinion as to how the trial court should exercise that discretion. v. the sentencing minute order and the abstract of judgment must be corrected the trial court, when orally pronouncing judgment on august 23, 2017, sentenced smith to prison for 19 years to life, consisting of 14 years to life (seven years to life pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4), doubled as a second strike) plus sentencing comments, prior serious felony conviction enhancement. however, the august 23, 2017 minute order and the abstract of judgment erroneously state that the court imposed 29 five years pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). the people contend the sentencing minute order and abstract of judgment must be corrected accordingly. we agree. (cf. people v. humiston (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 460, 466, fn. 3, 482; people v. solorzano (1978) 84 cal.app.3d 413, 415, 417.) moreover, although the trial court, when orally included, pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4), an indeterminate term of life imprisonment with a minimum term of the indeterminate sentence, neither the minute order nor the abstract of judgment reflects this. the people claim the minute order and abstract of judgment must be corrected in this regard as well. we agree. finally, the trial court sentenced smith under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). the court did not refer to subparagraph (c) of that subdivision. line 8 on the abstract of judgment currently reflects only that the court sentenced smith pursuant to the three strikes law. the people claim that the specify on line 8, and that that line should state that the trial court sentenced smith pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c). we agree the abstract of judgment must be corrected to reflect that the court sentenced smith pursuant to the three strikes law and section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. upon remand, the court is directed to award smith 56 days of conduct credit pursuant to section 4019. the trial court also shall determine 30 whether to strike the enhancement imposed under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment consistent with this opinion and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published johnson, acting p. j. we concur: bendix, j. currey, j.* * associate justice of the court of appeal, second appellate district, division four, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 