filed 10/19/18 p. v. arroyo ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. armando arroyo, defendant and appellant. b284022 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka112058) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. stacy wiese, judge. affirmed in part, vacated in part, and remanded with directions. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and robert m. snider, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 armando arroyo (defendant) was convicted of kidnapping and raping his stepdaughter and then securing her silence by siblings. for his crimes, he was sentenced to 70 years to life in prison. on appeal, he argues that the trial court (1) abused its discretion in denying his motion to dismiss his prior strike conviction under our three strikes law (pen. code,  1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(j)),1 and (2) imposed the wrong sentence on his conviction for dissuading his victim from reporting a crime in march 2016. we reject his first argument but accept his second. accordingly, we affirm his convictions but remand to the trial court with directions to impose a 16-month sentence on the march 2016 dissuasion count. facts and procedural background i. facts sara doe (sara) was six years old when her mother moved in with defendant. over the next 14 years, defendant raised sara as his stepdaughter and one occasion. and moved out. sara nevertheless continued to live with defendant and her two younger half siblings because defendant said he would otherwise cut off her access to the half siblings. almost instantly, sara took over the household duties her mother used to perform. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 within two months of her mother leaving, defendant started acting differently toward sara. defendant complimented sara on her legs. then he started a daily routine of asking her to have sex w.would get upset. in early november 2015, defendant told sara he would siblings at a soccer game. after dropping off the kids, however, defendant drove sara around for 20 to 25 minutes before stopping on a dead-end street and asking her to look in the trunk of his car, where a handgun was in plain [you] ordered sara back into the car, pulled her head into his lap, and drove her to a motel. defendant rented a room for two hours. he had sara enter the room and removed her clothing. as she sobbed, defendant repeatedly sthen took off his pants and climbed atop her. he inserted his minutes, holding her down by keeping a firm grip on the hair on the back of her head, until he ultimately ejaculated on her stomach. after he finished, sara pushed him off and went to the bathroom. she was bleeding profusely from her vagina. sara put on her clothes, and when she emerged from the bathroom, on the way, he told sara that he would kill her mother if sara told anyone. for the next several months, sara told no one about the incident because she was scared defendant would kill her mother or her two younger half siblingsin part because defendant on a 4 near daily basis repeated his threats to harm them if sara spoke up. in march 2016, defendant brandished his handgun in front of sara and threatened to kill her after he saw her talking with two of her coworkers in a car outside her workplace. the next morning, defendant told sara to come into his bedroom, but she said she had to go to the bathroom and fled from the house to a nearby school. sara called her two older stepsiblings, and once they picked up the two younger half siblings from school, sara told themand the policewhat happened. at the urging of the police, sara called defendant twice. on [he] took [her] the first to story to the police, urging her, ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with (1) kidnapping to commit rape ( 209, subd. (b)(1)), (2) forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2)), (3) dissuading a witness from reporting a crime by an express or implied threat of force ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)) for threatening to harm and half siblings immediately after the rape, and (4) dissuading a witness from reporting to the police ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)) during the march 2016 recorded phone calls.2 the people further alleged, under our one strike law ( 667.61) that (1) defendant kidnapped sara and that his movement of her substantially increased the risk of harm to her ( 667.61, subds. (a) & (d)(2)), and (2) defendant kidnapped sara 2 the people originally charged the march 2016 dissuasion count as involving the use of force, but subsequently amended the count to drop the use of force allegation. 5 ( 667.61, subds. (a) & (e)(1)). the people additionally alleged ith a deadly weapon conviction constituted a strike under our three strikes law as well as a prior serious felony under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). -year prison sentence, the matter proceeded to trial. defendant took the stand and testified that sara had consented to the sex. the jury found defendant guilty of all charged crimes and found all sentencing enhancements to be true. defendant subsequently admitted his prior strike. defendant moved the trial court to dismiss his prior strike the age of his 2000 prior strike conviction; his successful completion of probation on that strike without any further negative interaction with law enforcement in the intervening years; and the fact that defendant would be in prison for more than 36 years (and thus would not be released until he is 86) even if the strike were opposing papers and entertaining argument from the parties, the trial court denied the motion. the court acknowledged its authority to dismiss ndant falls outside the spirit of the law . . . based upon his character and circumstances completed probation from the 2000 strike offense, and that he had no further interactions with law enforcement since then, but 6 nces of the the trial court then sentenced defendant to prison for 70 years to life. specifically, the court imposed an indeterminate sentence of 55 years to life for the forcible rape, comprised of a base sentence of 50 years (25 years to life under the one strike law doubled because of the prior strike), plus five years for the prior serious felony. the court then imposed a consecutive 15-year-prison sentence, comprised of (1) 13 years on the threat-driven dissuasion count (calculated as a base sentence of eight yearsfour years doubled due to the prior strikeplus five years for the prior serious felony), and (2) two years for the phone call-based dissuasion count (calculated as one yearone-third of the midterm sentence of three yearsdoubled due to the prior strike). defendant filed this timely appeal. discussion i. denial of motion to dismiss prior strike allegation defendant argues that the trial court erred in denying his motion to strike (that is, to dismiss) the allegation that his 2000 assault with a deadly weapon conviction constitutes a strike within the meaning of our three strikes law. we review a trial such a motion for an abuse of discretion. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 376 (carmony).) a trial court has the discretion to grant a motion to dismiss a strike allegation. ( 1385, subd. (a); people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 162.) in deciding whether to exercise that and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the 7 particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the spirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 377, quoting williams, at p. 161.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying critically, the court cited the proper standard to the facts before it was not an abuse of discretion. the court acknowledged the factors favoring defendantnamely, his difficult upbringing, the age of his prior strike, his successful completion of probation on that strike, and his crime-free life since thenbut found them not to take defendant outside the law when considered against the threats siblings in order ce to her kidnapping and rape and thereafter to secure her silence. defendant effectively raises two categories of arguments in response. first, he reiterates the various factors counseling in his favornamely, his upbringing, the age of his prior strike, his successful completion of probation, and his age upon release from custody even if the strike were dismissed. we agree that all of these factors are relepeople v. gaston (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 310, 315 prospects for committing future crimes include a consideration of the length of the current sentence and his age upon release]; people v. bishop (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 1245, 1251 [same]; cf. people v. strong 8 likelihood of committing crime based upon his age alone not relevant].) but the trial court recognized as much, too, as it expressly mentioned several of those factors and, in the absence of an indication to the contrary, we must presume it considered the remainder. (people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 309-310.) thus, defendant is in essence asking us to give these factors greater weight than the trial court. but doing so is outside the scope of our limited review. (id. at p. 309 reweigh the circumstances of the case to determine whether, in our opinion, the trial court should have . . . exercis[ed] its discretion to strike second, defendant seems to suggest that certain factors are entitled to dispositive weightnamely, that (1) the voters, as evinced by measures such as propositions 47 and 57, are concerned about cutting the costs of incarcerating prisoners, such required by the three strikes law; and (2) the deportation that will follow his release from prison means that he will pose no threat to california residents, such that it is an abuse of discretion to incarcerate him for the time required by the three strikes law. we reject both arguments. although the recent propositions encompass reforms to the criminal justice system aimed in part at reducing the costs of incarceration, our supreme let alone other lawsin every way that might maximize any monetary people v. morales (2016) 63 cal.4th 399, 408.) more to thevery single case involving the three strikes law because 9 incarcerating prisoners for less time will always reduce the cost of incarceration. if it is an abuse of discretion to deny a motion to dismiss a strike in this case, it will be an abuse of discretion in every case. we decline to construe the recent propositions in a manner that would, in effect, nullify the three strikes law in its entirety. for much the same reason, we decline to adopt entitles him to a reduction of his sentence. the logic underlying deportation, thus entitling each to a sentencing reduction and rendering the three strikes law inapplicable to them. we are particularly reluctant to create such a carveout when the sole basis for doing so is the act of entering or remaining in the country unlawfully. ii. sentence on dissuasion count defendant next argues that the trial court erred in imposing a sentence of two years on the march 2016 phone calls-based dissuasion count. according to defendant, that count is a offense, for which the midterm sentence is two years under section 136.1, subdivision (c), such that one-third the midterm sentence is eight months, which comes to 16 months when doubled. thus, defendant concludes, the trial court erred in imposing a sentence of two years. the people concede that defendant is correct. because the sentence actually imposed on this count is unauthorized, we may order the trial court to correct it even though there was no objection at the time. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 354.) 10 disposition the sentence on count 4 is vacated, and the trial court is ordered to impose a sentence of 16 months on that count. otherwise, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst _________________________, j. chavez 