filed 12/20/18 p. v. johnson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vincent maurice johnson, defendant and appellant. b284746 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka109397) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. mike camacho, judge. affirmed in part, remanded in part. theresa osterman stevenson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, and gregory b. wagner, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted vincent maurice johnson (defendant) of injuring a spouse or cohabitant (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a))1 and dissuading a witness from prosecuting a crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(2)), and the trial court sentenced him to prison for 35 years to life. on appeal, defendant challenges three evidentiary rulings and levels three challenges at his sentence. only two of these claims has merit: he is entitled to a remand to have the trial court exercise its newfound discretion to strike the convictions under senate bill 1393, and he is entitled to a re-calculation of his custody credits. we otherwise affirm. facts and procedural background i. facts a. december 2014 domestic violence incident defendant began to date marva doe (marva) in 2011. he moved in with her in late 2014. marva was aware that defendant was simultaneously dating another woman named katherine always just focused on [marva followed marva and the daughter into a bedroom and began to the blows. when marva fell backwards onto the bed, defendant grabbed a large box fan, hefted it over his head and brought it 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 several times; because marva lifted her knees to protect her chest, defendant ended knees two or three times with the fan. marva then stood up on marva around and threw her onto the ground, where she landed on her shoulder and felt it come was in the bedroom during the melee. b. february 2015 domestic violence incident in mid-february 2015, defendant again became upset when -a-ng to locate the rent check as her landlord waited at the front door. after they ate dinner, defendant told marva to come to their [] although not enough to make her black out. defendant slapped her a few more times, then stood up and walked out of the bedroom. less than a minute later, defendant returned to the room and again slapped her and put one hand to her neck and applied pressure. when marva once again fell backwards onto the bed, defendant dragged her to the floor by her legs and, once []. . . and . . . the bedroom. minutes later, he again returned to the bedroom and began to punch with a closed fist her face, her legs, and the ace caused her forehead to hit a nearby wall, causing a . 4 c. defendant was arrested in mid-march 2015, and called marva several times from jail. during these calls, defendant admitted to physically defendant made two jailhouse calls on april 1, 2015. in the first call to marva, he instructed her to saysin the second call to banks, a few minutes later, defendant instructed banks to call marva. while banks had marva on a different line, defendant instructed banks to tell marva to tell the police that defendant recording captures as bankss repeating those admonitions to marva. ii. procedural background the people charged defendant with (1) two counts of injuring a spouse or cohabitant, one for each incident, and (2) dissuading a witness from prosecuting a crime. the people alleged that defendant inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (e)) during the december 2014 incident. the people further alleged that defe degree burglary 5 ( 459) and his 2005 conviction for assault with a firearm ( 245, prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the matter proceeded to a jury trial. a jury convicted defendant of injuring a cohabitant or spouse for the february 2015 incident and of dissuading a witness. the jury acquitted defendant of the charge and bodily injury allegation pertaining to the december 2014 incident. defendant subsequently admitted the two prior felony convictions. the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for 35 years to life. more specifically, the court imposed a sentence of 35 years to life on the dissuasion count, comprised of a base sentence each of the two prior serious felony convictions. the court struck the prior prison term allegations. the court imposed a concurrent eight-year sentence on the domestic violence count. motion to dismiss the allegations that his two prior convictions defendant timely appeals. discussion i. evidentiary errors defendant argues that the trial court made three incorrect to testify that defendant had refused to turn himself in after being informed of the charges in this case and that defendant had instead fled the state, (2) allowed the investigating officer to testify to excerpts from three jailhouse calls without requiring the people to introduce additional portions of those calls, and (3) 6 ruled that the people could cross-examine defendant about a call he made to banks in which he threatened to harm her if she did not come to court to testify that she was the person who injured marva. we review evidentiary rulings for an abuse of discretion. (people v. powell (2018) 5 cal.5th 921, 961.) a. 1. pertinent facts first reported the domestic violence incidents to law enforcement. defendant was not there. as the parole officer was in front of there. the parole officer explained that he was there to arrest defendant for a recently reported domestic violence charge, and asked defendant to disclose his whereabouts or to turn himself in. defendant offered to turn himself in at the parole office by 5 p.m. that day. a few minutes before 5 p.m., defendant called the parole officer, reported he was not going to turn himself in, and urged him ndays later in spokane, washington. prior to trial, the trial court and consciousness of guilt because (1) d, and (2) precluded the parole officer from 372, the standard consciousness of guilt jury instruction. 7 2. analysis the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the and his flight from the state are relevant to show consciousness of guilt. (people v. vu (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 1009, 1030 [evidence that a defe people v. cartwright (1980) 107 cal.app.3d 402, 418 (cartwright) [evidence that defendant [ed] guilt]; people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 283-284 defendant offers what boil down to four reasons why the first, he argues that there was no direct proof that he left for california after the parole officer contacted him. because the last time marva saw him in california was the day before, defendant continues, he could have left before he got the call. however, the possibility the defendant left before the parole does not preclude admission of his out-of-state arrest weight of the evidence showing flight, but not its admissibility . . . .people v. anderson (2018) 5 cal.5th 372, 391-392, quoting people v. perry (1972) 7 cal.3d 756, 773-774.) second, defendant contends that this evidence should have been excluded becawould 8 code section 352. more specifically, defendant argues that the evidence had minimal probative value because it was mention of his parole status carried ed the jury that he had sustained a prior conviction (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049) and because it allowed the jury to infer his bad character. the trial court acted well within its discretion in balancing these considerations differently than defendant. status was part of establishing why his refusal to cooperate and flight indicated a consciousness of guilt. further, [a] may be admitted, notwithstanding evidence code section 352 where, as here, it of his mental state and motpeople v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1092.) use his parole status as impermissible character evidence was why defendant was on parole. indeed, defor a limiting instruction confirms that he, too, did not see the danger of such misuse of his parole status. third, defendant asserts that the trial court erred in giving the standard consciousness of guilt instruction because the parole this assertion testimony was properly admitted. the giving of the standard instruction is independently harmless because the instruction by its very terms leaves it to the jury to decide whether the parole supreme court has noted, stood that 9 the instruction was to that extent inapplicable. the superfluous people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 584.) lastly, defendant argues that the admission of this evidence violated due process. because we conclude that the trial court acted within its discretion in admitting this evidence, there was no due process violation. (people v. hawthorne (1992) 4 cal.4th 43, 58.) b. excerpts from jailhouse calls 1. pertinent facts the people called the investigating officer to testify to three excerpts from three jailhouse phone calls defendant placed in late march and early april 2015. from the first call, the officer directly quoted from the second call two days later, the officer the detective, not to answer phone calls, not to answer knocks at officer. from the third call three days later, the officer summarized comments to banks telling her that a restraining order was ically . . . just a piece of paper and that, if they murdered somebody, then what? are they going to be charged with . . . the trial court had previously ruled that all three tand to show mindset 10 2. analysis the trial court did not abuse its discretion in allowing the investigating officer to testify to the excerpts from these three jailhouse calls. the evidence is relevant, was properly authenticated as statements by defendant by the sound of his voice, and was admissible as the statement of a party opponent under the hearsay rule.2 contention that the people were required to introduce either the full recording of the taped calls or, at a minimum, the portions immediately preceding and following the excerpts introduced at section 356, which contemplates thintroduction of excerpts of a conversation is for the other party to 2 officer quoted defendant verbatim. in the second call, defendant participating, nothing. tell her not to accept no calls. tell her not to answer the phone, no knock on the dorestraining order supposed to do? if someone is going to do something, they are going to do it regardless . . . it does nothing. if someone had the mind to do something, not me, but if somebody did it, oh, you kill the person, they had a restraining the restraining order or you assaulted the person, you are charged with assault and violating the restraining order. what anything, the officers summary eliminated much of the more inflammatory content from those excerpts. 11 defendant nevertheless proffers three legal bases that, in his view, would appear to supersede evidence code section 356. first, he cites california rules of court, rule 2.1040, which electronic sound . . . recording of deposition or other prior subd. (a)(1).) even if we ignore that a rule of court cannot supersede a statute, rule 2.1040 by its own terms does not apply here because a jailnever presented or offered a recording of the call into evidence. second, defendant cites due process, asserting that the s introduction of excerpts alone violated due process ed it did not. although due process guarantees that the people must prove every element of any crime beyond a reasonable doubt (in re winship (1970) 397 u.s. 358, 363) and prohibits a court from shifting that burden onto a criminal defendant (e.g., sandstrom v. montana (1979) 442 u.s. 510, 524), defendant cites no authority for the propositionand we are aware of nonethat due process compels the people to prove their case with any particular evidence or in any particular manner. nothing in the portions of the calls in his defense; he elected not to do so, and instead elicited -examination that [] snippetsliterally just a few seconds of a 12 rights were not violated. lastly, defendant cites the rule prohibiting expert nce by opining on the ultimate correct about this limitation on expert testimony (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1227), but it does not aid defendant. contrary to what defendant suggests, the investigating officer did not offer an expert opinion when he repeated or summarized what defendant said on the jailhouse calls. moreover, the some all of the content, did not somehow communicate an guilt. c. use of call with banks to impeach defendant 1. pertinent facts prior to trial, the people sought to introduce a jailhouse call defendant made to banks. prior to that call, banks had told law enforcement that she saw marva with a black eye and wearing a sling for her arm, and that defendant had slapped and choked her (banks). on the call, defendant (1) demanded that banks appear in court to testify on his behalf by (a) recanting her prior statement to law enforcement and (b) testifying that she (and not defendant) was the one who had assaulted marva, (2) threatened to kill banks if she did not do as he requested, and (3) warned her defendant made these dema3 3 the precise content of the call is not part of the record on appeal. we quote fwhich it reviewed. 13 ,nevertheless ruled that the people could not introduce the call in its case-in-chief unless banks testified. because banks had previously invoked her privilege against self-precluded the people from introducing the call during its case-in-chief. however, the court went on to rule that the call game . . . for purposes of [the] cross-if he elected to testify. after the people rested its case-in-chief, the court asked defendant whether he wished to testify. when defendant e court reminded defendant of its prior rulings that he would be subject to cross-examination on sanitized versions of his two prior felony convictions as well as on his call to banks. after consulting with counsel, defendant ultimately decided not to testify. 2. analysis the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling that the people could cross-examine defendant about his call threatening banks with injury or death if she did not take the forts to of consciousness of guilt. (people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 214, fn. 9; people v. hunt (1982) 133 cal.app.3d 543, 560.) enticated and, admissible under the hearsay rule. defendant offers three reasons why the trial court nevertheless erred in conditionally admitting the call. 14 first, he asserts that he would have confined his direct testimony to the incidents involving marva, so the call to banks would have fallen outside the permissible scope of cross-examination. to be sure, cross-examination is limited to (evid. code,  773, subd. (a).) but it is well settled that a inference, to a denial places evidence which includes within the permissible scope of cross-examination. (people v. james (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 876, 888-890 (james); cartwright, supra, 107 cal.app.3d at p. 415.) at the time the trial court ruled, it had ample reason to find that defendant was likely to deny the assault charges if he testified; after all, defendant had tried to get marva not to cooperate with the prosecution and told banks to take responsibility for assaulting marva. dedenial of the charges s call comfortably within the permissible scope of cross-examination. second, defendant seems to suggest that the call should have been excluded under evidence code section 352 because the call (1) had little or no probative value because it merely showed the assault or dissuasion charges, (2) was unduly prejudicial because it constituted evidence of another crime, which painted him as a value of the call as evidence of his consciousness of guilt. the argument also of guilt evidence is to be used, thereby minimizing collateral misuses of the evidence. at bottom, defendant is inviting us to 15 reweigh the evidence code section 352 considerations differently than the trial court. this is beyond our purview. lastly, defendant contends that admitting this call violates his sixth amendment right to confront the witnesses against him s invocation of her privilege against self-incrimination rendered her unavailable for cross-examination. this contention makes no sense. what made the call relevant was defendants reaction to them. defendant always had the right to tell his side of the story by taking the stand. his decision to make himself unavailable by invoking his constitutional right not to testify did not somehow create a confrontation clause problem. because we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its s call as impeachment evidence should defendant testify, we have no occasion to reach the forfeited the issue. in light of our conclusion that the trial court committed no argument that he was harmed by the cumulative effect of the people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 377.) ii. sentencing errors defendant argues that the trial court committed three sentencing errors: (1) it erred in denying his motion to dismiss the allegations that his prior strike convictions constituted r credits. 16 a. motion to dismiss strike allegations 1. pertinent facts a. adult criminal history defendant was convicted of first degree burglary in 1999, and was sentenced to two years in state prison. he was released on parole in august 2000, and after being re-incarcerated twice for two different parole violations, was ultimately discharged from parole in august 2004. nine months later, defendant was arrested for attempted murder, but in september 2005 entered a plea to assault with a firearm and was sentenced to 10 years in state prison. while in prison, defendant was disciplined for engaging in mutual combat in 2011, using marijuana on two occasions in 2012, getting too famili, smuggling tobacco in his anus in 2010, hiding three cell phones in his jail cell in 2012, and having a bad demeanor or refusing to follow orders in 2005 and 2006. defendant was ultimately paroled in august 2014, and committed the charged offenses six months later and while still on parole. b. prior to sentencing, defendant moved the trial court to dismiss the allegations that his 1999 and 2005 convictions constituted strikes. he argued that he fell outside the spirit of n record . . . does not warrant a life 17 at the sentencing hearing, the trial court acknowledged its discretion to dismiss the allegations, set forth the applicable in setting forth its tentative ruling, the court found that to cooperate with law enforcement while reminding her he was expecting to bail out of custody, and because his criminal history the court, saying that marva never felt threatened by him and that he would have testiallowing the people to cross-examine him with his call to banks. tentative ruling as its final ruling. 2. analysis a trial court has the discretion to grant a motion to dismiss a strike allegation. ( 1385, subd. (a); people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161-162.) in deciding whether to exercise that sider whether, in light of the and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed outside the [thrspirit, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377 (carmony).) we reviesuch a motion for an abuse of discretion. (id. at pp. 373-374.) 18 the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying trial court acknowledged its discretion, understood and recited the pertinent factors, and carefully balanced those factors in coming to its conclusion. defendant offers four categories of arguments as to why this ruling was an abuse of discretion. first, defendant argues that the trial court was wrong to say that he had committed multiple assaults on marva because the jury acquitted him of the december 2014 assault, leaving only of which he was acquitted violates apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466 (apprendi), defendant continues, and means the which amounts to an abuse of discretion (carmony, supraabuse of discretion occurs where the trial court . . . considered has rejected the . in in re coley (2012) 55 cal.4th 524, 558, the court held that a trial court does not violate apprendi by considering acquitted conduct when ruling on a finding that the people did not prove conduct beyond a reasonable doubt does not preclude the court from concluding that the people proved that conduct by a preponderance of the evidence. in his reply brief, defendant makes the fallback argument that the people did not prove the december 2014 assault by a preponderance of the evidence, but there is finding that the assault occurred. 19 second, defendant asserts that the trial court did not properly weigh the pertinent factors. more specifically, defendant asserts that his current conviction for dissuading a because it without any threat of bodily someone would come after [her],urged marva not to talk to the police only because he was hurt and confused. these assertions do not demonstrate that the trial court abused its discretion. to begin, the assessment of whether a defendant rikes law focuses on current and past crimes are less egregious than typical, and notas defendant seems to suggestwhether his crimes are no more egregious than typical. what is dissuasion of marva was not less egregious than typical: although he avoided express threats of bodily harm, his repeated assertions of soon being out on bail, as the trial court noted, carried with them an implied threat of the ability to exact retribution if marva did not do as he said.4 was not sure defendant would come after her at most addresses whether his dissuasion was effective, not whether he engaged in it. and motive for dissuading marva from assisting law enforcement does not somehow mitigate that conduct. defendant also notes that his convictions date back to 1999 and 2005, but ignores that except for a nine-month period in 2004 and 2005, defendant has either been in custody or on parole. where, as here, a defendant 4 that the trial court considered the circumstances of decision impermissibly relied solely on his prior convictions. 20 is a lifelong and constant criminal, the age of his convictions is of little import. (people v. daniels (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 304, 317.) at bottom, defendant is asking us to weigh these considerations differently than the trial court. but doing so is outside the limited scope of our review. (e.g., people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 309 we do not reweigh the circumstances of the case to determine whether, in our opinion, the trial court should have . . . exercise[ed] its discretion to strike a prior conviction. third, defendant argues that the voter initiatives like propositions 36, 47 and 57 have categorically reduced the penalties attaching to crimes in california, such that what it changed and older precedent defining that concept narrowly defendant is wrong. proposition 36 partially revised our three strikes law; significantly, however, it left intact the precedent interpreting when a case falls outside its spirit. (kusior v. silver (1960) 54 es in a given statute in a particular respect when the subject is before the legislature, and changes are made in other respects, is indicative of an intention argues that these reforms are aimed in part at reducing the costs of incarceration by reducing the population of prisoners, but our let alone other lawsat might maximize any people v. morales (2016) 63 cal.4th 399, -write the three strikes 21 law is better addressed to our legislature or the voters, not to this court. lastly, defendant posits tto the court was one completed prior to trial, and which did not status, his employment, his finances, or anything about his health or substance abuse. this argument is legally and discretion to dismiss the allegations, not its possession of all information potentially available about a defendant. (people v. belmontes (1983) 34 cal.3d 335, 348, fn. 8.) further, a defendant any probation report ( 667, subd. (c)(2); cf.  1203, subd. (b)(1)), let alone a supplemental report. what is more, it was defendantas the movant, to submit information in support of his motion to dismiss (people v. lopez (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 233, 251); the fault for not making this information known to the court lies with defendant, not anyone else. and much of the information defendant claims was missingchiefly, his marital and parental statuswere otherwise elicited at trial. b. remand under s.b. 1393 on september 30, 2018, the governor signed senate bill 1393, which amends section 1385 to eliminate the prohibition on section 667, subd. (a). ( 1385, subd. (b) (2018 ed.); sen. bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.)  2.) because this new law grants a trial court the discretion to mitigate or reduce a criminal sentence, it applies retroactively to all nonfinal convictions unless 22 the legislature has expressed a contrary intent. (people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 75-78; in re estrada (1965) 63 cal.2 740, 744-745.) our legislature has expressed no such intent in s will not be final by the time senate bill 1393 takes effect on january 1, 2019, he is entitled to have the trial court exercise its newfound allegations unless the court, during the original sentencing, allegations if it had been aware of having the discretion to do so. (people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 425.) here, there is no such indication. the court made no express statements to that effect, and its decision to run the assault count concurrently and to dismiss the prior prison term allegations shows that the trial court was not intent upon imposing the maximum sentence. on these facts, a remand is appropriate. c. custody credits the trial court awarded defendant 1,023 days of custody credits, comprised of 890 days of actual credit and 133 days of good time/work time credit, which comes to 15 percent of the days of actual credit. defendant argues that this was incorrect. the people agree, and so do we. the 15 percent rate is reserved for defendants whose present offense is a 2933.1), subd. (a); people v. henson (1997) 57 cal.app.4th 1380, 1385-1390) ( 667.5, subd. (c); cf. id., subd. (c)(20).) accordingly, defendant is entitled to good time/work time credits equal to his custody credits. because he is entitled to 897 days of actual credit, he should have also been granted 896 days of conduct credits for a total of 1,793 days of custody credit. 23 disposition the case is remanded for resentencing to allow the trial court to consider whether the enhancements under section 667, subd. (a)(1) should be stricken pursuant to senate bill 1393. the trial court is also directed to modify the judgment to award defendant 896 days of presentence conduct credit, in addition to 897 days of actual time served, for a total of 1,793 days of presentence credit. upon resentencing, the trial court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and forward a certified copy of it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ________________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: ___________________________, p.j. lui ___________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 