filed 10/31/18 p. v. worley ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david worley, defendant and appellant. b284948 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma070760) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, christopher g. estes, judge. reversed. maura f. thorpe, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and analee j. brodie, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 a jury convicted david worley of attempted criminal threats. the prosecution arose from an interaction between worley and his father, in which worley ranted to his father for an hour and a half about his delusional belief that his family was be an expression of frustration, and asked the police to help his son obtain mental health treatment. instead, worley was charged with making a criminal threat. the prosecution later added an attempted threat charge, and the court dismissed the original criminal threats charge. worley appeals from his conviction of attempted criminal threat, and argues that there was no substantial evidence his words conveyed the requimmediate prospect of execution of the threat. (people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 228 (toledo).) we agree and reverse. factual and procedural background on or around march 10, 2017, three days before the events that gave rise to the present appeal, worley went to house and banged on the door. he wanted to know if his kids were okay. he encountered his sister, and told her he thought his kids had been killed. although he initially recognized his sister, he then accused her of being an imposter. he broke down his older brother then sat and talked with him, before the police arrived. worley was admitted to the mental ward of a local hospital, and was released the next day. three days later, daughter and son, ages 12 and 11sister called father from a few blocks away and said she had just passed worley 3 walking toward the house. worley was i want my kids. where are my kids?sister also called the police. father walked outside to meet worley, and told him worley was confused, and asked father who identity. worley wanted to know if his children were okay 11-year-old son came out to talk to worley, but then as worley started back inside. about half an hour into the conversation, worley got more upset and said he did not know if his children were really his with him. then worley started screaming again. in words, worley worley said he thought his whole family was dead. father reminded worley that he had just seen his children at christmas and at a birthday party, but worley did not believe him. worley then lay down in the street while father stood in the driveway. according to father, worley was still lying or sitting in the street when he yelled, . you butchered my children. during this outburst, worley all over the place. father later testified that at that the - - it just got to a point where the frustration was too much reaming hysterically . . . when [the police officers] pulled around the corner. worley then stopped screaming, spoke with the police, 4 and got in the squad car. father told the police that worley worley was charged with criminal threats and possession of methamphetamine. worley pled not guilty to the charges. the prosecution eventually dismissed the possession charge and a court which coordinates mental health services and provides a treatment plan for a defendant on probationif worley pled guilty to the criminal threats felony, a strike. he declined the plea deal. at trial, father testified that he did not feel afraid when figure out how to help him . . . . father him after father completed his testimony, the prosecution added a charge of attempted criminal threats. at the close of the , the court granted the defense motion to dismiss the criminal threat charge on the ground there was insufficient evifor his o the jury convicted worley of attempted criminal threats. at sentencing, the prosecution acknowledged that worley the prosecution argued that the vast to make any necessary orders to ensure that [worley] is evaluated by mental health professionals in prison so that [his] issues get addressed for perhaps the first time in his life. (emphasis added.)1 1 is at odds with 5 the defense asked that worley be placed on probation the court declined to dismiss a prior strike for residential burglary, and sentenced worley to a prison term of six years, four months. he timely appealed. discussion worley argues there was no substantial evidence his words onal, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an some of the literature in this area. mental illness are currently serving terms in california prisons. these individuals receive inadequate medical and psychiatric care, . . . . ill prisoners burdens the juds budget, and causes needless inmate sufferingw. david ball, mentally ill prisoners in the california department of corrections and rehabilitation: strategies for improving treatment and reducing recidivism (2007) 24 j. contemp. health l. & poly 1; see also prison psychiatry chiemisleading court on mental health care, sacramento bee (oct. 10, 2018) [california psychiatry chief accused the california department of corrections and rehabilitation of providing inaccurate and misleading data to a federal court and lawyers for prison inmates fighting to improve psychiatric care inside d that although the state says its psychiatrists have seen patients 96 percent of the time in some cases, only 20 to 30 percent of those patients were seen].) 6 2 (toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 228.) we agree. claims challenging the sufficiency of the evidence to uphold a judgment are reviewed under the substantial evidence standard. entire record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational trier of fact could find [the elements of the crime] beyond a reasonable people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 553.) substantial evidence . . . is not any evidence might be constitute substantial evidence, but they must be the product of roddenberry v. roddenberry (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 634, 651.) the crime of criminal threat (pen. code,  422 (section 422)) consists of five elements: (1) willfully threaten[ed] to commit a crime which will result in death or great b (2) that the defendant made the with the specific intent that the statement . . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it 2 because we reverse on this ground, we do not reach (1) there was insufficient evidence he intended his words to be a threat or that no reasonable person would have been in fear, and (2) the trial court abused its discretion in declining to reduce the felony conviction 7 that the threatwhich may be made verbally, in writing, or by means of an was on its face and under the circumstances in which it [was] made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prosp (4) that the threat actuallto be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or and (5) that the threatened under the circumstances. toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 227228.) the elements of attempted criminal threats of which worley was convicted differ in one respect. defendant properly may be found guilty of attempted criminal threat whenever, acting with the specific intent to commit the offense of criminal threat, the defendant performs an act that goes beyond mere preparation and indicates that he or she is putting a plan into action. . . . [i]f a defendant, [] acting with the requisite intent, makes a sufficient threat that is received and understood by the threatened person, but, for whatever reason, the threat does not actually cause the threatened person to be in sustained fear for his or her safety even though, under the circumstances, that person reasonably could have been placed in such fear, the defendant properly may be found to have committed the offense toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 231.) demands that the purported threat be amined to determine if the threat is real and genuine, a true threat. 8 [citation.] . . . [t]hreats are judged in their context.in re ricky t. (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1132, 1137 [criticizing the practice of n the words .) include such things as the prior relationship of the parties and (in re ryan d. (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 854, 860.) 422 was not enacted to punish emotional outbursts, it targets only those who try to instill fear in others. people v. felix (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 905, 913.) the soliloquies, howepeople v. teal (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 277, 281.) worley contends there was insufficient evidence of the immediacy factor in section 422that his statements conveyed to a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of (toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 228.) father testified that he did not feel afraid and worley had never harmed him. worley did not make any threatening gestures at the time of the statement (compare people v. lepolo (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 85, 8889 [defendant raised a 36-inch machete and waved it at victim while making threat]), or engage in any physical conduct suggesting an immediate prospect of execution of a threat to kill (compare people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 749750 [defendant and his cohorts surrounded victim and grabbed her arm]). rather, before and after worley made the threat, he was just sitting or lying in the street ranting and looking all around him. even the prosecutor implied in closing that worleydid not convey an immediate prospect of execution because the 9 unarmed worley had no ability to kill father. the prosecutor t even have to be able to kill to be convicted of an attempted criminal threat. if he were would have charged him with a more serious crime.3 in re ricky t., supra, 87 cal.app.4th 1132 is on point. in that case, the defendant was a high school student who became angry at his teacher, and threatened him saying, id. at p. 1135.) the student was found to have made a criminal threat, and the court of appeal reversed, finding insufficient evidence the threat conveyed a gravity of purpose or immediate prospect of execution. (ibid.) the court noted there the defendant had not (id. at p. 1138.) additionally, no evidence of any circumstances occurring after [the threatafter making the threat. (id. at p. 1139.) the court found that the daccident rather than a death threat that induced sustained fear . . . id. at p. 1141.) here, as in ricky t., there was also of physical violencenothing indicating any pushing or shoving or 3 the prosecution said attempted murder be that crime, but ctual act toward accomplishing not simply a statement expressing intent to kill. (people v. lee (2003) 31 cal.4th 613, 623 (emphasis added).) 10 other close- (ricky t., supra, 87 cal.app.4th at p. 1138.) worley did not gesture toward father, make any facial expression, or even look at father when he made the statements. there was also no evidence of circumstances after showing an intent to convey an immediate execution of the threat. rather, worley lay down in the street and continued to rant. with his father and yelling suggested he was distraught at the thought his family was dead, and was expressing his as his father observed, rather than being intent on conveying a death threat to his father to induce sustained fear. the circumstances present here are markedly different from cases where courts have found sufficient evidence of a threat conveying an imminent prospect of execution. (see people v. wilson (2010) 186 cal.app.4th 789, 814 [sufficient evidence that gravity of purpose and an immediate he would shoot him as soon as he was released from custody in 10 months, said he had killed officers in the past, and simulated pulling a trigger with his fingers]; people v. gaut (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1425, 14311432 [sufficient evidence that a death physically assaulting [the vi people v. mosley (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 313, 324 [sufficient evidence that threats to correctional officers satisfied immediacy factor where defendant was found in possession of weapons in his cell, there was evidence he had connections to a criminal gang, and he told officers he was going to tell his gang associates to go to the officers homes to kill them]; people v. franz (2001) 11 88 cal.app.4th 1426, 14481449 [sufficient evidence of an immediate prospect of execution where the defendant punched the victim, and -sthe victim when a police officer was present].) the present case, when the evidence is viewed in the context of the uncontradicted evidence of the circumstances, involves a defendant who suffered a mental breakdown in front of his father and screamed out in frustration. at sentencing, father made clear themotional outburst conveyed an immediate prospect he would attack father, we agree. on these grounds, we reverse. disposition the judgment is reversed. rubin, acting p. j. we concur: grimes, j. dunning, j.* * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 