filed 5/8/19 p. v. delgado ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesse delgado, defendant and appellant. b284957 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na103717) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard m. goul, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 jesse delgado, convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm (pen. code,1  29800, subd. (a)(1)), challenges his conviction and sentence on multiple grounds, including instructional error, prosecutorial misconduct, unconstitutional exercise of peremptory challenges, evidentiary error, insufficiency of the evidence, sentencing error, and the denial of the right to have the same jury consider the substantive offense and the prior conviction allegations. we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background delgado was charged with possession of a firearm by a felon and assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). he was alleged to have suffered four prior strike convictions within the meaning of the law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and to have served three prior prison terms pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). the victim of the offense, anthony vallecillo, testified that on november 23, 2015, he went to the apartment he had been sharing with his girlfriend cynthia nuno. vallecillo and nuno were separating, and vallecillo was planning to pick up his belongings. although nuno was expecting him, she acted hesitant when he arrived and did not want to let him in the belongings, but he wanted a few additional items from the home. vallecillo and nuno argued for several minutes. vallecillo then g the apartment. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 nuno screamed at vallecillo to get out as he gathered his possessions. delgado came out into the hallway with a gun and pointed it at vallecillo. delgado told vallecillo to leave. when delgado pulled out the gun, nuno jumped in front of him and pushed him into the bedroom. vallecillo collected his things and left the apartment. vallecillo called the police to report the incident because he and nuno had a son together, and he did not want delgado around his son. the recording of valjust came out of a room[,] i guess . . . vallecillo testified that a few days after the incident, he, nuno, and delgado spoke on the telephone in a three-way call. the recorded call was played for the jury. in the telephone call, incident by filing a police report. delgado told vallecillo to relax. vallecgoing to be cool with it? let me ask you that straight out man to man, man to man . . . a mandelgado responded. 4 bro. . . . vallecillo said that nuno could have avoided the entire issue if she had asked delgado to stay in another room while vallecillo gathered his belongings. he said he came to pick up his possessions, not to cause problems with anyone. as a man you know . . . there is communication . . . later in the conversation, vallecillo told delgado, ointed[,] nothing like that to you[,] dog[,] or nothing like that[,] but it is what it is and whatever is delgado. delgado, vallecillo, and nuno talked some more, and then trying to intrude or anything, but you know, to me that was kinda fucked up that i did pull that out[,] but at the same time defense counsel cross-examined vallecillo extensively in support of the defense theory that vallecillo, a jealous and violent ex-boyfriend, had fabricated this account and also made false 5 reports to the police about delgado on two subsequent occasions. vallecillo denied forcing his way into the apartment, but he that he leave. vallecillo acknowledged that on the same day as the incident, nuno reported him to the police for domestic violence. defense counsel also questioned vallecillo about two police reports he made on a single day a few weeks later in december 2015. the first report was made to the long beach police department, and the second to the los angeles police department. vallecillo admitted that he was following nuno when he reported to the long beach police department that a gun had been drawn on him. defense counsel delved deeply into exactly what vallecillo had reported to the police on each occasion, particularly whether he had identified delgado to the police in these calls and whether he reported to the los angeles police department that the gun had been pointed at him just then or whether he said that the person in the car had pointed a gun at him in the past. defense counsel also elicited testimony from vallecillo that after his report to the los angeles police department, he was arrested for stalking and for filing a false police report. defense counsel also cross-examined vallecillo about his relationship with nuno. text messages evincing the hostility between nuno and vallecillo, and their conflict over their son, were presented to the jury. defense counsel inquired extensively into an incident of domestic violence by vallecillo against nuno in july, 2016. vallecillo acknowledged a dispute over their son but denied being violent with nuno or dragging her with his car. 6 defense witness nuno testified about the november 23 incident, stating that vallecillo appeared unannounced at her apartment; shoved his way into the apartment; yelled at her; and as not in the apartment at the time. nuno testified that vallecillo told her a few days later that he had reported delgado to the police. vallecillo threatened to from vallecillo and nunofalse reports about nuno, leading to social service agency involvement with their child. she feared losing her child and believed that vallecillo had used their son to keep her in their relationship. nuno was afraabusive to her. vallecillo tried to convince her to retract her police report against him. nuno testified that during the three-way conversation played for the jury, vallecillo and delgado were not discussing the november 23 incident but a different occasion when vallecillo with respect to the subsequent december 2015 police reports, nuno denied that the any of the events vallecillo had reported to the long beach police department happened. vaprompted the police to follow her in her car, stop her car, pull her from her vehicle, and arrest her. the police released her, telling her that they had arrested her because vallecillo reported that she had pointed a gun at him. vallecillo, who was standing by and watching, was arrested. 7 nuno testified that in july, 2016, vallecillo took their son without her permission and drove away while she was hanging on to the car door, injuring her and nearly dragging her along with the car. vallecillo had threatened to take their son away from her if delgado did not stay away. delgado presented the testimony of the los angeles police domestic violence. nuno had reported that vallecillo came to her home, grabbed her by the arms, and shoved her up against the abrasion on her elbow. delgado also examined police officers from the los angeles police department and the long beach police department concerning the two reports vallecillo made in december, 2015, as well as the report of domestic violence nuno made in july, 2016. delgado was convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm. the jury was unable to reach a verdict on the assault with a firearm charge, and the court declared a mistrial. after a court trial at which the court found true the allegation that delgado had suffered four prior strike convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law, the court sentenced delgado to nine years in state prison, consisting of the upper term of three years, doubled,2 plus three additional one-year terms for his three prior prison terms. delgado appeals. 2 section 1170.12, subdivision (c)(2)(c) provides that when a defendant has two or more prior strikes but the instant offense is 8 discussion i. jury selection delgado, who is identified in the record as mexican-american, contends that the prosecution improperly exercised its peremptory challenges to excuse three hispanic prospective jurors in violation of batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler). defense counsel objected when the prosecution exercised a peremptory challenge to excuse prospective juror no. 1885, whom she identified as the only mexican-american man on the pattern ythe prosecution would challenge other hispanic prospective answers to questions during voir dire had demonstrated attitudes favorable the truth, if i were looking to the other latino people that have been . . . excused and challenged for cause that we went through, it would probably show that [the prosecutor has] excused at least theight peremptory challenges, and that two excused jurors were hispanic women while one was a hispanic man. the court said it neither female hispanic prospective juror was identified by badge number or seat number. not a serious or violent felony (as defined in sections 667.5, subdivision (c) and 1192.7, subdivision (c)), the defendant shall be sentenced as though he or she has one prior strike (except under certain conditions not applicable here). 9 both the state and federal constitutions prohibit the use of peremptory strikes to remove prospective jurors on the basis of group bias. when a defendant asserts at trial that the s use of peremptory strikes violates the federal constitution, the following procedures and standards first, the defendant must maby showing that the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. [citation.] second, once the defendant has made out burden shifts to the state to explain adequately the racial exclusion by offering permissible race-neutral justifications for the strikes. [citations.] [i]f a race-neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide . . . whether the opponent of the strike has proved purposeful raci [citations.] the identical three-step procedure applies when the challenge is brought under the california constitution. [citation.] people v. jones (2017) 7 cal.app.5th 787, 801-802 (jones).) a prima facie case of racial discrimination in the use of peremptory challenges is established if the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. (people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 793.) types of evidence [that] ma in evaluating whether a prima facie are that a party has struck most or all of the members of the identified group from the venire, that a party has used a disproportionate number of strikes against the group, that the party has failed to engage these jurors in more than desultory voir dire, that the defendant is a member of the identified group, and that the victim is a member of the group to which the majority of the 10 remaining jurors belong. [citation.] a court may also consider nondiscriminatory reasons for a peremptory challenge that are in the record [citations] and that necessarily dispel any inference of bias. [citations.]jones, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at p. 802.) when a trial court denies a batson/wheeler motion because it finds no prima facie case of group bias was established, the reviewing court considers the entire record of voir dire. (ibid.) if the record suggests grounds upon which the prosecutor might reasonably have challenged the jurors in question, we affirm. (ibid.) [t]he exclusion by peremptory challenge of a single juror on the basis of race or ethnicity is an error of constitution the prima facie showing is not made merely by establishing that an excluded juror was a member of a cognizable group. [citations.] rather, from most or all members of a cognizable group . . . a court finding a prima facie case is necessarily relying on an apparent pat [citation.] such a pattern will be difficult to discern when the number of challenges is (jones, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at p. while no prospective juror may be struck on improper grounds, we have found it as a practical matter, to draw the requisite inference where only a few members of a cognizable group have been excused and no indelible pattern of discrimination appears.(people v. garcia (2011) 52 cal.4th 706, 747-748 [no prima facie case of discrimination where prosecutor excused three women].) peremptory challenges to excuse three hispanic jurors was 11 insufficient to establish a prima facie case of race discrimination. (see, e.g., jones, supra, 7 cal.app.5th at pp. 803-804 [use of three of nine peremptory challenges to excuse african-american prospective jurors insufficient to establish a prima facie case of discrimination].) defense counsel conceded, and the trial court challenges. as the record is silent as to which of the other excused prospective jurors were hispanic, we are unable to review the voir dire of those jurors when considering whether the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. delgado has not identified any additional information in the record tperemptory challenges was motivated by race. he argues that 1885, but the record contradicts that assertion. prospective juror no. 1885 raised his hand when the prosecutor asked if any family where there was domestic violence, drugs, and weapons, prospective juror no. 1885 said that the voir dire questioning gave him flashbacks to his childhood. the prosecutor explained that her reference to drugs was as an example about the law and because they give jurors different perspectives and assist in evaluating witness credibility. when the prosecutor asked how that made prospective 12 someone guilty or not guilty based on the evidence, but when asked if he would be athat he did not establish a prima facie case of discrimination in jury selection. ii. evidentiary issues a. denial of motion to recall witness delgado sought to recall vallecillo to the witness stand during the defense case. when asked for an offer of proof, beach police department to testify that there had been no report in long beach of a person with a gun, and that then vallecillo would be recalled to authenticate a recording of his december 2015 911 call to the los angeles police department in which he said that someone had drawn a gun on him in long beach. that this evidence would conflict with department that there was a gun. the trial court ruled that recalling vallecillo was unnecessary to impeach his credibility on this point because inconsistencies in his accounts could be demonstrated by introducing the recording once authenticated by a witness from the los angeles police department. moreover, the court noted, because the officer was expected to testify that vallecillo said he had callyou get your impeachment in. the officer contradicts what the 13 delgato demonstrate inconsistencies within the 911 call itself, as well police response was irrelevant, and that while the officer could be examined about what vallecillo said for the purpose of impeachment, the remaining matters were excluded because they would consume an undue amount of court time. defense counsel continued to argue about other inconsistencies regarding the allow a . . . 911 tape on this point at a different incident separate november 23, 20subpoena to impeach the witness on the issue of the gun, but top it there. not cumulative mini trials on the -examined vallecillo for a full day. when the trial resumed the next court day, delgado again is the purpose because you had him on the stand for over four hours wanted vallecillo to authenticate the december 2015 911 call evidence code section 352, citing the limited probative value of the evidence and the undue consumption of court time involved in 14 exploring incidents other than those that formed the basis of the charge in the case. recall mr. anthony vallecillo. i ask that he be placednot be released. he makes out of his own mouth on these transcriptions [of the 911 call] several impeaching statements that i could not have impeached him with better out of his own mouth. we have the transcript and the tape available. he has denied all of them. has necessarily been successfully impeached; nor, did any of the witnessesthe police officers who testified from l.a.p.d. about the . . . december 12, 2015, incidentthey had no knowledge of that. and i believe that with respect to his credibility, as this is a impeached by his own statements because he directly denied ever the court denied delgevidence was cumulative and subject to exclusion under evidence testified this afternoon as well as the long beach police officer who testified very specifically contradicted . . . accounts specifically regarding the november [sic] 12, 2015, incident where on the stand here he said a third party pointed a gun. he had told the officerhe had never mentioned the third male pointing a gun. in fact, very specifically, according to the today . . . have impeached . . . mr. vallecillo on several points. and i believe that the tapes [and] recalling him would be 15 cumulative at this point on the side matter. for this reason, the on appeal, delgado asserts that the trial court violated his rights to confront witnesses and to present a defense by denying his requests to recall vallecillo. in his opening brief, he three sentences of argument that are supported by citations to the abuse and false police reports, the trial court abused its next, he asserts that the error denied him his federal and state constitutional rights to confront adverse witnesses, to present a necessary because the error was not harmless beyond a gal argument in support of these conclusory assertions. he offers no that the inconsistent statement could be presented without recalling vallecillo, that the other evidence was cumulative, and that the evidence of inconsistencies in reports relating to other incidents had limited probative value and would unduly consume court timewere erroneous and an abuse of discretion. we deem this issue to have been forfeited. (people v. gallardo (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 51, 69, fn. 11 (gallardo).) similarly, as he provides people v. thompson (2016) 1 cal.5th 1043, 1116; see also people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 194.) 16 b. recorded telephone call prior to trial, delgado moved to exclude the recorded telephone call among delgado, vallecillo, and nuno pursuant to was unreliable, and lacked foundation as to the parties and the date of the call. the court concluded that the recording was admissible under the exception set forth in section 633.5, subject to a proper foundation being laid. on appeal, delgado argues that the recording was inadmissible under section 632 and the federal wiretapping statutes (18 u.s.c.  2510, et seq.). delgado, who did not argue that the recording was inadmissible under federal law in the trial court, has forfeited that claim. (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 431.) as to the state law of discretion. (people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1095.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the s it a criminal offense to use a communication. ( 632, subd. (a).) except to prove a violation of section 632 itself, evidence obtained in vionot admissible in any judicial, administrative, legislative, or exception according to which one party to a confidential communication is permitted to record the communication secretly relate to the commission by any other party to the in re trever p. (2017) 14 cal.app.5th 486, 490.) here, the content of the recorded call 17 pertained to the charged offense of assault with a firearm. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence.3 iii. instructional issues a. unanimity instruction delgado argues that his conviction must be reversed because the trial court failed to instruct the jury sua sponte with calcrim no. 3500 or 3501. according to delgado, because vallecillo claimed that delgado had a gun on three different occasions, in the absence of a unanimity instruction the jury may not have unanimously agreed on one criminal act, or it may have convicted him based on an amalgamation of evidence. in a criminal case, the jury must agree unanimously the defendant is guilty of a specific crime. [citation.] therefore, cases have long held that when the evidence suggests more than one discrete crime, either the prosecution must elect among the crimes or the court must require the jury to agree on the same people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132.) this requirement of unis intended to eliminate the danger that the defendant will be convicted even though there is no single offense which all the jurors agree the defendant committed.ibid.) if there was any error in failing to give the unanimity 3 the continued viability of the section 632 exclusionary rule is under review by the california supreme court in people v. guzman (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 184, review granted july 26, 2017, s242244. as we conclude that the evidence is admissible pursuant to section 633.5, we need not address this issue here. 18 harmless under any standard,4 because the jury was expressly instructed that that its task was to determine whether delgado possessed a firearm on november 23, 2015, the date of the court asking if the defendant had a gun in his possession on the date of nov. 23, 2015[,] or if he was in possession of a gun the court, after consultation with the parties, instruction to the jury, we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that all jurors must have unanimously agreed on the act constituting the offense. b. self-defense and defense of others delgado argues that the court should have instructed the jury sua sponte on self-defense, the defense of others, and the use of force against an intruder. the trial court must instruct on general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evide (people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 73.) this duty to instruct extends t . . . the defendant is relying on such a defense, or if there is substantial evidence supportive of such a defense and the defense is not inconsistent with the s theory of the case. (ibid.) 4 the proper standard of review when the court has failed to give a unanimity instruction is not itself unanimously agreed upon (see, e.g., people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 576), but we need not resolve that issue. as any error was harmless under the more exacting standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, any error was likewise harmless under the standard articulated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. 19 entire event. his attorney arfact, the more reasonable explanation . . . [is that] he was not jury on self-defense, defense of others, and the use of force theory of the case, the court did not err by failing to instruct the jury on those principles. c. limiting instruction because vallecillo testified to more than one incident in which delgado had a gun, delgado contends that the court had a duty to instruct the jury sua sponte that the evidence that he possessed a gun on other dates could not be used to prove he committed the charged offense or to establish a criminal disposition. the trial court had no sua sponte duty to give a limiting instruction. (evid. code,  355; people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 460.) the argument is not cognizable on appeal because delgado did not request the court to limit the evidence in this way (sanchez, at p. 460), and in fact he expressly rejected a limiting instruction at trial. the prosecutor asked the court to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 303, concerning limited purpose evidence, but the court declined to give the instruction because delgado opposed it. delgado cannot complain on appeal of the failure to give the limiting instruction. 20 iv. sufficiency of the evidence delgado contends the evidence was insufficient to support when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] presumes in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1212-1213.) section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) provides that it is a felony for a felon to have a firearm in his possession or under his control. delgado stipulated to being a felon for purposes of this charge. vallecillo testified that delgado pointed a gun at him. in the recorded call, moreover, delgado admitted that he had drawn a gun on valhe had drawn a gunhe only claimed he had not pointed it at vallecillo. the evidence was sufficient to support the conviction. delgado presents two arguments that the evidence was insufficient to support the conviction. the first is one sentence under the doctrine of self-defense/defense of another/defense of o demonstrate error, an appellant must supply the 21 reviewing court with some cogent argument supported by legal analysis and citation to the record. . . . [w]e may disregard conclusory arguments that . . . fail to disclose the reasoning by which the appellant reached the conclusions he wants us to adopt.city of santa maria v. adam (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 266, 286-287; cal. rules of court, rules 8.360(a), 8.204(a)(1)(b); gallardo, supra, 18 cal.app.5th at p. 69, fn. 11.) that vallecillo was not a credible witness. we neither reweigh the evidence nor reevaluate the credibility of witnesses. (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) v. prior convictions and sentencing issues a. discharge of the jury t, the court ordered a bifurcated jury trial on the prior conviction allegations. however, once the jury rendered its verdict on count 1 and the court declared a mistrial on count 2, the court dismissed the jury without objection by the parties. the courhearing, at which point the prosecutor alerted the court that a noting that delgado had not waived his right to have a jury determine his prior convictpick another jury on the priors unless there is an admission of the court continued the matter to the following month for delgado and his counsel to choose whether to have a court trial or a jury trial. when the court reconvened, delgado, joined by his counsel, waived his right to a jury trial on his prior convictions, and the court subsequently conducted a court trial on his priors. 22 on appeal, delgado argues that his statutory right to have the same jury decide the guilt and prior conviction allegations was violated. he forfeited this issue by failing to object in a timely fashion when the jury was discharged. (people v. saunders (1993) 5 cal.4th 580, 591.) delgado, however, claims ilure to object was due to ignorance of the law, and that counsel rendered constitutionally ineffective assistance when she did not object. to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, delgado . . . was deficient in falling below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing subjected the petitioner to prejudice, i.e., there is a reasonable ailings, the result would have in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561.) the sole support delgado offered in his opening brief for the record she did not know what happened if the jury was delgado conceded in his reply brief, the prosecutor, not defense counsel, made that statement. because the record does not demonstrate the absence of any rational tactical purpose for the failure to object to the discharge of the jury, claim must be denied on direct appeal. (people v. ray (1996) 13 cal.4th 313, 349.) b. strikes the trial court found that delgado had suffered four prior felony convictions that qualified as strike offenses. on appeal, delgado initially alleged that three of the four prior convictions 23 did not qualify as strikes, but in his reply brief he conceded that two of those three challenged convictions were in fact strike priors. as it is uncontested that at least three of his prior term of three years, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, was properly calculated and imposed under that statutory scheme. delgado next asserts that the trial court abused its discretion when it declined to strike his prior strikes for the purposes of applying the three strikes law (people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497), and to dismiss the one-year prior conviction enhancements under section 667.5, subdivision (b). he contends that the strikes and sentence enhancements should be dismissed in the interest of justice -year sentence for protecting nuno against an[] unwanted intruder was too severe, constituted an abuse of we reject these claims. and/or violent felony conviction allegation or finding under the thpursuant to penal code section 1385(a), or in reviewing such a ruling, the court in question must consider whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) 24 delgado is a repeat offender whose prior and current felonies all involve firearms. he was convicted in 1998 of discharging a firearm in public ( 246.3.) he was convicted in 1999 of assault with a firearm. in 2004 he was convicted of carrying a loaded firearm (former  12031, subd. (a)) and being a felon in possession of a firearm (former  12021, subd. (a)(1)), and these offenses were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). since 1998, delgado had not remained free of prison custody and the commission of a felony offense for a period of five years. the trial court observed that delgado engaged in a pattern of violent conduct that posed a serious danger to society. the court declined to strike the one-based on the present offense and his past offenses, his background, his character, and his prospects, we cannot say the prior strikes or dismiss the one-year sentence enhancements in the interest of justice. c. cruel and unusual punishment for a punishment to be cruel and unusual under the eighth amendment, it must be grossly disproportionate to the offender and offense. (harmelin v. michigan (1991) 501 u.s. 957, 1001.) the california constitution prohibits any sentence that is shocks the conscience and offends fundamental notions of human in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424, fn. omitted.) the california supreme court has instructed that, when reviewing a claim of cruel or unusual punishment, courts should examine the nature of the offense and offender, and compare the punishment 25 with the penalty for more serious crimes in the same jurisdiction and the same offense in different jurisdictions. (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 511; lynch, at pp. 425-429.) although delgado alleges that his nine-year sentence for being a felon in possession of a firearm constitutes cruel and/or unusual punishment under the united states and california constitutions, he performs none of these analyses. instead, he defend himself and nuno against the intruder.5 a second-strike sentence of nine years for being a felon in possession of a firearm with multiple prior felony convictions involving firearms does not lynch, at p. 424), nor has delgado established that his sentence was grossly disproportionate to the offense. vi. alleged prosecutorial misconduct delgado argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct at several points in the trial. standards regarding prosecutorial misconduct are well . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal constitution when it comprises a pattern of conduct make the conviction a denial of conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial 5 when reviewing a claim of cruel and/or unusual punishment, the underlying disputed facts must be viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. abundio (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1211, 1217.) 26 fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law to attempt to persuade eithepeople v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819 (hill).) to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely objection, make known the basis of the objection, and ask the trial court to admonish the jury. (id. at p. 820.) unless an objection would be futile or the defendant must object to the alleged misconduct at trial. (ibid.) a. opening statement defense counsel successfully objected when the prosecutor las you heard earlier yesterday in the questions that the defense was askingagain, those questions are only questions, and anything she saysprosecutor was arguing. the court sustained the objection, but the prosecution returned to the subject of attorney questions, prompting another chooses to put on witnesses, is a circumstancecounsel objected. 27 the trial court sustained the objection and admonished the to put on are going to try to say that objected again. the court sustained the objection and advised the not put on may or may not show evidence again the defense objected, and the court instructed the prosecutor said, and defense counsel objected again. trial court. the prosecutor finished her statement without further attempts to discuss the defense case. on appeal, delgado argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct by improperly shifting the burden of proof to the started to discuss the defense case in her opening statement, prevented the prosecutor from finishing an objectionable sentence or shifting the burden of proof.6 6 we note that delgado claims that the prosecutor also shifted the burden of proof in opening statement when she 28 attempts at improper argument were thwarted by the court, nothing suggests that this conduct infected the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. the record does not demonstrate that, that had this event not occurred, it was reasonably probable that the outcome would have been more favorable to delgado, who had been recorded admitting to being in possession of a firearm. (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1215, 1264-1265; hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) b. gang membership evidence vallecillo testified that he recognized delgado as the person with a gun because he had met him before. vallecillo continued, objected, the answer was stricken, and the jury was instructed to disregard the response. shortly thereafter, vallecillo testified that when he was not object. the prosecutor asked vallecillo to read his written statement identifying delgado from the photographic lineup. he shifted the burden of proof was overruled. the record does not support either contention. the prosecutor did not say that the defense might call nuno as a witness; she merely said that the people would not do so. delgado objected on the ground that the statement was argumentative, not because of any purported is insufficient to establish misconduct. 29 read-23- defense counsel objected. the court clarified that vallecillo although no question was pending, vallecillo continued defense counsel objected, the court struck the statement, stricken as not admitted into evidence in this ca soon afterwards, outside the presence of the jury, the court prohibited all references to gangs. the court, however, permitted vallecillo referred to delgado in his 911 call after the november 23, 2015, incident. the court ruled that in the absence of a s on appeal, delgado argues that the prosecutor committed evidence. the record does not support the contention that the prosecutor elicited evidence of gang membership; rather, vallecillo twice volunteered that delgado was associated with a own, and delgado has not challenged this evidentiary ruling on appeal. delgado has not established any misconduct. 30 c. allegedly late discovery delgado asserts that the prosecutor did not provide the defense with a supplemental police report until trial was well underway. she refers this court to a brief passage in the disagreed about whether a report had been provided in discovery. and the record indicates a pause in the proceedings. when the proceedings resumed, delgado made no objection or claim of prosecutorial misconduct, nor did he assert that the allegedly late production of the report prejudiced him in any way. he has therefore forfeited this claim on appeal. (hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) d. closing argument in closing argument, the prosecutor argued extensively about the import of the recorded telephone call involving is own words. and his own words are enoughhis own word [sic] are proof beyond a words and [vallecillo] saying that, yeah, it happened and the defendant not denying that it happened is proof beyond a words are enoughhis own word [sic] are proof beyond a misstatement of the law that resulted in the denial of due process. in this sentence the prosecutor inaccurately stated the law (people v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161, 1169 [defendant may not be convicted exclusively on the basis of his statements 31 without some independent proof of the corpus delicti]), although in the next sentence she corrected her error. delgado did not object to nor did he request a jury admonition. to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely objection, make known the basis of the objection, and ask the trial court to admonish the jury. (hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) relying on people v. vance (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1182, at page 1198, delgado argues that he did not forfeit this argument by failing to vance, however, defense counsel did object to allegedly improper argument; the question was whether defense counsel objected promptly enough to preserve the issue for appeal. (ibid.) vance is inapposite here because delgado did not object at all. delgado has forfeited this argument by failing to object at trial. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. feuer, j. 