1 filed 8/26/19 p. v. adams ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. garrett taylor adams, defendant and appellant. b284753 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma064049) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. reversed. law office of elizabeth k. horowitz and elizabeth k. horowitz for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction garrett taylor adams (adams) appeals from the judgment entered after a jury acquitted him of first degree premeditated murder but convicted him of first degree mayhem felony murder and found he personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon. adams argues, among other things, that substantial evidence did murder was erroneous. we conclude that there was substantial evidence adams specifically intended to commit mayhem, but that the trial court prejudicially erred when it instructed the jury on the specific intent element of mayhem felony murder. therefore, we reverse. factual and procedural background a. adams shoots briggs with a compound bow and kills him adams was an experienced, licensed hunter. he had not purchased meat in a store in over seven years. he hunted deer and other game with a rifle and with a compound bow, which is a bow that uses a wheel and pulley system that allows it to be drawn and held adams knew never to point a weapon at anything he did not intend to shoot. one evening adams was drinking alcohol with his girlfriend, bernadette marquez, at their home in lancaster. adams got into a physical altercation with marquez and went to a local bar. when he returned at 3:00 a.m., he fought again with marquez. 3 , cameron adams (cameron), and d, charles briggs, arrived and got into an argument with adams. all three men were drunk. the physical altercation between adams and marquez evolved into a fight among adams, cameron, and briggs. the three men wrestled and threw punches at each other, the fight eventually stopped, and adams went inside the house, leaving cameron and briggs in the driveway. cameron and briggs argued and shoved each other. adams emerged from the house some minutes later with his compound bow and several razor-tip hunting arrows. adams stood still for a moment before briggs noticed him with the bow. briggs said, what, are you going to shoot me? adams told briggs, youd better leave, or ill shoot you. briggs, who was angry and yelling, dared adams to shoot him. he said, what do you think? im scared to die? shoot it. just let it go. adams, walked toward briggs as briggs backed away. the distance between adams and briggs decreased to several feet and then increased to 20 feet. adams told his brother to move because he was blocking shot. briggs raised his arms away from his body at the elbows and turned his palms up. adams raised the bow, drew it, aimed at briggs, and without hesitating fired an arrow. briggs hunched over and stepped back saying, , my you do that? adams said, i should shoot you with my gun, homie, you better run. (investigating officers subsequently adams 4 also stated, when i tell you im going to shoot you, you better run.1 the arrow entered briggsdownward, and protruded out his back. the arrow pierced briggruptured his spleen. briggs walked down the street before collapsing. a registered nurse happened to see briggs fall and rendered aid until paramedics arrived. briggs died during emergency surgery. b. adams makes up a story about what happened after adams shot briggs, he handed the bow to marquez and told her to put it somewhere and call 911. adams went to a neighborhouse, pounded on the door, said hat nigger got in to call the police. adams told marquez to house and he had shot [him]. in a telephone call made and recorded while adams was in custody, adams asked an unidentified listener to tell marquez to keep her mouth shut . . . cause thats crucial for me. he added, make sure . . . when you see her, tell her make sure shes not out there flapping her lips about this shit . . . . 1 the jury saw original and enhanced video recordings of the incident. streetlights illuminated the scene. the video showed adams firing the arrow toward briggs and captured the sound (but not the sight) of the arrow hitting briggs. 5 c. archery expert testifies the shooting was not an accident the prosecutions archery expert, deputy thomas marquez, testified adamss compound bow was for hunting large game such as deer, black bear, elk, and, at close range, moose. the bow was equipped to use razor-tip hunting arrows that measured more than an inch in diameter. the arrows were designed to create a large wound that would cause an animal to bleed out quickly, with the goal of killing the animal quickly and humanely. the deputy test- bow and concluded it was fairly accurate. in deputy marquezs opinion, adams had fully drawn the bow before he fired the arrow at briggs. deputy marquez viewed a video of the shooting and concluded it was not an accident. d. the jury convicts adams the jury acquitted adams of first degree premeditated murder, but convicted him of first degree mayhem felony murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 189).2 the jury also found adams personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced adams to a prison term of 25 years to life for first degree mayhem felony murder plus one year for the deadly or dangerous weapon enhancement. 2 statutory references are to the penal code. 6 discussion a. for mayhem felony murder adams argues substantial evidence did not support the specifically intended to maim briggs, as required for mayhem felony murder. we address this issue first because, need to decide whether substantial evidence supported his conviction. (see people v. morgan (2007) 42 cal.4th 593, 613 . . . conviction must be reversed . . . we must nonetheless assess the sufficiency of the evidence to determine whether defendant may again be tried for the . . . people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 848 [reviewing court must address whether substantial evidence , even where other errors require reversal, people v. garcia (2012) 204 cal.app.4th 542, there was substantial evidence from which the jury could reasonably find adams had the requisite specific intent. 1. standard of review presented from which a reasonable trier of fact could conclude, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the prosecution sustained its burden of proof. [citation.] although we assess whether the evidence is inherently credible and of solid value, we must also view the evidence in the light most favorable to the jury verdict 7 and presume the existence of every fact that the jury could (people v. mora and rangel (2018) 5 cal.5th 442, 488; accord, people v. mendez (2019) 7 cal.5th 680, 702.) rsal for insufficient evidence is unwarranted people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87 (manibusan); accord, people v. penunuri (2018) 5 cal.5th 126, 142.) [e]vidence of a defendants state of mind is almost inevitably circumstantial, but circumstantial evidence is as sufficient as direct evidence to support a conviction. [citations.] moreover, the standard of review that applies to insufficient evidence claims involving circumstantial evidence is the same as the standard of review that applies to claims involving direct evidence. we must accept logical inferences that the jury might have drawn from the circumstantial evidence. [citation.] [citation.] although it is the jurys duty to acquit a defendant if it finds the circumstantial evidence susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court that must be convinced of the defendants guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] [citation.] where the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of facts findings, a reviewing courts conclusion the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant (manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 87.) 8 2. to commit mayhem felony murder, the defendant must have the specific intent to commit mayhem section 189, subdivision (a), provides, in relevant partmurder . . . that is committed in the perpetration of, or attempt to perpetrate,enumerated felonies, including mayhem, is section 203 defines mayhem: being of a member of his body, or disables, disfigures, or renders it useless, or cuts or disables the tongue, or puts out an eye, or slits the nose, ear, or lip, ayhem is a general intent crime. (people v. quarles (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 631, 636; people v. rodarte (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 1158, 1169; people v. park (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 61, 64.) felony murder based on mayhem, however, like aggravated mayhem, is a specific intent crime ( 205; manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 86; people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 831, disapproved on another ground in people v. dalton (2019) 7 cal.5th 166, 214), and the people must prove the defendant had the specific intent to maim. (people v. gonzales (2011) 51 cal.4th 894, 939; cf. people v. anderson (1965) 63 cal.2d n the absence of . . . a showing of specific intent to commit mayhem, the court should not give the jury an instruction on felony murder mayhem. may not be inferred solely from evidence that the injury inflicted actually constitutes mayhem; instead there must be other facts and circumstances which people v. ferrell (1990) 218 cal.app.3d specific intent from the circumstances attending the act, the 9 manner in which it is done, and the means used, among other substantipeople v. szadziewicz, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. upon the victim, it is insufficient to prove a specific intent to maim. (people v. quintero (2006) 135 cal.app.4th 1152, 1162; see people v. anderson, supra, 63 cal.2d at p. 359.) 3. there was substantial evidence adams specifically intended to maim briggs the leading case on the sufficiency of the evidence of specific intent to commit mayhem, manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th 40, involved aggravated mayhem (on an aiding and abetting theory), not mayhem felony murder. in manibusan the defendant, who was the driver of the car, and a confederate were looking for someone to rob. they saw two women, aninger and mathews, carrying purses. the confederate stuck his head out of the car window and said, ive me your money, but the women did not respond. the confederate turned back into the car and said, hese bitches are being assholes. they didnt hear me. he turned back toward the women, pointed his gun at them, and started firing, hitting mathews multiple times and aninger twice, once in the head and once in the upper arm. mathews died; aninger survived but suffered brain damage. (id. at p. 48.) as the defendant drove away, the confederate e couldnt leave witnesses and the defendant laughed in response. the two men also congratulated themselves on the shooting. (id. at 10 p. 89.) the supreme court acknowledged that on these facts a juror perhaps could have concluded from the evidence that the aninger shooting was only a sudden and indiscriminate attack prompted by frustration about the robbery attempt. but, for several reasons, a juror also could have reasonably concluded otherwise. first, upon getting no response to his demand for money, [the confederate], whose head and hand were already hanging out of the car, did not simply react and immediately begin firing. instead, he first turned back into the car, toward its other occupants, so he could comment on what had transpired. only after making his comment did he turn back toward the women, stick his hand out of the window, point his gun and start firing. second, contrary to defendants claim, there was evidence from which a juror could have reasonably concluded that [the confederate] direct[ed] fire toward a specific body part. [the confederate] shot aninger from very close rangeonly five to 10 feethitting her once in the faceher foreheadand once in the upper arm, near her face. this evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, reasonably supports the inference that [the confederate] did not, as defendant asserts, fire indiscriminately, but focused his attack on aningers head, which is a particularly vulnerable part of the body.manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 88.) in prior decisions, we have held that the fact the victim was shot in the head can support an inference of an intent to kill. [citations.] we now find that the same fact can support an inference of an intent to cause permanent disability or disfigurement. it takes no special expertise to know that [several shots fired at someones head] 11 from close range, if not fatal, [are] highly likely to disable permanently. (manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 88.) the a defendant may intend both to kill his or her victim and to disable or disfigure that individual if the attempt to kill is unsuccessfulmay also be sufficient to establish the intent to permanently disable or disfigure that victim.id. at p. 89, fn. omitted.) two other aggravated mayhem cases illustrate the kind of evidence sufficient to show intent to disable or disfigure. in people v. park, supra, 112 cal.app.4th 61 the court found itute substantial evidence defendant entertained the specific intent to park, mode of attack demonstrates this was not an indiscriminate attack. he attacked using [a] steel knife sharpener in a throwing motion by bringing the weapon from behind his head and over his shoulder. this action gave his blows more force and therefore gave him a greater ability to inflict serious injury than if he had simply held the sharpener in front of him and tried to jab or stab [the victim]. significantly, defendant aimed at an extremely vulnerable portion of . . . shows this was not an indiscriminate attack but instead was an attack guided by the specific intent of inflicting serious injury s] head.ibid.) the court in park also stated: another factor that shows victim] following a demonstrated antagonism between the two groups. the first manifestation of animosity was when 12 - group made a verbal threat as they left the restaurant. at that point, defendant, although very angry, had the presence of mind to walk to the back of the restaurant, locate and take the knife confront them. after asking a hostile question and stating his association with [a gang], defendant, without any verbal or physical provocation, attacked [the victim] with the knife attack was the product of deliberation and planning, not an explosion of indiscriminate violence. this, in turn, is further evidence that in attacking [the victim] with the knife sharpener, people v. park, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at pp. 69-70.) in people v. ferrell, supra, 218 cal.app.3d 828 friend apartment. (id. at p. 831.) the defendant shot the victim in the neck from two feet away. the severe paralysis. the court in ferrell held that there was substantial evidence the defendant intended to kill the victim or to disable her permanently and that the defendant could have both intents simultaneously. the court concluded this bizarre shooting was a cold and deliberate attack. [the defendant] . . . shot [the victim] once in the neck, from short range. once [the victim] was down, [the defendant] did not fire additional shots at her, to make certain that she was dead; instead, [the defendant] was apparently satisfied with the result of her single shot. it takes no special expertise to know that a shot in the neck from close range, if not fatal, is highly likely to disable permanently. 13 [the defendants] shooting of [the victim] was not an indiscriminate, random attack on her body; instead, the shooting was directed and controlled. from all this evidence, the jury could reasonably have inferred that [the defendant] intended both to kill [the victim], and, if she did not die, to disable her (id. at pp. 835-836; see people v. santana (2013) 56 cal.4th y support[ed] a finding that [the] defendant under manibusan, park, and ferrell the evidence here was intent to commit mayhem. adams did not explode in anger and attack briggs indiscriminately. the altercation adams describes as a drunken brawl had ended. although he may have still been angry, adams had the presence of mind to walk into his house and retrieve his hunting bow (and not his loaded gun). the bow was equipped with a razor-tip arrow adams, an experienced hunter, knew would create a large wound that, if not fatal, would disable or disfigure briggs. adams aimed at briggspeople v. moore (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 1105, 1114; see people v. dick (1968) 260 cal.app.2d he shot briggs at the relatively close range of 20 feet, limited his attack to one shot, and, apparently satisfied with its result, left briggs with an arrow sticking out of his back. as briggs retreated down the street, adams told him to run or he would shoot him with his gun. the jury could reasonably conclude from this evidence that te 14 explosion of violence but a planned and focused attack on a would cause a large wound and that adams stopped his attack once he maimed briggs. degree murder position that the d to a purpose. just because the people failed to prove adams premeditated and deliberated, however, does not mean the attack was sudden and indiscriminate. (people v. szadziewicz, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. 831; people v. ferrell, supra, 218 cal.app.3d at p. 835) without being the product of advance thought and consideration (people v. ghobrial (2018) 5 cal.5th 250, 278; people v. brooks (2017) 3 cal.5th 1, 58) or people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 443). and substantial evidence supported was controlled and directed. 4. attempts to distinguish manibusan are not persuasive adams attempts to distinguish manibusan and ferrell because the victims in those cases, unlike briggs, survived with disabling injuries. as justice werdegar pointed out in her dissenting opinion in manibusan, aggravated mayhem requires a specific intent to inflict a grievous injury but allow the victim to manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 104 (dis. opn. of werderdar, j.), italics omitted.) justice werdergar also stated, in 15 reasons, the same fact that can support an intent to killi.e., that the victim was shot in the head[citation], many cases of attempted murder will, as a logical matter, also involve aggravated mayhem . . . . (id. at p. 106.) justice werdegar, however, joined only by justice liu, wrote the dissenting opinion on this point in manibusan, not the majority opinion. as stated, the majority in manibusan held otherwise, concluding a defendant may have concurrent intents to murder and to maim. (manibusan, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 89; see (2010) 48 cal.4th 257, 297 [there was ent intents to maim and ]; people v. ferrell, supra, 218 cal.app.3d at pp. 833-834 [a defendant may intend to both kill and to maim].) the majority in manibusan view except in rare and exceptional cases, an intent to kill and an intent to cause permanent disability are mutually exclusive, such that evidence sufficient to show the former necessarily precludes manibusan, at p. 89, fn. 10.) adams asks us to follow people v. sears (1965) 62 cal.2d 737, overruled on another ground in people v. cahill (1993) 5 cal.4th 478, 509, fn.17, and people v. anderson, supra, 63 cal.2d this case, and to conclude manibusan we cannot. in anderson the defendant inflicted over 60 wounds anderson, at pp. 356-357.) in sears living room while the defendant was attacking her mother. the defendant struggled with the daughter, who di16 knife wound which punctured her jugular vein. she also suffered a scalp wounsears, supra, 62 cal.2d at p. 741.) in both cases the supreme court held that the defendant committed an indiscriminate attack and that there was insufficient evidence to support a mayhem felony murder instruction. (anderson, at pp. 358-359; sears, at pp. 744-745.) as withdrew from the three-way altercation with briggs and cameron, left the scene to get his compound bow, took an arrow and nocked it, and calmly shot briggs in the chest. and even if we believed manibusan was wrongly decided, we would still have to follow it. (see ta (2016) 5 cal.app.5th 665, 673 as an inferior state court, we are bound to follrose v. hudson (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 641, 652 [to the extent the appellant was arguing a supreme cwas wrongly decided, the argument fails, as we are bound to follow the precedent of the adams also argues that, as a policy matter, the supreme manibusan will have undesirable effects on california law governing homicide. he argues that under manibusan firearm it would be sufficient to show an intent to commit mayhem, as both [a gun and a compound bow] send forth projectiles that are intended to rip through a body and cause adams also asserts overlooked that regardless of how similar the intent requirements are for aggravated mayhem and mayhem underlying a felony murder charge, ferrell and manibusan were not murder cases. this means those courts were not taking into 17 consideration the danger that finding sufficient evidence of intent to maim under the circumstances presented could automatically turn every death caused by a deadly weapon aimed at a particular part of the body into a first degree felony rguments may have some merit. under manibusan the people may be able to charge many shootings as mayhem felony murders. but the legislature included mayhem in section 189, subdivision (a), as a basis for first degree felony murder, and the supreme court in manibusan held that a shooter can intend both to kill and to maim. and it may be that, because manibusan was not a felony murder case, the supreme court did not consider the implication of its decision on mayhem felony murder cases. but those are issues for the supreme court. es not make manibusan any less binding on us. b. the trial court prejudicially erred in instructing the jury on the requisite specific intent to commit mayhem felony murder 1. the jury instructions were erroneous in criminal cases, the trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on general principles of law relevant to the issues (people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 68; people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 704), including all the elements of a charged offense (people v. rivera (2019) 7 cal.5th 306, 332; people v. merritt (2017) 2 cal.5th 819, 824). we review arguments of instructional error de novo. (people v. mitchell (2019) 7 cal.5th 561, 579; people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 948.) 18 here, the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury it had to find adams acted with the specific intent to inflict a disabling or disfiguring injury on briggs. the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 252 that, to find adams guilty of willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder or intentionally commit the prohibited act, but must do so with a and the specific intent required are explained in the instruction but in the instruction for the crime of mayhem felony murder, the court gave a modified version of calcrim no. 540a, adding the italicized language: a theory of felony murder. murder under this theory, the people must prove that: 1a, to prove the defendant committed mayhem, the people must prove that the defendant caused serious bodily injury when he unlawfully and maliciously permanently disfigured somebody; e defendant intended to commit mayhem; and caused the death of another person. someone acts maliciously when he or she intentionally does a wrongful act or when he or she acts with an unlawful intent to annoy or injure somebody. the trial court never instructed the jury that the people had to prove the defendant had the specific intent to disable or disfigure the victim. the court stated the people had to prove the 19 defendant intended to commit mayhem, but defined mayhem as causing serious bodily injury that causes permanent disfigurement. thus, ucould have convicted adams of mayhem felony murder by finding he intended to inflict serious bodily injury without finding he intended to inflict a disfiguring or disabling injury.3 there is a pattern instruction for aggravated mayhem, calcrim no. 800, which includes the statement that the people (permanently disable or disfigure the other person/ [or] deprive the other person of a limb, organ, or part of (his/her) body. the trial court, however, did not give that instruction. nor did the court instruct the jury the defendant had to have the specific intent to commit the underlying felony. (cf. people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 49 [trial court properly instructed the jury in human being . . . which occurs as a result of the commission of or an attempt to commit the crime of robbery, and where there was in the mind of the perpetrator the specific intent to commit such people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th was [properly] instructed with regard to felony murder: being . . . which occurs as a result of the commission or attempt to 3 calcrim no. 801 for simple mayhem. (see people v. santana, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 1007-1010.) language first appeared in calcrim no. 801 (mayhem) in id. at p. 1007.) the judicial council removed this language from the instruction in february 2014 (1 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2019), crimes against the person,  84), three years before the trial in this case. 20 commit . . . rape . . . and where there was in the mind of the perpetrator the specific intent to commit such crime, is murder of people v. northrop (1982) 132 cal.app.3d 1027, intent under the felony-murder theory is the specific intent to and that the ndant can only be convicted of felony murder if under circumstances or conditions likely to produce great bodily harm or death, the defendant had the specific intent to and did [commit child abuse].) 2. the error was prejudicial an instructional error that improperly describes or omits an element s consideration is subject to harmless error standard of review set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24, consider whether it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the instructional error s verdictpeople v. lamas (2007) 42 cal.4th 516, 526; see people v. marsh (2019) 37 cal.app.5th 474, 490 [where an instruction improperly defines an element of a charged offense, instructional error must result in reversal unless it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the error did not contribute to the verdict.) for an instructional error to be harmless under chapmancompelling force as to must have made no difference in reaching (people v. harris (1994) 9 cal.4th 407, 431.) the instructional error was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt here. the parties vigorously disputed 21 intent, and the evidence supporting the specifically intended to disable or disfigure briggs, while substantial, was not overwhelming. whether adams, when he fired the razor-tip arrow at briggs, intended to maim briggs, rather than or in addition to killing him, was a close call. and s, the jury reasonably could have found adams intended to cause briggs serious bodily injury without finding adams specifically intended to disable or disfigure him. revolved around the type of intent [adams] harbored, the jurors needed a precise instruction concerning that inta precise instruction, the jurors got an erroneous one. on this record, we able doubt that a rational jury would have rendered the same verdict absent the people v. merritt, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 831.) disposition the judgment is reversed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. feuer, j. 