 filed 10/4/19 p. v. scott ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin ibn scott, defendant and appellant. b284693 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba433593 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed and remanded. chris r. redburn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and analee j. brodie, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction appellant and defendant kevin ibn scott was accused of shooting into a car containing two victims, killing one and wounding the other. his first trial ended in a mistrial when the jurors were unable to reach a verdict. he was retried and convicted of murder, attempted premeditated murder, shooting at an occupied vehicle, and possession of a firearm by a felon. the trial court sentenced him to 75 years to life in prison, plus an indeterminate life term with a minimum parole period of seven years. on appeal, he argues: (1) the trial court committed reversible error by admitting irrelevant and prejudicial gang evidence; (2) the court committed reversible error by allowing into evidence taped phone calls made by the surviving victim from jail; (3) the cumulative effect of allowing the gang evidence and taped jail calls deprived scott of his right to due process; (4) insufficient evidence supported the murder conviction; and (5) the case must be remanded so the trial court can exercise its discretion to strike firearm enhancements. we remand for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancements. we otherwise affirm. procedural background an information charged scott with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); count one),1 attempted premeditated murder ( 664/187, subd. (a); count two), shooting at an occupied vehicle ( 246; count three), and possession of a firearm by a felon 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count four). the information also contained additional firearm use allegations. scott first trial occurred in january and february 2017 and as noted above ended in a mistrial when the jury was unable to reach a verdict. in may 2017, after a second trial, a jury found scott guilty of all counts. the jury also found true the allegations that, during the commission of counts one through three, scott personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury or death. ( 12022.53, subd. (d).) as also noted above, the court sentenced him to 75 years to life in state prison, plus an indeterminate life term with a minimum parole period of seven years. the sentence consisted of 25 years to life for the murder, a consecutive term of life with parole for the attempted murder, and two consecutive terms of 25 years to life for two of the firearm enhancements. pursuant to section 654, the court stayed sentencing for shooting at an occupied vehicle, possession of a firearm by a felon, and the third firearm enhancement. scott timely appealed. factual background a. synopsis we begin with this brief summary of the facts. because appeal focused on claimed evidentiary errors and alleged insufficiency of the evidence, we follow with a more detailed recitation of the trial evidence. around 1:00 a.m. on november 8, 2014, gang member douglas baskin and his girlfriend tamela hemphill left a strip in downtown los angeles and began walking to their car. baskin and hemphill did not realize it, but 4 appellant, kevin scott, also a gang member (gang moniker , had recognized baskin in the strip club.2 scott left the strip club before baskin and waited in the parking lot next to the white range rover he was driving that night. video footage showed scott waiting in the parking lot for approximately 30 minutes for baskin to leave the club. when baskin and hemphill left the club, scott got in the range rover alone and exited the parking lot in the direction they were walking. video footage from the strip club and various other establishments showed the range rover follow baskin and hemphill. baskin and hemphill got in their car and began driving. a few blocks from the club, their car was struck by a hail of bullets fired from a car traveling in the lane next to them. hemphill was shot in the back and killed. baskin was shot in the hand and survived. although there was no video footage of the actual shooting, scott emerged as a suspect. when interviewed by police, scott denied ever having driven a range rover, even though video footage showed him doing so. at trial, baskin testified he did not know who shot him. in january 2017, however, while baskin was in jail for a burglary conviction, he made several phone calls that were recorded and second trial. these calls were become aware of them until after the first trial was completed. during these phone calls, baskin indicated he was a gang member, and the reason for the shooting was baskin had vouched for a friend and fellow gang member, eldwin mauldin, 2 scott and baskin were members of different crips subsets. baskin was associated with the acacia blocc crips and scott was a member of the underground crips. 5 who other gang members believed was a snitch. also during the phone call, baskin stated he and scott were in jail together, and they had a conversation in which scott apologized to him for the shooting. b. the shooting and as briefly described above, around 1:45 a.m. on november 8, 2014, douglas a strip club located near the intersection of alameda street and olympic boulevard. they got in their car and headed toward the santa monica freeway. a few blocks from the club, their car was struck by bullets fired from a car traveling in the lane next to them. baskin was shot in the hand. hemphill was shot in the back and killed. car. los angeles police department (lapd) officers found two .45 caliber expended shell casings and a bullet fragment near alameda and 14th street. detective calzadillas concluded, based on the trajectories and the bullet fragments and casings found on the street, that the shooting occurred on alameda at the intersection of 14th street. lapd detectives obtained hours of surveillance video recorded at the club on the night of the shooting. ra kim, the club manager on duty the night of the shooting, walked lapd through the surveillance videos showing the victims and scott the night of the shooting. the video showed scott arriving at the club in a white range rover. detective calzadillas noticed scott 6 scott emerged as a suspect in the shooting. police gathered more surveillance video footage from businesses neighboring the club. by piecing together the time-stamped surveillance video clips, police created a video record of scott leaving the club, waiting in the parking lot next to his white range rover, and driving in the direction the victims went when they came out of the club and walked to their car. the video showed scott waited for the victims to leave the parking lot, got in the range rover alone, then made several turns and u-turns in order to catch up with and follow the victims in their car to where they were shot a few blocks from the club. he caught up to ion of alameda and 14th street, less than half a block from where the bullet fragment and casings were found. the surveillance video footage stopped short of where the shooting occurred, however. kim, the club manager, knew scott as a regular at the club, and recalled scott was in the club the night of the shooting. nataliya sandic, who worked as a dancer at the club, spoke with scott the night of the shooting, and scott identified himself as a crip. police began looking for scott and his range rover. the license plate number of the range rover led police to the leaseholder, morteza hadian. hadian told police he subleased the range rover to derrick armstrong. the range rover was equipped with a gps tracking system. on november 18th, police set out to track the range rover, using its gps location signal. but the detectives found they were actually following the signal of a black jeep cherokee, driven by derrick armstrong. they 7 approached armstrong as he parked the jeep at his destination, and he agreed to be interviewed at the police station. when questioned about the night of the shooting, armstrong identified the driver of the range rover only as loaned the range rover to him. (as armstrong told detectives casper returned the range rover to him on sunday, november 9, 2014, the day after the shooting. armstrong had the car detailed and shampooed. armstrong said he and casper grew up in a part of los armstrong and casper were from the hundred the neighborhood crips were a criminal street gang and armstrong was a member. casper belonged to the underground or u.g. crips. neighborhood and underground crips got along most of the time because both gangs were part of the larger detectives arrested scott for the shooting. when scott was arrested, he was driving a bentley provided to him by armstrong. detective calzadillas and his partner, detective torres, interviewed scott on february 6, 2015. scott waived his miranda rights and agreed to talk to the detectives. scott said he he denied ever driving a range rover. detective calzadillas interviewed douglas baskin a second time, after scottaskin that scott had been arrested for the shooting. baskin was not cooperative, and did not want to talk to the detectives. considering a possible gang-related motive for the shooting, detectives questioned 8 during the interview, baskin denied knowing mauldin even though the two of them had been arrested for the same burglary. c. recorded phone conversations in january 2017, baskin was jailed for burglary. around this time, scottjail, he made several telephone calls to his friends, and in particular his new girlfriend. in those calls, he talked about (i.e., scott), the upcoming trial, and whether scott was responsible for the shooting. the calls were recorded and transcribed, and excerpts were played for the jury at scottsecond trial. in a recorded telephone call baskin made on january 3, 2017, baskin talked to his girlfriend about going to court to testify against scott. baskin told her he was reluctant to testify against scott. he said he was worried he would try to hurt scott if he saw him. his girlfriend reminded him he was the victim, the police had video evidence of the shooting, and there was nothing else the police needed. she advised him to finish his jail term and deal with the situation with scott afterward. baskin talked about people his girlfriend said people would know baskin was not telling on scott, and she did not see how scott could say baskin was cooperating with prosecutors. baskin explained scott was a big deal in the gang world. girlfriend said she knew that because scott good friend. she and baskin discussed whether she should talk to her brother about scott but decided against it. in a recorded call made on january 6, 2017, baskin told his girlfriend he had talked to , scott) in 9 jail. baskin and scott were in the same custody area after leaving court. baskin referred to scott as a eal real re nversation occurred. scott sought to relate details of the encoou know the he said scott told him he did not need anything. baskin said he alluded to when he would be out of prison and told scottyou and we gonna talk about it . . . in a recorded call made on january 7, 2017 (numbered 1483776381), baskin explained to his girlfriend that he had vouched for emacc when fellow gang members questioned his loyalty. baskin explained gossip within the gang arose because emacc was not charged with crimes charged with. baskin told others the rumors about emacc were false, but the rumors persisted because some cases against baskin and emacc were rejected by the district attorney. baskin told his girlfriend emac homies were going to kill him until emacc was paying me to keep us quiet . . . . in a conversation recorded on january 15, 2017, baskin and his girlfriend again discussed emacc. specifically, they talked about how other gang members mistrusted emacc after his cases were rejected by the district attorney even though he committing crimes. baskin explained car, but none of them were prosecuted for the crimes. that led to speculation homies he was snitchin . . . emacc stayed away from the neighborhood, which made matters worse, but baskin vouched for emacc. 10 in a recorded call made on january 20, 2017, baskin spoke to a friend named tiffany about scott. he tinto him . . . tiffany warned baskin not to be a snitch. baskin denied being a snitch. he also (i.e., scott), which meant he did not incriminate scott. in a recorded call made on january 23, 2017, baskin told earlier that day. scott and baskin had been placed in the same holding cell in jail that day. baskin said talking to scott [things] baskin said he was surprised when scott apologized for shooting him. to apologize and ask me to forgive him and [say] . . . . baskin acknowledged scott but mai that i was telling you . . . he confirmed a lot of [things] just bluffing. d. testimony of baskin and other witnesses at second trial baskin testified very reluctantly at scott. he denied being a gang member. acacia blocc gang when he was younger. he and emacc had been friends for several years. at the time of trial, he was in custody for a burglary he committed before he was shot. he did not want to testify against scott. baskin said he drank liquor at the club that night, and also used marijuana and ecstasy. he did not have any disagreements with scott, or anyone in the club. he did not remember seeing a white range rover that night. baskin testified that when he was interviewed in the hospital after the 11 shooting, he told police some things but left some things out, because he wanted to solve the crimes himself. when he was interviewed by detectives the second time, a few months later, he was not happy to see them. they showed him many pictures he had already seen, and he did not recognize anyone, or any vehicles in them. he did not identify scott, the man shown near the vehicle in the video. baskin was conducting his own investigation, he said, but did not want to talk to police detectives who were also investigating the crimes. he did not know what he was going to do to the person who shot him and killed hemphill. he believed the shots were fired from a burgundy or red car traveling next to his car.3 approximately a week after talking to scott in jail, on january 30, baskin mentioned the burgundy car for the first time. at trial, baskin admitted talking to scott about this case when they found themselves in custody together. baskin denied that scott apologized for shooting him, however. instead, baskin said, scott a baskin denied being called a snitch, or that he was shot for being a snitch. according to baskin, scott apologized for tarnishing him and hemphill. reginald foreman, one of two men who accompanied scott at the club the night of the shooting, testified that he knew scott and had been his friend since they were teenagers. 3 he testified he did not mention the burgundy car during either of his interviews with police, or during his preliminary hearing testimony in july 2015, because he wanted to conduct his own investigation. 12 foreman was a member of the neighborhood crips when he was younger. he could not say whether scott was a fellow gang member. on the night of the shooting, foreman and his friend chad keil joined scott at the club, arriving in the black jeep cherokee on loan from derrick armstrong. e. gang expert testimony two law enforcement officers testified as experts at trial. lapd officer cruz testified as an expert on the neighborhood crips criminal street gang. officer cruz explained snitching is not tolerated in criminal street gangs, and would make a member not where snitches were killed. snitching includes testifying in court. according to officer cruz, gang members do not want law disagreements and revenge on their own. gation gained from crime investigations to further their own interests. gang members check public court records known as for evidence that a fellow gang member is cooperating with law enforcement. paperwork is go. gang members notice if a fellow gang member is arrested, and pay attention to whether that person may have agreed to cooperate with authorities in return for leniency in his own cases. officer cruz considered a hypothetical situation in which a gang member stood up for a person believed to be a snitch, and was rumored to have been paid by the snitch for his support. he concluded that 13 detective joshua whiting of the los angeles county whiting was assigned to investigate crimes committed by rollin angeles. members of various crip subsets would pay attention to accusations of snitching because they were members of the same community. he explained that if a gang member defends someone accused of being a snitch, his character would be questioned. gang members do not want to detective whiting reviewed 10 photographs of scottshowing his tattoos, and concluded scotttattoos were related to membership in the underground crips. detective whiting had never seen a person with an underground crip tattoo who was not a member of the gang. discussion 1. the trial court properly admitted gang evidence over defense , the trial court allowed the prosecution to introduce evidence that scott and baskin were gang members and the shooting was gang-motivated. scott argues the gang evidence was irrelevant and therefore inadmissible under evidence code section 350.4 he further argues the evidence was inadmissible under evidence code section 352 because its probative value was substantially 4 14 outweighed by the danger of it creating undue prejudice.5 we disagree with both contentions. with respect to evidence code section 350, the evidence was relevant to show motive for the shooting and to help . turning to evidence code section 352, although we recognize gang evidence is inherently prejudicial, in this case it was highly probative. it explained the motive for the shooting and why baskin might not want to testify truthfully against scott. we find no abuse of discretion. (people v. wall (2017) 3 cal.5th 1048, 1069 [admit or exclude evidence is reviewed for abuse of discretion, and it will not be disturbed unless there is a showing that the trial court acted in an arbitrary, capricious, or absurd manner resulting in a miscarriage of justice].) scott takes issue with the fact that gang evidence was not introduced during the first trial but was introduced at the second ut real cision to admit the evidence in the second trial is inaccurate and misleading. as the people correctly point out, the reason the gang evidence was not admitted in the first trial was because the prosecutor was not yet aware of the phone calls baskin made from jail. those phone calls occurred between january 3 and n on january 25, 5 evidence code section 352 statesdiscretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or 15 2017. the prosecution first became aware of the phone calls in the time between the first and second trials. contention that the admission of gang expert testimony deprived him of his constitutional right to due process. his truncated argument hinges on his assertion that the evidence was inadmissible. as discussed above, however, the trial court was well within its discretion to admit the gang evidence. l both under state law and federal constitutional law. 2. calls from jail before the second trial, the prosecutor indicated he would seek to introduce tape recordings of the phone calls baskin made while he was in jail. defense counsel objected on hearsay grounds and under evidence code section 352. the trial court overruled the objections. with respect to the hearsay issue, the court found the tapes admissible on two grounds. first, the court explained the statements scott made to baskin in prison were party admissions. second, the court stated if baskin were to testify and deny the truth of the statements he made during the phone calls, the contents of those calls would be admissible as prior inconsistent statements. when baskin did testify, he denied the truth of the statements made during the phone calls. on appeal, scott argues the contents of the tapes were inadmissible hearsay. we disagree. in the phone conversations, baskin referred to scott by his gang moniker, .baskin told his new girlfriend he and scott spoke in jail, and that scott apologized to him for the shooting. double hearsay what baskin told his girlfriend about what 16 scott told him. but each level of hearsay came within an exception to the hearsay rule, making the statement admissible. (evid. code,  1201; people v. anderson (2018) 5 cal.5th 372, 403.) statements to baskin came within the exception for party admissions. (evid. code,  1220; people v. horning (2004) 34 cal.4th 871, 898.) phone call statements about what scott told him in jail came under the exception for prior inconsistent statements. (evid. code,  1235; anderson, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 403.) admissible. (people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 953.) all of other statements in his phone conversations were also admissible because they fell within the prior inconsistent statements exception. scott also argues s girlfriend made to him in the phone conversations were inadmissible hearsay and that their admission requires reversal. we disagree. the trial s statements for their truth, but rather to provide context for the conversations. the court was well within its discretion to do so. (wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1069.) we also rejeinadmissible under evidence code section 352. the recordings we find no abuse of discretion. (wall, supra, 3 cal.5th at p. 1069.) finally, we the recordings violated his constitutional rights to due process and confrontation. there was no due process violation because the tapes were lawfully admitted. and there was no confrontation 17 clause violation because scott was afforded the opportunity to confront and cross-examine baskin when he testified at trial. (u.s. const., 6th amend.) 3. there was no cumulative error scott argues the cumulative effect of the admission of the gang evidence and tape recordings violated his right to due process. as discussed above, the trial court did not err in allowing the gang evidence or tape recordings. it follows logically there right to due process was not violated. 4. the murder of tamela hemphill we reject evidence he intended to kill tamela hemphill. scott watched hemphill and baskin get in their car and drive away. he followed them in his car, gradually closing the distance between them. when the cars were stopped side by side, he shot hemphill at close range, firing approximately seven gunshots at her as she sat in her car. scott admitted the shooting was intentional and apologized to baskin for it. on these facts, the jury could reasonably infer scott intended to kill hemphill. (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741 the act of firing toward a victim at a that could have inflicted a mortal wound had the bullet been on target is sufficient to support an inference of intent to kill ] citations omitted.) argument falls considerably short of satisfying insufficient evidence. (people v. akins (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 331, 336.) 18 5. firearm enhancements scott argues, and the people agree, that the case should be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). we agree with the parties. we express no opinion about how the trial court should exercise its discretion on remand. disposition the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the court to exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports currey, j. we concur: manella, p. j. collins, j. 