filed 10/4/18 p. v. weatherspoon ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. laevin meikel weatherspoon, defendant and appellant. b285342 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba421362) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall, judge. affirmed. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm and yun k. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction laevin meikel weatherspoon (appellant) was charged with the december 5, 2013 murder of wanda threadgill, with a further allegation that he used a deadly weapon, a kitchen knife, during the offense. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 12022, subd. (b)(1)).1 appellant denied all allegations. during the three and a case suffered various delays and disruptions due to persistent l competency to stand trial, and his misconduct both within and outside the courtroom. competency, suspending the proceedings, and appellant was hospitalized and subjected to multiple competency evaluations by at least eight physician experts. the consensus was that appellant was a highly skilled malingerer who exaggerated psychiatric symptoms to avoid prosecution. at his last competency evaluation two months before trial, appellant was certified competent to stand trial. at trial, appellant admitted to stabbing threadgill with the intent to kill her, suggesting he did so in self-defense. the jury found appellant guilty of first degree murder, and also found true the deadly weapon allegation. appellant was sentenced to 26 years to life in prison. on appeal, appellant argues the trial court erred on four grounds: (1) failing to suspend proceedings and hold a competency hearing when defense counsel declared a doubt as to the second day of trial; (2) failing to properly admonish appellant regarding his decision to testify - 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 representation pursuant to faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta); and (4) ordering that appellant be restrained in waist chains during trial for courtroom security. for reasons set forth below, we affirm. factual background and procedural history a. underlying offense on december 17, 2013, wanda threadgill was found dead in her apartment in los angeles. it was determined that she had died on december 4 or 5 of multiple sharp force injuries, sustaining 27 stab wounds to the right side of her neck, shoulder, breast, abdomen and back. the length and shape of the knife recovered at the scene were consistent with the type and shape of wounds she suffered. on the knife handle and a mop handle. were also found throughout the apartment. appellant was a friend weeks. before her death, threadgill had told her daughter that in getting appellant to leave. threadgill had also expressed fear about appellant to her son. on december 18, 2013, appellant left los angeles and traveled to chicago by greyhound bus. when appellant was located by the fbi in chicago, he said he had left los angeles appellant was arrested in january 2014 and transported back to california in april 2014. during a custodial interview with lapd detectives, appellant acknowledged having stayed with threadgill in los angeles. he stated that threadgill wanted to have sex with him, 4 on and killed many of them. he denied stabbing threadgill, but said he found her still alive with stab wounds in the apartment, and he stayed there for two days without seeking any medical treatment for her. weatherspoon-williams. she stated that appellant had not been diagnosed with any mental problem, but had reported a fake mental problem in california after learning through a friend that he would be eligible for state disability benefits.2 b. competency evaluations and history of malingering found to suffer from a personality disorder with features of schizophrenia. in the year and a half between his arrest and the preliminary hearing, appellant was evaluated multiple times by various physicians to assess his mental competency. dr. sahgal ruled out malingering in in september 2014, dr. kory 2 at the preliminary hearing on june 30, 2015, a los angeles police department (lapd) detective testified regarding ms. weatherspoon-s interview, in which she explained: went to california, somebody told him that a way he could make money . . . was b[y] saying that he was crazy. he had to act like he was crazy. and the system, i guess the government, the state, whatever, if you were diagnosed with an issue, with a problem, schizophrenia, whatever, then you could get money from the state. . . . 5 charges and proceedings agains competency occurred at patton state hospital (psh) by dr. crystal mueller, when appellant was hospitalized in october 2014 as incompetent to stand trial. dr. mueller noted that on admission, [the] authenticity of mr. appear to suffer from any mental disorder and appeared to be attempting to gather information as to the best way to build a mental health defense for his c dr. mueller further noted now said he was not aware of his charges, and that he specifically, dr. mueller performed a malingering assessment, and appellant asked a number of questions related to legal strategy, which were not indicative of intellectual impairment and difficulty understanding the court ntelligent questions about the mental health process as it would relate to his case and promoting his best interests, in other words, forming a legal strategy using hing for information to further his competency, conservatorship, ngi [not guilty by reason of after learning that his murder charge would not be dropped even if he was deemed incompetent, appellant 6 opinion, and behavioral observation over time on the unit, across supported a diagnosis of malingering: display psychotic symptoms that would cloud his mind to the point of being unable to rationally cooperate with his attorney. there is much evidence to suggest that he is malingering mental illness or exaggerating symptoms in order to promote his best legal interests (e.g., either building a case for ngi, or attempting to avoid legal prosecution). . . . i recommend, with the full support of his treatment team, that he be returned to court as competent to procedures, dr. mueller opined: furthermore, dr. mueller cautioned: by refusing to work with his attorney. this should be construed as volitional behavior on his part, and not the product of a mental disorder or developmental disability. in other words, mr. weatherspoon has the in january 2015, appellant was evaluated again by dr. knapke, who found dr. muealso concluded, after his own examination, that appellant was malingering. 7 the luxury of observing [and] interacting with the defendant twenty-four hours per day, seven days per week in a variety of -accurate assessment as to whether a criminal defendant is -appointed evaluators. dr. knapke found appellant remarkably skilled at malingering, and competent to stand trial: defendant is very creative and very good at fabricating delusional comments in a very spontaneous manner and many of his comments sound extremely bizarre. in my opinion, this defendant is far more skilled with malingering than most other criminal defendants who i believed were malingering, to such an extent that i found him incompetent to stand trial when i first examined him in september 2014. e defendant is competent to stand trial. i believe he understands the charges and proceedings against him and has the capacity to rationally cooperate and assist his attorney if he chooses to do so. however, it is highly likely that mr. weatherspoon will continue to feign psychotic symptoms and could possibly continue feigned by information filed july 14, 2015, appellant was charged with one count of murder ( 187, subd. (a)). it was further alleged that appellant used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a kitchen knife ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied all allegations. 8 c. further delays and competency evaluations appellant's case stalled for two more years, due to recurrent questions about his mental competency and his refusal to cooperate with legal procedures. on october 16, 2015, defense trial, and criminal proceedings were suspended. on march 25, 2016 defense expert dr. haig kojian submitted his report finding on july 21, 2016, prosecution expert dr. knapke submitted his report, finding appellant competent and a malinger. provided any new infrom his last report.3 grand, who submitted a report finding appellant competent, and the court reinstated proceedings on october 25, 2016. dr. grand coillness.4 volitional. 3 dr. knapke participate in a complete mental status examination,he was not provided confirm, once again, the fact that the defendant is malingering 4 defendant has experienced psychiatric treatment in the past and evaluation, she could not support or refute his reported history of schizophrenia. 9 if he chose to do so. she concluded: moving forward with a not guilty by reason of insanity plea, and therefore does have a vested interest in appearing mentally ill. in my opinion, mr. weatherspoon is competent to stand trial. i believe he is competent to stand trial because he speaks in a linear, goal-directed fashion and demonstrated no thought or behavioral disorganization as found in chronic psychotic illnesses. . . . it is my opinion, with a high degree of medical certainty, that there is not evidence to support that he suffers from a major mental illness that would impede his ability to move forward with his case. . . . if anything, it appears the defendant is [m]alingering or overstating psychiatric symptoms following a subsequent evaluation in january 2017 for a in march 2017, after defense counsel again declared a doubt, dr. ronald markman found appellant incompetent to stand trial, but this determination was was no clinical evidence of an underlying thought disorder, and there was a clinical indication that [appellant] was intentionally 10 appellant was re-admitted to psh. at his last evaluation in june 2017, two months before trial, appellant was diagnosed with malingering and found competent to stand trial. dr. kayla fisher noted that appellant was intentionally disruptive or evasive during the evaluative process, and possessed a sophisticated understanding of legal concepts. there was no change i psh certified appellant as competent, and proceedings were reinstated on june 29, 2017. further delaying the proceedings, during the two-year period between his arraignment and trial, appellant was frequently disruptive and defiant of courtroom protocol and legal procedures. appellant refused to appear in court for 18 of 23 scheduled hearings, and four of his five appearances were made only after the court signed an extraction order. in november with urine and feces. after charged with criminal battery on a peace officer while in custody ( 243.9, subd. (a).) d. faretta request at a pretrial status hearing on november 18, 2016 before judge laura priver, appellant requested to represent himself: per. counsel. 11 after a bench conference held off the record, the judge explained faretta request: weatherspoon matter. the defendant made a request verbally although not with the faretta waivers in place record as to why i denied that request. mr. weatherspoon has repeatedly refused to come to ultimately proceedings were reinstated based upon malingering. refused and been extracted once we absolutely had to is not, number 1, going to cooperate with the court to represent himself. and but most importantly the court believes he will absent himself and play games with the court proceedings. and for those reasons the court is denying his request, although it was only verbal and sort of said spontaneously to go pro per. i i was being thoughtful. i have a long history with weatherspoon. on almost every occasion i have to extract him. i 12 ratively with play games with mr. weatherspoon anymore. if he e. trial proceedings before judge noted on the record that appellant had refused to wear the better uniform. the judge found appellant was aware of his right to wear civilian clothing, but had chosen not to do so. on the second day of trial, following voir dire proceedings, defense counsel requested a sidebar conference, and the following discussion ensued: i should declare a doubt. and know if the court would allow me to. circumstances i could see. i reviewed the record in this case and the preliminary hearing transcript and it appears to me that there is a significant history in this case of mr. weatherspoon malingering and feigning psychiatric symptoms. this was almost predictable yesterday when his comments were made belong in 13 this court. it belongs in a mental health court and that he wanted it to go back to department 95. i believe based on my review of the records in this case and i spent several hours going through the records in the file including reading the preliminary hearing transcript that mr. weatherspoon knows exactly how to feign and how to manipulate mental portion of this case and the pre-evidence portion of this case and i believe that this is just typical of the this trial. so i understand your concerns. and if but as of right now, particularly based on his statements yesterday that he wanted this case in familiar with the system and how it operates that i defense counsel then objected to appellant being shackled in waist chains. the court explained its rationale, based on transport: acting up and a history of refusing to come to court and essentially has a history of doing what he can to thwart the court process. questionable. he was leaning on the table, mumbling, talking over the court, talking over 14 everything that was happening or trying to happen in about it. and he made some comments to his attorney that i overheard that of a sexual nature that i found to be extremely disturbing. and i was considering last night what i was going to do about that to ensure the security of the courtroom, whether it reached a point that i needed to take action or whether i could let things go as they were and i was really on the fence about that. t of the proceedings this afternoon i was -- the bailiff came in and discussed court line at the jail and had been involved in essentially stirring up other inmates to create issues there. when he was brought here in the lockup downstairs he was involved in conduct that was had the effect of stirring up other inmates and riling them up as it were. as he was being at that point he was ordered to be segregated and placed in waist chains for the security of the lockup. by itself that probably would have created enough of a concern that i would have required additional security in the courtroom, but it was also reported to me that while he was being transported up to this courtroom he exhibited behavior that was extremely threatening and confrontational with the bailiff. at would both ensure the safety and security of the courtroom and, to be honest with you, one of my main concerns is 15 safety and security of his attorney given the nature of some of the comments he made to her yesterday that 5 the court also observed that the restraints were not his jail uniform before the jury. defense counsel made no further objection. the court then instructed the jurors regarding the physical restraints per calcrim no. 204: speculate about why that happened. you must completely toward the end counsel informed the court that no final decision had been made as to whether appellant would testify. two days later, defense counsel indicated that appellant would testify: 5 the court elaborated on its decision to restrain appellant when it excused a prospective juror who commented on the use of shackles. the judge explained, in chambers, that physical the judge had not, in his 10 years on the bench, ever used them beforwhich is assaulting jail people with noxious substances. apparently the substances in that case tested positive for fecal ma 16 mr. weatherspoon earlier about his testimony. he is going to testify. willing to talk to me about what his testimony will be. that. fense counsel]: we discussed it briefly and then he basically stopped communication with me. answering that question. are going to be expected to answer the questions that are propounded to you here in open court, so if you things that . . . . 17 knowledge. appellant was allowed to testify without restraints, and the judge had appellant seated in the witness box when appellant testified, the judge advised him of his constitutional right not to testify: n, i just want to i want to understand one thing and i discussed throughout this trial you do have an absolute constitutional right to not testify and to remain silent and to rely on the state of the evidence. nobody can tell you to do otherwise. do you understand that right? mr. weatherspoon, do you understand the right not to testify? ional right not to testify. do you understand that? desire to testify, correct? 18 appellant testified that he and threadgill had known each other since 2011, and were friends. on december 5, 2013, appellant had been living with threadgill because he was homeless. but after about six weeks, he left for chicago because threadgill wanted sex, and demanded he pay for cable and groceries. on cross-examination, appellant admitted that he stabbed threadgill: . appellant also testified that the knife recovered at the threadgill, but said: appellant stabbed threadgill because she was acting ed him to sleep in the bedroom with her and, when he refused, she tried to sleep in the living room with him. at one point, she picked up a knife and started walking around the house. she had threatened to stab him to death when he was living on skid row, and also threatened to stab an infant if appellant did not do it. essentially, appellant stabbed however, at the time appellant stabbed her, threadgill did not have a weapon in her hand, and the infant was not in the 19 apartment. when appellant stabbed threadgill, he was trying to kill her. afterwards, appellant stayed in the apartment for a few the jury found appellant guilty of first degree murder, and found the deadly weapon allegation to be true. he was sentenced to 26 years to life in prison. he timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court did not err by failing to hold another competency hearing or to suspend proceedings. under both federal and california law, trial of a mentally incompetent criminal defendant violates due process. ( 1367; godinez v. moran (1993) 509 u.s. 389, 396; u.s. const., 14th amend.; cal. const. art. i,  7, 15.) a criminal defendant is mentaldisorder or developmental disability, the defendant is unable to understand the nature of the criminal proceedings or to assist ( 1367, subd. (a).) in other words, a defendant is incompetent if lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational understanding[or lacks] . . . a rational as well as [a] factual understanding of the pr (dusky v. united states (1960) 362 u.s. 402, 402; see also people v. stewart (2004) 33 cal.4th 425, 513.) the trial court must conduct a competency hearing if competenraises a reasonable doubt on the issue. ( 1368, subd. (b); people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, 1163.) 20 however, once a competency hearing has been held and the defendant has been found competent, the court is not obligated to suspend proceedings to conduct another competency hearing people v. taylor (2009) 47 cal.4th 850, 864; accord, people v. jones (1991) 53 cal.3d 1115, 1153 (jonesobservations into account in determining whether there has been some significant change in the defendajones, supra, at p. 1153.) reviewing courts give great deference to a trial courts decision whether to hold a competency hearing. in the trial court as indicating insanity, a calculated attempt to (people v. danielson (1992) 3 cal.4th 691, 727, disapproved on another ground in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) thus, a trcompetency hearing is reviewed under an abuse of discretion standard. (people v. ramos (2004) 34 cal.4th 494, 507.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in declining to order a subsequent competency hearing. appellant had been found competent to stand trial, and the record discloses no substantial change of circumstances or new evidence casting serious doubt on the pretrial finding of competency. appellant had been evaluated by at least eight different physicians in a variety of contexts during the three and a half years his case was pending due to persistent questions about his competency. the consensus among these experts was that appellant was malingering and feigning psychiatric symptoms to avoid 21 prosecution. appellant was observed to be not simply an ordinary malingerer, but a remarkably skilled one, capable of eluding even the most experienced psychiatric panelist. several experts observed that appellant seemed to possess a sophisticated understanding of legal concepts, such as the nature and use of evidence at trial, the competing weight given to different testimony, and the mental health process as it related to his prosecution. mental health court of los angeles superior court, did not such an understanding is capacity to understand the nature of the proceedings against him or to rationally assist counsel with his defense.6 as respondent correctly notes, there was no significant hearing on june 29, 2017 to justify a third competency hearing on august 25, 2017, the second day of trial. on that day, the trial at his final evaluation before trial, dr. fisher had also observed that 6 the record further supports the inference that appellant was thoughtfully and purposefully preparing his potential defenses of incompetence and insanity during his various evaluations and hospitalizations, by gathering information from mental health providers and modifying his legal strategy accordingly. the conclusion that appellant was malingering was preliminary hearing, that he had fraudulently reported having a mental disorder to receive state disability benefits in california. 22 history of malingering, and the absence of any substantial change of circumstances that would cast serious doubt on his competency, the trial court did not err in declining to order another competency hearing. appellant next contends that his conduct during trial warranted a further examination of his competency, and the trial court erred in failing to suspend the proceedings. however, once inquiry. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 33.) moreover, courts have drawn a distinction between a deunwillingness to assist counsel in his defense, and his mental incompetence to do so. in people v. elliott, defendants disruptive courtroom behaviorthrowing apples at the judge and jurors, idence that he was angry and upset, and perhaps that he wished to interrupt the proceedings, but it was not evidence sufficient to require the people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 583, citing people v. medina (1995) s cursing and disruptive actions displayed an unwillingness to assist in his defense, but did not necessarily bear on his competence to do so . . . .see also people v. mai (2013) 57 conduct and courtroom outbursts by the defendant do not necessarily demonstrate a present inability to understand the here, appellant demonstrated an unwillingness to assist counsel with his defense, not his incompetence to do so. when defense counsel raised the possibility of declaring doubt as to 23 he ca but defense counsel never informed the court that appellant lacked a rational or factual understanding of the proceedings, or that he could not reasonably communicate with her about his case. when appellant decided to testify on his own behalf, defense counsel took issue with the fact defense. when appellant did testify, he demonstrated a general understanding of the role of the attorneys, the judge, and the jury in the case. he recalled by memory the general timeline of responded appropriately to questions asked during direct examination and cross-examination. and even when appellant admitted to stabbing threadgill, his testimony suggested a probable defense that he stabbed threadgill in defense of his own life. as various physicians cautioned in their reports, acts of misconduct and defiance were not not evidence his inability to do so, and the court was under no obligation to suspend trial proceedings. b. the trial court had no duty to admonish appellant regarding his right not to testify at trial. amendment to the united states constitution, a criminal defendant has the right to testify on his or her own behalf. people v. mickel defendant may exercise the right to testify over the objection of, 24 (people v. bradford (1 . . . defendant is represented by counsel, there is no duty on the part of the trial court to offer the accused any advice on his election to testify or not to testify or to explain the ramifications of either choicepeople v. thomas (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 862, 867, italics omitted (thomastestify [citation], . . . it is only in case of an express conflict arising between the defendant and counsel that the defendantdesires must prevail. in the latter situation, there is no duty to admonish and secure an on the record waiver unless the conflict in re horton (1991) 54 cal.3d 82, 95.) in other words, unless the court is made aware of a conflict between the defendant and his counsel on whether the defendant should testify, the court has no duty to admonish effectively waives the privilege against self-incrimination as to all inquiries proper on cross-examination and is subject to (thomas, supra, at p. 867.) in addressing the duty to admonish, courts recognize a distinction between defendants appearing with counsel and those appearing without counsel. in thomas, the defendant testified on his own behalf, then argued that he was not adequately advised by the trial court of his privilege against self-incrimination. the appellate court held that a trial court has no duty to admonish a defendant represented by counsel about the right not to testify, and implied that this burden falls on defense counsel: 25 testify on his own behalf. he had the benefit of counsel, and the trial court specifically asked whether he had discussed with counsel the consequences of so doing. defendant answered affirmatively. presumably, defense counsel performed his duty as an attorney and adequately informed defendant of his legal rights. we, therefore, find that the trial court (thomas, supra, 43 cal.app.3d at p. 868.) appellant concedes that our supreme court has never imposed a requirement that a trial court admonish a defendant regarding his or her right not to testify. he also acknowledges that few cases discuss how a court should proceed once informed that a defendant will testify against the advice or without the aid of counsel. the three supreme court cases appellant relies on are inapposite, and none held that a trial court has a duty to admonish a defendant represented by counsel regarding the risks of testifying on his or her behalf. in people v. guzman (1988) 45 cal.3d 915 (guzman), the supreme court rejected the dnot properly advised by the trial court of the dangers of self-representation when he testified in the narrative format against the advice of counsel. (id. at p. 946, overruled on another ground in price v. superior court, supra, 25 cal.4th 1046.) while recognizing the multiple and extensive warnings the trial court gave the defendant regarding his narrative testimony, the guzman court also held, consistent with thomaswas available for and participated in all other stages of the trial. 26 about the dangers of self-representation be as complete as would be necessary for a defendant who sought to conduct his entire guzman, at p. 946.) in people v. nakahara (2003) 30 cal.4th 705, 717 (nakahara), the appellate court expressly rejected any extension of guzman to impose on the trial court a duty to admonish a in our guzman opinion did we suggest that such an array of admonishments was a necessary or constitutional prerequisite to (ibid.) lastly, in people v. lancaster (2007) 41 cal.4th 50, 100 (lancaster), the appelcursory admonishment, which explained that the decision to prevent him from testifying. although appellant attempts to stretch lancasterhe decision provides no support for the proposition that the trial court should have addressed the apparent conflict between appellant and his counsel, discussed the risk of impeachment, advised him against disregarding the advice of counsel, held a hearing on the issue, and ensured he was knowingly waiving his right not to testify. on the contrary, the lancaster court expressly held that a trial court was not required to do any of those things: advisement was inadequate and misleading, because the court did not admonish him about the risks of testifying, failed to revisit the matter immediately before defendant took the stand, held no 27 counsel over the decision, and did not warn him that the scope of his testimony would be limited. the court was not required to do any of those things. (lancaster, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 100, italics added.) although the defendant in lancaster relied on both guzman and nakaharathe court] to no authority requiring an admonition in this not to exercise, the right to testify, without advisement by the trial court. . . lancaster, supra, at pp. 100-101.) indeed, appellant acknowledges that guzman, nakahara, and lancaster did not hold that any form of advisement was required.7 the admonishment given by the trial court here was brief, but the judge addressed appellant in court to ensure he understood that he had a constitutional right not to testify, that it was completely his choice, and that nobody could direct him to do otherwise. the court further confirmed that it was appellan 7 notably, while defense counsel informed the court that appellant would not discuss the content of his testimony with her, she never stated that they disagreed on whether he should testify. to the extent such a conflict existed, nothing in the record defeats the thomas counsel performed her duty as an attorney and adequately informed appellant of his legal rights and risks in testifying on his behalf. nothing suggests that defense counsel did not have the opportunity to advise appellant regarding his decision to testify, especially as she told the court she had discussed the decision with him. 28 desire to testify. upon being asked by the court three times, appellant ratified his understanding of his constitutional right no more was required. c. the courequest based on the risk of disruption and delay. faretta request, frequent refusals to appear in court and various extractions, and 8 -representation is reviewed for abuse of discretion. a trial court -people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 735 (welch); see also people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1, 12 (carson).) for self-representation if three conditions are met. first, the defendant must be mentally competent, and must make his request knowingly and intelligently, having been apprised of the dangers of self-representation. [citations.] second, he must make his request unequivocally. [citations.] third, he must 8 although appellant argues that the court improperly based its faretta inability to represent himself, he 29 make his request within a reasonable time before trial. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 729.) -representation by a defendant who deliberately engages in serious and obstructionist faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at pp. 834, fn. 46.) courts -prior to the faretta motion gives the trial court a reasonable basis for believing that his self-representation will create welch, supra, self-representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the courtroom. neither is it a license not to comply with relevant id. at p. 734.) and its impact on the core integrity of the trial will determine whether termination [of self- (carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 9, italics added; see also people v. kirvin (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 1507, 1513, 1515-1517 (kirvin) [denying initial request for self-representation due to (1) -appointed expert and (2) his out-of-court misconduct in custody].) people v. watts (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 621, 629-630). the trial court acted within its discretion in concluding extractions, and demonstrated history of malingering compromised the core integrity of the trial, justifying the denial of self-representation. (see kirvin, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at 30 p. court . . . would seriously threaten the core integrity of the be limited to the trial itself to be a proper basis for a faretta denial. (see carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 9-10; welch, supra, the circumstance that defendant repeatedly had been disruptive during the course of the faretta proceedings and during hearings required to exhaustively document its decision to deny self-representationbecause of its belief that hthe court, and refuse to abide by courtroom procedures. that the court interacted with appellant included incidents of gassing deputies with bodily fluids and threatening acts of violence in the courtroom. this provided a reasonable basis for -representation would pose an unreasonable risk of future delay and disruption. we find monstrated inability to conform his behavior to basic rules of procedure and courtroom protocol. the faretta request. 31 d. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ordering appellant physically restrained because there was manifest need, and any error was harmless. security and orderly proceedings, and its decisions on these matters are reviewed for abuse of discretion. [citation.] that discretion, however, must yield to principles of due process. people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 115 (simon).) under principles of due process, a defendant may be physically any nonconforming conduct or planned nonconforming conduct which disrupts or would disrupt the judicial process if unrestrained. . . people v. duran (1976) 16 cal.3d 282, 291, 292-293, fn. 11 (duran).) the court abuses its discretion when it simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 115.) both federal and state supreme courts have recognized that visible physical restraints are inherently prejudicial and jury that the defendant is a dangerous person who must be separated from the rest of the community. (deck v. missouri (2005) 544 u.s. 622, 630; see also duran, supra, 16 cal.3d at p. appearance before the jury in shackles is likely to lead the jurors to infer that he is a violent person disposed to commit crimes of duran, suprathe record establishes a manifest need for restraints, the 32 restraint imposed must be the least obtrusive or restrictive one (simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 115.) here, the trial court acted within its discretion in finding a manifest need for physical restraints (i.e. waist chains) based on appellantacts of violence. courts have discretion to use physical restraints in the courtroom even when there is only the threat of violence, -specific assessment of risk, without an actual showing of violence in the courtroom. (see people v. williams (2015) 61 cal.4th 1244, 1259 (williamsthe defendant has threatened jail deputies, possessed weapons in custody, threatened or assaulted other inmates, and/or engaged clear on the record that its decision to physically restrain appellant was based on various factors which altogether posed a serious threat of violence in the courtroom: appellant was reported to have incited other inmates to violence against the deputies in jail, and during transport had threatened to commit acts of violence in the courtroom. he was segregated from other was overheard making a sexually offensive and disturbing comment to his attorney. and he was charged with committing battery on a peace officer by gassing him with bodily fluids. these to physically restrain appellant during trial. moreover, had we found the court abused its discretion in restraining appellant in waist chains, the error could not have prejudiced him. (see williams, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1259 33 error, [is] harmless if there is no evidence that the jury saw the restraints, or that the shackles impaired or prejudiced the people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 652 . . . claiming he had acted in the heat of passion. given this admission, an occasional glimpse of defendant in shackles would not have affected the 204, and appellant was allowed to testify without restraints. appellant does not explain, beyond conclusory allegations, how the use of waist chains impaired his right to testify or to participate in his defense. furthermore, the evidence of -- including his dna on the murder weapon and his own admission on the witness stand that he stabbed threadgill to death -- was overwhelming. thus, even if the trial court had abused its discretion in restraining appellant during trial, any error was harmless. disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, p.j. we concur: willhite, j. collins, j. 