filed 8/16/19 p. v. ciauri ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jon ciauri, sr., et al., defendants and appellants. b285436 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka112630-01) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bruce f. marrs, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded with directions. lori nakaoka for defendant and appellant jon ciauri, sr. frederick l. glasser for defendant and appellant jon ciauri, jr. janet uson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant joseph ciauri. 2 xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ introduction surveillance video captured appellants jon ciauri, sr. and jon ciauri, jr. (senior and junior, respectively) jointly beating armando cruz at a gas station after senior started a fight and cruz fought back. the video further captured appellant joseph ciauri (joseph) accompanying senior and junior, standing near cruz as senior escalated the confrontation, and remaining in position during the beating. cruz told the police senior threatened to kill him and his family if he reported the beating. the state charged all appellants with felony assault and battery and senior with criminal threats and witness intimidation. appellants retained attorney albert perez to defend all three of them and, after obtaining continuances to seek separate counsel, confirmed their intent to waive any conflict of interest arising from the joint representation. however, on the first day of trial, appellants requested substitution of three new attorneys, two of whom were neither present nor ready to proceed. the court denied their substitution request. at trial, the prosecution relied heavily on the surveillance video. senior and junior claimed to have acted to defend senior from cruz, and perez argued joseph was merely 3 present. a jury convicted senior and junior of felony assault and battery, convicted joseph of the lesser included misdemeanor offenses of simple assault and simple battery, and acquitted senior of the threats and intimidation charges. the court sentenced joseph to summary probation, imposing conditions prohibiting his possession of deadly or dangerous weapons and authorizing searches of his person and property. on appeal, all appellants contend: (1) the trial courtdenial of their request for substitution of counsel infected their trial with structural error; (2) interest in representing all three men outcome; and (3) gang membership evidence further prejudiced the outcome. senior separately contends: (1) the trial court erroneously admitted evidence that senior assaulted and (2) the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing arguments. junior separately contends insufficient evidence supported his convictions because the evidence compelled finally, joseph separately contends: (1) insufficient evidence supported his guilt as an aider and abettor; (2) the weapons and search probation conditions are unconstitutional and otherwise invalid; (3) his conviction for simple assault is invalid because he was also convicted, for the same conduct, of the greater offense of simple battery; and (4) he is entitled to 34 additional days of presentence conduct credit. respondent disputes arguments except 4 we should vacate his conviction for simple assault and award him 34 additional days of presentence conduct credit. w judgments in their entirety, affirm conviction for simple battery, and . we conviction for simple assault and modify his sentence to award him an additional 34 days of presentence conduct credit. statement of the case the state charged each appellant with two felonies: assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)) and battery with serious bodily injury (id.,  243, subd. (d)). it charged senior with two additional felonies: criminal threats (id.,  422, subd. (a)) and dissuading a witness rom reporting a crime (id.,  136.1, subd. (b)(1)). it alleged appellants personally inflicted great bodily injury (id.,  12022.7, subd. (a)) in committing the charged assault. the jury convicted senior on the assault and battery counts and found true the great bodily injury allegation. it acquitted him of making criminal threats and of dissuading a witness. the court sentenced senior to five years in prison. the jury convicted junior on the assault and battery counts and found true the great bodily injury allegation. the court sentenced junior to five years in prison. 5 the jury acquitted joseph on the assault and battery counts but convicted him of lesser included offenses, viz., simple assault and simple battery (both misdemeanors). the court sentenced joseph to a three-year period of summary probation, with credit for 35 days actually served. it or possess any dangerous or deadly weapons, including any submit [his] person and property to search and seizure at any time of the day or night, by any probation officer or other peace officer, with or without a warrant, f the court . . . [and] all rules and regulations of the probation department. appellants timely appealed. proceedings below a. pretrial continuances and discussions of joint representation appellants retained albert perez as their joint defense counsel. they signed stating, in relevant part, the following: we have been explained by the law office of albert perez, jr. that a potential for a conflict of interest is present because the law office of albert perez, jr. will represent the three of us in a criminal matter and facts may arise against one of us, two of us or all three of us, which could or would create a conflict of interest and affect our individual rights. however, knowing 6 this, we have agreed to waive this potential conflict of interest and our rights to seek independent legal consultations and or representation. additionally, the law office of albert perez, jr. informs us that at any time, we may seek independent legal representation. appellants first appeared for arraignment before judge thomas a. falls, approximately eight months before their trial. junior and joseph confirmed perez had explained his potential conflict to them. due to junior and josephintent to seek separate counsel, the court continued arraignment for over a month (from december 22, 2016, to february 1, 2017). on the first continued date of the arraignment, appellants appeared before commissioner wade d. olson, who presided over all further pretrial proceedings. at , the court agreed to continue the arraignment the court continued arraignment for over a month (from february 1, 2017, to march 9, 2017). on the second continued date of the arraignment, the court requested a status update regarding the potential conflict of interest. perez told the court appellants, unable to separately afford retained counsel, were asking him to represent all three of them. the court stated it would have the public defender and alternate public defender speak with junior and joseph, and put the matter over to the end of the 7 calendar.1 the court continued arraignment for over a month (from march 9, 2017, to april 17, 2017), again deeming it on the third continued date of the arraignment, perez told the court there was no conflict of interest, and he would represent all three appellants. the court addressed appellants as follows: t a conflict here. if you all agree, and so sign, and waive any conflicts that may arise, or that there is none, then i will go ahead and let mr. perez represent you all. but -- the evidence, your honor. confident. junior and joseph confirmed they joined senior in waiving any conflict. the court instructed perez to submit written confirmation of the waiver. the record includes no subsequent written waiver. after appellants pleaded not guilty to all charges and denied all special allegations, the court set dates for a readiness hearing and jury trial. appellants subsequently moved to continue trial due to . over the prosecutionranted the motion. the court continued the readiness hearing and trial for approximately seven weeks (from june 22 and june 27, 2017, to august 14 and august 16, 2017). 1 8 two days before trial, at the continued readiness hearing, perez indicated he might be unavailable on the trial date. the court declined to continue trial again but stated it would not request jurors for the trial date. neither perez nor appellants mentioned a conflict of interest or a desire to substitute counsel. b. requests for substitution of counsel 1. day-of-trial substitution request the prosecutor offered appellants deal two days before trial (august 14, 2017). on the morning of the first day of trial (august 16, 2017), appellants appeared with perez and attorney jamal tooson. tooson requested an order substituting him as counsel for senior. he further requested that attorney diana aizman (not present) be substituted in as counsel for junior, and that attorney justin sterling (also not present) be substituted in as counsel, presumably, for joseph. tooson, referring to admitted that he had been contacted by appellants the previous evening, after the close of business. the court denied the day-of-trial request as untimely. senior addressed the court as follows: based off of your reaction that you were surprised that we only had one lawyer. the court reminded senior the issue had been under discussion for approximately eight months. the court deemed the substitution request a delay tactic, 9 the day of trial, after expressing readiness (aside from s potential scheduling conflict) only two days before. the court transferred the case to judge bruce f. marrs for trial. 2. adherence to denial of substitution request on the afternoon of the first day of trial, perez conveyed renew himself and two other lawyers in. judge marrs questioned and stated he would not revisit an order already made by commissioner olson. the court noted tooson was free to associate in with perez, as he requested, but not to de facto represent any appellant. the court swore in the panel of prospective jurors and directed them to return the next day. final plea negotiation session, perez informed the court the terms of the package offer were acceptable to junior and joseph (who would receive 180 days of imprisonment and dismissal, respectively), but unacceptable to senior (who would receive four years of imprisonment). stating junior and joseph t their conflict [waiver] that they substitution of counsel. he stated tooson was immediately available -- this time to represent joseph -- and aizman would be available to represent junior beginning at 1:30 p.m. the next day. he did not mention sterling. 10 the court denied the renewed request. the court observed the potential conflict of interest had been covered in discussions before commissioner olson; appellants had status; and the court had already ruled on the substitution request. on the second day of trial (august 17, 2017), attorney ira kwatcher appeared to request a continuance on behalf of sterling -- who had never appeared -- explaining that sterling had for trial 11 calendar days later. the court denied request as untimely and observed hand knows what the left hand is doing. aizman had not yet appeared, and perez admitted he did not know who aizman was. the court responded, problem that we have people who are clearly unprepared attempting to sub in on the first day and the second day of trial. tooson argued he, at least, was prepared to go to trial without any continuance. the court once again reaffirmed its ruling upholding commissioner .2 2 the court denied motions for reconsideration filed separately by perez and tooson. appellants challenged the denial of their substitution requests in a petition for writ of mandate, which we summarily denied. 11 c. prosecution case 1. before the prosecution presented its case, the court motion to exclude, for lack of foundation, any evidence associating senior with gang membership or activity. the prosecutor clarified bership mind, viz., his sustained fear from the threat with which senior was charged. the court denied the motion. at trial, cruz testified that on the day of the beating, he stopped at a gas station in glendora with his 12-year-old son nathan. senior approached him. cruz knew senior through , who had lived with cruz while she was cruz felt concerned for his safety, in part because of the way senior approached him. cruz also felt concerned because he had learned from mondo and stephanie that senior was affiliated with a gang. after perez objected to this testimony on foundation and hearsay grounds, the court overruled the objection and instructed the jury that the testimony was offered only to . cruz then testified, without objection, that he knew gang-affiliated. he believed this in part because he had met senior once before the gas station incident and had seen tattoos covering . . 12 was his knowledge that threatened to kill her. objections to this testimony. on cross-examination, cruz again testified -- this time without objection -- that he feared senior because of what senior had done to his daughter. 2. the beating the prosecution presented testimony from cruz, his son nathan, and glendora police corporal william lee to establish the events of the beating testimony about surveillance video from the gas station. the video was played for the jury.3 the video, which had no audio, showed senior and cruz conversing as cruz refueled his car and junior and joseph stood in their general vicinity. joseph took up a position closer to senior, who then pushed cruz back against his car. as the two men continued to argue, joseph briefly to his position near cruz and senior and remained there while senior poked and swatted at cruz. senior briefly walked away while joseph remained, gesturing at cruz in a manner implying he was speaking to him. senior returned and shoved cruz in the back, after which cruz shoved him in return. senior then punched cruz in the head. when cruz punched him back, junior leapt forward and began 3 the video is part of the record on appeal, and we have reviewed it. 13 pummeling cruz in the head, hitting him repeatedly until he slumped down. meanwhile, joseph remained in position nearby and picked om the beating, then returned to resume his position near senior and junior. in the direction joseph was facing, a man moved to view the beating from behind a neighboring gas pump and a car abruptly stopped nearby. door opened, senior and junior stopped striking cruz. junior struck cruz more than ten times before stopping. in describing the assault, cruz testified that he removed his glasses after senior approached him because he feared senior was going to punch him in the face. senior then poked and shoved cruz while accusing him of giving stephanie a dirty look during a recent chance encounter. joseph walked up close to the two men and told cruz that he (cruz), his son, and his daughter were bitches. senior pushed cruz from behind and, after cruz pushed him in return, senior punched cruz in the head. cruz punched senior back and was then and senior. senior pushed cruz first and threw the first punch. joseph did not hit cruz, but watched senior and junior beating him and . nathan called 911 and reported three men beating up his dad. the prosecutor played a recording of the 911 call for the jury. 14 corporal lee, who investigated the beating the day it occurred, testified that he reviewed the surveillance video before trial and observed senior and junior striking cruz. he char, as shown on the video, on cross-examination, he clarified he meant someone . . . his accomplices . . . if police are coming, if other witnesses are coming, . . . so they can get out of there. he confirmed the video showed bystanders watched the beating. 3. cruz testified that when appellants began to drive away in a rental truck, he wrote down the license plate number and showed it to senior. in response, senior told cruz that if he turned appellants in, senior would kill him and his family. this threat placed cruz in fear for his and of what senior had done to him and to his daughter. (on unspecified grounds) to reference to senior assaulting his daughter. nathan testified that he heard one of the men tell cruz that if he turned them in, he and his family would be killed. on cross-examination, nathan denied telling corporal lee that he had not heard any threat. corporal lee contradicted nathan on that point, testifying that on the day of the beating, nathan told him he had not heard anything the men said. 15 4. text message and injuries cruz testified that he sent stephanie a text message immediately after the beating to tell her appellants had jumped him. show the text message to the jury, on the ground that the prosecution had not disclosed the message in discovery. the court admitted into evidence a photograph of the text message, which that the evidence would show cruz sent stephanie a . cruz and corporal lee testified about injuries, which included a puncture wound near his mouth and bruising on his cheeks. cruz further testified that he obtained medical treatment for his injuries after driving from glendora to fresno to take nathan to a wrestling competition. injuries and records of his treatment were admitted into evidence. d. defense case the defense called three witnesses: stephanie, senior, and junior. joseph did not testify. stephanie testified that abused her when they were dating. she once reported the abuse to cruz, showing him a bruise on her eye, but he laughed and told her it was no big deal. cruz liked to fight and had once been fired for fighting at work. when she informed him 16 senior knew of cruz threatened to shoot senior. on the day of the beating, after informing her by text message that appellants had jumped him, cruz called . on cross-examination, stephanie identified a statement written by her 11-year-old daughter madelyn. whom it may concern, . . . mondo cruz . . . verbally abused me and my mom. . . . i once witnessed him hitting my mom. the prosecutor, implying the excerpted language was too pressed stephanie to admit that someone h. stephanie testified that madelyn alone wrote the statement. in his testimony, senior denied threatening cruz, denied belonging to a gang, and denied daughter. he testified that he and cruz, upon encountering each other at the gas station, fell into an argument about d an intent to fight by taking off his glasses, cursing, and saying he was unafraid. cruz turned away from senior after telling him stephanie deserved the abuse. intending to prompt cruz to continue the conversation, senior pushed cruz in the back. cruz then punched senior twice, causing him to fall down. junior testified that cruz acted aggressively from the moment appellants arrived at the gas station, as if ready to fight. cruz called stephanie a bitch and a whore and said . he then knocked senior back 17 with a punch and stood over senior, who looked dazed. junior said he struck cruz to save senior from continued beating and from whatever else cruz might do, such as retrieving a gun from inside his car. on cross-examination, junior admitted hitting cruz more than five times but said he did not believe he hit him more than ten times. as junior concedes on appeal, the video showed him striking cruz more than ten times. e. closing arguments before closing arguments, the court instructed the jury. it instructed the jury, per caljic no. 2.09, not to consider evidence that had been admitted for a limited purpose for any other purpose. 1. p the prosecutor argued the surveillance video and a reasonable doubt. she argued the video disproved seniorself-defense theory because it showed, inter alia, that senior was the aggressor and that the beating lasted longer than could be justified by any perceived need for self-defense. the prosecutor argued joseph was guilty of the assault and battery as an aider and abettor. she reminded the jury called cruz and his family bitches. she argued the video showed he boxed cruz in and remained close to the beating to [backup] if that 18 was needed. she further reminding the jury of corporal leetestimony. the prosecutor argued the beating was motivated by avenge stephanie. she characterized it she reminded the jury testimony that senior had before, arguing it showed cruz belief that senior was a gang member and his observation of gang tattoos on seniors arms. she argued people told cruz and the jury how dangerous he is. 2. defense closing argument perez argued cruz and nathan had provided willfully false testimony. perez further argued cruz was not credible because he had exhibited a hostile demeanor on the stand. perez argued cruz demonstrated a willingness to fight by taking off his glasses and by texting and calling stephanie after the fight. he that cruz told them stephanie deserved abuse. atestimony with still photographs from the video, perez argued junior acted to defend senior. perez argued joseph did not aid and abet the alleged crimes, reminding the jury that cruz admitted joseph never hit him. he argued the presence of bystanders with a clear 19 joseph acted as a lookout. 3. in rebuttal, the prosecutor argued defense counsel had resorted to attacking the credibility of prosecution witnesses because the facts, as established by the video and the law of self-defense, were unfavorable to appellants. she entreated do not let smoke be blown up your behinds. because we know what happened that day. . she alocked car, alone, helpless, and to see your dad getting beat on and to see him fall to the ground? she commented, it went on forever. s testimony was irrelevant because it did not concern what happened at the gas station. she further argued not credible because, inter alia, her allegations of abuse were not corroborated by other witnesses. emphasizing the daughter madelyn, the prosecutor suggested the defense did not call madelyn as a witness because it would have become clear the child had not actually written the statement accusing mondo of abuse. she remarked the jury could not 20 somebody they love. the prosecutor argued it was understandable that cruz became upset on the stand because, inter alia, he heard people saying lies about him, including about what happened at his work. showed no intent to fight, but instead an intent to avoid greater injury if struck in the face. she reminded the jury it asked the jury to imagine what would have happened if he had kept his glasses on. stephanie as follows: counsel also said [cruz] then sent dad. message. and the moment it was being presented, there was quite a reaction. but at the end of the day, the truth came out. and now the defense then changed it to oh, he actually why does it keep changing? because i the defense will stop at nothing to say whatever they need to say --at this point, perez objected and the court admonished the prosecutor not to comment on defense motivations. perez did not ask the court to admonish the jury. the prosecutor then remarkedneed to say to help in the defense of these three defendants. 21 the prosecutor concluded her arguments by urging the jury to consult the video -- including by watching it again during deliberations -- if it was unsure which testimony to believe. f. verdicts and sentencing in response to a jury request during deliberations, the surveillance video was replayed for the jury. the jury convicted senior and junior of the assault and battery counts (finding the great bodily injury allegation true), convicted joseph of the lesser included offenses of simple assault and simple battery, and acquitted senior of the threats and intimidation counts. the court remanded the appellants to custody pending sentencing. perez asked if the court was remanding joseph, noting that he had no prior criminal record. the court and the tape speaks for itself, as they say. at sentencing, the prosecutor asked the court to sentence joseph to three years probation and to impose conditions prohibiting his possession of weapons and authorizing warrantless searches of his person and property. perez objected, on the ground offenses were only misdemeanors and involved no weapons. the court sentenced joseph to three years summary probation, with credit for 35 days actually served. it imposed probation conditions forbidding joseph to own, use, or possess any dangerous or deadly weapons; requiring him to submit to 22 suspicionless searches by any peace officer at any time; and requiring him to obey all laws, orders of the court, and probation department rules. discussion a. denial of day-of-trial request to substitute counsel appellants argue the trial day-of-trial request for substitution of counsel violated their federal and state constitutional right to retain counsel of their choice. 1. standard of review ard of review [or substitute] (people v. dowdell (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1388, 1411 (dowdell).) substitute counsel constitutes structural error and mandates (ibid.) 2. governing principles retained counsel in a timely manner ordinarily must be (dowdell, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at p. 1411.) a trial court has discretion to deny a motion to substitute retained counsel if it is not timely, i.e., if it will disruption of the orderly processes of justice. (people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 311 (verdugo), 23 quoting people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983 (ortiz).) in a myopic insistence upon expeditiousness in the face of a justifiable request for delay,can render the right to defend with counsel an empty formality. (ortiz, at p. 984, quoting people v. crovedi (1966) 65 cal.2d 199, 207 (crovedi).) wide latitude in balancing the right to counsel of choice against . . . the demands of its calendar. (verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 311, quoting u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez (2006) 548 u.s. 140, 152; see also crovedi, supra, 65 cal.2d at p. 208 [suggesting right to counsel of choice does not abuse the patience of the court through dilatory efforts to seek counsel [a] defendant who desires to retain his own counsel is required to act with diligence and may not demand a continuance if he is unjustifiably dilatory or if he arbitrarily desires to substitute counsel at the time of the trial. (dowdell, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at p. 1411, quoting people v. blake (1980) 105 cal.app.3d 619, 623-624 (blake).) provided a reasonable opportunity to obtain counsel of his own choice, no abuse of discretion occurs if the trial court fails to grant an additional continuance [for that purpose] at or after the commencement of the trial. (blake, at pp. 624-625; accord, people v. reaves (1974) 42 cal.app.3d 852, 856 (reaves) 24 often a defendant may continue his trial even on the basis that he desires to obtain di 3. analysis the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying day-of-trial request to substitute counsel on the basis of its finding that the request was an untimely delay tactic. the court confirmed with perez as their counsel four months before trial, after the court had already granted three continuances at -- including two for the express purpose of allowing appellants to seek separate counsel. in the intervening months, during which the court granted never hinted they desired new counsel. instead, they waited until the day of trial to ask the court to substitute in three new attorneys, two of whom never appeared in court and admitted, through their proxies, that they were not ready to proceed on the day of trial. the trial court acted within its discretion by deeming the substitution request an attempt to further delay trial. (see blake, supra, 105 cal.app.3d at p. 624 [no abuse of discretion in denying continuance after as granted several continuances . . . and was given numerous opportunities to reaves, supra, 42 cal.app.3d at p. 856 [no abuse of discretion in denying on the very day of trial, after the matter ha[d] been pending for five months and the defendant 25 ha[d] . . . successfully obtained numerous continuances without indicating that there existed any reason to change it is true that the afternoon of the first day of trial, perez claimed tooson was ready to proceed as substitute counsel -- albeit for a different appellant than the one he originally sought to represent. however, tooson made no specific representations concerning his readiness when he requested substitution of himself, aizman, and sterling that morning. instead, he gave the court reason to doubt his readiness by admitting that he had been contacted by appellants only the evening before. moreover, neither perez nor tooson requested substitution of tooson alone. rather, they asked the court to additionally allow the substitution of aizman and sterling -- neither of whom was present. the court was not required to accept, on faith, their indeed, such faith would have been misplaced. perez claimed aizman would be ready for trial at 1:30 p.m. the next day -- only to admit, the next day, he did not even know who aizman was. further, perez made no mention of sterling, who, through yet another attorney (kwatcher), requested an additional continuance the next morning. the apparent lack of coordination among the five attorneys involved gave the trial court additional reason to conclude substitution would delay trial yet again. e trial court was not required to find their request timely merely because they 26 made it shortly after package plea offer. neither perez nor tooson argued the offer was unforeseeable or rendered perez incapable of effectively representing appellants. (see people v. jeffers (1987) 188 cal.app.3d 840, 848-851 [no abuse of discretion in denying day-of-trial request for continuance to retain new counsel, prompted replacement of appointed counsel, where defendant had five ].) moreover, senior told the court appellants made their substitution request in perceived surprise at joint representation, not in response to the plea offer. four months had passed since the court last discussed the joint representation with appellants (at the april 17, 2017, arraignment), and they confirmed their intent to waive any conflict of interest. s conclusion that the plea offer was not a dramatic change in circumstances.4 cases on which appellants rely are distinguishable. in several, the defendants made their substitution requests before trial. (see people v. lopez (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 40, 4 written time, not to obtain it upon demand. in any event, appellants and their counsel agreement. 27 44 [week preceding trial]; ortiz, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 987 [after mistrial but second trial]; people v. courts (1985) 37 cal.3d 784, 792 [more than a week before trial]; see also id. at p. 792, fn. 4 [distinguishing cases in which defendants made their requests on the day or eve of trial].) to the extent the courts excused defendants for requesting new counsel only at trial, they relied on extenuating circumstances not present here. (see people v. lara (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 139, 162-163 (lara) [defense ented until day of trial];5 courts, supra, at p. 793 & fn. 6 continuance request before trial and failed only due to people v. byoune (1966) 65 cal.2d 345, 347-348 & fn. 1 of more serious charge the day before trial justified day-of-trial request for new counsel].) moreover, none of the cases had already granted four continuances, including two for the purpose of seeking new counsel, solely at the request of the defense. (see lopez, at p. 44 [prior continuances granted for defense but also for prosecution, and none for seeking new 5 lara is further distinguishable because the trial court there did not consider whether the motion was timely, instead attorney/clienlara, supra, 86 cal.app.4th at p. application of an erroneous legal standard. (id. at p. 166.) 28 counsel]; lara, at pp. 145-146, 162 [same]; courts, supra, at p. 792 [defendant requested only one prior continuance, unsuccessfully and for discovery purposes].) b. appellants contend joint representation of all three appellants violated their federal and state constitutional right to (people v. johnson (2018) 6 cal.5th 541, 578, quoting people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009 (mai).) 1. governing principles (holloway v. arkansas (1978) 435 u.s. 475, 483, fn. 5 (holloway).) to preclude a conflict of interest claim on appealmust be done with sufficient awareness of the relevant circumstances and likely (people v. baylis (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1054, 1067 (baylis), quoting people v. mroczko (1983) 35 cal.3d 86, 109-110 (mroczko).) in the absence of waiver, the standard for evaluating a conflict of interest claim arising from joint representation of criminal codefendants depends upon the timeliness of the objection. reversal is automatic where the trial court, without expressly finding there is no conflict, denies a 29 timely request for separate counsel. (mickens v. taylor (2002) 535 u.s. 162, 168 (mickens) [automatic reversal defense counsel is forced to represent codefendants over his timely objection, unless the trial court ], citing holloway, supra, 435 u.s. at p. 488.) otherwise, reversal is required only upon a showing that a conflict of interest adversely (see people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 417-419 (doolin); accord, people v. rices potential conflict of interest does not require reversal absent .) to determine whether a defendant has shown such an adverse effect, the reviewing court must whether arguments or actions omitted would likely have been made by counsel who did not have a conflict of interest, and (ii) whether there may have been a tactical reason (other than the asserted conflict of interest) that might have caused any such omission.people v. johnson, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 578, quoting doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 418.) 2. waiver apotential conflict of interest do not preclude their conflict of interest claim because the record does not establish the waivers were knowing and intelligent. the language of the written waiver was both perfunctory and circular: it stated a potential conflict of interest existed because facts creating 30 a conflict of interest might arise. although it mentioned such facts could arise against any appellant or all of them, it did nothing to explain what those facts might be, how they might arise, or how they might affect any or all appellants. the written waiver was therefore insufficient to preclude . (see baylis, supra, 139 cal.app.4th at p. 1068 [written waiver insufficient because it similarly, the trial concerning the potential conflict of interest identified none of its potential consequences. the record thus knowing and intelligent. (see people v. easley (1988) 46 cal.3d 712, 729-731 [no sufficient waiver, despite discussions of potential conflict with defendant at four hearings, where , disapproved on another ground in doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 421 & fn. 22.) 3. timeliness separate counsel does not warrant automatic reversal because the request was untimely. (see mickens, supra, 535 u.s. at p. 168, citing holloway, supra, 435 u.s. at p. 488.) we forth above, in our discussion right to choice of retained counsel. we add only that holloway is misplaced. there, the 31 united states supreme court held jointly represented codefendants were entitled to automatic reversal of their convictions (holloway, at pp. 476, 484.) their second, representation that an actual (id. at p. 484, fn. 7.) the court expressly noted its holding would ability to deal with untimely motions for separate counsel made for dilatory purposes. (id. at pp. 486-487.) as explained above, here the trial court acted within its -of-trial request for separate counsel untimely and dilatory. 4. performance appellants argue them adversely affected his performance throughout plea negotiations, trial, and sentencing. a. plea negotiations appellants fail to show a conflict of interest adversely affected performance in plea negotiations because the record does not show competent, unconflicted counsel would have adopted a different strategy than perez in the negotiations. (see mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. record does not show that a different strategy would likely have been adopted by competent, unconflicted counsel. 32 hence, it fails to demonstrate either conflict-driven adverse ord does not show to the interests of another client. indeed, the record is silent on the advice perez provided each appellant and, more generally, on his strategy in the negotiations.6 reliance on mroczko, supra, 35 cal.3d 86 is misplaced. to the extent we could read mroczko to support their position, it is no longer good law. (see doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 419-421 & fn. 22 [expressly disapproving mroczko to the extent it applied state constitutional standard requiring reversal upon in mroczko, our supreme court held a defendant received ineffective assistance of counsel as a representation of his codefendant and of an uncharged suspect. (mroczko, at p. 92.) after a lengthy discussion of effect trial performance, 6 even if the record had been more revealing, appellants would have faced a difficult burden -- the united states supreme court has noted the virtual impossibility of assessing, on an (holloway, supra, 435 u.s. at p. 491; cf. cuyler v. sullivan (1980) 446 u.s. 335, 349 [explaining the court affirmed denial of habeas corpus relief in dukes v. warden (1972) 406 u.s. 250 because the subsequent use of the plea to seek leniency for other clients].) 33 the court briefly discussed a package plea offer with harsher terms for the defendant than for his codefendant, noting their joint (id. at pp. 105-108.) the court at would have happened if the two defendants had been separately showed unconflicted counsel could, should, or would have done differently in the plea negotiations. (id. at p. 108; see also id. at pp. 107-108 [recognizing separate trial counsel might have made precisely the same tactical decisions thus, to the extent the holding in mroczko depended on the cdiscussion of the package plea offer, it is inconsistent with the ca reviewing court may not rely on a to find an adverse effect on (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1018.) b. defense strategies loyalty to all three appellants impaired his performance at trial by causing him to forego strategies that would have helped one at the expense of one or both of the others. specifically, senior argues his separate counsel would have shifted blame to and the more likely cause of . joseph argues his separate counsel would have disassociated him from senior and junior -- who, unlike him, actually struck cruz -- by 34 moving for separate trials or juries and by more effectively arguing he lacked intent to aid and abet the beating. we will not lightly assume competent separate counsel would have pitted appellants against each other. indeed, we have explained such strategies often reflect poorly on s competence: in a criminal case one calls to mind many instances wherein joint defendants, though with some conflict in interests, are better served by a single attorney than by separate counsel. all too frequently, overzealous counsel for separate defendants attack the memory or credibility of a codefendant in the mistaken belief they thus better serve their own client. in effect, such defense lawyer becomes a prosecutor. a legal dogfight results in which neither defendant is helped and the prosecution is greatly aided.(people v. bryant (1969) 275 cal.app.2d 215, 224.) here, the record reveals potential tactical reasons, to decline to emphasize first, the video showed that senior, after punching cruz in the head, resumed striking him, even after junior started beating cruz, and continued beating him alongside junior. because senior joined risked emphasizing own culpability. second, senior and junior pursued complementary defenses -- each claimed his use of force was justified as an effort to defend senior from cruz. emphasizing the degree of force used by junior would imply he used 35 unreasonable force, (see people v. ontiveros (1975) 46 cal.app.3d 110, 119 represented] defendants were similar and complementary, each claiming to be the victim of an unprovoked attack. . . . separate counsel would have presented the same defense and would have had no reason to attack the credibility of the other defendants finally, the video showed senior was the initial aggressor, leaving doubt whether junior would have struck cruz at all if senior had not done so first. thus, any attempt by senior to shift the blame onto his son could undermine his credibility before the jury or before the court at sentencing. (cf. mai, supra, 57 discloses no ground to conclude that counsel rendered adverse or deficient assistance if they advised defendant to preserve credibility at a penalty trial by allowing his counsel to tell the penalty [d] done the right ilt the record also reveals potential tactical reasons, other to decline to further disassociate joseph from senior and junior. if the jury believed to defend senior from cruz, the jury would have had no basis to find joseph alone intended an unjustified assault and battery. thusrequest separate trials or juries. (cf. people v. cleveland (2004) 32 cal.4th 704, 725-726 [even conflicting defenses do 36 not require separate trials, which are statutorily disfavored].) joseph is vague concerning the additional argument he contends competent separate counsel would have made on the issue of intent. his most specific suggestion is that separate counsel, unlike perez, would have back or away from the fight. although the video does show joseph took three steps away from the beating, he did so after remaining in position punch, continuing to remain there while junior initiated the moreover, joseph returned to the ongoing beating after his three short steps away. highlighting his steps away risked also highlighting his deliberate return, which the jury might interpret as stronger evidence of intent than his initial proximity. because demonconflict- (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1017.) c. developing and excluding evidence 37 appellants argue separate counsel would have better served their interests in developing and excluding evidence. a[s]uch matters as whether objections should be made and the manner of cross-s discretion and rarely implicate ineffective assistance of counsel. (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1018, quoting people v. mcdermott (2002) 28 cal.4th 946, 993.) joseph fails to show separate counsel would have more effectively cross-examined corporal lee regarding his opinion that joseph served as a lookout. perez did challenge corporal lee on this point during cross-examination, securing his admission that bystanders had a plain view of the beating. impeachment evidence that further examination would have (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1018.) as we discuss below evidence supported his convictions, the jury could reasonably have inferred from the video that joseph stood ready to watch for interference from bystanders. the video therefore deprived counsel of effective options for impeaching corporal on it. junior impermissibly speculates that his separate counsel would have elicited additional testimony from senior -- and from joseph, if joseph chose to testify when represented by separate counsel -- . he fails to identify the 38 additional testimony available or to explain why separate counsel would likely have elicited it. (see mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 1018-1019 [failure to impeach identification testimony did not show adverse effect, where record discredit this testimony existed, that defenknew or should have known of such evidence, or that counsel would likely have produced it if competent and finally, appellants fail to show the asserted conflict of interest adversely affected performance with respect to . perez objected to the admission of this erez, seeking to benefit junior and joseph at his expense, welcomed its admission. junior and joseph, in turn, fail to caused him to forego seeking a more explicit limitation of the gang evidence. the court admonished the juryobjections, . could not establish any element of the charges against junior and joseph (viz., admonition implicitly limited the evidence to senior. even if hindsight suggests perez could have objected on additional grounds, at additional times, or in a different manner, we cannot simply assume his failure to do so resulted from conflicting loyalty 39 to senior. (see doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 423 [mere iew prosecution witnesses did not show it attributed only to the ].) d. sentencing joseph fails to show separate counsel would have more joseph to custody pending sentencing. perez did challenge the order, arguing joseph had no prior criminal record. the court explained its decision by observing the video spoke for itself. joseph fails to identify additional argument perez likely would have made but for his allegedly conflicting loyalty. performance at sentencing was deficient for failure to emphasize senior used less force than junior. for the reasons explained above, the record shows tactical reasons, other than the asserted conflict of interest, for foregoing such emphasis. (cf. people v. bryant, supra, 275 cal.app.2d at pp. 224-225 codefendants at sentencing] was of small moment and separate counsel for them was not require in sum, appellants have failed to meet their burden of identifying, on the record before us, any action competent 40 separate counsel likely would have taken and which perez omitted due to conflicting loyalties. (see people v. johnson, supra, 6 cal.5th at p. 578.) c. evidence of gang membership and prior assault appellants argue the trial court prejudicially erred by gang affiliation. senior further argues the court prejudicially erred by admithat senior assaulted . 1. standard of review we review rulings on the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 724-725 (waidla).) unless erroneous admission of evidence violated due process by making the trial fundamentally unfairthe verdict would have been more favorable to the defendant (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) 2. allegations of error a. lack of foundation evidence lacked foundation, finding the contention forfeited except membership, which had sufficient foundation. evidence lacks foundation if its admissibility depends on 41 unestablished preliminary facts. (see 3 witkin, cal. evidence (5th ed. 2018) presentation,  61, p. 111.) testimony that he lived with mondo and stephanie laid a foundation for his testimony that they told him senior was affiliated with a gang. his testimony that he had previously met senior laid a foundation for his testimony that he had seen senior. to the extent junior and joseph now claim the court the testimony was raised below. (people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 84.) similarly, no foundational objection was daughter. in any event, as explained below, the challenged evidence did not prejudice appellants. b. hearsay contention that the challenged evidence was improperly admitted hearsay is without merit. (waidla, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 717, citing evid. code,  1200, subd. (a).) the prosecution did not offer to prove any appellant in fact belonged to a gang; nor did it offer his testimony to prove senior in fact assaulted daughter. instead, the prosecution offered the testimony to prove cruz believed these allegations, contributing to the fear he allegedly experienced as a res. likewise, the prosecution did not offer belief that 42 reflected gang membership to prove his interpretation true. eliance on people v. meraz (2016) 6 cal.app.5th 1162 and people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 is misplaced. (see meraz, at p. 1172 [explaining sanchez established rule that case-specific out-of-the content of those statements as true and accurate to moreover, as noted, the court instructed the jury that testimony regarding mind. c. evidence code section 352 to the extent appellants now contend the trial court should have excluded the challenged evidence under evidence code section 352, based on a finding that its probative value was outweighed by its potentially prejudicial effect, this argument was forfeited. (see people v. merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 84.) perez did not preserve these arguments for appeal at the evidence code section 402 hearing because his argument there concerned only foundation. in any event, appearguments are without merit. despite the prejudicial nothing bars evidence of gang affiliation that is directly relevant to a material issue. (people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4th 809, 859, quoting people v. tuilaepa (1992) 4 cal.4th 569, 588.) here, the issues 43 material to the criminal threats charge included whether be in sustained fear for his . . . (pen. code,  422.) evidence of gang affiliation was relevant to this issue. (see people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 754-755 eference to his gang membership, among other factors, reasonably placed victim in sustained fear].) in the prior assault was relevant as well. (see people v. gaut (2002) 95 cal.app.4th both [the victim] and his former girlfriend. . . . further supppeople v. allen (1995) 33 relevant in establishing that the victim was in a state of charge distinguishes it from the evidence addressed in cases on which appellants rely. (people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 227 (albarran) [gang evidence irrelevant to charges and only tangentially relevant to gang allegations]; people v. bojorquez (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 335, 337, 343-345 (bojorquez) [error to admit -, but proper to admit gang membership evidence for impeachment]; people v. maestas (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1482, 1495-1497 [error to admit gang evidence to impeach 44 immaterial testimony that could be impeached instead on two stronger grounds]; people v. perez (1981) 114 cal.app.3d 470, 476-477 [error to admit gang evidence for identification after other evidence already identified defendant and proved all charges].) 3. prejudice even had we found error in admitting the gang and prior assault evidence, we would not find prejudice. appellants fail to negate the presumption the jury considered , as instructed. (see people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 613 derstood and s instruction in the absence of any .) relevant only to the criminal threats and witness intimidation charges against senior, on which the jury acquitted him. thus, there is no reasonable likelihood the gang evidence inflamed (see williams, at pp. 612-613 [no reasonable likelihood cumulative gang , where jury found gang allegation untrue and convicted defendant only of simple possession rather than possession for sale]; cf. people v. rogers (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 1353, 1368 [no prejudice from improper addition of charge based on defendanmachete, where jury acquitted defendant on added charge and on similar deadly weapon allegation].) 45 even if the jury improperly considered the gang and prior assault evidence when evaluating the assault and battery counts, there is no reasonable probability the outcome would have been more favorable to appellants had the evidence been excluded. the prosecution case was strong because the video precluded appellants from effectively disputing most of their relevant actions. (see people v. davis (1996) 42 cal.app.4th 806, 813 [use of gang clad because appellant committed for example, although senior and cruz disputed who threw the first punch, the video showed senior did. there is therefore little likelihood the jury relied on the gang or prior assault evidence, rather than on the video, to resolve this indeed, the prosecutor urged the jury to consult the video to resolve any doubts concerning credibility. her argument made only passing reference to gang membership . finally, the gang evidence concerned only membership, not gang activities. these facts distinguish cases on which appellants rely. (see albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at pp. 227, 232 [due process violated by bojorquez, supra, 104 cal.app.4th at p. 345 [finding prejudice where prosecution case depended on single witness, prosecutor emphasized witness and evidence about gang 46 activities suggested defendant engaged in same activities]; people v. maestas, supra, 20 cal.app.4th at pp. 1498-1501 gang-related testimony and argument, where prosecution had no coherent theory of alibi defense].) in sum, the admission of the gang and prior assault evidence was not prejudicial error. we therefore reject related argument that the admission of the gang evidence affected related under evidence code section 352 constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. d. allegations of prosecutorial misconduct senior contends the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing arguments. the alleged instances of misconduct -- and his failure to ask the court to admonish the jury concerning the one instance to which he did object -- (see people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1234, 1275 (gonzales).) moreover, crequest an admonition. we nevertheless address the merits to resolve omissions constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. 47 1. governing principles to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, an because it fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing profess (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674.) to show deficient performance where the record does not explain why counsel acted or failed to act in the allegedly deficient manner, the appellant must show there was no conceivable tactical purposeact or omission. (id. at p. 675.) to show prejudice, the appellant must show a reasonable probability of a more favorable result but for the act or omission. (id. at p. 676.) 2. j we reject claim that the prosecutor impermissibly smeared him as a gangster. the prosecutor argued senior attacked cruz to abuse of stephanie, characterizing this she also argued senior was a dangerous man, referencing . these characterizations were not so provocative or unsupported by the record as to constitute misconduct. (see people v. johnson (2015) 61 cal.4th 734, 780-781 48 dangerousness by commenting he was feared by people who knew him]; cf. gonzales, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1275 [permissible for prosecutor to compare defendant to ivan the terrible and to concentration camp commandant, where defense counsel characterized defendant in opposite manner and evidence supported the characterizations].) 3. witness committed no misconduct in commenting failure to call as a witness. the defense argument relied testimony that cruz told them stephanie deserved the abuse to which she had testified. in rebuttal, to support her challenge to ility, the prosecutor suggested the defense did not call madelyn as a witness because if she had testified, it would have become clear the 11-year-old had not actually written the statement accusing mondo of abuse. this argument was permissible. (see people v. cornwell (2005) 37 cal.4th 50, 90-91 [permissible for prosecutor to argue defense did not call witnesses to explain presence of car at crime scene because they could not have explained it without incriminating defendant], disapproved on another ground in doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 621 & fn. 22.) the cases on which senior relies are distinguishable. (see people v. hall (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 813, 816-817 (hall) 49 [prosecutor told have been the same as ; people v. gaines (1997) 54 cal.app.4th 821, 825 [prosecutor condensed version of uncallehypothetical testimony].) 4. senior fails to show the prosecutor asked the jury to she inappropriately asked it . [a]n appeal to the jury to view the crime through the eyes of the victim is misconduct at the guilt phase of trial; an appeal for sympathy for the victim is out of place during an objective determination of guilt. (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1344 (seumanu), quoting people v. stansbury (1993) 4 cal.4th 1017, 1057.) a similar appeal (people v. vance (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1182, 1199-1200 (vance).) the prosecutor made no appeal for sympathy by asking the jury to imagine what would have happened if cruz had left his glasses on. the prosecutor did not ask the jurors to imagine themselves as cruz, but instead to imagine how cruz could have sustained greater injury if punched while still wearing his glasses. this was permissible. (cf. people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 606 [no misconduct where did not invite the jury to place themselves in [the 50 in contrast, the prosecutor should not have asked the beating. nor should she have emphasized his suffering by immediately referencing his testimony that he felt like the beating went on forever. the video conclusively established the duration of the beating, leaving no need to establish it respondent implies the argument . however, the prosecutor did not explain how during the beating might have affected his testimony. because she material issue, her request appeared to be an improper appeal g. (see vance, supra, 188 cal.app.4th at p. 1200 [improper for prosecutor jury to expand their empathetic scope to the suffering of the failure to object to the request did not constitute ineffective assistance of counsel. 5. comments on defense tactics defense tactics are largely without merit. [t]he prosecutor is entitled to comment on the credibility of witnesses based on the evidence adduced at trial. (people v. young (2005) 51 34 cal.4th 1149, 1190 (young), quoting people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 529 (thomas).) the prosecutor also (people v. bemore (2000) 22 cal.4th 809, 846 (bemore).) however, a prosecutor may not counsel is free to deceive the jury or by accusing defense counsel of fabricating a defense. (ibid.) the prosecutor committed no misconduct by arguing cruz had heard defense witnesses lie about him or by implying stephanie had lied to protect her family members. these arguments were responsive to credibility, including his argument based on demeanor on the stand. there was evidence in the record to certain defense witness testimony about cruz, including an accusation that he lost a job due to fighting, was untrue. these comments fell within the scope of appropriate argument. (cf. thomas, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 529 [prosecutor permissibly commented witness would probably be charged with perjury if she were in town].) the prosecutor permissibly, albeit crudely, commented on defense tactics by entreating the jurors not to fall for defense tricks or to allow smoke [to] be blown up [their] behinds. she made this plea in the context of her argument that defense counsel had resorted to attacking the credibility 52 of prosecution witnesses because the facts, as established by the video, and the law of self-defense were unfavorable to appellants. this argument was permissible. (see people v. williams (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1767, 1781 [no misconduct where prosecutor asserted that because the facts were the prosecutor crossed into impermissible territory only once, when she implied him to knowingly elicit false testimony from stephanie. specifically, she reminded the jury perez had predicted in his opening statement that the evidence would show cruz threatened senior in a text message, but -- after learning cruz still had the text message, which the jury saw made no such threat -- the defense accused cruz of making the threat during a phone call instead. the prosecutor permissibly highlighted this discrepancy between the evidence at trial and opening statement. (see bemore, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 846; young, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 1191-1192; thomas, supra, 2 cal.4th at pp. 529-530.) however, she should not have attributed the discrepancy to defense counsel had acted on that willingness by fabricating 53 new testimony upon disclosure of the text message.7 (see bemore, at p. 846.) nevertheless, as explained below, perezconstitute ineffective assistance of counsel. 6. prejudice comments impermissible, we would not have found prejudice. as explained above, in our analysis of the prejudicial impact of the gang and prior assault evidence, the video alone established a strong prosecution case on the assault and battery charges. there is little probability the jury relied video, to convict senior. indeed, the prosecutor herself emphasized the video as the best evidence, urging the jury to consult it to resolve any conflicting testimony. she thereby diminished the rhetorical impact of her comments on defense were 7 cases on which respondent relies are distinguishable (see people v. johnson, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 782-783 [prosecutor argued defense counsel had tried to denigrate victims]; people v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, 1155 at counsel people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 207 argument and statement, rather than at him personally 54 directed at the credibility of defense witnesses. in context, (see seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 1338, 1344 [inappropriate remarks, including improper appeal to view defendant, especially given the strong evidence of his cases on which senior relies are distinguishable. (see people v. johnson (1981) 121 cal.app.3d 94, 105 [verdict depended on resolution of credibility contest between defendant and victim]; hall, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at pp. 815-818 [prosecutor impermissibly bolstered credibility of sole witness at heart of prosecution case]; people v. gaines, supra, 54 cal.app.4th at pp. 825-826 [prosecution case depended on identification and inappropriate remarks head-on assault at the defense]; vance, supra, 188 cal.app.4th at pp. 1188, 1206 because the prosecutor engaged in no prejudicial misconduct, perez was not ineffective for failing to object or to request admonitions. (see gonzales, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1275; thomas, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 531.) e. sufficiency of the evidence as to junior and joseph junior contends insufficient evidence supported his assault and battery convictions, arguing the jury was required to accept . joseph 55 contends insufficient evidence supported his guilt as an aider and abettor. 1. standard of review we review the sufficiency of the evidence supporting a conviction for substantial evidence, meaning evidence from which a reasonable factfinder could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ghobrial (2018) 5 cal.5th 250, 277-278, citing people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1126.) 2. junior contends insufficient evidence supported his assault and battery convictions because the evidence required the jury to find he acted in justified defense of senior. any person may, in defense of another person who is about to be injured by a public sufficient code,  694.) this self-defense. (people v. king (1978) 22 cal.3d 12, 20, 22.) we therefore consult authority on self-defense, as do the parties. -defense is established when the defendant has an honest and reasonable belief that bodily injury is about to be inflicted on him, provided he uses force no (people v. casares (2016) 62 cal.4th 808, 846, disapproved on another ground in people v. dalton (2019) 7 cal.5th 166, 214.) 56 there was substantial evidence from which the jury could have found junior did not honestly and reasonably believe cruz was about to inflict bodily injury on senior. the video showed junior leaping forward and punching cruz immediately after cruz defended himself by returning almost simultaneously, senior resumed striking cruz alongside junior. junior continued to pummel cruz, who returned none of the blows, more than ten times. given the speed with which senior joined the beating, the jury could easily have dismissed self-serving him. (see people v. casares, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 846 the state of the evidence did not obligate jurors to accept self-serving version of events moreover, the jury could reasonably have rejected by finding he used an unreasonable degree of force. junior acknowledges the video shows he threw even . the jury could reasonably have found this degree of force excessive, particularly because cruz testified -- and the video confirmed -- that senior was the aggressor. (see people v. brady the jury may have determined that any threat to [the defendant] was not imminent or that the force he used was unreasonable given that video surveillance showed [the defendant] acting more aggressively than his victim 57 could not have been unreasonable because it was limited to fight. his use of force is inaccurate because the video showed he continued further, it would be absurd to broadly rule the use of fists in causing great bodily injury. (cf. people v. chavez (1968) 268 the cases are legion in holding that an assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily in any event, the reasonableness of force is not determined solely by the instrumentality used to exert it. (see ibid. [substantial evidence supported rejection of self-defense and defense of another claims regardless of whether defendant used fists or machete to inflict blows].) cases on which junior relies are inapposite. (see people v. minifie (1996) 13 cal.4th 1055, 1060 (minifie) [trial court erroneously excluded evidence of third party threats defendant associated with victim];8 people v. ross (2007) 155 8 junior mistakenly implies that in minifie, both the court of appeal and our supreme court deemed the self-erroneous exclusion of thirdparty threat evidence was stronger reaction than would otherwise have been reasonable. (minifie, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 1071.) 58 cal.app.4th 1033, 1049-1054 [insufficient evidence supported jury instruction self-defense].) 3. joseph contends the evidence was insufficient to support verdicts finding him guilty of simple assault and simple battery. the parties agree the theory of abettor. a person is guilty of a crime as an aider and abettor if, by act or advice, the person or instigatesknowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetratorpurpose of committing, encouraging, or facilitating the commission of the offense. (people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1054, quoting people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 40.) sjoseph aided and abetted the commission of simple assault and simple battery. the video showed joseph took up a position near cruz and senior; briefly followed junior to the eturned to his position near cruz and senior; remained there while senior poked and swatted at cruz during an apparent argument; and gestured at cruz in a manner implying he was speaking to him. the jury was d this time, joseph told cruz that he (cruz), his son, and his daughter were bitches. based on this evidence, the jury could 59 reasonably have found joseph acted in concert with senior and junior, implying a common purpose. (see people v. campbell (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 402, 409-410 as the video further showed and as nathan testified, joseph remained in position as senior and junior jointly assaulted cruz and picked up for him when it fell. the jury could reasonably have relied on this evidence to find joseph assumed and maintained his position to intimidate cruz, to block him, or to watch for interference from bystanders.9 (see id. at p. 409 in front of [the victims] to intimidate and block them, divert where defendant remained in front of victims while his codefendant robbed them at gunpoint and no evidence established he was surprised or afraid to intervene].) (ibid.) 9 indeed, the jury could reasonably have inferred from the video that joseph alerted senior and junior to increased attention from bystanders. the video showed joseph, after taking three short steps away from the beating, returning to resume his position near senior and junior. meanwhile, in the direction joseph was facing, a man moved to view the beating from behind a neighboring gas pump and a car abruptly stopped nearby. senior and junior soon stopped striking cruz. 60 f. probation conditions joseph challenges the probation conditions prohibiting his possession of deadly or dangerous weapons and authorizing suspicionless searches of his person and property. he argues each condition is invalid because it is (1) unconstitutionally vague; (2) unconstitutionally overbroad; and (3) invalid under the test established by people v. lent (1975) 15 cal.3d 481. (see people v. moran (2016) 1 cal.5th 398, 403 (moran) [confirming origin and vitality of lent test].) 1. standard of review we review probation conditions for abuse of discretion. (moran, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 403.) 2. governing principles a probation condition is unconstitutionally vague if it is insufficiently definite to inform the probationer what it requires or prohibits, or to enable the court to determine whether it has been violated. (people v. hall (2017) 2 cal.5th 494, 500.) a probation condition is unconstitu-tionally overbroad if it limits the exercise of constitutional closely tailor those limitations to the purpose of the condition. (people v. olguin (2008) 45 cal.4th 375, 384, quoting in re sheena k. (2007) 40 cal.4th 875, 890.) a probation condition is invalid under the lent test if the probationer shows the condition (1) has no relationship 61 to the crime of conviction; (2) relates to noncriminal conduct; and (3) requires or prohibits conduct not reasonably related to future criminality. (moran, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 403.) because the probationer must make all three showings, a lent challenge fails if the condition is reasonably related to preventing future criminality. (moran, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 403.) 3. analysis a. weapons condition we reject the weapons condition is not unconstitutionally vague, despite failing to expressly knowledge that an item is a deadly or dangerous weapon, (people v. moore (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 1179, 1183-1188; accord, people v. hall, supra, 2 cal.5th at pp. 502-503.) the weapons condition is not unconstitutionally overbroad violent crime, imposition of a strict condition of probation prohibiting ownership or possession of weapons is essential to promote pub (people v. forrest (2015) 237 cal.app.4th 1074, 1083.) for similar reasons, the condition is related to preventing future criminality and therefore satisfies the lent test. (see people v. forrest, supra, 237 cal.app.4th at p. 1081.) the condition need not be justified by evidence that joseph possessed a weapon during his crimes of conviction or will 62 use a weapon in the future. (see people v. valdivia (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 1130, 1137-1138 [probation condition need not have specific connection to past criminal conduct and tendency to preclude similar, future conduct], review granted feb. 14, 2018, s245893; accord, people v. wright (2019) 37 cal.app.5th 120, 131-132 (wright).) b. search condition joseph identifies no ground for declaring the search condition unconstitutionally vague or overbroad other than the possibility that the condition authorizes searches of electronic devices. we construe the condition to exclude such searches and therefore reject his constitutional challenges. (see in re i.v. (2017) 11 cal.app.5th 249, 262 (i.v.) the search condition its reasonable and practical construction, we conclude that it extends only to tangible property, and not to electronic data. as so construed, the the electronic communications privacy act (ecpa) limits government (pen. code,  1546.1, subd. (a).) since january 1, 2017, an exception to this limitation has authorized access where the device is to an electronic device search as a clear and unambiguous condition of (id.,  1546.1, subd. (c)(10); stats. 2016, ch. 541,  3.5.) condition after the effective date of this exception, without unambiguously authorizing electronic device searches, it is 63 reasonable to construe the search condition to exclude such searches. (see people v. guzman (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 53, after the ecpa went into effect, even an unqualified general search condition is reasonably construed as ; accord, i.v., supra, 11 cal.app.5th at p. 262 & fn 16.) we need not modify the condition to make this implicit limitation explicit. (i.v., at p. 263.) the search condition is related to preventing future criminality, and therefore valid under the lent test, because it the probation condition requiring him to obey all laws. (see people v. valdivia, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at pp. 1138-1139 -- like the rest of the search conditions (to which defendant did not object) -- supervise him effectively by helping the probation officer ensure that defendant is complying with the conditions of his probation by obeying all laws, not just the law he previously disobeyed when he assau; accord, wright, supra, 37 cal.app.5th at pp.129-134.) joseph cites no authority supporting his suggestion that the condition cannot facilitate such monitoring because he summary probation, and [was] not required to report to a probation officer. proper supervision is not limited to regular meetings with a probation officer, but instead extends to (people v. olguin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 381.) 64 reliance on people v. burton (1981) 117 cal.app.3d 382 and in re martinez (1978) 86 cal.app.3d 577 is misplaced because both decisions relied on case law inconsistent with subsequent binding authority. (see people v. trujillo (2017) 15 cal.app.5th 574, 585-586, review granted nov. 29, 2017, s244650.) g. conviction for simple assault and modify his sentence to award him an additional 34 days of presentence conduct credit. and a necessarily lesser included offense arising out of the same act or course of conduct, and the evidence supports the verdict on the greater offense, that conviction is controlling, and the conviction (people v. sanders (2012) 55 cal.4th 731, 736.) simple assault is a lesser included offense of simple battery. (in re ronnie n. (1985) 174 cal.app.3d 731, 734.)10 thus, as the parties agree, we must reverse joses conviction for simple assault, which arises from the same conduct underlying his simple battery conviction. p 10 in contrast, felony assault is not a lesser included offense of felony battery. (in re ronnie n., supra, 174 cal.app.3d at p. 735.) convictions therefore do not require reversal of their felony assault convictions. senior and junior do not argue otherwise. 65 agreement, we will also modify his sentence to award him an additional 34 days of presentence conduct credit. disposition judgments in their entirety. we reverse affirm his conviction for simple battery, and affirm his sentence as modified to award him an additional 34 days of presentence conduct credit. we remand to the trial court with instructions to prepare an amended abstract of forward a certified copy of it to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation not to be published in the offical reports manella, p. j. we concur: collins, j. currey, j. 