filed 1/24/19 p. v. reagan ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert reagan, defendant and appellant. b285199 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya092768) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, idan ivri, deputy attorney general, and michael j. wise, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury found defendant robert reagan guilty of second degree murder, finding that he intentionally stabbed his girlfriend to death in their bedroom while their five-year-old son slept in the next room. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred: (1) by refusing to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter; (2) when it admitted evidmotive; (3) when it allowed the prosecutor to ask a hypothetical question based on speculation; and (4) by instructing the jury on or deny adverse evidence. defendant also argues that the prosecutor engaged in prejudicial misconduct by failing to introduce certain evidence until rebuttal. we hold the evidence did not warrant an instruction on involuntary manslaughter; the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting evidence of motive or by allowing the prosecutor to ask the challenged hypothetical question; and defendant forfeited his challenge to the failure to explain instruction and his prosecutorial misconduct claim. we therefore affirm the judgment. ii. factual background a. s case-in-chief 1. responding officers on july 22, 2015, at approximately 7:16 a.m., redondo beach police department sergeant david christian responded to 3 (nelson avenue residence). he waited in a car outside the residence. adefendant drive his car into the driveway of the nelson avenue residence. defendant got out of the car and walked toward the front door. sergeant christian called to defendant, who stopped. the sergeant asked, struggle with my girlfriend with a knife, and she is in the t by this time, the sergeant and defendant were joined by two officers, who had been looking for defendant. one officer stayed with defendant and took several photographs of him to document his physical condition and clothing. defendant did not complain about any injuries and the officer did not notice any bleeding wounds. but hhand and wrist, scratches on his back, and red marks on the left side of his cheek. defendant also had an injury inside his mouth on his inner lip. sergeant christian and the other officer went to the bedroom, where they discovered a body underneath a comforter. the body was that of a woman, loredana nesci (victim). the skin on the victim the [victim] was deceased and had been probably for quite some time. detective clinton daniel responded to the crime scene at around 8:10 a.m. that morning. detective daniel first made 4 contact with defendant1 at the scene at around 8:45 a.m. vacillate from seemingly calm and talking normally [to almost] being upset and appearing as part of his investigation, detective daniel obtained two recordings of 911 calls, one made by defendant to the police and the second a return call from the police to defendant. during the second call, defendant told the dispatcher his first name and that he was driving down nelson avenue on the way to his house. according to detective daniel, 2. responding criminalists cristina gonzalez, a senior criminalist assigned to the laboratory, responded to the nelson avenue residence at 12:50 p.m. that day. she house. in the master bedroom, where the victim was located, gonzalez collected or photographed various items of evidence. she testified about numerous photographs taken at the crime scene, including in the master bedroom and bathroom. she also phic photos of the victim depicting her injuries, including photos showing the extent of the fatal injury to her abdomen. gonzalez reviewed photos of the victim at the scene depicting her tank top and sports bra and noted that the bra was 1 the detective estimated that defendant was six feet, two inches tall and weighed 200 pounds. 5 pulled up, above her breasts. other photos depicted cuts on the nor her match [the] gonzalez inspected the master bathroom and noticed bare underwear, blood in one of the sinks, and blood inside the shower. it appeared from the sink and the shower that someone had used them to clean off blood. near the body of the victim, gonzalez observed a knife. she also observed a sheath next to the vanity. the knife was 14.5 or 14.7 inches in total length, with a nine-inch blade. she observed blood on the blade and handle. dna testing showed that the blood on the blade matchwas insufficient dna obtained from the knife handle to generate a profile, but it was blood from a male. robert lio, a forensic identification specialist for the f the latent fingerprint section, responded to the nelson avenue residence on july 22, 2015, as part of a criminalist team. among other things, he took photographs of the scene. he also observed a knife that was found at the scene and conducted a fingerprint analysis of it back at the lab. he examined a palm print found on the blade and it was run through the automated fingerprint he did not, however, lio also made a physical examination of the knife handle, -addition, he examined the knife sheath recovered at the scene 6 and determined it was an unsuitable surface for print processing [b]ecause it ha[d] textures and [it was] kind of like fake material which [was] not conducive for fingerprints. rother joan hilgeman, defendant and the victim had been dating for seven years before her death. they had a five-year-old son named rocco. on july 22, 2015, at 3:55 a.m., defendant called hilgeman on her cell phone while she was sleeping. after speaking with defendant, hilgeman called her brother dan reagan, dressed, and picked dan up in her car. they then drove from san diego to the nelson avenue residence. hilgeman entered the living room of the house, but did not go into any other rooms. defendant woke up rocco, brushed his teeth, and dressed him. defendant then placed items and one of his two dogs hilgeman did not see any blood on the dogs as they were being loaded into the vehicles. in san diego. on cross-examination, hilgeman stated that defendant was not a violent person and that he was not capable of committing murder. on redirect examination, hilgeman admitted she told received a call from his sister, hilgeman. hilgeman picked him defendto the front door, dan did not notice any injuries or blood on him. 7 dan entered the living room and remained there for 25 or 30 minutes. he sat on the couch and petted the dogs; he did not see any blood on either of them. he and defendant then packed a number of musical instruments, a bicycle, and various personal items for rocco. dan also took one truck. in addition to the items packed in the truck, defendant gave dan his laptop older sons, gavin and ramsey. defendant told dan not to tell ex-wife, vivien, about the check. dan lot of money. he also told police that d[dan] and [his] family for having contact with vivien. on cross-examination, dan stated that before he arrived at defendant that he should consider calling a lawyer. dan did not call the police himself. according to dan, as not the kind of person who would commit murder. on redirect examination, dan admitted that defendant had also told police that defendant was sweetheart of a guy. dan was aware of a past incident between defendant and vivien while they were married during which she called 911. 4. coroner pena on july 23, 2015, los angeles county coroner louis pena conducted an autopsy on the victim. prior to and during the 8 autopsy, photographs were tak pena concluded that the victim died of multiple stab wounds to the abdomen.2 during his physical examination . . . , gaping injury was a seven and a quarter inch .3 dr. pena described his understanding of the significance of a wound with skin tags and opined that their dr. pena discussed two photos of the large abdominal wound and concluded the wound was inflicted by four separate knife cuts. there is a different kind of wound and not the scalloped version d in the photos. according to dr. pena, the skin tags indicated that the knife was plunged in body] at different points and probably pretty close in time to each cases. in his experience, in single stab wound cases, skin tags are not present. dr. pena also identified and explained a photo of another near the bottom of the large wound. that wound happened before the other stabbing wounds, as indicated by wound a victim receives when trying to avoid someone wielding a knife. that wound was inflicted before death. 2 the victim was five feet, five inches tall and weighed 117 pounds. 3 dr. pena circled four skin tags on a photo of the wound. 9 in addition, dr. pena observed a separate one-inch wound with its own knife track from the top of the large wound in a left to right direction. dr. pena summarized his reasons for [t]he skin tags, the puncture wound, . . . the one-inch hole at the top of the -off marks both at the upper end and the bottom part [of the large wound] near the belly dr. pena also detailed the injuries to internal organs. dr. pena observed two cuts to the small intestine and separate cuts to the ascending and transverse sections of the colon. because, unlike the small intestine, the large intestine does not coil, the two cuts to the colon could not have been caused by a single knife thrust. in addition, he saw multiple cuts to the mesentery, that were consistent with multiple stab wounds with a knife. the injuries to the renal artery and vein suggested the victim would have died quickly, in no more than a minute. the external and internal injuries that dr. pena observed were not consistent with the victim being impaled by a knife as she fell on a bed with someone on top of her. moreover, the one that exited the skin on her back. that wound was approximately five and three-quarters inches deep, but the length of the blade to the guard was completely into the body as one would expected if the victim had been impaled with the knife. dr. pena explained that once the knife was plunged into the victim, she could not have pulled it out by herself. she would have been in shock and weak. and extracting the knife would very 10 in addition to the external injuries relating to the gaping , dr. pena nose and a cut or scratch to the left side of her face near her mouth. neither of those injuries was caused by a knife. dr. pena noted that t-and-a--by the knife being extracted from the top part of the large abdominal wound. the right breast had a four-inch superficial knife wound, ,-off wound from a knife thrust to her body. 4 but her left hand had significant cuts to the fingers and palm, the deepest of which was one-half inch. dr. pena described the wounds to her left hand as defensive wounds because the victim was likely . . . wounds indicated that the victim was not holding a knife in her right hand when they were inflicted; someone else would have at no point was the victim holding the knife. dr. pena also kneecap and numerous bruises on the lower part of that leg. the abrasion was not caused by a knife, but rather was consistent with the victim scraping her knee on a hardwood floor or rug. in addition, her left leg had a diagonal cut consistent with a knife wound which indicated she likely received it while in a defensive 4 the parties stipulated that the victim was right handed. 11 ha[d] and bruising to her lower left leg. the coloration of the bruising and the fact that all on this case was peer reviewed by the chief medical examiner at the time, dr. mark fajardo, and dr. christopher rogers, who was currently the chief of forensic there were multiple stab wounds. following the review, there needed to be resolved. dr. pena attended a second autopsy conducted on the victim on july 30, 2015, by defense witness dr. joseph cohen. dr. pena did not believe a second autopsy would be medically helpful because he had cut up the internal organs to do his own measurements and document the injuries. dr. cohen was thus only able to examine the cavity of the body. also, due to the scalloped wound that dr. pena examined, photographed, and described would not be apparent to dr. cohen. b. defense case 1. defendant defendant testified on his own behalf. defendant had three sons: gavin, age 20; ramsey, age 18; and rocco, age seven. 12 marriage to her. defendant met and began dating the victim, an attorney, in april 2008. soon after, she moved in with him and the two lived together continuously until her death. rocco was born in march 2010together, defendant and the victim would engage in arguments, but they were not physical. decided to move out of the nelson avenue residence5 where he and the victim had been living, but he did not intend to move until the following september. defendant planned to move nearby and live with gavin and ramsey. on the evening of july 21, 2015, defendant ate dinner with the victim and rocco at the nelson avenue residence, and he then went to the gym with ramsey to play basketball. they finished playing at around 10:00 p.m. defendant testified that he and the victim engaged in sex, after which the victim hit him in the face with the palm of her hand.6 the victim then hit defendant in the mouth, drawing blood. defendant responded by hitting the victim on her cheek, with an open hand, which caused the victim to fall over the bench for the vanity. 5 the victim owned the nelson avenue residence. 6 one or two months earlier, the victim had slapped defendant in front of rocco. 13 dethe victim the victim chased defendant, but he was able to close and lock the bathroom door. while defendant was locked in the bathroom, he and the victim kind of going back and forth for a minute, . . . she was saying . . . who was also angry, responded, you punched me, and my lip is he ultimately apologized and told the victim he would stay in the guest room. at some point, the victim stopped talking to defendant and know where the victim was, but she was not responding to him. defendant put on underwear and his glasses and opened the victim as he emerged from the bathroom over by her vanity near the foot of the bed. initially, he did not see anything in her hands. the victim get not leaving and that he intended to sleep in the guest room. as defendant moved the victim 7 as she did so, she said get the fuck out of my [house] and stepped toward defendant who was about five feet away. in response, defendant of went to the side, and . . . grabbed ahold of her [right] arm with both of 7 defendant recalled that the victim had been given several knives from the family of a friend who had died. 14 might stab [him] with [the] his] right hand over thpushing [the knife] down and holding it so . . . [he] was next to ile he tried to turn the knife. defendant defendant with her left hand. and over defendant was pushing the victim toward the bed with his body. of got a little beside the victim on the bed and she was on her side. he then ook her down to the side of were descending, he lost control of her hand and, at that point, did not know where the knife was. he assumed it was still in her right hand. on the ground, there was a continued struggle, as the victim the victim 15 screamed and struggled with defendant on the floor for eventually, the victim to see if she was decoying . . . goobed. defendant pushed on her chest and . . . even tried to blow the victim did not look as if she was alive sible medical intervention that could possibly save her [or] bring her , and because he was worried that rocco may have heard the screaming and would be just outside the door, defendant took a blanket and pulled it over the victim. he then went to the bathroom, saw there was blood all over him, and showered. he noticed the blood stain on the bedroom floor and pulled the blanket over it because he did not want rocco to see it. after he drroom. he saw that rocco was sleeping. concerned they would wake rocco up and that it would be a the victim was dead, and asked her to come and pick up rocco. he believed it would take his sister an hour and 45 minutes to drive from san diego at that time in the morning and intended to call the police as soon as rocco left with her. 16 after defendant ended the call with his sister, he began packing for rocco. he then went to the garage and spoke on the telephone to his brother, dan, who told him he was coming to pick up rocco with their sister. during that conversation, dan advised defendant to speak with a lawyer. he tried to call a local dan and his sister arrived a little after 6:00 a.m., and stayed things . . . in [his] awakened rocco, dressed him, told him his mother was at yoga, and that dan and his sister were going to give him a ride to san diego where defendant and the victim would join him later. he told dan to take his truck because it dan and his sister then left with rocco and the dogs about 10 minutes after rocco awakened. after they left at about 6:30 a.m., defendant tried again and was successful in contacting a lawyer who told him to call the defendant then called 911, but left the nelson avenue residence to deposit a work-related check to cover the personal check he had given to dan for his sons. he drove back to the house and saw approximately eight police cars already there. on cross-examination, defendant denied that he told the police that the victim[he also denied telling the police to tell the victimamily that he defendant admitted that he and the victim argued and other 17 according to defendant, the victim told him on july 20, 2015, that their relationship was over, but denied that he told her he wanted to reconcile. he insisted that they had intended to move out in september. defendant confirmed that he had been married to vivien c. for 13 and a half years and that she was the mother of his two older sons, gavin and ramsey. he admitted that during their marriage, he and vivien argued, but denied that he ever physically harmed her or became physically aggressive with her. he also denied pushing vivien against a table for being disrespectful to him while she was pregnant with ramsey. defendant further denied that after he divorced vivien he ever physically harmed her, threatened to harm her, or became physically aggressive with her. he admitted that on december 19, 2004, before their divorce was final, he went to their home, where vivien was living with their sons, and argued with her. vivien began screaming at him in front of their sons who were eating at the kitchen table. defendant asked vivien to go to the bedroom so they could talk, put his arm around her, and moved her toward the bedroom. but he denied picking her up by the arms, carrying her to the bedroom, and throwing her down on the bed. defendant denied that, at the beginning of his divorce, divorce from vivien. defendant denied that after december 19, 2014, vivien refused to speak to him directly about the children, insisting instead that all communications about the divorce be made 18 through lawyers. he also denied that he was bitter or angry at vivien in july 2015. he all the money that vivien spent on attorneys. he also admitted texting vivien you fought me tooth and nail spending $100,000 on lawyers and would only provide me $400 a month. that was ridiculous. defendant admitted that ending his relationship with the victim would mean there would be another custody battle in the future over rocco which he did not want. he expected that he because she [wamore money than into a custody battle with a lawyer who ha[d] more financial he denied, however, that his argument with the victim on the morning she was killed was caused by a conversation with her about custody of rocco. 2. defense experts paul delhauer was an independent consultant on criminal investigations and a crime scene reconstruction expert. based on not believe the the size of the knife would have produced deeper, more serious injuries than the relatively superficial wounds shown in the photos. 19 and fingers were defensive wounds because, although they were consistent with injuries from the blade of a knife, they were not eone wielding a knife of consistent with a person grabbing the blade during a struggle over control of the knife. according to delhauer, the blood spots and stains on the lower portion of the bed and nightstand were consistent with , the blood on the top and side of the bed was consistent [was either] or blood being deposited in a large volume, wound. [of blood]in tharea between moving after sas inserted into the abdomen of the victim, she would not have been capable of delhauer also concright index finger was not caused by a slip of his hand past the guard of the knife, as dr. pena had opined, but rather was more consistent with an injury sustained while defendant had his hand hand trying to disarm her. based on his review of the crime scene evidence, delhauer cast-theory that defendant inflicted four individual stab wounds to the he had never seen a case in which four individual stab wounds resulted in one large defect in the body of the victim. 20 delhauer did not agree that the blood smears on the sliding consistent with the victim crawling to the door to try and open it after her left hand had been sliced, but before the wounds to her abdomen had been inflicted. the amount of blood on the door was not consistent with the amount of blood he would expect dr. joseph cohen performed a second autopsy on the having characteristics of both an incised and a stab wound. he had never seen or heard of a case in which the victim had suffered four indilarge wound like a typical stab wound because the margins are somewhat either scalloped or a bit irregular with edges f the knife was nine inches, and the deepest wound in the victim was five and three-quarter inches. a guamake sense in this case because there were no wounds nine inches deep. and there was movement, either rotation [or] some vertical movement from down/up or up/down sort of in a ratcheting believed the movements of defendant and the victim during the brief struggle after the knife was plunged into the victim were 21 dr. cohen explained that dr. pena did not follow the accepted practice of identifying the individual tracks of each of the four stab wounds he identified and the injuries associated with each such [h]e lumped together the internal injuries, described it as a single stab wound even though although dr. pena testified that the mesentery did not fold like the small intestine, dr. cohen explained that the mesentery stab wound . . . there would be at least three or four holes because of the folded nature of the mesentery[, v]ery folded and very movable being attacked with a knife. . . . occur during a scuffle . . . by grabb right wrist were defense wounds inflicted by someone wielding a knife. they were surface abrasions, not the type of sharp force injury, either a cut or incise wound, that he would expect to see if a person were stabbed by a knife. according to dr. cohen, he did not find the surface s or the bruises to her legs to be about what caused the bruises or how old they were. dr. cohen conceded that the separate wound to the lower right of the large wound dr. pena described as a 22 point during the scuffle, the tip of the knife could have just [the photograph of the wound superficial . . . wound consistent with . . . the blade of a knife or [a knife tip] injuries, as depicted in the photographs taken by police at the scene, in cases involving victims of domestic violence in which a knife is uswounds to the chest, neck, [and] perhaps incised wounds to the any such injuries in this case. dr. cohen opined that the cause of death in this case was sharp force injuries. but he believed the findings did not reflect multiple stab wounds. instead, he concluded that the physical victim fell on the knife during a struggle in which defendant was trying to disarm her. james kent, a forensic kinesiologist, was retained by the from tmore likely than not [was caused by] a single penetration [of the knife] followed by kent opined that the abdominal injuries he analyzed were consistent with the explanation of events that defendant provided 23 [a] initial] impressions about it being one point of entry[ ] [a]nd [was] consistent with the location of the initial blood pool on the kent also wounds to the abdomen causing the large wound were biomechanically unreasonable. 3. character witnesses pamela willis dated defendant from october 2004 to november 2005. after the two stopped dating, they maintained a business relationship and worked on business projects together for at least another year or so. according to willis, defendant was not a violent person. he was not the type of person who could ever commit murder. cassidy harrison had known defendant for over 20 years. the two were harrison stated that defendant was not a violent person and not the type of person to commit murder. of trial. he had lived with hwas living in europe. commit murder or who would murder the mother of one of his children. playing basketball with defendant on the evening before the 24 testified defendant would never murder the mother of one of his sons. c. relationship with former wife children and defendant. on the night of december 19, 2004, she received a call from [her] shoulders and threw her house nervous, very scared, and she really just wanted [foley] to get the hich she did. foley had never seen defendant engage in a physical argument with vivien. but defendant had a temper which she described as not common but also not uncommon. vivien testified that she and defendant were married in 1991 and separated in 2004. she filed for divorce in september of that year. one time before the december 2004 call to 911, defendant pushed vivien during an angry argument against a kitchen table while she was pregnant with ramsey. concerning the december 2004 call to 911, vivien confirmed that defendant came to her house, confronted her in front of her children in the kitchen, and aggressively told her that he needed to speak with her speak to 25 him, he became more aggressive and she asked him to leave. ont of [her] children and brought her from the kitchen to the bedroom. [she pushed] her and pushed her toward the bedroom. defendant brought her to the bedroom and threw her on the bed. she called 911. after the 911 incident, vivien refused to speak with defendant directly. during the divorce, both parties were represented by counsel and both parties made motions for attorney fees. during the course of the divorce, defendant made a false claim to the department of children and family services (dcfs) that vivien was abusing the children. dcfs investigated and cleared vivien of the claim. long after her custody disputes with defendant were over, she received a july 12, 2015, text from him complaining about how much money she spent on lawyers during those disputes and complaining about how little she paid him monthly for child support. he sent her more than one text. detective daniel testified that on the day of the killing, he found a check book ledger on a bench in the garage of the nelson avenue residence made out to rebecca wood with a note on the memo line stating, ;the law offices of james neavitt with a note on the memo line prior statement detective daniel recorded his interview with defendant the day of the killing. when the detective told defendant that he was 26 reiterated to defendant that he needed to explain to the family how the incident occurred, 3. henry yang henry yang testified about a knife he had seen at yang was friends with both the victim and defendant. in about october 2014, yang was at the nelson avenue residence meeting with the victim who was representing him in a court case. defendant and rocco were also there. during a discussion about firearms, defendant went into defense and [said he] 4. criminalist criminalist gonzalez was recalled to the stand and and elaborated on some of the crime scene evidence. she also testified about the blood stains on the sliding glass door and responded as an expert to certain hypothetical questions concerning that and other blood and injury evidence.8 8 the details of her testimony concerning the bloodstains on the sliding glass door and her response to the challenged hypothetical question are set forth below in the discussion section anal 27 d. officer joe charbonneau was called by defendant to testify about the december 2004 call to 911. officer charbonneau responded to the scene that night and wrote a report of the incident in which he reported that vivien told him that defendant . he also reported that no party to the incident was injured. he did not make an arrest as result of the incident. iii. procedural background in an information, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant with murder in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a).9 the district attorney alleged that defendant personally used a deadly weapon, a knife, in the commission of the offense within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). the jury found defendant guilty of second degree murder and found the deadly weapon allegation true. the trial court sentenced defendant to a term of 15 years to life, plus an additional one-year term pursuant to the true finding on the deadly weapon allegation. posed to gonzalez about a possible explanation of how the victim was killed. 9 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 28 iv. discussion a. involuntary manslaughter instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred when it failed to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of involuntary manslaughter. according to defendant, there was substantial evidence in the record from which a reasonable juror could have found that he killed the victim without malice aforethought and without the intent to kill. 1. background during the jury instruction conference, defense counsel requested calcrim no. 580, stating: the reason why i think that an involuntary manslaughter instruction is appropriate here is because that would require a showing that the defendant committed either a crime or a lawful act in an unlawful manner with criminal negligence and that the acts caused the death of another person. [] i think that the jury could find that one or or a lawful act done in an unlawful manner. [] so specifically just to point out one of them, if they found that they were in a struggle over the knife and he shoved her with his body on the bed, that could either be a battery, or it could be a lawful act done in an unlawful manner and he had no intent to kill. that could lead the jury to a finding that this was an involuntary manslaughter. so, you know, and they could find that he acted with criminal negligence. [] i mean they could find that instead of trying to disarm her, which would have been a lawful act, he 29 should have retreated into the bathroom. but trying to disarm her might have been a lawful act conducted in an unlawful [] the court: the second paragraph of [calcrim no.] 580 involuntary manslaughter depends on whether the person was aware of the risk to life that his or her actions created and consciously disregarded that risk. an unlawful killing caused by a willful agent with full knowledge and awareness that the person is endangering the life of another and done in conscious disregfor someone not to know that thereto argue that the defendant was not aware that his actions created a higher risk of harm or manslaughter although the trial court did not instruct the jury about involuntary manslaughter, it delivered instructions on: first and second degree murder, self-defense, excusable homicide: accident, voluntary manslaughter, and voluntary manslaughter: imperfect self-defense. 2. legal principles a lesser included uncharged offense if there is substantial evidence that would absolve the defendant from guilt of the greater, but not the lesser, offense. people v. simon 30 lesser included offense is reviewed under a de novo standard of review. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 733.) an instruction on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense of murder is required whenever there is substantial evidence defendant acted without malice. (people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 515; people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 35.) [t]he existence of any evidence, no matter how weak will not justify instructions on a lesser included offense, but such instructions are required whenever evidence that the defendant is guilty only of the lesser offense is substantial enough to merit consideration by the jury. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162.) here, defendant was charged with murder, an unlawful killing of a human being committed with malice aforethought. ( 187, subd. (a)) involuntary manslaughter is the unlawful killing of a human being without malice aforethought and without an intent to kill. (people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 884.) in california, there are three types of involuntary manslaughter, two statutory and one nonstatutory. one commits involuntary manan unlawful act, not amounting to a felony or by committing a lawful act which might produce death, in an unlawful manner, or without due caution and circumspection. ( 192, subd. (b).) (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596, italics added.) involuntary manslaughter may also occur when a noninherently dangerous felony is committed without due caution and circumspection. (people v. butler (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 998, 1006-1007 (butler).) 31 the performance of an act with criminal negligence supplies the criminal intent for involuntary manslaughter, regardless whether the conduct underlying the offense is a misdemeanor, a lawful act, or a noninherently dangerous felony. that is, when a defendant commits a misdemeanor in a manner dangerous to life, the defendants conduct qualifies as gross negligence, and culpability for involuntary manslaughter is warranted because the defendant has performed an act under such circumstances as to supply the intent to do wrong and inflict some bodily injury. [citations.] similarly, when a defendant commits a lawful act or a noninherently dangerous felony with criminal negligence, the defendant is presumed to have had an awareness of, and conscious indifference to, the risk to life, regardless of the defendants actual belief. (butler, supra, 187 cal.app.4th at p. 1008.) 3. analysis defendant first argues, based on his testimony, that there was sufficient evidence to support an involuntary manslaughter instruction on the involuntary manslaughter. according to defendant, a reasonable juror could have inferred from his testimony that defendant committed either a misdemeanor battery or trespass and that he did so with a conscious disregard for the risk to life that his conduct posed. support an inference that he committed misdemeanor battery. defendant testified that the victim came at him in the bedroom with a 14.5-inch knife with a nine-inch blade as he emerged from 32 the bathroom. defendant said that he feared for his safety and was concerned he would be stabbed. thus, even if defendant pushed the victim, causing her to fall on the knife while attempting to disarm her, no reasonable juror could have inferred under the circumstances that such act was criminally negligent. dwith a knife in a confined space, including pushing the assailant, were not an unreasonable response to the risk posed to him, i.e., there was insufficient evidence that he pushed the victim without due caution or circumspection. to the contrary, a reasonable shing the victim during the struggle to disarm her and protect himself was a reasonable response to the threat posed to defendant by the knife-wielding assailant. defendant also argues that his testimony supported an inference that he committed misdemeanor trespass without exercising due caution or circumspection. according to defendanther house, together with his refusals to leave, supported an inference that he was occupying her home without her consent as owner. even assuming that vacate the residence after he had been repeatedly told by the victim to leave constituted a criminal trespass,10 there was insufficient evidence that defendant acted without due caution and circumspection in committing that trespass. again, according to defendant, his 10 section 602, subdivision (m) prowillfully commits a trespass by any of the following acts is guilty of a misdemeanor: [] . . .[] (m) entering and occupying real property or structures of any kind without the consent of the 33 attempts to disarm the victim came only after she came at him in the bedroom with a knife and were a reasonable response to the threat posed by the knife. therefore, even assuming defendalleged trespass provoked the victim into arming herself and attacking him, it was not unreasonable for him under those circumstances to defend himself, his initial trespass notwithstanding. the trial court concluded that the evidence, including defeexcusable homicide based on accident and self-defense, either of which was a complete defense to the murder charge. those affirmative which, fairly read, suggested that he was, at best, an innocent victim who was guilty of no more than legitimately trying to defend himself against a determined aggressor armed with a knife and, at worst, unwillingly caught up in a tragic accident. as explained, however, that same testimony did not support an inference that he was criminally negligent and, in fact, was inconsistent with any suggestion that he harbored the requisite criminal state of mind for involuntary manslaughter, i.e., that he acted without due caution and circumspection in responding to thus, the trial court did not err by failing to instruct on involuntary manslaughter. b. admission of motive evidence defendant maintains that the trial court abused its discretion when it allowed the prosecutor to present evidence beyond that necessary to show defendant had a prior domestic violence incident with vivien in 2004 under evidence code section 1109. according to defendant, the trial court erroneously 34 allowed the prosecutor to submit further evidence concerning vivien, including subsequent, contested child custody proceedings, presumably under evidence code motive for murdering the victim, i.e., to avoid another bitter and costly custody battle with the victim over their son rocco. 1. background prior to opening statements, the trial court and counsel engaged in the following colloquy about the admission of evidence from vivienor:] your honor, defense counsel had raised during our in-chambers conference that he had [an evidence code section] 402 motion regarding the evidence from -wife. and the court had indicated that it would not be admissible in the peopleshould the defendant testify that he was peaceful or present character evidence that the people then could bring it in [ ] rebuttal? [] the court: that is correct. [] [the prosecutor:] i had a point of clarification. [] would the court allow the people on cross-examination of the defendant to impeach him with that moral turpitude conduct, technically a [section] 243 [subdivision] (e)(1) [witness available and under subpoena for purposes of rebuttal, and i would be able to prove up the underlying facts. [] the when it comes time to cross-examine him, ask to approach before you bring that up. [] [the prosecutor:] i will. thank you. [] the court: and depending on what he says on direct, maybe he 35 during his case, defendant, his son, and his acquaintances testified that he was a nonviolent person. during her cross-examination of defendant, the prosecutor attempted vivien, and specifically about her refusal to communicate directly never lost custody of gavin and ramsey after you filed your claim of child abuse; correct? [] [defendant:] correct. [] [the that the reason your custody battle with vivien got expensive is because, after this december 19, 2004, [911 call], vivien refused to communicate with you directly or be alone with you? she wanted it to all be done through lawyers; right? [] [defense counsel]: objection. [] the court: sustained. [] go onto something else. [] [the prosecutor:] may we approach, your honor. [] the court: yes. [] (the following proceedings were held at the bench:) [] [the prosecutor:] i believe that he has evidence that he had a bitter custody battle with vivien and that the motive for the crime against [the victim] custody battle with her for rocco after having such a horrible experience with vivien. speculative that even if there was any probative value the timing motive is admissible. the jury can put whatever weight they want, if any. [] you expect this to be long? [] [the prosecutor:] i have about ten more questions. [] the court: the prosecutor proceeded to question defendant about the child custody battle with vivien, but defendant denied that it was 36 either bitter or costly. the prosecutor then attempted to link the potential custody battle with the victim defendant might face over rocco. in response, defendant admitted that he did not want to go through another custody battle with the victim and that, because she was a lawyer with superior financial resources, any such dispute with her would have been difficult for him. 2. legal principles evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), provides that character or dispositionin [evidence code] [s]ections 1102, 1103, 1108, and 1109, evidence of a pers or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence or specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), however, in this section prohibits the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, . . . ) other than his or her disposition to commit such an act in addition, evidence code section 1109, subdivision (a)(1), provides that, with certain exceptions, evidence of prior acts of domestic violence generally may be admitted in a criminal action 37 involving charges of domestic violence if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to [evidence code s]ection 352. although evidence of prior acts may be admissible under evidence code sections 1101, subdivision (b), and/or 1109, the evidence may nevertheless be inadmissible under evidence code section 352, which provides: the court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. a determination of inadmissibility of evidence under evidence code section 352 requires the balancing of the probative value of the evidence against its potential prejudicial effect. (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 404-405 (ewoldt).) on appeal, a trial courts ruling under evidence code sections 1101 and 352 is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 637.) 3. analysis defendant contends that the evidence of the child custody proceedings in his prior divorce was irrelevant to the issue of motive and, in any event, more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. in support of his relevance claim, that defendant, as opposed to vivien, spent a significant amount of money on the child custody proceedings and that his july 12, 2015, text to vivien merely emphasized that it was vivien, not defendant, who spent $100,000 try custody arrangement 38 europe. in addition, defendant maintains that the evidence of his dcfs child abuse allegation against vivien was not probative of motive because it did not show an intent to gain custody of his two older sons. as an initial matter, defendant suggests that the trial court initially, and correctly, allowed only evidence of the december 2004 call to 911 under evidence code section 1109 to record, however, does not support this assertion. rather, the trial court reserved ruling on the admissibility of character evidence generally until after defendant testified. and, once defendant testified, the trial court expressly ruled that evidence of the custody battle with vivien was admissible to show motive, presumably under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). issue of the weight to be accorded the motive evidence, not whether the evidence had any tendency in reason to show why defendant murdered the victim. relevant evidence means evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action].) but the weight was an issue within the exclusive province of the jury. the only issue for this court is relevant constituted an abuse of discretion. a trial court abuses people v. waidla[, supra] 22 cal.4th [at p. 714] . . . .(people v. smith (2018) 4 cal.5th 1134, 1182.) the evidence of 39 had some tendency in reason to show why defendant may have amicdefendant was bitter and that defendant had filed an allegation of child abuse against her that was not substantiated. she also confirmed that two days before the victim was killed, defendant texted her about their custody battle and that there were other texts from him on the same subject. that evidence, along with other testimony elicited by the prosecutor, tended to show that defendant had a bitter child custody experience that still bothered him days before the murder. coupled with his admissions that he did not want a custody battle with the victim, the child custody evidence tended in reason to show why defendant brutally murdered the victim. the trial court therefore did not abuse its discretion by finding the child custody evidence relevant to motive. defendant contends that, even assuming the child custody evidence was relevant, it was nevertheless more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. we disagree. the child custody evidence, even if only marginally probative, was not inflammatory or unduly prejudicial, particularly in light of the crime scene and autopsy evidence. to the contrary, when compared with the evidence concerning the charged offense, including the graphic photographs of the wound the child custody evidence was by no means stronger or more inflammatory. (ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 405.) indeed, suggesting a prior divorce or custody proceeding had no potential to evoke in 40 the jury an emotional bias against defendant. therefore, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting the child custody evidence over defend c. defendant argues that the trial court abused its discretion when it allowed the prosecutor on rebuttal to ask the e manner in which defendant may have committed the murder. according to defendant, the hypothetical was based solely on speculation and was otherwise unfair and misleading. 1. background during her rebuttal testimony, gonzalez confirmed, among other things, [t]here was blood on the sliding glass door on the stains were from 25 to 35 inches above the floor, just below the handle. but there was no blood on the door handle. one stain on the door was a flow stain and the others were transfer stains. gonzalez [a] transfer stain. . . is created when something bloody comes in contact with a surface. . . . [] a flow stain is a stain that is created when the volume of blood follows gravity, flows because of gravity or follows . . . the surface that [it is] the flow stain on the door was traveling down. according to gonzalezcould have caused the flow stain on the door. and, the transfer stains could also have been made by a bleeding hand. 41 gonzalez explained that, unlike the bloody footprint trail from the body to the bathroom, there was no trail of bloody footprints between the body and the sliding glass door. there were, however, blood stains on the floor betand the sliding glass door. gonzalez opined that the blood stains gonzalez also confirmabove her breast line . . . not in a way . . . women normally wear gonzalez believed that tthe victim being dragged along the floor. the prosecutor then asked gonzalez to assume the following hypothetical set of facts and opine whether they were consistent with a scenario for how the victim was killed: prosecutor:] prior to dying from internal injuries that the victim sustained from the knife plunged into her abdomen, she also sustained abrasions to one or both knees; [] there was also bruising around her lower legs consistent with someone grabbing her legs; [] she had defense wounds that went as deep as half an inch on her left hand; [] she had a cut to her lower left leg; a four-inch superficial cut to her right breast; several cuts to the back of her right wrist; and to the right of the massive abdomen wound, she had a one eighth of an inch puncture wound. [] are those facts taken along with what you saw at the crime scene consistent with this following scenario[?]: [] during a struggle for the knife, the victim sustained the defensive wounds to her left hand as she tried to deflect the blade coming toward her; [] after sustaining those cuts to her hand before the knife 42 penetrated her abdomen, she attempted to go towards that sliding glass door and made contact with the sliding glass door; [] she was on her knees at the time touching the sliding glass door with her bleeding hand, and as she tries to do that, she was grabbed by her legs and dragged back to the south side of the bed where she continued to struggle for her life; [] she managed to get into an upright position when she was stabbed in the abdomen and then fell onto the bed making contact where the saturated bloodstain is. [] is that consistent with what you saw at the crime scene and the additional facts i gave you? [] [defense counsel]: objection. improper hypothetical. no foundation. calls for speculation. [] the court: overruled. [] the witness: yes, yes it would be consistent. [] the bloodstains on the sliding glass door are at a level where she could be kneeling or at a level maybe upright but where her hand would have to be below the handle to make contact with the door and created those transfers. [] the dragging may or may not be because of theor the clothing. her bra may be an indication of dragging as well. 2. legal principles qualify as an expert witness (evid. code,  720) and to give testimony in the form of an opinion (id.,  801). under evidence code section 801, expert opinion testimony is admissible only if common experience that the opinion of an expert would assist the id., subd. (a).) . . . [] evidence code section 801 43 limits exmatter . . . perceived by or personally known to the witness or made known to [the witness] at or before the hearing, whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to id., subd. (b).) expert to assum1992)  14, p. 58.) such a hypothetical question must be rooted in facts shown by the evidence, however. (rowe v. such (1901) 134 cal. 573, 576 . . . ; people v. castillo (1935) 5 cal.app.2d 194, 197-198 . . . ; accord, hyatt v. sierra boat co. (1978) 79 cal.app.3d 325, 339 . . . ; see caljic no. people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 617-618.) [e]ven when the witness qualifies as an expert, he or she does not possess a carte blanche to express any opinion within opinion based on assumptions of fact without evidentiary support [citation], or on speculative or conjectural factors [citation] has no evidentiary value [citation] and may be excluded from evidence. conclusory because unaccompanied by a reasoned explanation connecting the factual predicates to the ultimate conclusion, that opinion has no evidentiary value becaus[] exclusion of expert opinions that rest on guess, surmise or conjecture [citation] is an inherent corollary to the foundational predicate for admission of the expert testimony: will the testimony assist the trier of fact to evaluate the issues it must 44 decide? [citation.].jennings v. palomar pomerado health systems, inc. (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 1108, 1117.) n to control the form in which the expert is questioned to prevent the people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 416 . . . people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 619.) 3. analysis hypothetical question to gonzalez was based on gonzaleztestimony about the blood stain evidence in the bedroom and the including those to her left hand, none of which evidence was speculative. the photographic evidence documented the blood stain evidence that gonzalez personally examined at the scene the day of the murder. it is undisputed that there was a heavy volume of blood on and around the bed nd. it is also undisputed that there was a blood trail, but no bloody footprints, from the body next to the bed to the sliding glass door. and, it is undisputed that there were blood flow and transfer stains on the sliding glass door just below the handle. in addition, dr. pena documented and testified about the her lower legs which, according to dr. pena, indicated someone had grabbed her tightly around the legs. finally, the defensive injto her abdomen, were also well documented and explained by dr. pena and other witnesses. 45 given those facts, the trial court had broad discretion to allow the prosecutor to utilize them in a hypothetical question designed to elicit from gonzalez an expert opinion about a plausible explanation for and the significance of that evidence to the manner in which the victim may have been killed. the trial court therefore did not abuse its discretion when it overruled defendant argues that the hypothetical assumed that the blood stains on the sliding door came from the victim, but that there was no evidence to support that assumption. the hypothetical, however, did not ask gonzalez to assume the blood on the door came from the victim, but rather asked her to opine whether the blood and injury evidence supported a reasonable inference that the blood could have come from the victim. that opinion was well within her expertise as a criminalist and served to explain for the jury how the bloodstains may have come to be on the door. defendant also speculates that the two dogs may have entered the crime scene at some unspecified point and somehow deposited blood on the door. there was no evidence that the dogs had entered the crime scene. to the contrary, dan and hilgeman testified that they did not see any blood on the dogs on the morning after the murder. defendant also argues that the blood stain hypothetical question and gonzalez, for example, the amount of blood that would be expected to be deposited on the door given the severity of the injuries to the finally, defendant maintains that the hypothetical contained too many variables to make an answer based on it reliable or admissible, such as the various 46 blood transferred to the sliding glass door if the heavy black curtains were closed. but each of these arguments goes to the weight to be afforded gonzalezfree to argue to the jury that the blood on the door could not have come from defendantconsistent with her injuries. d. instruction on failure to explain evidencecalcrim no. 361/ ineffective assistance of counsel defendant contends that the trial court erred by instructing the jury on the relevance of his failure to explain or deny evidence against him because there was insufficient evidence to support the instruction. the attorney general argues, among other things, that defendant forfeited his challenge to the instruction by failing to object in the trial court. 1. background trial court instructed the jury concerning the relevance of explain or deny evidence against him, and if he could reasonably be expected to have done so based on what he knew, you may consider his failure to explain or deny in evaluating [the] evidence. any such failure is not enough by itself to prove guilt. [] the people must still prove the defendant guilty beyond a 47 reasonable doubt. if the defendant failed to explain or deny, it is 2. forfeiture [the giving of an instruction in the trial court] forfeits the issue on appeal unless [giving the instruction] affect[ed the] defendanpeople v. battle (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 50, 64-65.) instructing with calcrim no. 361 did not deprive a defendant of due process by denying him, for example, a presumption of innocence, raising a presumption of guilt, or reversing or lightening the burden to prove his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. saddler (1979) 24 cal.3d 671, 679-680.) to the contrary, the instruction contained express language preserving the presumption of innocburden of proof. (see people v. rodriguez (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 1062, 1066-1067.) because the instruction did not affect forfeited his argument on appeal. 3. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant next contends that if this court concludes he has forfeited the error, he received ineffective assistance of counsel. the principles governing a claim of ineffective assistance of state constitutional rights to counsel (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  15) include the right to effective legal assistance. when challenging a conviction on grounds of 48 ineffective assistance, the defendant must deinadequacy. to satisfy this burden, the defendant must first objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. second, the defendant must show resulting deficient performance, the outcome of the proceeding would have been different. when examining an ineffective assistance claim, ctical decisions, and there is a presumption counsel acted within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. it is particularly difficult to prevail on an appellate claim of ineffective assistance. on direct appeal, a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance only if (1) the record affirmatively discloses counsel had no rational tactical purpose for the challenged act or omission, (2) counsel was asked for a reason and failed to provide one, or (3) there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. all other claims of ineffective assistance are more appropriately people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009.) nal right to effective legal people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 443.) defendant contends that there is no satisfactory calcrim no. 361, but other than his conclusory statement that defendant provides no reasoned argument on this issue. we disagree that there was no legitimate tactical reason for failing to object to calcrim no. 361. 49 during cross-examination, defendant acknowledged that there was blood stain evidence on and around the sliding glass door. there was no reason for there to be any blood on the other side of the bedincluding on or around the door. missed opportunity to provide a reason or explanation for the have reasonably concluded that calcrim no. 361 was at least arguably supported by the evidence and therefore that an objection would not have been well taken. e. prosecutorial misconduct/ineffective assistance of counsel defendant argues that the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct by failing to introduce evidence of a struggle by the door until rebuttal in an effort to magnify the impact of the evidence on the jury and put the defense at a disadvantage. the attorney general contends, among other things, that defendant forfeited this challenge by failing to object to the struggle evidence during rebuttal. defendant responds that if his challenge to the misconduct is forfeited he received ineffective assistance of counsel. 1. forfeiture to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a criminal defendant must make a timely objection, make 50 known the basis of his objection, and ask the trial court to ([people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518,] 553.) there are two exceptions to this forfeiture: (1) the objection and/or the request for an admonition would have been futile, or (2) the admonition would have been insufficient to cure the harm occasioned by the misconduct. a defendant claiming that one of these exceptions applies must find support for his or her claim in the record. [citation.] the ritual incantation that people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 462.) the record reflects that trial counsel did not raise any objection to the timing of the testimony on rebuttal concerning a struggle by the sliding glass door or otherwise request an admonishment. defendant does not contend that either of the exceptions to forfeiture applies. thus, defendant has forfeited the argument on appeal. 2. ineffective assistance of counsel the legal principles governing a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel discussed above apply equally to this claim of ineffective assistance. (people v. mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1009.) from our record, we cannot conclude that there was no conceivable tactical reason for not objecting to the timing of the rebuttal evidence of the struggle near the sliding glass door and fell within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. counsel may have concluded that an objection was unfounded since evidence about blood on the sliding glass door only became relevant after defendant testified about a sequence of events that 51 was arguably inconsistent with the presence of blood on the sliding door. this claim is more appropriately raised, if it is to be raised, in a habeas corpus proceeding. 52 v. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kim, j. we concur: baker, acting p. j. moor, j. 