 filed 7/10/19 p. v. chinchilla ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eric alonso chinchilla, defendant and appellant. b285438 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba432553) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed in part; reversed in part and remanded with directions. brad kaiserman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and pamela c. hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 eric alonso chinchilla appeals from the judgment entered following his convictions after a jury trial on two counts of assault with a firearm; attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder; and shooting at an occupied vehicle. the jury also found true the allegations chinchilla committed the crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang and used a firearm in the commission of the offenses. on appeal chinchilla contends the trial court erred in its instruction of the jury with calcrim no. 875 on the elements of assault with a firearm, and substantial evidence does not support his convictions for these offenses. he also asserts the trial court failed to instruct the jury on the offense of brandishing a firearm, which he argues is a lesser included offense of assault with a firearm. chinchilla contends the convictions for attempted murder and shooting at an occupied vehicle also must be reversed because the six-pack photographic lineup on which the victim of the crimes relied in identifying chinchilla as the shooter was impermissibly suggestive. chinchilla also requests we review the sealed record of the camera hearing to determine whether the court disclosed all relevant complaints in response to his pitchess1 motion seeking discovery of the personnel records of the police officers involved in the investigation. further, chinchilla contends he is entitled to supplemental pitchess discovery based inability to remember the details of the complaints. 1 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531, 536-538 (pitchess). 3 in addition, chinchilla raises multiple sentencing issues. he contends the trial court erred by imposing both the gang and firearm enhancements on counts 1 and 2. he also asserts the trial court erred in imposing a life term with a 15-year minimum parole eligibility requirement on count 3 pursuant to penal code2 section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), because the amended information alleged violation of a different subdivision of section 186.22. chinchilla also argues remand is necessary for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements imposed on counts 1 and 2 ( 12022.5, subd. (a)) and counts 3 and 4 ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). further, he requests we remand for the trial court to conduct a hearing on his ability to pay the court facilities and operations assessments and restitution and parole revocation fines imposed by the trial court, in accordance with our opinion in people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157. we affirm the convictions but reverse the sentence and remand for resentencing with directions for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements on counts 1 or 2. for any count as to which the trial court declines to strike the firearm enhancement, the court may impose only the enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a), or section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), whichever carries the greater term. further, on remand the trial court should allow chinchilla to request a hearing and present evidence of his inability to pay the court facilities and operations assessments the court imposed. the trial court should also 2 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 consider whether to allow chinchilla to present evidence of his inability to pay the $5,000 restitution fine and the parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount imposed by the court. factual and procedural history a. amended information the amended information charged chinchilla with two counts of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); counts 1 & 2); attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder ( 187, subd. (a), 664; count 3); and shooting at an occupied vehicle ( 246; count 4). as to all counts, the amended information alleged chinchilla committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(b) [counts 1 & 2]; id., subd. (b)(1)(c) & (4) [count 3]; id., subd. (b)(4) [count 4].) the amended information also specially alleged as to counts 1 and 2 that chinchilla personally used a firearm. ( 12022.5, subds. (a) & (d).) as to counts 3 and 4, the amended information specially alleged chinchilla personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). chinchilla pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 5 b. the prosecution case 1. the first incident (count 1) at about 11:00 p.m. on october 13, 2012 almeido arechiga was walking up his driveway when he saw a black two-door sports car approaching.3 you from? this is metro gang. . . . the gang in the area where arechiga lived. when arechiga failed to respond, the passenger, later identified by arechiga as chinchilla,4 exited the car. chinchilla as he approached arechiga in the driveway. chinchilla 3 at trial, arechiga identified two photographs of a black mitsubishi eclipse as being similar to the car he saw that night. 4 on october 17, 2012 los angeles police detective jose ramirez and officer alejandro diaz showed arechiga two 6-pack photographic lineups that included eric guerrero and lino soltero, both of whom were metro 13 gang members. arechiga most reminds me of the guy of the night, but my guy had [a] on october 30 officer diaz showed arechiga a six-pack photographic lineup that included chinchilla. arechiga selected face just stood out from the rest as the person who stood up from arechiga also identified chinchilla at trial as the man who pointed the gun at him. 6 who was standing outside the car, and the rear seat passenger also pointed their guns at arechiga. when chinchilla was about four feet from arechiga, arechiga lifted up his shirt to show he time the gun was 10 illa the car. chinchilla and the driver got into the car, and they and they drove off, and arechiga contacted the police. 2. the second incident (count 2) at approximately 4:50 p.m. on october 14, 2012 efrain sarabia5 was walking home from the bus stop when he noticed a black, two-door eclipse stopped at a stop sign. sarabia saw four or five men inside the car. a hispanic male, later identified by sarabia as chinchilla,6 got out of the front passenger side of the 5 sarabia passed away from cancer prior to the trial. on october 3, 2013 sarabia testified under oath in his hospital room by remote videotaped conferencing. the videotape displayed a split screen with sarabia in the hospital on one side, and the attorney, and the prosecutor on the other side. the videotape of 6 on october 18, 2012 detective ramirez and officer diaz showed sarabia a six-pack photographic lineup that did not positions 1 and 2 looked similar to the person who pointed the 7 car, pointed a silver- or chrome-colored semiautomatic gun at sarabia, and asked where he was from. chinchilla had his finger on the trigger and was shaking the gun as he pointed it at sarabia. chinchilla was about 40 to 50 feet away from sarabia. sarabia understood chinchilla was asking him to what gang he belonged. sarabia stopped walking and immediately raised his hands to his sides as if he were being held hostage. sarabia then added, looked like [chinchilla] was going to pull the trigger but [he] did not . . . sarabia contacted the police. 3. the third incident (counts 3 & 4) at around 10:00 p.m. on october 14, 2012 danny sequeida walked to his car to drive to the store to purchase beer. he had before they ran out of beer. as sequeida entered his car, a black gun at him. the men sarabia identified did not have a relationship with the metro 13 gang. on october 30 officer diaz showed sarabia a different six-pack photographic lineup that photographs in position 2 on both october 18 and 30 because the men resembled the gunman. both men had the same build, weighed 180 to 200 pounds, and had similar haircuts, skin tone, and facial hair. during the october 3, 2013 examination, sarabia also identified chinchilla as the man who pointed the gun at him. 8 mitsubishi car pulled up on the opposite side of the street. two men dressed in black exited the car. one man walked towards the back of the car. the man at the holding a gun in his left hand by his left thigh, with the gun pointed down. when the men were about 15 feet away from sequeida, the assumed the man was talking about a rival gang or gang initiation. sequeida did not live in the area and was not familiar with the gangs there. the man in front of the car then raised his gun and pointed sequeida noticed the silver barrel of the semiautomatic handgun. the front passenger seat, then heard eight gunshots. sequeida stayed down until he did not hear any more gunshots. a bullet struck sequthigh, with the bullet entering his outer thigh and exiting his inner thigh. when sequeida sat up, the shooter7 and the other 7 as discussed below, sequeida stated he did not recognize the shooter in a six-pack photographic linphotograph that detective ramirez showed sequeida on october 19, 2012, but on december 20, 2014, when sequeida was 9 man had already gotten back into the black car. sequeida saw the car make a u-turn and drive off. sequeida called the police, and los angeles police officer rodolfo pardo and his partner officer blanco arrived at the told the officers he needed an ambulance. officer pardo observed t pant leg. sequeida initially was reluctant to tell the officers what happened, stating he was afraid and did not want to get involved. after the officers told sequeida an ambulance was coming, sequeida gave a brief statement. he stated two men wearing dark clothing had approached him and fired their guns at him. he described the men as being between 19 and 25 years of age. was glass on the front seat. the officers recovered from the scene a .40-caliber cartridge, ten .40-caliber casings, a nine-millimeter live round, and two bullet fragments that were located near the 4. the police investigation on october 15, 2012 los angeles police detective jose ramirez was assigned to the case as an investigating officer. he read the reports and concluded the suspect may be affiliated with the metro 13 street gang. using various databases, he shown another six-pack photographic lineup, he identified chinchilla as the shooter. at the preliminary hearing on march 4, 2015 and at trial, sequeida identified chinchilla as the person who shot him. 10 determined lino soltero, a metro 13 gang member, was the registered owner of a 2002 black, two-door mitsubishi eclipse. on october 29, 2012 at about 9:45 a.m., los angeles police officer ricardo huerta and his partner officer aaron skiver were in their patrol car near the intersection of valley boulevard and alhambra avenue. officer huerta observed a black mitsubishi eclipse that was wanted in connection with a shooting. the lights and sirens to attempt to pull it over. the black car sped up and entered an alley before stopping. chinchilla exited the front passenger side with a black semiautomatic gun in his hand. he ran eastbound, jumped a fence, and crossed the train tracks before officer huerta lost sight of him. the officers did not chase chinchilla for officer safety because of the second man in the black car. instead, they called for backup and detained soltero, that chinchilla had been in the car with him. chinchilla was not apprehended that day. 5. the gang expert testimony los angeles police officer eduardo mercado, who was assigned to the gang and narcotics division, testified as a gang expert. as part of his duties, he monitored and met with active metro 13 and el sereno gang members on the street or when they were in custody, spoke with school personnel and residents in the area, and engaged in gang intervention. both the arechiga and sarabia incidents occurred in an area claimed by the el sereno gang. a derogatory name for the [s] 11 common in asking a rival gang member about their neighborhood or gang thrivals. the eastlake and lincoln heights gangs claimed the area where sequeida was shot. the derogatory terms for eastlake cheese in spanish, referring to the eastlake cheese brand. the metro 13 gang claimed the area around california state university, los angeles as its territory. the metro 13 gang candy, and the los angeles metropolitan bus line. the metro 13 in 2012 there were approximately 50 documented gang members, with about 25 actively engaging in some type of gang activity. officer mercado met about 20 active gang members; none was the same age, height, and weight as chinchilla. he met chinchilla more than five times. chinchilla admitted to officer mercado his gang affiliation and that he was involved in gang activities. chinchilla had gang tattoos, including a tattoo on his right arm of a bandit with the letter used only by metro 13 members. the metro 13 gang activities included graffiti, vandalism, selling drugs, battery, robbery, assault, assault with a deadly weapon, attempted murder, and murder. in response to hypotheticals mirroring the facts of the arechiga and sarabia 12 incidents, officer mercado opined the crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. gang area showing no fear, [and] show[ed] his associates or fellow gang members that he is willing to be violent or commit any was not a rival gang member, the crime still benefits the metro 13 gang because it an rival gang will find out that the metro 13 gang has been doing likewise, based on a hypothetical mirroring the facts of the sequeida incident, officer mercado opined the crime was committed for the benefit of the metro 13 gang. the status of the gang and gang member are enhanced because the gang member went to anothemight be in another gang, and shot the victim. the shooting shows rival gangs that the gang member and the gang are willing to commit violence. officer mercado also testified about two incidents involving chinchilla and the metro 13 gang in january and june 2012. on january 10, 2012 he and los angeles police officer jorge talledo8 were on patrol when they saw chinchilla with three metro 13 gang members at a gas station. the lincoln heights and clover gangs claimed the area around the gas station. the 8 officer talledo also testified about the january 10, 2012 graffiti incident at trial. 13 the location of the metro 13 gang, which was on the eastside of members who were present, including chinchilla, whose moniker roached, chinchilla looked at the car, dropped his marker, and ran in the opposite direction. the officers exited their car and ordered chinchilla to stop, which he ignored. officer talledo noticed a nearby vehicle with other men inside, so he stayed to detain them. officer mercado and another officer pursued chinchilla and arrested him. about 12:30 a.m. on june 24, 2012 officer mercado responded to a request for assistance from the california state university, los angeles police. when he arrived, he saw the university police officers had detained chinchilla and another individual, who was new to the metro 13 gang. chinchilla did not have any weapons on him. after officer mercado advised chinchilla of his miranda9 rights, chinchilla stated he was sereno gang members in the metro 13 gang area.10 when referring to the el sereno gang members, chinchilla used the graffiti on the walls in t(spanish slang for neighborhood). 9 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436, 479. 10 officer mercado testified in criminal activity for the gang. 14 c. the defense case 1. the alibi testimony in october 2012 she spent the weekends with chinchilla at his home, from friday evening to sunday night. at that time chinchilla was livwas with her cousin on october 12, 2012, then left later that day to spend the weekend with chinchilla. she was with chinchilla on october 13 and 14, and they did not go out that weekend. manzo did not know chinchilla was a metro 13 gang member and did not meet soltero or any other gang members. she and chinchilla had a child together, but were no longer in a relationship. in the garage towards the end of september or october 2012. cuellar saw manzo visiting chinchilla on some weekends and staying with him in the garage. chinchilla dated a second woman, crystal moreno, who stayed on other weekends when manzo was not there. cuellar did not know where chinchilla went on the weekends, but she saw chinchilla a lot when manzo or moreno spent the weekend there. cuellar recalled manzo was with chinchilla during the weekend of october 13 and 14. 2. the expert testimony on eyewitness identification dr. robert shomer, who has a ph.d. in experimental psychology, testified as an expert witness on perception memory and eyewitness identification. according to dr. shomer, the scientific community views eyewitness identification of strangers level of 15 emotions, including stress and fear, make eyewitness identification even less accurate. in addition, when an eyewitness is confronted by a person with a deadly weapon, his or her visual attention is drawn to the weapon and away from the face of the person holding the weapon, thereby reducing the accuracy of the identification. it is essential that all the photographs in a photographic lwitness is shown two photographic lineups that share one photograph in common, this adversely affects the accuracy of the eyewitness identification. dr. k pictures that he saw at the scene of a crime hashas been common photograph in the two different photographic lineups sendparticularly interested in this dr. shomer also opined that showing the witness one photograph at a time, rather than an array of six photographs, is the better practice. showing all the photographs at the same time reduces the accuracy of the identification because it encourages the witness to compare within that set to select the person that most resembles the suspect. there is no correlation between the accuracy of the entification is correct. an eyewitness can do his or her best to recall the suspect but still make a misidentification. 16 d. the verdicts and sentence the jury found chinchilla guilty on all counts. the jury also found the gang and firearm allegations true as to each count. as to count 3, the jury found true the special circumstance allegation chinchilla committed the attempted murder willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. the trial court sentenced chinchilla to an aggregate term of 65 years to life in state prison. the court selected count 1, assault with a firearm on arechiga, as the base term. the court imposed on this count the upper term of four years, plus 10 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.5, subd. (a)), and five years for the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(b)), for a total of 19 years. on count 2 for assault with a firearm on sarabia, the court sentenced chinchilla to one year (one-third the middle term of three years), plus three years four months (one-third of 10 years) for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.5, subd. (a)), and one year eight months (one-third of five years) for the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(b)), for a total of six years. on count 3 for the attempted premeditated murder of sequeida, the court sentenced chinchilla to 15 years to life based on the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5)), plus a consecutive term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), for a total of 40 years to life. on count 4 for shooting at an occupied vehicle, the court sentenced chinchilla to 15 years to life based on the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)), plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), for a total of 40 years to life. the court stayed the sentence on count 4 pursuant to section 654. the court imposed a $30 court facilities assessment (gov. code,  70373) and a $40 court operations assessment (pen. code, 17  1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) for each of the four counts, for a total of $120 for the court facilities assessments and $160 for the court operations assessments. the court also imposed a restitution fine of $5,000 ( 1202.4, subd. (b)) and imposed and suspended a parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount ( 1202.45). the trial court did not state its reasons for imposing the restitution and parole revocation restitution fines or why it imposed an amount above the $300 statutory minimum. ( 1202.4, subd. (b)(1), 1202.45.) at sentencing, chinchilla did not object to imposition of the assessments and fines or raise his inability to pay. chinchilla timely appealed. discussion a. the trial court properly instructed the jury with calcrim no. 875 chinchilla contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury on the elements of an assault with a deadly weapon using calcrim no. 875 because the court failed to modify the instruction (1) to indicate assault is a specific intent crime; (2) to state an assault with a firearm is only committed once the defendant pulls the trigger; and (3) to inform the jury an intent to frighten is not a sufficient mens rea for an assault. these contentions lack merit. the essential elements of a special circumstance allegation [citation] as well as the elements of a charged offense [citation](people v. mil (2012) 53 cal.4th 400, 409; accord, people v. spaccia (2017) 12 18 has a right to accurate instructions on the elements of a charged state the law [citations] and also whether instructions effectively direct a finding adverse to a defendant by removing an issue from [citations]people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218; accord, people v. mendez (2018) 21 , if possible, so as to support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such (spaccia, at p. 1287; accord, people v. webb (2018) 25 cal.app.5th 901, 906.) for the two counts of assault with a firearm, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 875, as modified, in arged in counts 1 and 2 with assault with a firearm in violation of penal code section 245. [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant did an act with a firearm that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person; [] 2. the defendant did that act willfully; [] 3. when the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to someone; [] and [] 4. when the defendant acted, he had the present ability to apply force with a firearm. [] someone commits an act willfully when he or she does it willingly or on purpose. it is not required that he or she intend to break the law, hurt someone else, or gain any advantage. [] . . . [] the people are not required to prove that the defendant actually touched someone. [] the people are not required to prove that 19 the defendant actually intended to use force against someone when he acted. . . 1. the trial court properly instructed the jury that an assault is a general intent crime chinchilla contends calcrim no. 875 mischaracterizes the elements of assault with a firearm by instructing the jury that assault is a general intent crime. he argues assault is a specific intent crime based on his reading of section 240, which ability, to commit a violent injury on elements: a specific intent to commit the crime, and a direct but ineffectual act done toward its acknowledged by chinchilla, the supreme court has decided this question, concluding assault is a general intent crime. as the supreme court held in people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 782 (williamsthe mental state for assault and concluded assault requires only a general criminal intent and not a specific intent to cause injury. (people v. rocha (1971) 3 cal.3d 893, 899 . . . .) seven years ago, we reaffirmed rocha and reiterated that assault was a general intent crime. (people v. colantuono (1994) 7 cal.4th 206, 215-216 . . . .established upon proof the defendant willfully committed an act that by its nature will probably and directly result in injury to id. at p. 214.) today, we once again clarify the mental state for assault and hold that assault requires actual knowledge of the facts sufficient to establish that the defendants act by its nature will probably and directly result in 20 accord, in re b.m. (2018) 6 cal.5th 528, 533 people v. perez (2018) 4 cal.5th 1055, people v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, 1170 (chanceintent to injure is not an element of assault because the assaultive act, by its n the law. (k.r. v. superior court (2017) 3 cal.established that a holding of the supreme court binds all of the lower courts in the state, including an intermediate appellate people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 527-528 [decisions of supreme court are binding on appellate courts].) calcrim no. 875, which instructs the jury that assault with a deadly weapon is a general intent crime, is consistent with this supreme court precedent. (see people v. golde (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 101, 122 [calcrim no. in failing to tell the jurors they could consider the absence of 2. a defendant can commit an assault with a firearm without pulling the trigger chinchilla contends an individual who points a loaded gun at someone lacks knowledge this action will probably and directly result in application of force because the application of force is not likely until the person pulls the trigger. in support of this argument, he asserts 11 citing to 11 components: (1) an act or omission, sometimes called the actus 21 the discussions of actus reus in chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at page 1170, and mens rea in people v. williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at page 790 (williams) and people v. colantuono, supra, 7 cal.4th at page 214 (colantuono). the supreme court in chance rejected this argument. (chance, at pp. 1168, 1171.) in chance, the supreme court considered the actus reus required for assault, specifically, what is required for a defendant inflict injury on the present occasion that is determinative, not whether injury will necessarily be the instantaneous result of the chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1171.) the chance establish that an assault may be committed even if the defendant is several steps away from actually inflicting injury, or if the victim is in a protected position so that injury would not be id. at p. 1168.) williams and colantuono were not intended to and did not transform the traditional understanding of assault to insulate defendants from id. at p. 1171.) the chance conviction, concluding he had the present ability to inflict injury on a police officer even though the defendant pointed his gun in the wrong direction (incorrectly believing the officer was in front reus; and (2) a necessary mental state, sometimes called the menpeople v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111, 1117; see  22 of him, although the officer had moved behind him), and the defendant could not fire his gun until he moved a new round into the firing chamber. (chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 1173, (id. at p. nce on williams and colantuono to argue a defendant must pull the trigger on a gun to commit an assault is misplaced because, as in chance, a rily be the chance, at p. 1171.) 3. an intent to intimidate or frighten the victim provides a sufficient mens rea for an assault finally, chinchilla argues calcrim no. 875 fails to inform the jury that an intent to intimidate provides an insufficient mens rea for assault.12 but chinchilla principally williams. (see people v. wolcott (1983) 34 conviction for assault may not be grounded upon intent only to people v. vidaurri (1980) 103 cal.app.3d 450, 463 [same]; people v. puckett (1975) 44 cal.app.3d 607, 614 [same].) 12 requepeople v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 824; accord people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 674is incorrect, we do not reach whether chinchilla forfeited this argument by failing at trial to request a pinpoint instruction. 23 as explained by the supreme court in williamsdefendant guilty of assault must be aware of the facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that a battery would directly, naturally and probably result from his conduct. he may not be convicted based on facts he did not know but should have known. he, however, need not be subjectively aware of the risk that a williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 788.) under williams, an intent to frighten can be a sufficient culpable mental state for assault if a defendant knew his or her act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of not to harm the victim. (see id. at p. 788, fn. honestly believes that his act was not likely to result in a battery is still guilty of assault if a reasonable person, viewing the facts known to defendant, would find that the act would directly, people v. bipialaka (2019) 34 cal.app.5th 455, 459 (bipialaka) [defendant committed assault with a deadly weapon when he nearly caused a high-speed collision because he knew his purpose was to use his probably result in physical fo chinchilla also relies on language in people v. ervine (2009) 47 conduct is insufficient,frighten is insufficient to prove assault with a deadly weapon. but as explained recently by the court of appeal in bipialaka, the language in ervine is a quote from the 1996 trial court jury instruction, not from a supreme court holding modifying 24 williams13 (bipialaka, supra, 34 cal.app.5th at p. 460.)14 because an intent to frighten may be a sufficient culpable mental state for an assault, the trial court properly declined to include a statement in the instruction to the contrary. b. substantial evidence supports the convictions for assault with a firearm chinchilla contends there is insufficient evidence to support his convictions for assault with a firearm because there conduct and the circumstances of the crimes provide substantial pointing an (unloaded) gun in a threatening matter at another person. [citation.] however, the fact that the gun was loaded may be inferred from circumstantial evidence, and we will uphold people v. penunuri (2018) 5 cal.5th 126, 147 (penunuri); accord, people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11, fn. words and conduct in the course of an offense may support a 13 the supreme court in ervine did not address whether assault after williams. (people v. ervine, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 805.) rather, the defendant there asserted he shot the gun by accident, not to frighten the victim. (id. at p. 805, fn. 20.) 14 the court in bipialaka holding in people v. wolcott, supra, 34 cal.3d at page 99 was not controlling authority because it predated williams, and the williams (bipialaka, supra, 34 cal.app.5th at p. 460, quoting williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 787.) 25 rodriguez, at p. 13; id. at p. 12 [jury could reasonably have concluded defendant had present ability to harm the victim where people v. montgomery (1911) 15 i have got you now,unless the gun was loaded].) judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the people v. westerfield (2019) 6 cal.5th 632, 713; accord, penunuri, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. review the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt.standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact reasonably could infer from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled westerfield, at p. 713; accord, penunuri, at p. 26 on june 24, 2012 chinchilla told officer mercado that he had sprayed gang graffiti because he saw rival gang members from el sereno in the area claimed by metro 13. just four months later, on october 13, chinchilla and two other metro 13 gang members drove to el sereno gang territory, each of them armed with guns. chinchilla yelled at arechiga in his driveway, . . . . fuck echiga did not respond, chinchilla exited the chest, repeatedly ashand started to shake as he held the gun just 10 to 12 inches back seat passenger also pointed guns at arechiga. a jury could reasonably infer from the circumstantial evidence that chinchilla went to the el sereno gang territory in response to the intrusion of el sereno gang members into metro 13 gang territory four months earlier. a jury could also reasonably infer that chinchilla would not have approached arechiga, a man he suspected was an el sereno gang member, pointed a gun at his face, and asked him where he was from, unless the gun was loaded. similarly, the jury could have relied a assault on sarabia occurred in el sereno gang territory. chinchilla exited the car with his gun pointed at sarabia, and chinchilla asked sarwas on the trigger, and his hand was shaking. as with arechiga, 27 the jury could reasonably have inferred chinchilla would not have approached and pointed a gun at a man he suspected was an el sereno gang member and asked where he was from, unless the gun was loaded. the jury also could reasonably have relied was shaking as he pointed the gun at sarabia. moreover, both sarabia and sequeida testified chinchilla pointed a silver-colored gun at them. a jury could reasonably infer the gun pointed at shoot sequeida about five hours later. (see penunuri, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. ry could reasonably infer, as the prosecutor argued, that the gun [the defendant] pointed at [the victim] was the same gun used to kill [two other victims] a few hours later, and was therefore loaded at the time of the c. brandishing a firearm is not a lesser included offense of assault with a firearm offense necessarily included in the charged offense if there is (people v. gonzalez (2018) 5 cal.5th 186, 196, quoting people v. shockley (2013) 58 cal.4th 400, 403; accord, people v. landry (2016) 2 cal.5th 52, 96.) however, if a crime is a lesser related offense, a trial court cannot instruct on the uncharged related crime unless the prosecution and defense agree. (people v. mora and rangel (2018) 5 instruct a jury on lesser related offenses defendant]; people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 668 . . . california law does not permit a court to instruct concerning 28 an uncharged lesser related crime unless agreed to by both included offense of a greater offense: the elements test and the accusatory pleading test. [citation.] either of these tests triggers offenses. under the elements test, one also elements of the greater offense. [citation.] under the acoffense if all of the elements of the lesser offense are also found in the facts alleged to support the greater offense in the accusatory people v. gonzalez, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 197; accord, people v. robinson (2016) 63 cal.4th 200, 207.) we apply the elements test here because the amended information incorporates the statutory definition of assault with a firearm without additional factual allegations. (people v. robinson, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. accusatory pleading incorporates the statutory definition of the charged offense without referring to the particular facts, a reviewing court must rely on the statutory elements to determine if there is a lessepeople v. shockley, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. defendant with lewd conduct simply tracked [the statutory] language without providing additional factual allegations, we ) we independently review whether a trial court should have instructed on a lesser included offense. (people v. licas (2007) 41 cal.4th 362, 366; people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596.) 29 chinchilla contends the trial court had a duty to instruct on brandishing a firearm ( 417, subd. (a)(2)) because it is a lesser included offense of assault with a firearm. this claim has been considered and consistently rejected by courts of appeal. (see people v. steele (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 212, 218 (steeleen though most assaults with a firearm undoubtedly include conduct fitting into the definition of brandishing, it has long been held that brandishing is a lesser related offense, rather than lesser people v. escarcega (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 391, 398 consistently held that penal code section 417 does not cover or define an offense lesser than, and necessarily included within, the crime of assault with a deadly weapon as proscribed by penal copeople v. torres (1957) 151 cal.app.2d 542, offense necessarily included within the crime of assault with a an assault with a firearm, like other types of aunlawful attempt, coupled with a present ability, to commit a violent injury on 240; see  245, subd. (a)(2) [setting punishment for assault with firearm].) a person ence of any other person, draws or exhibits any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, in a rude, angry, or threatening manner, or who in any manner, unlawfully uses a firearm in any fight or quarrel . . . ( 417, subd. (a)(2).) as the court of appeal in steele explained, without exhibiting the firearm in a rude, angry or threatening manner, e.g., firing or pointing it from concealment, or behind the steele, supra, 83 cal.app.4th at p. 218; accord, 30 people v. escarcega, supra, 43 cal.app.3d at p. an assault with a deadly weapon may be perpetrated without drawing or exhibiting it in a rude, angry, or threatening manner, or using it in a fight or quarrel. it might be committed by a hidden sniper, or by a stealthy prison stabbing, or in other innumerable ways without at the same time being a violation of steele and escarcega persuasive and conclude brandishing a firearm is not a lesser included offense of assault with a firearm. chinchilla contends steele was wrongly decided, although he fails to cite to any cases that reach a contrary conclusion. instead, he notes brandishing a weapon under section 417, subdivision (a)(2), does not require a victim to be aware of the weapon in his or her presence, citing to people v. mckinzie (1986) 179 cal.app.3d 789, 794 (mckinzie). chinchilla is correct that, to prove the crime of brandishing a weapon, the exhibition of a weapon in a rude, angry, or threatening manner must be done in the presence of a victim,aware of the weapon. (mckinzie, at p. 794; accord, in re michael d. (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 115, 124 [section 417, d when the perpetrator brandishes the weapon in a threatening manner, even if the person being mckinzie explained, it is enough that the brandishing be in public, in the presence of the victim, where some third party happening along might get the idea that either the victim or brandisher need help, or might think a brawl is in the making which he might join. the thrust of the offense is to deter the public exhibition of weapons in a 31 unawareness of the weapon does little to mitigate the danger mckinzie, at p. 794.) it does not follow, however, that brandishing a weapon is a lesser included offense of an assault with a firearm, an issue not addressed in mckinzie. it is true that if a person exhibits a loaded firearm in a rude, angry, or threatening manner from randishing and an assault with a firearm. but it is also true that if a person points a firearm at a victim from a concealed location, such as behind a trailer as in chance, it would not constitute brandishing if it was not done in the presence of the victim, but it would still be an assault if the defendant had the present ability to inflict injury. (see chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 1175-loaded weapon and concealment behind the trailer gave him the means and the location to strike brandishing a firearm is not a lesser included offense of assault with a firearm, the trial court had no duty to instruct on the offense. d. fication of chinchilla was not based on an impermissibly suggestive photographic lineup chinchilla contends his due process rights were violated impermissibly suggestive six-pack photographic lineup.15 we conclude otherwise. 15 chinchilla first raised this issue in a motion for a new trial. as discussed below, because the december 20, 2014 photographic lineup was not unduly suggestive, the trial court did not abuse its 32 1. the photographic lineups16 on october 18, 2012 detective ramirez and officer diaz showed sequeida two 6-pack photographic lineups that included soltero and eric guerrero, two metro 13 gang members. sequeida did not recognize anyone in either photographic lineup. he stated the only person he would be able to identify was the person armed with the silver-colored handgun who shot him. on october 19, 2012 detective ramirez showed sequeida two more six-pack photographic lineups, one of which included 17 sequeida stated he did not recognize anyone in the two 6-pack photographic the identification procedure. ((2016) 62 ruling on a new trial motion . . . people v. howard (2010) 51 cal.4th 15, 42-43 [the determination of a motion for a new trial rests so completely within the courts discretion that its action will not be disturbed unless a manifest and unmistakable abuse of discretion clearly appears.not reach whether chinchilla forfeited his challenge to the identification procedure by his failure to object at trial or his assistance of counsel. 16 chinchilla does not challenge the identifications by arechiga and sarabia of chinchilla in the six-pack photographic lineups shown to them. 17 detective ramirez included chinchilla in the photographic lineup because chinchilla was a metro 13 gang member who matched the physical description given by the victims of being about 19 to 25 years of age, five feet 11 inches tall, heavyset, with a round face and dark skin. 33 lineups. while viewing the two 6-pack photographic lineups, sequeida stated he felt uncomfortable trying to pick the shooter out of the lineups. he did not want to get involved in the investigation or have to come to court in light of his full-time employment. he also preferred not to identify the shooter from a photographic lineup because he did not want to make a mistake. sequeida added he would be able to recognize the shooter if he saw him in person. detective ramirez attempted unsuccessfully over the next two years to have sequeida participate in an in-person lineup. in late october 2012 detective ramirez called sequeida two or three times and left voice mail messages, but according to detective ramirez, sequeida did not return the calls. on october 30, 2012 and june 18, 2013 detective ramirez left business cards at est that sequeida contact him. detective ramirez testified sequeida did not contact him. sequeida testified he returned the call, but he did not provide any specifics and acknowledged he never observed an in-person lineup. sequeida denied he was afraid something bad might happen to him if he took part in the investigation. but he acknowledged that about a month after the shooting he told the fter he spoke with detective ramirez lost contact with sequeida in november or december 2014 after sequeida moved. thomas snook, an office, later located sequeida and arranged an interview. on december 20, 2014 the prosecutor and snook interviewed sequeida at his house. before 34 the interview, snook prepared a six-pack photographic lineup that included photographs of chinchilla and individuals who looked similar to him. before showing sequeida the six-pack photographic lineup, snook read the following admonition: ny comment. those shown in the photographs you are about to see. if you recognize any of the persons in the photographs as the suspect, go back and pick out the person you recognize. if you recognize any of the persons, please do not ask me whether you[r] choice was sequeida stated he understood the admonition, then signed and dated the written admonition. sequeida selected chinchilla, who was in position 3 in the photographic lineup, as the person who shot him. 2. the photographic lineup was not unduly suggestive of law, we consider (1) whether the identification procedure was unduly suggestive and unnecessary, and, if so, (2) whether the identification itself was nevertheless reliable under the totality of the circumstances, taking into account such factors as the opportunity of the witness to view the suspect at the time of the offense, toffense, the accuracy of his or her prior description of the suspect, the level of certainty demonstrated at the time of the identification, and the lapse of time between the offense and the identificatiopeople v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, 930; accord, people v. clark (2016) 63 35 challenged identification procedure is unnecessarily suggestive is it necessary to determine the reliability of the resulting thomas, at pp. 930-931; accord, people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 902.) existence of an unreli (people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 942; accord, people v. avila (2009) 46 demonstrating the identification procedure was unduly findings of historical fact, especially those that turn on credibility ruling regarding whether, under those facts, a pretrial people v. thomas, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 930; people v. clark, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 556-557.) chinchilla contends the december 20, 2014 photographic lineup was impermissibly suggestive because he was the only individual who was in both that photographic lineup and the one shown to sequeida on october 19, 2012. chinchiwas in the second position in the october 19, 2012 photographic lineup and the third position in the december 20, 2014 photographic lineup. further, chinchilla asserts the december 20, 2014 photographic lineup was unduly suggestive because he was the only individual wearing a gray shirt. both contentions lack merit. although chinchilla was the only person common to both photographic lineups, this alone does not render the later photographic lineup impermissibly suggestive. (people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 124 [procedure under which detective 36 showed witness two photographic lineups one month apart, with a more recent photograph the second time, was not unduly suggestive]; people v. desantis (1992) 2 fact that defendant was the only person common to both [the photographic and in-person] lineups did not per se violate his due people v. blair (1979) 25 cal.3d 640, 658, 660-661 [rejecting argument that witness was unduly influenced in his identification of defendant in an in-person lineup where more than two months earlier witness was shown four sets of photographic lineups in which defendant appeared in three lineups, each containing between six and 15 photographs].) as the supreme court explained in people v. yeoman, supra, 31 successive lineups might be suggestive if the same photograph were reused or if the lineups followed each other quickly enough for the witness to retain a distinct memory of the prior lineup. but here, different photographs of defendant appeared in each lineup, and the two lineups were separated in time by a month. under these circumstances we see no reason to believe that the use or position of defendants image in both lineups was lineups appear to have used the same photograph of chinchilla, they were shown to sequeida two years apart, minimizing any chinchilla. moreover, the fact chinchilla was the only person wearing a gray shirt in the december 20, 2014 photographic lineup was not unduly suggestive, especially given that none of the witnesses described the perpetrator as wearing a gray shirt. (people v. 37 carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1163 [rejecting argument that the six-pack photographic lineup was unduly suggestive because defendant was the only person wearing an orange shirt]; people v. johnson (1992) 3 cal.4th 1183, 1217-1218 was the only person depicted in jail clothing . . . was not unduly knew what jail clothing looked like when she made the people v. desantis, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1223 [fact that only defendant wore a red shirt in a five-pack photographic lineup where perpetrator wore red jacket during crime did not make photographic lineup unduly suggestive].) chinchilla 20, 2014 meeting at which snook showed sequeida the photographic lineup tainted examination, sequeida testified: december, did i ever tell you who to pick out when you looked at those pictures? man that shot you? did i tell you who that person was? did i tell you who the right person was to pick out? of those picture[s] or did you tell me? not you picked the right guy? 38 circle the face of although sequeida provided ambiguous testimony about of chinchilla, there was no evidence the prosecutor engaged in any improper conduct. before sequeida was shown the photographic lineup on december 20, 2014, snook gave him a photographic lineup admonition, which sequeida stated he understood, then confirmed by signing the written admonition. snook testified neither he nor the prosecutor pointed out chinchilla in the photographic lineup or confirmed whether sequeida selected the right person. further, sequeida did not look at snook or the prosecutor while he was viewing the totally on the six-pack. and he never looked at either one of us chinchilla has therefore not met his burden to show the identification procedure was unduly suggestive. e. the trial court disclosed all relevant materials at the pitchess hearing 1. pitchess motion on september 15, 2015 chinchilla filed a pitchess motion pursuant to evidence code section 1043, seeking discovery of on into relevant conduct, including but not limited to incidents of misconduct or moral t[u]uerta, skiver, and detective ramirez.18 the los angeles police 18 chinchilla sought disclosure of all complaints of misconduct, including any incidents relating to discharge of 39 department and the named officers opposed the motion. on september 30, 2015 the trial court granted the pitchess motion, but limited its order to disclosure of information concerning fabrication by any of the four officers. the court conducted an in camera hearing and ordered disclosure of three complaints involving officer huerta, one complaint involving officer skiver, and one complaint involving officers huerta and skiver. the trial court did not order any disclosure as to officer diaz and detective ramirez. 2. the trial court released all discoverable materials responsive to its order granting the pitchess motion information in an offiexamine the records in camera to determine if any information people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 424; accord, people v. anderson (2018) 5 court may not disclose complaints over five years old, conclusions drawn during an investigation, or facts so remote or irrelevant winbush, at p. 424; see evid. code,  on a motion for access to law enforcement personnel records is people v. landry, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 73, quoting people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330; accord anderson, at p. 391.) weapons, use of excessive force, bigotry, false arrest, fabrication of charges and evidence, unreasonable or illegal searches and seizures, dishonesty, racism, improper tactics, neglect of duty, and conduct unbecoming a police officer. 40 chinchilla requests we review the sealed portion of the record, which includes the transcript of the in camera hearing. an independent in camera review is proper. (people v. anderson, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. defendant properly asks us to review the sealed record of the in camera hearing to determine whether the court erroneously failed to provide discovery that he should people v. hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 330 [conducting independent examination of materials in camera on appeal].) we have reviewed the sealed record. the trial court reviewed the records, made a detailed record of what it reviewed, and released all relevant discoverable materials. the court did not abuse its discretion. (see people v. anderson, supra, 5 cal.5th at p. 391; people v. winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 424.) f. supplemental pitchess discovery as to three complaints, but the error was harmless 1. the motion for supplemental pitchess discovery on october 26, 2015 chinchilla filed a motion for supplemental discovery of peace officer personnel records. received disclosure of the names, addresses, and telephone numbers for four complainants (gustavo subuyuj, elsa deras, monica ramirez, and karen membreno), but no contact information as to a fifth complainant with the four complainants for whom he had telephone numbers. according to run-in with any police officer. deras stated she was afraid to 41 testify against officer skiver after the officer displayed his gun and called her a liar for testifying her friend did not have a gun filed a civil action against officer huerta, and he refused to disclose any more information. membreno could not recall the details of the incident except that it involved a child in her care. not have her telephone number. chinchilla contended he was unable to obtain sufficient information to determine the nature of the complaints made by any and all verbatim reports, documents, memos, notes, and/or recordings concerning the previously disclosed complainant(s) and/or witness(es) . . . at the october 26, 2015 hearing, the trial court denied the motion for supplemental discovery. the court explained as to one has the name of monica melendez highlighted. it has no phone contact number, yet . . . it lists witnesses, and then at the bottom it has another name, joseph [flores,] with the same identical address as monica melendez with a cell number. [] so there. the job is required to go and investigate and perhaps go and find out from that is nothing that the court can do with respect to that. that is 42 2. chinchilla was entitled to supplemental discovery, but s a pitchess motion, it orders disclosure of the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of individuals who have in the past witnessed alleged officer misconduct or who have (galindo v. superior court (2010) 50 cal.4th 1, 5; accord, warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 occasions when that information proves insufficient, either because a witness does not remember the earlier events or the witness cannot be located, a supplemental pitchess motion may be filed and the statements of the witnesses may be disclosed to people v. ghebretensae (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 741, 757 (ghebretensae); accord, pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 537 [defendant established good cause for discovery of prior statements by two complainants made against named deputy sheriffs where the complainants were unavailable for interviews]; alvarez v. superior court (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 1107, 1110, 1114 (alvarez) [defendant was entitled to supplemental pitchess discovery where a deputy sheriff refused to discuss his complaint against named deputy sheriff]; city of azusa v. superior court (1987) 191 cal.app.3d 693, 696-697 [plaintiffs would be entitled to records of complainremember the details of the events about which they had we review for an abuse of discretion the ruling on a motion for supplemental pitchess discovery. (pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 43 the sound discretion of the trial court, which has inherent power alvarez, supra, 117 cal.app.4th at p. 1113 [denial of defendant who has established that the trial court erred in denying pitchess discovery must also demonstrate a reasonable probability of a different outcome had the evidence been people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 182 (gaines); accord, people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 110 (samuels) [denial of pitchess motion was harmless error under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836].) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the motion for supplemental discovery of the complaint made by melendez against officer huerta and the complaint deras made against officer skiver because chinchilla failed to establish good casserted he could not contact melendez because he did not have her telephone number, as the trial court noted, disclosed witness joseph flores shared the same address as melendez, and the disclosure included his cell pin person or by telephone, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding there was no good cause for supplemental pitchess discovery based on witness unavailability. her complaint. deras stated she was afraid to testify against officer skiver because he had displayed his gun and called her a liar after she testified at a preliminary hearing that her friend did not have a gun with him at the time he was arrested in his 44 car. although deras was afraid to testify at trial, she was available and cooperative, and she remembered the details of the incident. further, chinchilla could have issued a trial subpoena to compel deras to testify at trial. as for the subuyuj, ramirez, and membrano complaints, motion for supplemental discovery because chinchilla established good cause for all three complaints.19 subuyuj made a complaint he did not have a run-in with any officers. whether subuyuj could not remember the incident or was uncooperative, either provides good cause for supplemental discovery. (pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d at p. 537; ghebretensae, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 757; alvarez, supra, 117 cal.app.4th at p. 1114.) as for ramirez, her attorney stated ramirez had filed a civil action against officer huerta, but he declined to discuss the matter. 19 due diligence because he only spoke with four of the complainants by telephone and did not engage in a reasonable investigation, citing people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 523. but sanders attendance at trial before that witness can be deemed unavailable under evidence code section 240, not pitchess discovery. (sanders, at p. ce on ghebretensae, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at page 758, is misplaced. in ghebretensae, the court unavailability because it was made upon information and belief. (ibid.) hhis personal knowledge. 45 supplemental discovery. (alvarez, at p. 1114.) chinchilla also demonstrated good cause for supplemental disclosure of not recall the details of the incident except that it involved a child in her care. (ghebretensae, at p. 757.) because chinchilla showed good cause for supplemental pitchess discovery, the trial court erred by denying the motion based on its mistaken belief that nothing more could be done if the complainants were uncooperative. (people v. knoller (2007) 41 f the trial court based its decision on impermissible factors [citation] or an incorrect legal standard [citations]wade v. superior court (2019) 33 an application of improper criteria or incorrect legal assumptions is not an exercise of informed discretion . . . however, the pitchess discovery as to the membreno, ramirez, and subuyuj complaints was harmless error. all three complainants filed complaints assault of arechiga and sarabia, and it had minimal relevance to in the photographic lineup. officer huerta testified about an incident on october 29, 2012, which occurred two weeks after the arechiga, sarabia, and sequeida incidents. his testimony established that on october 29 chinchilla was with soltero, the owner of the black car that was connected to the october 13 and 14 incidents. officer huerta testified that after the car was pulled over, chinchilla fled while carrying a black gun. chinchilla does not 46 dispute that he knows soltero, nor is it disputed that both chinchilla and soltero were members of the metro 13 gang, which had only 25 active gang members. indeed, because of their gang connection, by october 19 detective ramirez placed sequeida. in addition, the black gun chinchilla carried on october 29 was not the same gun used in the arechiga assault, which arechiga described as a black spray tip gun, or the silver gun used in the sarabia and sequeida incidents. further, officer huerta had no involvement in the identification procedure challenged by chinchilla. had the trial court granted supplemental pitchess discovery on the membreno, ramirez, and subuyuj complaints made against officer huerta, it is not reasonably probable disclosure of the complaints would have led to a different outcome at trial. (gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 182; samuels, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 110.) subuyuj also filed a complaint against officer skiver, who responded to the october 29, 2012 incident with officer huerta. similar to officer huerta, any testimony about officer skiver had because officer skiver did not testify at trial, his credibility was not at issue. thus, as to this complaint as well, it is not reasonably probable disclosure of the complaint would have led to a different outcome at trial. (gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 182; samuels, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 110.) g. the trial court erred in imposing both the gang and firearm enhancements on counts 1 and 2 chinchilla contends the trial court erred in imposing the five-year gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision 47 (b)(1)(b), and the 10-year firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a). we agree. the supreme court in people v. le (2015) 61 cal.4th 416, 424-425 (leuse of a firearm in his commission of an assault with a semiautomatic weapon, concluding the sentence was unauthorized. (id. at p. 429.) as the supreme court explained, section 186.22 provides different levels of enhancement for a base felony if the felony is committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang depending on whether the base felony is a serious or violent felony, or is neither. (le, at pp. 422-423.) under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a), if the base felony is neither serious nor violent, the additional term is two, three or four years; if the base felony qualifies as a violent felony, then under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(cthe person shall be punished by an additional term of 10 years.le, at p. the base felony qualifies as a serious felony under the list of shall ibid., quoting  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(b).) the issue in le was whether the trial court properly imposed a firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a)(1), and a serious felony gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), based on the defendant using a firearm in the commission of a single offense. (le, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 421.) the court looked to section 1170.1, enhancements may be imposed for being armed with or using a dangerous or deadly weapon or a firearm in the commission of a single offense, only the greatest of those enhancements shall be imposed for that 48 le, at p. 423.) the court noted that the crime of an assault with a semiautomatic firearm (like assault with a firearm here) is designated as a serious felony in the list of serious noting it qualified as a serious offense under section 1192.7, felony in which the defendant ), (c)(23) (any felony in which the defendant personally used a dangerous or deadly weapon), or (c)(31) (assault with a deadly weapon, firearm, . . . or semiautomatic firearm). (le, at p. 425.) the le imposing both a firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a)(1) and a serious felony gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b) when the crime qualifies as a serious felony solely because it involved firearm use. because both enhancements in the present case were based solely on [defendantoffense, section 1170.1, subdivision (f) requires that only the le, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 429; accord, people v. francis (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 876, 881 [trial court could not under  1170.1, subd. (f), impose both firearm enhancement and gang enhancement for offense of assault with a semiautomatic firearm]; see people v. rodriguez (2009) 47 cal.4th 501, 508 [trial court erred in imposing gang enhancement for a violent felony under  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c), and enhancement for personal use of a firearm under  12022.5, subd. (a), as enhancement to crimes of assault with a firearm because enhancements violated  1170.1, subd. (f)].) 49 here, as in le, the trial court erred in imposing the gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), applicable to an underlying serious felony, and the firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a). the people argue le does not apply because assault with a firearm as charged in counts 1 and 2 qualifies as a serious felony under section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(28), which lists as a serious felony d also constitute a felony violation play only if the defendant reoffends, at which time any prior felony that is gang related is deemed a serious felony. thus, any felony that is gang related is not treated as a serious felony in the current proceeding . . . people v. briceno (2004) 34 cal.4th 451, 465 (briceno).) as the briceno interpretation . . . avoids the impermissible bootstrapping that would occur if any felony that is gang related is also deemed serious in the current proceeding. specifically, while it is proper to define any felony committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang as a serious felony under section 1192.7(c)(28), it is improper to use the same gang-related conduct again to obtain an additional five-(ibid.; accord, people v. bautista (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 646, 657 [trial court erred in imposing both five-year enhancement applicable to a serious felony under  667, subd. (a), and five-year enhancement based on  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(b), where both enhancements were based on classification of underlying offense as serious felony based on gang allegation].) the people urge us to adopt the same impermissible bootstrapping approach rejected by the briceno courtto deem 50 the assault with a firearm as a serious felony in the current proceeding to support an additional five-year sentence under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b). we follow le and briceno, give the trial court an opportunity to restructure its sentencing choices in light of our conclusion that the sentence imposed here people v. rodriguez, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 509.)20 h. chinchilla was on notice of the allegation he committed the offenses charged in counts 1 and 2 for the benefit of a criminal street gang, in violation of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) chinchilla was sentenced on count 3 under section 186.22, 20 the people urge us not to remand for resentencing, but instead to stay the sentence for the gang enhancement, citing to people v. francis, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at page 887 [where trial court impermissibly imposed gang and firearm enhancement, remand was not required because trial court imposed the maximum possible sentence, so there were no sentencing choices for trial court to make on remand].) here, remand is appropriate for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements imposed pursuant to sections 12022.5, subdivision (a), and 12022.53, subdivision (d), discussed below. if the trial court strikes the firearm enhancement on either count, it will not need to stay the gang enhancement. in addition, under section 12022.5, subdivision (a), the trial court may impose a term of three, four, or 10 years; section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), provides for a five-year term. thus, depending on the or gang enhancement will have the greater term. 51 who violates this subdivision in the commission of a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for life shall not be paroled until a minimum of 15 calendar years have been 15-year minimum parole eligibility requirement on count 3 because the amended information only alleged as to this count violations of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) and (4). chinchilla argues the imposition of a sentence for an uncharged enhancement on count 3 violated his due process right to fair notice of charges against him. this contention lacks merit because the information alleged every fact supporting the enhanced punishment, and therefore chinchilla received fair notice of the allegation.21 due process requires that an accused be advised of the specific charges against him so he may adequately prepare his defense and not be taken by surprise by evidence offered at trial.people v. mancebo (2002) 27 cal.4th 735, 750; accord, 21 chinchilla did not forfeit this argument by failing to object in the trial court because a defendant does not forfeit an argument the trial court imposed an unauthorized sentence that mandatory provisions governing the length of people v. mancebo (2002) 27 cal.4th 735, 749, fn. 7 [defendant did not forfeit argument failure to allege sentence enhancement under one strike law precluded imposition of enhancement]; accord, people v. jimenez (2019) 35 cal.app.5th 373, 395 [defendant did not forfeit his challenge to unauthorized sentence where information did not place him on notice of sentence enhancement].) we therefore do not reach the sentence enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. 52 people v. houston (2012) 54 a due process right to fair notice of the allegations that will be 22 however, cthat the statute be specifically alleged as long as the pleading apprises the defendant of the potential for the enhanced penalty and alleges every fact and circumstance necessary to establish its people v. tardy (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 783, 787 [where information charged defendant with robbery and alleged prior prison terms for theft offenses, defendant could be sentenced for the felony offense of petty theft with a prior theft-related conviction, even though the information did not specifically allege commission of the felony offense]; accord, people v. thomas (1987) 43 cal.3d 818, 826-allegations of the accusatory pleading, rather than the statutory definitions of offenses charged, constitute the measuring unit for determining what offenses are included in a charge [citation.] even a reference to the wrong statute has been viewed of no consequence . . . people v. fialho (2014) 229 -settled that only the factual allegations underlying an offense or enhancement must 22 the courts have referred to charges against him or her both as a general principle of due process and of the right to due process grounded in the sixth amendment to the united states constitution. (see people v. thomas (1987) 43 cal.3d 818, 823 [we begin with the preeminent principle that one accused of a crime must be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation. (u.s. 53 although chinchilla is correct the amended information did not expressly allege the 15-year minimum parole eligibility requirement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), the amended information alleged every fact necessary to place him on notice he was subject to the enhanced punishment. section 186.22, subdivision (b), provides for an enhancement with a prison term that depends solely on the underlying felony committed on behalf of the criminal street gang. (see le, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 422-423 [ 186.22, subd. (bdifferent levels of enhancement for the base felony if that felony direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang . . . people v. francis, supra, 16 cal.app.5th at p. subdivision (b) attaches specific penalties to specific types of because the underlying offense of attempted murder was punishable by a life sentence, under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), imposition of a 15-year minimum eligibility term was mandatory upon the jury finding the offense was committed to benefit a criminal street gang. the amended information charged chinchilla with attempted murder, specified the punishment for the felony as a life term, and alleged the gang allegation under section 186.22, subdivision (b), thereby placing chinchilla on notice the punishment under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), applied to the offense. (see people v. sok (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 88, 96, fn. 186.22, subd. (b)(4)(b), did not preclude imposition of greater minimum term under  186.22, salternate penalty or enhancement would be sought in connection 54 with [the count], as well as the factual basis for that special people v. neal (1984) 159 the information puts the defendant on notice that a sentence enhancement will be sought, and further notifies him of the facts supporting the alleged enhancement, modification of the judgment for a misstatement of the underlying enhancement statute is required only where the defendant has been misled to also  insufficient, nor can the trial, judgment, or other proceeding thereon be affected by reason of any defect or imperfection in matter of form which does not prejudice a substantial right of the 23 people v. mancebo, supra, 27 cal.4th at page 749, relied on by chinchilla, is distinguishable. in mancebo, the supreme court reversed the imposition of an enhanced sentence based on a multiple victim circumstance that was not alleged in the turned on its interpretation of section 667.61, subdivisions (f) and (i), of the one strike law, which require the enumerated circumstances to be specifically pleaded in the information or indictment. (mancebo, at p. 749.) limited to a construction of the language of section 667.61, subdivisions (f) and (i), read together, as controlling id. at p. 745, fn. 5.include a multiple-victim-circumstance allegation must be id. at p. 749.) here, 23 chinchilla concedes the pleading error did not impact his defense. 55 inclusion of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) and (4) in count 3 of the information, which do not apply to the charge of attempted murder, shows this was not a discretionary charging decision, but rather, an error in the information. (see people v. lopez (2005) 34 with life terms] from the 10-year enhancement in [section 186.22,] people v. williams (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 733, 744-745 [10-year enhancement under  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c), did not apply to felony for which defendant was sentenced to life term under three strikes law]; see also  186.22, subd. (b)(4) [specifying punishment for home invasion robbery, carjacking, extortion, and felony violations of  246 (shooting at inhabited dwelling house, occupied building, or occupied motor vehicle) and  12022.55 (discharging firearm from motor vehicle in commission of felony or attempted felony)].) moreover, unlike section 667.61, subdivision (f), there is no requirement in section 186.22, subdivision (b), that the specific circumstances supporting the penalty enhancement be pleaded in the information.24 rather, our holding in sok is directly on point, 24 we note sll enhancements shall be alleged in the accusatory pleading and either admitted by the defendant in open court or found to be however, as the court in people v. fialho, supra, 229 cal.app.4th at page 1397 explained in holding section 1170.1, subdivision (e), did not prevent the trial court from sentencing the defendant to the applicable firearm enhancement under section 12022.5 even though the information alleged the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, ection 1170.1, subdivision (e) does not require the prosecution to include specific statutory references for enhancement allegations. . . . [citations.] here the information pleaded all the facts necessary for the former section 12022.5 enhancements in 56 in which we concluded the trial court should have imposed the minimum term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(a), not the lesser term alleged in the information under subdivision (b)(4)(b). (people v. sok, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 96, fn. 8.)25 the section 12022.53 allegations.information did not allege the correct statutory enhancement, it alleged all facts necessary for the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), enhancement to apply. 25 people v. sweeney (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 295 is also misplaced. in sweeney, the defendant petitioned for resentencing of his convictions of multiple theft-related offenses as misdemeanors under proposition 47, the safe neighborhoods and schools act. (sweeney, at p. 299.) the people argued because the offenses were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang and the defendant had been sentenced under section 186.22, subdivision (b), the offenses should still be sentenced as felonies, even if reclassified as misdemeanors, under section 186.22, subdivision (d), which elevates a gang-related misdemeanor to a wobblermisdemeanor or a felony). (sweeney, at pp. 300-301.) the court of appeal rejected this argument on the basis a defendant cannot be punished with both the enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b), applicable to a felony, and the enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (d), applicable to a misdemeanor. (sweeney, at p. 301.) thus, because the information alleged the enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b), the defendant was not provided adequate notice that in the future subdivision (d) might apply. (sweeney, at p. 301.) here, there is no issue of retroactive application of an enhancement that could not have been charged at the time of the information. rather, as discussed, the correct enhancement applicable to the crime of attempted murder was the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), enhancement the trial court imposed. 57 i. remand for resentencing is necessary for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements chinchilla contends remand is appropriate for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements imposed on counts 1 and 2 ( 12022.5, subd. (a)) and counts 3 and 4 ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). we agree. required to impose the firearm enhancements under sections 12022.5 and 12022.53. (former  12022.5, subd. (c), 12022.53, subd. (h).) however, in 2017 the governor signed into law senate bill no. 620 (2017-2018 reg. sess.), which went into effect on january 1, 2018. senate bill no. 620 amended sections 12022.5, subdivision (c), and 12022.53, subdivision (h), to give trial courts discretion to strike firearm enhancements under these sections in the interest of justice. ( 12022.5, subd. (c), 12022.53, subd. (h), as amended by stats. 2017, ch. 682,  2.) both sections contain pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any ( 12022.5, subd. (c), 12022.53, subd. (h).) the people concede sections 12022.5, subdivision (c), and 12022.53, subdivision (h), as amended, apply retroactively to chinchilla, whose sentence was not final at the time those provisions came into effect. (see people v. johnson (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 26, 68; people v. almanza (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1104, 1109; people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1080.) the people contend remand is not required because the 58 trial court chose the maximum terms allowed and made comments at sentencing that indicate it would have declined to strike the firearm enhancements. at sentencing, the court term on the two counts for assault with a firearm, statingwas a really serious set of events. this could easily be labeled as domestic terrorism. . . . [] . . . [] . . . but the fact that makes it so egregious to me are the facts that i stated that he did this with a firearm, the people were completely vulnerable. there was no provocation on their part at all. he just chose them randomly or part of just an attempt to terrorize people. . . . [] . . . [] . . . this is . . . such a horrible set of events by terrorizing a neighborhood . . . although the record suggests the trial court would not have stricken the firearm enhancements even if it had the discretion to do so, the court was not aware of the full scope of the discretion it now has under the amended statutes. (see people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 is unaware of the scope of its discretionary powers can no more exercise that may be based on misinformation regarding a material aspect of a people v. billingsley, supra, 22 cal.app.5th at p. the firearm allegations had the court known it had that the record does not clearly indicate the trial court would have 59 declined to exercise its discretion to strike the firearm enhancements had it known it had that discretion. (people v. johnson, supra, 32 cal.app.5th at p. 69 [remand was necessary notwithstanding statements by trial court that firearm if [it] did have discretionpeople v. almanza, supra, 24 cal.app.5th at p. 1110 [remand was required even though the trial court chose consecutive sentences instead of concurrent sentences for murder and assault with a firearm]; billingsley, at p. the court suggested it would not have stricken the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (c), even if it had that discretion, the court was not aware of the full scope of j. chinchilla is entitled to a hearing on his ability to pay the assessments chinchilla requests we remand the case for the trial court to conduct an ability-to-pay hearing in accordance with our opinion in people v. dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th 1157 (dueas), because he was indigent at the time of sentencing. we agree chinchilla should have an opportunity on remand to request a hearing and present evidence demonstrating his inability to pay the assessments imposed by the trial court. we r parole revocation fine in the same amount. in dueas, supra, 30 cal.app.5th at page 1168, this court 60 section 70373 and penal code section 1465.8, if imposed . . . upon indigent defendants without a determination that they have the present ability to pay violates due process under both the united in contrast to the assessments, a restitution fine under section dueas, at p. 1169.) may be considered only when increasing the amount of the restitution fine above the minimum required by statute. as we held in dueas, to avoid the serious constitutional question although the trial court is required by . . . section 1202.4 to impose a restitution fine, the court must stay the execution of the fine until and unless the people demonstrate that the defendant has the ability (dueas, at p. 1172.) 1. under dueas in their supplemental briefing, the people contend the fines and assessments because he failed to object to their imposition at sentencing. however, at the time chinchilla was sentenced, dueas had not yet been decided. as we explained in people v. castellano (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 485, 489 (castellano) dueas had held it was unconstitutional to impose fines, fees or 61 pay. . . appeal is based on a newly announced constitutional principle that could not reasonably have been anticipated at the time of bipialaka, supra, 34 cal.app.5th at p. 464 [defendant forfeited challenge by not objecting to the assessments and restitution fine at sentencing]; people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app. 5th 1126, 1153-1154 [same].) as in castellano, we decline to find chinchilla forfeited his constitutional challenge to the imposition of the assessments. the people contend, however, that at the time of sentencing, chinchilla had a right under section 1202.4, subdivision (d), to challenge imposition of a restitution fine above the $300 statutory minimum, and the parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount ( 1202.45, subd. (a)), and therefore we should not remand for an ability-to-pay hearing as setting the amount of the fine pursuant to subdivision (b) in excess of the minimum fine pursuant to paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), the court shall consider any relevant factors, seriousness and gravity of the offense and the circumstances of its commission, any economic gain derived by the defendant as a result of the crime, the extent to which any other person suffered losses as a result of the crime, and the number of victims although chinchilla failed in the trial court to challenge imposition of the $5,000 restitution fine and parole revocation people v. mccullough (2013) 62 56 cal.4th 589, 593 [finding defendant forfeited challenge to imposition of booking fee where he failed to raise his ability to pay the fee in the trial court]; accord, in re s.b. (2004) 32 cal.4th should be exercised rarely and only in cases presenting an because we are directing the trial court to hold an ability-to-pay hearing on remand as to the $120 court facilities assessments and $160 court operations assessments, we leave it ability to pay the $5,000 restitution and parole revocation restitution fines on remand. as the supreme court explained in in re s.bparties to bring errors to the attention of the trial court, so that in re s.b., supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 1293.) pay the assessments, it may also consider whether chinchilla has the ability to pay these fines. 2. on remand chinchilla is entitled to an opportunity to challenge imposition of the assessments the people contend the record does not support a remand for an ability-to-pay hearing because chinchilla failed to show in the trial court he did not have the financial ability to pay the fines and assessments, nor the future earning capacity to pay, including from wages he would earn while in prison. but the pay at the time of sentencing is that he was 25 years old and his employment and financial statuses were unknown. 63 the people are correct chinchilla must in the first instance request an ability-to-pay hearing and present evidence of his dueas, a defendant must in the first instance contest in the trial court his or her ability to pay the fines, fees and assessments to be imposed and at a hearing present evidence of his or her inability to pay the amounts contemplated by the trial court.(castellano, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at p. 490.) however, as discussed in the context of forfeiture, because chinchilla was not aware of his ability to challenge the assessments on due process and equal protection grounds, we conclude he should have that opportunity on remand. further, as noted, on remand chinchilla may also request an ability-to-pay hearing on imposition of the $5,000 restitution fine and parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount. chinchilla has not shown a due process violation because he has not demonstrated adverse consequences from imposition of the fines potential adverse consequences beyond the fee or assessment itself, as the imposition of a fine on a defendant unable to pay it (castellano, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at p. 490.) disposition we affirm the convictions but reverse the sentence and remand for resentencing with directions for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the firearm enhancements. for any count as to which the trial court declines 64 to strike the firearm enhancement, the court may impose only the enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a), or section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), whichever carries the greater term. further, on remand the trial court should allow chinchilla to request a hearing and present evidence of his inability to pay the court facilities and operations assessments the court imposed. the trial court should also consider whether to allow chinchilla to present evidence of his inability to pay the $5,000 restitution fine and the parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount imposed by the court. feuer, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. stone, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 