 filed 4/2/19 p. v. reed ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. viniquia reed, defendant and appellant. b285307 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma070803) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa strassner, temporary judge. affirmed. melissa j. kim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, supervising deputy attorney general, nima razfar, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant viniquia reed (defendant) used her gun to fire what she called a warning shot at a friend, jordan bentley-smith (bentley-smith), when they were arguing. at trial, defendant claimed she fired in self-defense because bentley-smith, who had been drinking, charged at her with a knife. the jury rejected the defense and convicted defendant of assault with a firearm and discharge of a firearm with gross negligence. we consider whether the trial court prejudicially erred in excluding defense character witness testimony and in permitting impeachment of another witness with a 20-year-old conviction for welfare fraud. we also decide should have granted a defense batson/wheeler1 motion. i. background at the time of the charged offenses, defendant lived in the aptly named palmdalia apartment complex in palmdale, california. in the evening on march 14, 2017, defendant had several people over to her apartment: bentley-smith, treanna grady (grady), brooke hunter (hunter), and sister, arana reed (arana). both defendant and arana had been friends with bentley-smith for years, and hunter is their cousin. bentley-smith had never seen grady before. 1 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson); people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler). 3 a. the offense conduct, as described at trial by bentley-smith and by defendant, who testified in her own defense on the evening in question, defendant and bentley-smith met at a smog test shop in the afternoon and later went to defenafter arana and grady arrived, bentley-smith [grady]number defendant testified she had warned bentley-smith, [bentley-smithhe the group started drinking alcohol. in describing the events that ensued, d-accounts diverged. 1. defendant testified she, arana, and hunter did not drink much, but bentley-smith and grady drank heavily. defendant estimated bentley--shot glass[es] as they were drinking, bentley-smith continued to make unwelcome sexual advances toward grady. when defendant and bentley-smith were discussing the music industry and grady interjected to mention she knew a promoter who could help defendant in her career, bentley-smith challenged grady and -smith and grady traded insults, and bentley-dex finger. defendant urged bentley-smith to leave the apartment bentley-smith braced himself against the front door, and began 4 insulting arana. arana picked up a glass bottle and threw it at bentley-smith but hit defendant instead. when arana picked up the bottle again, bentley-smith got a six-inch knife from the as the conflict continued to escalate, defendant went to her room and removed her gun from the safe and pouch she used to store it. she initially left the gun in her room, but she brought it out as bentley-smith continued to argue with arana. the dispute between bentley-smith and the women moved into a courtyard in the middle of the palmdalia complex. bentley-saying . . . he felt like [defendant] set him up to get turned down defendant then she demonstrated her actions on the witness stand, which fire it basically atwith the hands at shoulder level, pointing straight ahead indicating to the side. in other words, shooting not at the person comiafter the gunshot, bentley-smith relented and defendant returned to her apartment. about eight minutes later, defendant heard someone screaming because bentley-smith had broken the window of apartment. 2. bentley- bentley-unwanted sexual advances toward grady and touching her in an aggressive manner. he conceded that he and grady argued about music industry contacts, the argument 5 and defendant urged him to leave with her. bentley-smith testified, however, that the bottle thrown by arana struck his hand and made him drop his phone. at no point did he have a knife. as bentley-smith went to pick his phone up off the floor, defendant held arana and grady back. bentley-smith left the apartment with defendant behind him. once in the courtyard, bentley-smith was going to turn around when defendant fired a shot at him. bentley-her apartment still aiming the gun at bentley-smith, and bentley-smith punched a window as he left the complex. he station to report what happened. b. trial testimony from bystanders and investigating officers two other palmdalia residents testified at trial. chantal nowlin (nowlin) heard, but did not see, the confrontation in the courtyard and called 911. nowlin was not acquainted with defendant or her guests. nowlin testified she heard a man screaming at a crying woman and the man said hcome back and everybody in tthen heard a gunshot followed immediately by breaking glass.2 another neighbor, daveion young (young) saw part of the confrontation from outside his front door. although it was dark 2 nowlin reported a different sequencethe gunshot, then in recorded phone calls and a prior law enforcement interview. testifying at trial, nowlin insisted the threat preceded the gunshot. 6 rtly obscured, he saw bentley-seconds later, saw bentley-smith break a window. lasd deputy zachary gregg and detective matthew pereida also testified at trial. gregg was one of several deputies he testified deputies found -automatic handgun in a kitchen cupboard in defendantseveral bullets inside a bag of sugar. detective pereida testified that when he contacted lisa miller (miller), at the time of the shooting, she told him the inoperable and did not capture any video surveillance footage of detective pereida acknowledged he did not remember exactly what [miller] had miller testified she told lasd personnel who inquired about surveillance video that all cameras were functioning but she could not retrieve the video because a password had been changed. as discussed in greater detail post, the trial court testimony by establishing she was convicted of welfare fraud, a felony, in 1997. c. the defense case, verdicts, and sentence as is already clear from our recitation of the background facts thus far, defendant testified in her own defense. in addition, the defense sought to call two character witnesses: 7 esmeralda caldera (caldera), another palmdalia manager, and harold cofer, jr. (cofer). the defense proffered, based on a letter caldera wrote, that she would testify defendant lived at the palmdalia for two years, paid her rent on time, was respectful with neighbors and management, and never had any nuisance complaints lodged against her. cofer was expected to provide testimony consistent with a letter of recommendation he prepared for defendantfour months before the charged firearm assaultthat lauded job performance and character.3 the trial court reasoned relevant based on what the defense had proffered. explaining, the court said testimony to the effect that defendant rent on time and . . . has not gotten in any feuds with any of her reputation in the community without further testimony 3 as read by counsel into the record, the letter, in full, stated: [t]his recognition award letter is to highlight [defendant] for her continued excellence in customer service and outstanding attitude toward daily operations. [] [defendant] has been a great citizen as well as a positive influence amongst peers. [defendant] goes above and beyond the call of duty anytime she receives an assignment. [she] has shown growth and leadership and focuses on being an asset to colleges and business owners. i have submitted this recommendation as an award to her for remaining consistent in having very high character. honor having 8 4 the trial court similarly concluded s proffered testimony was not relevant either, both because the letter that provided the basis for the proffer was written four months before the charged offense conduct and because the references that she is a team player at her job. in rendering its formal ruling on the record, the trial court excluded the 5 following closing argument by counsel, the trial jury convicted defendant on both charged counts, assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)) and discharge of a firearm with gross negligence (pen. code,  246.3, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced defendant to a two-year prison term: the low term of two years for assault with a firearm and the middle term of two years for discharge of a firearm with gross negligencewith the latter stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. 4 further discussion of the issue. 5 the references are to provisions of the evidence code. evidence code section 352 gives a trial court discretion to exclude if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.trial court appears to have misspoken in citing evidence code section 1103; rather, the pertinent section is evidence code section 1102, which, in subdivision (a), allows a defendant to offer evidence of a character trail in the form of an opinion or reputation to prove conduct in conformity with that character trait. 9 ii. discussion the two evidentiary rulings defendant challenges on appeal do not warrant reversal. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the proffered character witness testimony from caldera and cofer because defendant made no adequate showing they would testify to a relevant character trait. nor is reversal warranted for decision to allow the prosecution to impeach miller with a 20-year-old welfare fraud generally, were merely tangential to the issues the jury had to decide. batson/wheeler contention, defendant maintains the trial court erred at the third stage of a batson/wheeler reason for excusing a black prospective juror was genuine and non-discriminatory. we accord appropriate deference to the trial the court made a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate (observations corroborated) for excusing the prospective juror, namely, that the juror was hesitant to agree adequate proof of a fact could come from the uncorroborated testimony of a single witness. viewed through s efforts at engaging in comparative juror analysis for the first time on appeal to discredare unpersuasive. 10 a. witnesses was not an abuse of discretion evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), sets forth the racter or a trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a section 1102 establishes an an opinion or evidence of his reputation is not made inadmissible by section 1101 if such evidence is: [] (a) offered by the defendant to prove his conduct in conformity with such character or trait of character. . . the evidence code section 1102 allows a criminal defendant to introduce evidence, either by opinion or reputation, of his character or a trait of his character that is relevant to the charge made against him. [citations.] such evidence is relevant if it is inconsistent with the offense chargede.g., honesty, when the charge is theftand hence may support an inference that the defendant is unlikely to have committed the offense.people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1305 (mcalpin).) lay opinion testimony admissible under evidence code mcalpin, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1307.) reputation may know about a defendant. reputation is the estimation in which an individual is held; in other words, the character imputed to an individual rather than what is actually known of 11 id. at p. 1311.) evidence code section 352 may be invoked to limit evidence otherwise admissible under evidence code section 1102. (see people v. wagner (1975) 13 cal.3d 612, 619.) evidentiary rulings under [evidence code sections 352, 1101, and people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 437.) defendant contends caldera and have bolstered her self-defense claim by establishing her -[ ]there is no dispute that, based on the defense proffers, caldera and cofer had positive impressions of defendant. the trial court, however, did not abuse its discretion in excluding the testimony because the proffers were insufficient to establish either witness would competently testify as to her reputation for peacefulnessthe only characteristic that was truly relevant by being 6 (mcalpin, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 6 determining how closely defendant was acquainted with caldera and cofer, which as defendant argues, is not necessarily indicative of their knowledge of her reputation for peacefulness. but the defense testimonial proffers, in the form of letters from caldera and cofer, did not expressly discuss her reputation for familiarity with defendant can be understood as attempts to discern whether they were likely to offer a competent opinion on that score. defendant, however, argues it does not matter that such an express opinion was absent from he presumably would not praise defendant as he did in his letter if he had a negative view of her reputation for peacefulness. this 12 1305; see also evid. code,  proffered evidence has the burden of producing evidence as to the existence of the preliminary fact, and the proffered evidence is inadmissible unless the court finds that there is evidence sufficient to sustain a finding of the existence of the preliminary fact, when: [] (1) the relevance of the proffered evidence depends on the existen indeed, dproof . . . showed that [caldera or cofer] knew . . . whom [defendant] associated in the community[ with] any information regarding her character or reputation in the community for non-violence[,] defendant nevertheless contends caldera and cofer could have testified about her reputation for peacefulness even if they did not but the notion that one can form a acquaintancei.e., without any other acquaintances in commonignores the inherently social character of reputation. (see, e.g., people v. paisley (1963) 214 cal.app.2d 225, 232 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding witness whose opinion of another character was based on is true so far as it goes. but it does not follow that cofer would only offer such praise if he had a positive view of her reputation for peacefulness. cofer might very well have no view one way or without a proffer establishing the existence of such a view, the trial court could reasonably determine the testimony was not relevant. 13 .) this is especially so when, in light of the facts proffered by the defense, the two y with defendant was as narrow and limited as it was. furthermore, even conceding two character witnesses may have had some relevant reputational testimony to offer, the trial court also expressly relied on evidence code section 352 to exclude the testimony and this was certainly section 352, of course, permits a court to exclude relevant evidence when the probative value of the evidence is substantially outweighed by the probability that it will necessitate undue consumption of time at trial. the time it would take for direct and cross-examination of the two character witnesses was not great, but assuming there was some probative value in the proffered character testimony, the trial court could reasonably conclude that probative value was still so low as to be unworthy of even a relatively short diversion. defendant protests, however, that it does not matter whether the trial court could arrive at such a conclusion because the record does not affirmatively demonstrate the court performed the balancing contemplated by evidence code section 352.7 this, however, is wrong, as evidenced most clearly by the 7 mention any factor or analysis under evidence code section 352, and the record as a whole fails to show the court performed any of its obligatthis is an overstatement. the court analyzed the relevance of the proffered testimony extensively on the record components of an evidence code section 352 analysis. 14 on-the-record reference to evidence code section 352 when making its ruling. no more was required. (people v. taylor [a] court need not expressly weigh prejudice against probative value or even expressly state that it has done so, if the record as a whole shows the court was aware of and performed its balancing functions under evidence code b. defendant was not prejudiced by conviction for welfare fraud a crime of moral turpitude is admissible to impeach the witness. (evid. code,  788; people v. green (1995) 34 cal.app.4th 165, 182 (greenfor impeachment purposes, the court should consider, among or veracity, whether it is near or remote in time, whether it is for the same or similar conduct as the charged offense, and what testify. (people v. beagle (1972) 6 cal.3d 441, 453[ ]; [ ] green[, supra, at p.] 183people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th convictions for impeachment purposes for abuse of discretion. (green, supra, at pp. 182-183.) in the trial court, the defense sought to bar impeachment with the prior conviction because it was too old, having been sustained in 1997, some 20 years before. the prosecution contended the age of the conviction was mitigated by the fact that probation until 2010 when she 15 the trial court allowed the impeachment, reasoning the conviction was not too remote in light of the probation violation that led to prison time in 2010. defendant now argues this was error because, as she contended below, the conviction was too remote. 20 years old, as in the case at bar, certainly meets any reasonable threshold test of people v. burns (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 734, 738.) in time are not automatically inadmissible for impeachment purposes. even a fairly remote prior conviction is admissible if the [witness] has not led a legally blameless life since the time of people v. mendoza (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 918, 925-926.) whatever the we think one thing is abundantly clear: the impeachment vel non of an obviously collateral witness at trial obviously had no bearing on the verdicts rendered by the jury. in other words, in the language of the pertinent case law, it is not reasonably probable that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result in the absence of error. (people v. collins (1986) 42 cal.3d 378, 391-392 [people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 standard applies in assessing prejudice resulting from erroneous admission of prior convictions].) there is no reason to think the result in this case turned on indeed, by the end of the trial, clear there was any meaningful conflict between detective ; as the prosecution argued in 16 there was no video. he said that the take-away was there was no but proceeding on the understanding there was a true conflict, the key dispute at trial was not over whether the jury credited miller over detective pereida. rather, this was a credibility contest turning on whether the jury believed defendant or bentley-smith, and the attention paid to the credibility of both during the closing arguments of both sides reflects that; references to miller and the video cameras at the palmdalia were miniscule portions of the closing arguments. while defendant now believes was important because conflict between her testimony and that of detective pereida showed the investigation to be [defendant] and nowlin,defendant does not explain the nexus between nt and nowlin, and we see none. the jury was never these interviewsrather, the interviews were audio-recorded and the recordings of both were played at trial.8 8 we are also not that miller knew either defendant or young and therefore no basis to suppose her criminal history somehow undermined their credibility by association. 17 c. substantial evidence supports the trial courtdetermination that the defense did not show intentional discrimination defendant contends the prosecutionchallenge to excuse one of two black prospective jurors9 from the initial 20-person panel of the venire was intentionally discriminatory and the trial court was wrong to find otherwise. we hold observations that it pfinding that the prosecutionprospective jurorthe testimony of a single witness may be sufficient to prove a factwas genuine and race-neutral. 1. voir dire during voir dire, the prosecution asked prospective jurors whether they would be able to comply with an instruction that the testimony of a single witness may be sufficient for the proof of a fact. as discussed postbatson/wheeler motion concerns a black man dubbed prospective juror no. 18 (juror no. 18).10 9 the other black juror in the initial panel, prospective juror number 6, was not challenged and was seated as a trial juror. 10 confusing. defendant opts, for no record-based reason, to refer to number five spot in the jury box right before he was excused. 18 the prosecutor first raised the issue in a question to prospective juror no. 19 (juror no. 19): at another legal instruction is that one witness is enough to prove any fact, okay? [] do you feel like you would be able to follow that, or do you think that in a like, you really need to hear from multiple people who all are testifying to t : could definitely follow, i guess, depending on what it is. after the prosecutor probed further by presenting a hypothetical to illustrate the conceptthat will point that way, it might be sufficient. juror no. 19 then elaboratedcorroborates with each other, it prosecutor . . . the situation where the testimony of the witness is the presentation of that respondedi mean, if they saw it, i guess that, believe this b the prosecutor then turned to prospective juror no. 5 witness to an incident; but i would hope the rest of the presentation would highlight that one testimony with more prosecutor 19 the prosecutor juror no. 52) and the black juror in question, juror no. 18, raised their something, some other stories or evidence to corroborate that independent kind of fac the prosecutor next asked whether any other prospective jurors felt the same way as juror nos. 2 and 18. prospective juror no. 1 (juror no. 1) and juror no. 4 (juror no. 4) raised witnesses, some people are very good at imparting of information and others are not. it would be difficult to really tell if the witness was being truthful or not simply by listening to them or observing them. [] in my case, i would really prefer to have some physical evidence to back up the facts[;] not saying that the witness is not being truthful but rather that the witness is describing what he or she believes they saw. the prosecutor listening to it in conjunction with anything juror no. 1 agreed. the prosecutor turned to juror no. 2, who also agreed. the prosecutor that you would, however, be able to say, you know, in evaluating follow the law in regards to, you know, a fact can be proven by everything else that will prove everything as a whole? [] does 20 that make sense? [] so there are different requirements, prove maybe part of that, but then everything else together to whom this question was addressed, but juror no. 1 answered [y] the testimony of the witness, we had no physical evidence to back y, i would really have no choice but to assume that the witness is being truthful because i see no evidence, no other testimony, to counter the witn the prosecutor remarked prospective jurors generally, there was no verbal response, although juror no. 4 raised a hand. the prosecution called on juror no. 4 and asked whether he or she agreed with juror no. 1. juror no. 4 assented and mentioned having read reliability of eyewitnesses and their ability to remember the among the prospective jurors against whom the prosecution exercised peremptory challenges were three of the six prospective jurors involved in the foregoing discussion: juror nos. 4, 5, and 18. the other prospective jurors with whom the prosecution engaged on this issuejuror nos. 1, 2, and 19were ultimately seated on the jury. when the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge against juror no. 18, the defense objected on batson/wheeler grounds. arguing the batson/wheeler issue, defense counsel stated[juror no. 18] is an african-american individual. my 21 client is african-american. i would note that there were only two african-not mistaken, out of the entire [venire] of 40 jurors that was sent to us. 18] say anything whatsoever that could remotely suggest any reasonable basis to challenge him other than the trial court ruled defense counsel had established a prima facie case of discrimination and the prosecutor gave his reason conversation with the panel with regards to the witnesses, [juror no. 18] indicated that he would need additional evidence aside from that. i was able to clarify with juror [no.] 1 and another follow the law. [] when i asked . . . the people if they would no. 18] seemed a bit hesitant so i decided not to inquire further so as to not get at something that could taint the jury, but my impression from him was that even if he believed the testimony of the witness that he would not find that would be enough, that he would need additional information. so that was the last impression that i had. the trial court inquired whether the defense opted to submit the matter. no comparative analysis of the prospective jurors was therefore undertaken in the trial court. the trial court denied the batson/wheeler motion. the court explained the rationale for its ruling on thcourt does find the reasons offered by the prosecution to be credible. specifically, the court also did note in [its] notes based [18] would want 22 facts to back up his statements. the court made a notation of that fact, and there was no other questioning related to that. however, he was one of those individuals that did raise their hand relating to that he would, in essenceit was relating to circumstantial evidence or questioning relating to sole witness testifying and whether there needed to be enough to prove that fact or whether there needed to be additional evidence. he was one of the individuals that indicated that he would like to see additional evidence to back up any testimony, and so the court did make a notation of that as well. [] his lack of answering the questions relating to the understanding by jurors no. 1 and 4, who, subsequently, indicated that they would take everything as a whole relating to the individual testimony of one witness versus the testimony as a whole, he was nothe did not answer up that he was in agreement or in disagreement with that one way or the other. [] however, based upon the fact that he did indicate his issue with wanting facts to back up testimony, which is what his words were, the court does feel that specifically that . . . batson wheeler 2. applicable law both the federal and state constitutions prohibit the use of peremptory challenges to exclude prospective jurors on the basis of race, gender, ethnicity, or other cognizable grounds. (people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 383 (scott); see also batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 97; wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-277.) exclusion of even one prospective juror for reasons impermissible under batson and wheeler constitutes structural error, requiring reversal.people v. gutierrez (2017) 2 cal.5th 1150, 1158 (gutierrez).) 23 batson/wheeler inquiry consists of three distinct steps. the opponent of the peremptory strike must first make out a prima facie case by showing that the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. if a prima facie case of discrimination has been established, the burden shifts to the proponent of the strike to justify it by offering nondiscriminatory reasons. if a valid nondiscriminatory reason has been offered, the trial court must then decide whether the opponent of the strike has proved the people v. zaragoza (2016) 1 cal.5th 21, 42; people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612 (lenix).) the third step involves an evaluation of the credibility of the pr which improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1168.) we presume that a prosecutor uses peremptory challenges in a constitutional manner and give great deference to the trial courts ability to distinguish bona fide reasons from sham excuses . . . . [citation.]people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, relative advantage vis--vis reviewing courts, for it draws on its credibility. [citation.]gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159.) the reviewing court defers to its conclusions on appeal, and examines only whether substantial 24 people v. melendez (2016) 2 cal.5th 1, 15 (melendez).) 3. analysis as a threshold matter, the parties dispute the question to which the prosecution claimed juror no. 18 responded hesitantly. when justifying his exercise of the peremptory challenge against with juror [no.] 1 and another jrecollect right now, that they would follow the law. [] when i asked about the people if they would agree with them, most hesitant . . . the attorney general contends the prosecution was referring to the moment at which, after clarifying the law with juror nos. 1 and 2, the prosecution feel that you would, however, be able to say, you know, in you, that you would be able to follow the law in regards to, you know, a fact can be looking at everything else that will prove everything as a whole? t, by contrast, contends the prosecution was referring to the moment when, after juror no. 1 incorrectly stated he or she the transcript does not, of course, reflect when individual jurors nodded their heads. nor does it reflect whether the prosecution, through gesture, eye contact, or other body 25 language, addressed the foregoing questions to an individual juror or to a group that included juror no. 18. this is why our -hand invokes for exercising a peremptory challenge. (lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th e absence of exceptional circumstances, we . . . defer to [the trial court]ibid.) here, the trial court noted the questions relating to the understanding by jurors no. 1 and 4, who[ ] subsequently[ ] indicated that they would take everything as a whole relating to the individual testimony of one witness versus the testimony as a whole . . . this summary supports hesitated in assenting explanation, and there is no reason not to defer to the trial court. the minor differences in phrasing do not, as own reasoning for the rationale given by the prosecutor, as prohibited by gutierrez.11 (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 1159.) 11 agreement between the prosecution and the trial court that juror no. 18, unlike other prospective jurors, did not readily assent to evaluate t26 with that issue resolved, the real thrust of the challenge batson/wheeler ruling is an effort at comparative juror analysis not undertaken in the trial court. specifically, defendant argues the prosecution struck one of the two black prospective jurors on grounds equally applicable to three other prospective jurors, juror no. 1, juror no. 2, and juror no. 19 (who defendant refers to as juror no. 5)all of whom were ultimately seated on the jury. defendants who wait until appeal to argue comparative juror analysis must be mindful that such evidence will be considered in view of the defs ultimate finding of no discriminatory intent.lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 624; accord, melendez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 15 when comparative juror arguments are made for the first time on appeal . . . , the prosecutor [is] not asked to explain, and therefore generally [does] not explain, the reasons for not challenging other jurors. in that situation, the reviewing court must keep in mind that exploring the question at trial might have shown that the jurors were not really comparable. accordingly, we consider such evidence in light of the deference s ultimate finding of no discriminatory .) the three comparator jurors identified by defendant are not good comparators at all. all eventually provided assurances that they understood the testimony of a single witness may be sufficient to prove a fact. juror nos. 1 and 2 agreed with the peremptory challenge against juror no. 18. (gutierrez, supra, 2 cal.5th at pp. 1172-1173.) 27 that you would be able to say, like, if you believed [a witness,] be able to say, i believe this beyond a moreover, these jurors apparently nodded their assent when the prosecution asked whether they agreed that a fact can be proven by the testimony of a single witness. juror no. 18 [for] some independent kind of fathat difference provided a sound basis for a genuine judgment that he should be excused while there was no need to object to the others, and the fact that the other black prospective juror in the jury panel was seated on the trial jury without objection provides some further assurance that intentional discrimination on the basis of race was not afoot. (people v. cunningham (2015) 61 cal.4th 609, 665). defendant protests, however, that even if juror nos. 1, 2, and 19 eventually abandoned their reservations about the , the prosecution deliberately avoided asking juror no. 18 the sort of follow-up questions that might have rehabilitated him as well. our supreme court has held voir dire on a subject of purported concern can, in some circumstances, be circumstantial evidence suggesting the stated concern is pretextual. (people v. lomax (2010) 49 cal.4th 530, 573.) even though such an argument was not raised by the defense in the trial court, the prosecutor had the foresight to address precisely this point in giving his statement of reasons. the prosecutor explained that after he observed juror no. 1828 hesitation in response to the panel-wide question posed after the colloquy with individual jurors, the prosecutor was reluctant to question juror no. 18 furthecould taint the jury . . . to have in voir dire, it is a concern that is buttressed to some degree -responsiveness to the group-wide question after voir dire of individual jurors, and it dispels the decision to refrain from further individual questioning of juror no. 18 could be considered desultory voir dire indicative of intentional discrimination. (see melendez, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. significance].) substantial evidence supports the trbatson/wheeler ruling. 29 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports baker, j. we concur: rubin, p. j. moor, j. 