filed 10/11/18 p. v. castro ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christopher julian castro, defendant and appellant. b285595 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba448507) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james r. dabney, judge. affirmed. christine dubois, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * 2 defendant and appellant christopher julian castro appeals from his conviction by jury of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. he contends it was error for the trial court to instruct on mutual combat because there was no evidence supporting it, and that the court failed to discharge its duty to clarify the law regarding mutual combat when the jury requested an explanation. we affirm. factual and procedural background defendant was charged by information with one count of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)). it was also alleged defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the offense within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). the charge arose from an incident that took place in july 2016. the evidence and testimony received at trial revealed the following facts. on saturday evening, july 16, 2016, michael lum and some friends went to a nightclub in hollywood. friend, dominic jones, worked as a promoter at the club. several mutual friends of theirs, including senna notter s roommate julian, were also there, as was defendant. after a few , and then mr. lum invited people over to his home in los angeles. by the , it was early sunday morning. everyone had been drinking throughout the night. some people had used cocaine, including mr. jones, ms. notter, and defendant. initially, both defendant and mr. jones seemed to be in a good mood and having a good time, along with everyone else. 3 however, at some point, defendant started acting belligerent and out of control. he was banging on a drum set. he was harassing julian and trying to drag him out of bed where he had passed out drunk. he slid down the stair railing and broke an expensive piece of art. mr. jones could tell that mr. lum was upset so he told mr. lum that he would ask defendant to leave. when mr. jones approached defendant in the kitchen and asked him to go, he got very angry for being singled out. mr. jones told defendant he was the only one acting crazy and breaking things . defendant paced around and then went to look for his cell phone. he came back into the defendant, who was taller than mr. jones, stepped right up to him, face to face, and he then pushed mr. jones, and mr. jones pushed back. defendant pushed mr. jones again, much harder. mr. jones stumbled and fell to the ground. defendant jumped on mr. jones and punched him hard in the face. mr. jones was in and out of consciousness and could not remember everything that happened. mr. jones recalled wrestling with defendant on the ground for a bit and trying to throw punches at defendant. defendant continued to punch him. mr. jones to stop him but was unable to do so. he recalled hearing mr. lum yelling and trying to stop the fight. defendant stood up and started kicking mr. jones. mr. jones tried to defend himself and cover his face. he the blow landed on his jaw and he lost consciousness. when he regained consciousness, he coughed up blood. 4 ms. notter testified she did not see the fight start, but she saw or heard portions of what happened. she heard the sound of glass breaking after defendant had come in from outside. mr. jones told , which made defendant mad. ms. notter did not see who acted first, but she saw defendant and mr. jones pushing each other, and then it escalated to punching. mr. jones fell to the floor. mr. lum eventually came downstairs and told them to stop, but d and the defendant kicked him eight to 10 times. ms. notter yelled at defendant to stop. defendant acted like he was going to kick mr. jones again, and then mr. lum cut him on the arm with a sword, which finally made him stop. according to mr. lum, defendant and mr. jones argued verbally it was clear by the way they were staring at each other, their body language and the tone of their voices , that they were not getting along. mr. he did not want anyone fighting in his house. they both stopped, but eventually started verbally sparring again. at some point it became physical, but mr. lum did not see who started it. he heard some of the female guests yelling and some sort of scuffling. mr. lum went into the living room and fighhe and a few other people told them to stop. they stood up and were about six feet apart, still yelling they both looked very angry. 5 mr. lum told everyone to go home. defendant went to get his shoes and his cell phone. mr. lum went to the kitchen, along with mr. jones. at some point, defendant appeared and he and mr. lum told them, again, to not fight in his house. the verbal taunting escalated again into a physical altercation, but mr. lum did not see how it started. defendant and mr. jones crashed into some glass vases and broke them, and once again ended up wrestling on the ground. mr. lum went upstairs to his room to get a weapon. he felt he had to try to control the situation. mr. lum owned a type of sword used for defense. he had been trained in how to use it properly. when he came downstairs with the sword, he yelled again at defendant and mr. jones to stop fighting. they stopped for a moment and got up from the ground. they both still looked very angry. mr. lum again told everyone to leave. defendant and mr. jones started up again and mr. jones ended up on the floor. defendant, who was wearing boots, kicked him. mr. lum yelled at defendant to stop but he kept kicking mr. jones. mr. lum could not recall whether mr. jones seemed unconscious, but he was not fighting back. s face was bloody, particularly his mouth. mr. lum did not see any injuries to defendant. mr. lum struck defendant in the arm with the sword, cutting him, which caused defendant to finally stop fighting. within a couple of minutes, several police officers arrived. officer sean anthony, along with his partner, had reported to the scene in response to an assault in progress call. they called for backup units. as they approached the front door to mr. , they could hear the sound of a commotion 6 inside. after knocking and announcing their presence, mr. lum answered the door with his hands up, and identified himself as the homeowner. he was told to stand by the garage. everyone inside the house was ordered to come out. through the open front door, officer anthony saw yelling at him and the other officers. he had a bloody nose and a cut on his arm. defendant was wearing black, timberland boots. the officers spoke with defendant for awhile to calm him down and then defendant was taken into custody. he was transported to the hospital for medical treatment. upon entering the home, officer anthony saw mr. jones lying on the ground, motionless. there was blood and vomit all ms. notter was sitting next to him, crying. she was ordered mr. jones was taken to the hospital by ambulance. the doctors determined mr. s jaw was broken. he spent over a week in the hospital and his mouth was wired shut for six weeks. defendant did not testify and did not present any witnesses. he introduced photographs of the injuries he sustained in the fight. the jury instructions included four instructions related to self-defense: calcrim no. 3470 (right to self-defense or defense of another non-homicide), no. 3471 (right to self-defense: mutual combat or initial aggressor), no. 3472 (right to self-defense: may not be contrived) and no. 3474 (danger no longer exists or attacker disabled). 7 on april 24, 2017, the first full day of deliberations, the jury sent out a written question in the afternoon stating as after an unreported conference with counsel, the court provided the following response to the jury: i guess the short [] but i would say that drawing your attention specifically to instructions 3471 and 3474, meaning of mutual, and combat, common meaning of combat. so okay. but look at those two instructions, okay, because those really do specifically address these kind [sic the record contains no objection by defense counsel to the the next day, the jury requested a readback of ms. nottertestimony. later that day, the jury returned its verdict, finding defendant guilty as charged. the court struck the great bodily injury enhancement for purposes of sentencing only. the court denied probation and sentenced defendant to the upper term of four years on the assault. the court imposed various fines and awarded defendant 112 days of custody credits. this appeal followed. discussion defendant contends the court erred in instructing on mutual combat because there was no evidence establishing that he and the victim engaged in mutual combat, and also that the court erred in failing to discharge its mandatory duty to respond 8 combat ended. we disagree. defendant forfeited any challenge to the mutual combat language of calcrim no. 3471 (right to self-defense: mutual combat or initial aggressor) by failing to state any objection in the trial court, and by acceding, throughout the trial, to the relevance of mutual combat as an issue for the jury to resolve. during voir dire, when the court was discussing with counsel the questions to be asked of the prospective jurors, the -- further, when the court gave counsel its proposed jury instructions that included calcrim no. 3471, defendant did not object. instructions at an unreported conference. after that conference, the court stated that the court has pulled in this matter. there was a request to add one instruction, 225. my understanding is that with that addition there are no additional instructions that either side is the court then said it understood there were no objections to the both the prosecutor and defense counsel confirmed there were no objections to those instructions. defense counsel never requested that the mutual combat language be deleted from the instruction, and never requested any other clarifying or supplemental language. moreover, during closing argument defense counsel argued the defense theory was - 9 defendant did not have to prove self-defense, but rather, the prosecution had to prove defendant did not act in self-defense. defense counsel asked the jury to look at the evidence that showed any appellate challenge to the instruction was thus forfeited. (see, e.g., people v. valenzuela (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 1214, 1233 (valenzuela).) defendant nonetheless urges us to exercise our discretion to consider his challenge to calcrim no. 3471 because the inclusion of the mutual combat language affected his substantial rights. the casubstantial rights as being affected only where the error has resulted in a miscarriage of justice. (valenzuela, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at p. 1233.) defendant contends his substantial rights were violated because he was, in effect, deprived of a defense. he contends there was no substantial evidence supporting mutual combat and the inclusion of the erroneous language served only to confuse the jury about his right to self-defense. the contention is without merit. the court instructed with calcrim no. 3471 as follows: has a right to self-defense only if: [] 1. he actually and in good faith tries to stop fighting; [] 2. he indicates, by word or by conduct, to his opponent, in a way that a reasonable person would understand, that he wants to stop fighting and that he has stopped fighting; [] and [] 3. he gives his opponent a chance to stop fighting. [] if a person meets these 10 requirements, he then had a right to self-defense if the opponent continued to fight. [] however, if the defendant used only non-deadly force, and the opponent responded with such sudden and deadly force that the defendant could not withdraw from the fight, then the defendant had the right to defend himself with deadly force and was not required to try to stop fighting, communicate the desire to stop to the opponent, or give the opponent a chance to stop fighting. [] a fight is mutual combat when it began or continued by mutual consent or agreement. that agreement may be expressly stated or implied and must occur before the claim to self- the record contained substantial evidence warranting the this purpose if it is people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1049-1050 (ross).) mutual combat id. at p. consent, as most clearly reflected in an express or implied agreement to fight. . . . [t]here must be evidence from which the jury could reasonably find that both combatants actually consented or intended to fight before the claimed occasion for self-defense aroseid. at pp. 1046-1047.) mr. lum testified that defendant and mr. jones verbally physical contact occurred, and he had to separate them several times before the main portion of the fight occurred. he said they were each provoking the other. the jury could reasonably infer s as attested to by mr. lum that they both intended to engage in a mutual fight. 11 (see, e.g., valenzuela, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at pp. 1233-1234 [substantial evidence of mutual combat where the defendant and victims, who were rival gang members, engaged in a car chase for several minutes, and exchanged gunfire].) however, even assuming, solely for the sake of argument, that it was error to instruct on mutual combat, any such error was harmless. mr. jones, mr. lum and ms. notter all testified that, irrespective of how the fight started, defendant kicked mr. jones repeatedly while he was on the ground, unable to respond, and at times, unconscious. it was undisputed that defendant assaulted mr. jones when he did not present any objectively reasonable threat to defendant. there was little or no evidence supporting claim of self-defense. the court properly instructed with calcrim no. 3474 as follows: the right to use force in self-defense continues only as long as the danger exists or reasonably appears to exist. when the attacker no longer appears capable of inflicting any injury, then the right given the evidence, defendant could not have achieved a more favorable result had the mutual combat language been excluded from calcrim no. 3471. we also find that defendant forfeited any challenge to the about mutual combat. approval of, tha (ross, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 1048; accord, people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 802; people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1193 inasmuch as defendant both suggested and consented to the responses given by the court, the claim of error has been waived.people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 729, overruled in part on other 12 grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.waives any objection under [penal code] section 1138. unreported conference. thereafter, the court responded to the objection. defendant cannot now compwas in error. the supreme court has held that penal code section 1138 imposes on the trial court a mandatory duty to clear up any instructional confusion expressed by the jury. when a jury asks a question after retiring for deliberation, [penal code] [s]ection 1138 imposes upon the court a duty to provide the jury with information the jury desires on points of law. [citation.] but [t]his does not mean the court must always elaborate on the standard instructions. where the original instructions are themselves full and complete, the court has discretion under [penal code] section 1138 to determine what additional explanations are sufficient to satisfy the jurys request for information. [citation.] we review for an abuse of discretion any error under [penal code] section 1138. (people v. lua (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 1004, 1016 (lua).) here, the court acted well within its discretion in referring the jury to the written instructions, specifically calcrim no. 3471 and calcrim no. 3474, and pointing out that those question about when mutual combat ended. 13 defendant takes issue with the fact the court also told the jurors they could ross which concluded the phrase mutual combat has a technical, legal meaning. but, ross was concerned with the initiation of mutual combat and the legal requirement that prior to engaging in any hostilities, the parties must voluntarily intend or consent to engage in a fight; a concept that was not embraced by the common meaning of mutual which connotes only simple reciprocity. (ross, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at pp. 1044-1047.) ross therefore concluded it was error for the court to have told the jury the words could be understood in their ordinary, lay sense. (ibid.) more focused and limited than the question presented in ross. the jury wanted clarification on when mutual combat ended, which is reasonable given the state of the evidence. as already explained above, the evidence was undisputed that however the fight began, it ended with mr. jones on the ground, defenseless and unconscious, while defendant kicked him. it was reasonable for the jury to be focused on that aspect of the evidence. the two instructions the court highlighted for the jury to re-read (nos. 3471 and 3474) adequately addressed the law pertaining to the end of mutual combat, as well as when the right to self-defense ends. in any event, there is no showing of prejudice. a courts failure under penal code section 1138 to adequately answer a jurys question is subject to the prejudice standard of people v. watson [(1956)] 46 cal.2d 818, 836, i.e., whether the error resulted in a reasonable probabili (lua, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1017.) as we already explained above, 14 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. dunning, j.* * judge of the orange superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 