filed 5/24/18 p. v. watkins ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kenneth mullen watkins, defendant and appellant. b285165 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba444632) the court:* a jury convicted kenneth watkins (defendant) of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)) and found true the allegation that he used a deadly and dangerous weapon (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for 16 years to life, comprised of 15 years to life for the murder and one year for the weapon enhancement. * lui, p. j., chavez, j., hoffstadt, j. 2 defendant filed a timely appeal, and we appointed counsel a brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), raising no issues. on february 13, 2018, we gave notice to defendant that his counsel had failed to find any arguable issues and that defendant had 30 days within which to submit by brief or letter any grounds of appeal, contentions, or arguments he wished this court to consider. the period elapsed, and we received no response from defendant. we have independently examined the entire record and have found that no arguable issues of any sort exist. the second degree murder conviction and weapon enhancement are supported by substantial evidence. after his arrest, defendant admitted that he repeatedly stabbed terry benjamin (benjamin) himself defendant also admitted that he and benjamin had known each other for a while and that benjamin occasionally paid defendant for sexual activity. and into a bag in benjamigerprints mop used to clean up some of the blood from the stabbings. what is more, when law enforcement tracked down video footage from a wal-mart corresponding with the time listed on a wal-mart and defendant together; defendant appeared to be wearing the same shirt and camouflage pants contained in a bag found in 3 we have also not identified any defects with the trial. the jury was properly instructed on the crimes of first and second degree murder, voluntary and involuntary manslaughter, the allegation of personal use of a deadly weapon, and also on complete and imperfect self-defense. evidentiary rulings were within its discretion. because we have determined that there are no arguable conviction and sentence. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109-110; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. 