filed 9/27/18 p. v. sepulveda ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose sepulveda, defendant and appellant. b285428 (los angeles county super. ct. nos. ta140199, ta142736) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. michael j. shultz, judge. affirmed as modified. john f. schuck, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, and lindsay boyd, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 after being placed on formal probation in two separate criminal cases for physically and verbally abusing his elderly and disabled father and his sister, jose sepulveda (defendant) admitted to violating probation in both cases and was sentenced to four years in prison. the trial court also issued an order prohibiting defendant from having any contact with his father, his sister, and their home for a period of 10 years. on appeal, defendant challenges the duration of the protective order. the trial court did not err in imposing a 10-year restriction and however, the restraining order contains several clerical errors that must be corrected. otherwise, we affirm. facts and procedural background i. may 2016 incidents prior to may 9, 2016, defendant was living with his 67-year-old father, his sister, and her two children. defendant suffers from mental illness but throws away his medications. he also gets high on air dusters and shoe polish. he was holding two screwdrivers at the time. defendant then proceeded to throw one of the screwdrivers at his father, and the screwdriver hit him in the face. just under two weeks later, on may 22, defendant returned er the may 9 incident. defendant went into the backyard and grew upset when he discovered that a shed he was trying to open had a lock on it. when father went into the backyard to calm him down, defendant send [him] to hewhen he overheard his sister calling the 3 police, he threatened her by shouting, you and ii. prosecution, plea, and sentencing for may 2016 incidents (case number 1) on may 24, 2016, the people filed a complaint alleging elder abuse (pen. code,  368, subd. (b)(1))1 for throwing a screwdriver at his father, and two counts of making criminal threats ( 422) for making threatening statements to his sister and father when he returned to their house on may 22. the people further alleged that defendant had personally used a dangerous and deadly weapon while committing elder abuse ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). charges, the trial court issued a protective order. in december 2016, defendant entered a no contest plea to elder abuse and to making a criminal threat against his sister.2 the remaining count and weapon allegation were dismissed. the trial court placed defendant on three years of formal probation, which included a jail sentence of time served as well as a requirement that defendant attend a 52-week outpatient drug program. iii. march 2017 incident on march 9, 2017, defendant moved back in with his father and sister. father was confined to a 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 in the intervening six months, the trial court had declared , and the criminal proceedings were suspended. the mental health court later declared defendant to be competent to stand trial in december and reinstated the criminal proceedings. 4 wheelchair and was nearly blind from diabetes. soon after moving back in, defendant on march 13, defendant pushed his father from behind as his father sat in the wheelchair. father did not fall out of the wheelchair, but instead curled himself into a fetal position as defendant stood [him] iv. prosecution, plea, and sentencing for march 2017 incident (case number 2), and probation violation for case number 1 on march 15, 2017, the people filed a complaint alleging a single count of making criminal threats against father ( 422). two weeks later, the trial court conducted a preliminary hearing on this charge, held defendant to answer for the charge, and found him to be in violation of his probation in case number 1. the people then filed an information charging defendant with making criminal threats against his father ( 422). in may 2017, defendant entered into a plea agreement with the people. the people added a count of felony elder abuse ( 368, subd. (b)(1)) and a count of misdemeanor violation of a court order for violating the protective order issued by the court in case number 1 ( 166, subd. (c)(1)). defendant entered a no contest plea to the two new counts. the trial court then imposed a four-year prison sentence on the elder abuse count, but suspended execution of that sentence and placed defendant on formal probation for five years, including requirements that defendant (1) remain enrolled in and complete a 52-week residential treatment program, (2) complete a 52-week domestic 5 violence course, and (3) stay away from his house. at the same hearing, the trial court revoked and reinstated probation in case number 1 but modified the terms of probation to require defendant to adhere to the same three probation conditions imposed in the case number 2. v. june 2017 violation of probation in case numbers 1 and 2 in june 2017, defendant walked away from the residential treatment program the day he arrived and then disappeared. numbers 1 and 2. the trial court found that defendant violated his probation in both cases, among other reasons, for failing to complete the residential treatment program. the trial court executed the previously suspended four-year prison sentence on the elder abuse count and a concurrent sentence of 180 days for the violation of the restraining order count in case number 2. the court also revoked probation in case number 1 and imposed a concurrent sentence of four years for the elder abuse count as well as a concurrent three-year prison sentence on the criminal threats count in case number 1. after dissolving a protective order it issued in march 2017, the trial court issued a new protective order. the trial court relied on section 273.5 as the statutory authority for the order. -completely the written restraining order listed section 273.5, subdivision (j) as its statutory basis and required defendant to have no contact with his father and to stay 100 yards away from his father. the 6 written restraining order did not name as a -location. vi. appeal defendant filed timely notices of appeal in each of the two cases. discussion defendant argues that (1) the trial court erred in issuing a 10-year restraining order enjoining him from any contact with his father or sister, and (2) the order itself contains one clerical error. we have observed two other clerical errors and concludeafter soliciting further briefing from the partiesthat all three errors must be corrected. i. duration of protective order defendant challenges the 10-year duration of the trial xtent his challenge requires us to construe the statutory authority underlying the restraining order, we engage in independent review. (people v. superior court (sahlolbei) (2017) 3 cal.5th 230, 234.) we otherwise review the issuance of such a restraining order, including its duration, for an abuse of discretion. (see s.m. v. e.p. (2010) 184 grant or denial of injunctive relief is generally reviewed for an abuse of discretiona trial court does not abuse its discretion unless its decision is so irrational or arbitrary that no reasonable person people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377 (carmony).) where, as here, a defendant is convicted of elder abuse pursuant to section 368, subdivision (b), the trial court may issue 7 the defendant from any contact with the subd. (l).) in determining the duration of the order, our legislature hseriousness ibid.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in issuing a protective order for the maximum duration of 10 years in this case. by its terms, section 368, subdivision (l) authorized the father and sister. defendant was convicted of elder abuse in violation of section 368, subdivision (b), and his father and sister are victims of that crime people v. race (2017) 18 cal.app.5th 211, 218-219 [court may issue restraining order protecting person who is victimized by same conduct against named victim of crime]; cf. compare people v. delarosarauda (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 205, 211-212 [court may not restrain a person just because they are a victim] with people v. clayburg (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 86, 91-92 [a family member suffered emotionally and who was named as a protected person under section 646.9, which has language identical to section 368, subdivision (l)]; cal. const., art. spouse, parents, children, siblings, or guardian further, the trial court did not act irrationally in concluding that the factors enumerated in section 368, subdivision (l) favored a 10-year restraining order. the facts 8 underlying both sets of crimes in these cases are serious: defendant told his siste[her] a screwdriver and then threw a screwdriver weeks later, he threatened to kill his father and [themcustody in that prosecution, defendant nearly pushed his elderly father out of his wheelchair and stood over his father, as he cowered in the fetal position, and said the first incident is so serious that it factually qualifies strikes lawbecause it involved the probability of future violations is high. defendant was given many second chances: he was placed on probation in case number 1 yet being on probation did not deter him from nearly pushing his elderly father to the ground or threatening to kill him (thereby giving rise to case number 2). and even when he was placed on a probation in case number 2 with the threat of a four-year prison sentence hanging over his head, he violated probation less than a week after his release from custody. despite these strong deterrents from misbehavior, defendant continued to assault, batter, and threaten his family members. house and engaging in criminal conduct victimizing his family members, despite being asked to move out and despite court order of maximum duration. defendant levels three categories of arguments at this conclusion. 9 first, he argues that the trial court did not discuss the on the record, and that we must therefore presume that the trial court applied the maximum duration of 10 years because it thought it had no discretion to depart from the maximum duration.3 this conduct an on-the-record analysis of smoment because the statute does not require the court to do so. ( 368.) abswe apply the general nd followed the applicable law. [citations.]people v. stowell (2003) 31 cal.4th 1107, 1114.) thus, while defendant is correct people v. orabuena (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 84, 99), misunderstood the scope of its discretion. this is particularly true where, as here, the trial court elsewhere recognized its authority to the protective order. second, defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in selecting a 10-year duration because (1) neither requested a 10-year protective order, (2) the root cause of as mental illness and/or drug abuse rather t(3) a 10-year protective order will still be alive when the order expiresseriously hurt. 3 this pointbrief. 10 three factors relevant to the duration of a protective order that are set forth in section 368, subdivision (l). thus, those points are at most optional considerations. even if these facts are appropriate to consider, defendant is essentially asking us to weigh the pertinent facts differentlyand to come to a different conclusionthan the trial court. this for an abuse of discretion. (ellis v. toshiba america information systems, inc. urt abused its discretion and even if we were to ignore the standard of review and to reweigh the facts, the facts defendant points to do not alter the propriety of a 10-year restraining order: getting a screwdriver in the face is hardly a non-serious injury, particularly when it is accompanied by refusal to seek treatment or to take his medication means that his mental illness remains unaddressed and thus a live risk to his family members; the probation department did not request a protective order because it recommended the much harsher sentence of prison from the outset; and the trial court has an independent duty to protect the victims from further injury, irrespective of what they may want. lastly, defendant argues that the entry of a 10-year protective order violates due process. to the extent his due process claim is based on a misapplication of the pertinent statute, we reject it because defendant has not carried his burden on appeal of showing any misapplication of section 368. (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 376-377.) to the extent 11 deferight to associate with family members, we decline to recognize a constitutional right of access to persons whom a defendant has repeatedly and consistently victimized by assault, battery, and death threats just because those persons happen to be related by blood or marriage. ii. clerical errors in restraining order an appellate has the power to correct clerical errors in a people v. menius (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 1290, 1294-1295.) the written restraining order in this case contains three such errors: (1) it lists section 273.5, subdivision (j) as its statutory basis (even though section 368, subdivision (l) is the provision that applies to defendant); (2) it lists only deeven though the trial s while pronouncing sentence)-away orders from specific l(even though the trial court orally ordered defendant to stay away from that location). because the oral pronouncement governs over written orders in criminal cases (people v. freitas (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 747, 750, fn. 2; in re malik j. (2015) 240 cal.app.4th 896, 905; people v. mesa (1975) 14 cal.3d 466, 471), we order that the trial court modify the protective order to correct the clerical errors in that order. 12 disposition the trial court is ordered to modify the restraining order to specify that (1) the statutory basis for the order is section 368, subdivision (l - the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: _________________________, p. j. lui _________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 