filed 3/12/19 p. v. creech ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john l. creech, defendant and appellant. b285233 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba435207) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant john l. creech of voluntary manslaughter for the killing of gavin smith. on appeal, defendant asserts that the trial court erred by prohibiting the defense from questioning the about certain character traits of the victim, which defendant asserts could have assisted his self-defense claim. we find no error in the trial exclusion of that evidence, because the wife did not say that the victim was violent and the verbal abuse she discussed was remote and not applicable to the facts of the case. defendant also camera haring under pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). we find no error and affirm. factual and procedural background on april 22, 2015, a grand jury returned a single-count indictment for first degree murder with the special circumstance of lying in wait. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 190.2, subd. (a)(15).1) defendant pled not guilty, and the case proceeded to trial. a. prosecution evidence 1. background gavin smith2 testified that she and gavin were married in 1989, and they had three sons. at the time of his death in 2012, gavin was 57 years old, six feet five and a half inches tall, approximately 212 pounds, and was very physically fit. he had been a college basketball player, and played on a 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 involved people by their first names. 3 national championship-winning team for ucla in the 1970s. in 2012 gavin was a division branch manager for fox studios. while working as a stuntman before his marriage to lisa, gavin injured the lumbar area of his spine in a stunt, resulting in ongoing back pain. gavin took prescription pain medication as a result of the injury, and by 2007 he had become addicted. on march 1, 2008, gavin enrolled in an outpatient drug rehabilitation program called matrix. in the summer of 2009, gavin became a group leader assisting new patients at matrix. chandrika cade creech married defendant in 2007.3 she testified that defendant worked out a minimum of four times per week at the powerhouse gym in chatsworth. chandrika oned, built, strong, body builder, you know, heavyset in 2007, chandrika had an alcohol abuse problem, and went to the matrix recovery facility. gavin acted as a co-leader there chandrika met gavin at matrix in 2008; they became friends and eventually began a romantic relationship. in 2008 from information on mobile phone bill. shoved rough with me, just hustling me around and hitting me in the chandrika also said that defendant told her that he had gone to the matrix and told gavin to stay away from chandrika. chandrika ended the relationship with gavin. 3chandrika testified under a grant of immunity. 4 lisa testified that chandrika in july 2009. lisa said she believed that gavin ended the affair after lisa discovered it, and she and gavin went to marriage counseling. 2. defendant gavin in 2010 sometime in 2010, chandrika resumed contact with gavin by emailing him from an email account that defendant was unable to access. in december 2010, however, defendant discovered these and he hit chandrika. chandrika said she did not report the inflicted over the years of their marriage. lisa testified that in 2010, she also discovered that gavin and chandrika had rekindled their affair when gavin showed lisa some emails. in addition, an email from defendant said, your wife is getting a copy of all these emails. gavin told lisa that gavin agreed to change his phone number and email address. lisa told their three sons that gavin had been unfaithful, lisa, their oldest son evan (age 19 or 20), and their youngest son austin (age 14 or 15) december 7 or 8, 2010. evan and austin went to the creech house while lisa stayed in the car. defendant opened the front gate; evan described defendant as burly, very muscular, and intimidating. sons, defendant sounded and looked angry. defendant told evan 5 and austin that he was furious with gavin for having an affair with his wife. evan and austin both cried, and austin begged evan testified that he also begged defendant to not hurt his family, and said he must have chandrika testified that she was home at the time, and although she stayed were begging [defendant] not to kill their father. evan testified , and defendant knew where evan and austin went to school, where gavin worked, and that gavin went to narcotics anonymous. toward the end of the conversation defendant began to calm down, and he told evan and austin that they had saved defendant also said that if gavin contacted chandrika again, there would be problems. evan interpreted this to mean that defendant would kill gavin if he contacted chandrika again. chandrika testified that defendant told the boys that if gavin stayed away from her he would be fine, and if gavin did not stay away, defendant would kill him. 3. the crime in april 2012, chandrika learned that defendant was seeing an 18-year-old woman; defendant was 39. she and defendant decided to separate. moving to separate residences was not financially feasible, so they stayed in the same house, but began sleeping in separate bedrooms. on april 13, 2012, lisa became aware that gavin was having an affair with a woman named melanie, and as a result, 6 lisa asked gavin to leave the family home. gavin went to stay with a family friend, janet jackson, but remained in contact with lisa. about three days before his death, gavin told lisa that his back was hurting to the extent that he could not paddleboard and he might be unable to golf on an upcoming trip. chandrika testified that she and gavin resumed their romantic relationship in march or april 2012. in mid-april 2012, gavin drove to pick up chandrika near her house while she walked her dog. defendant had followed chandrika and saw gavin. defendant began running toward them, chandrika quickly got into the car, and gavin drove away. when chandrika defendant told chandrika that he did not want her seeing gavin. approximately two weeks later, on may 1, 2012, gavin and chandrika made plans to meet that evening. reina lim lived family, working as a caretaker for , who also lived in the home.4 before chandrika left to meet gavin, she asked lim to watch the children while she went out. chandrika testified that she also told defendant she was going out; he responded that if she did, he would have a friend follow her. prior to may 2012, chandrika and defendant had a service on their phone plan that would allow ; they had used . defendant reactivated this service on around 11:00 p.m., chandrika left the house to meet gavin, driving her audi. they met near some commercial buildings where chandrika 4 lim testified under a grant of immunity. 7 gavin had driven his black mercedes to the location. chandrika knew that defendant was trying to call her after she left the house, but she did not answer her phone. chandrika left her phone in her car, and car. his mercedes and sat in the passenger seat; chandrika sat on his lap, and the two were kissing. meanwhile, droom and told the grandmother and lim that chandrika had left the house and he wanted to find her. defendant borrowed the chandrika testified that as she and gavin were together in the passenger efendant suddenly appeared outside, startling the couple. defendant opened the car door, and she testified that dthe face. on cross-examination, chandrika testified that defendant and gavin yelled at each other for a moment before defendant began punching, which . gavin and defe finitely [defendant] away. move. defendant was punching gavin repeatedly with his right 8 hand 5 gavin was not fighting back or pushing defendant away; he was defendant did not respond, so a moment later, defendant ran toward the minivan and chandrika, saying, chandrika drove away. gavin was still in the mercedes when she left. chandrika drove home, locked all the doors, armed herself m. defendant walked home and knocked on a set of french doors. defendant e was bloody. everywhere. on defendant did not have any injuries or marks on his face or eyes, but he had scratches and blood on the knuckles of his right hand. lim testified that when defendant came in, he asked chandrika about the keys to the audi, and chandrika said she threw the keys into the back seat of the car. chandrika testified that defendant asked her to drive him back to the scene, because on cross-examination, chandrika testified that defendant said they should return to the scene because gavin was in bad shape, and they should take him to the hospital. chandrika drove defendant back, and dropped -and-a- 5on cross-examination, defense counsel played a video in which chandrika apparently indicated to interviewing detectives that defendant hit gavin five times. the transcript of the interview is not in the record on appeal, and at trial chandrika denied that defendant hit gavin only five times. 9 defendant later returned home and told chandrika that gavin was dead. clothing in the fireplace. chandrika testified that she did not tell the police about the incident because she was terrified of defendant. when chandrika suggested calling police, defendant sai 4. subsequent events jorge valles testified that he met defendant in 2006 or 2007.6 in 2012, valles shared an apartment with his wife, and his landlord lived in the main house on the same property. in the early morning hours of may 2, 2012, valles began receiving a lot of phone calls from a number that did not display any caller identification. after about the 15th call, valles answered the phone; it was defendant, and he sounded drunk. defendant said he had a problem and needed to talk. thinking defendant was having a problem with his wife, valles told defendant to come to his house. valles walked outside, and defendant drove up in gav defendant got out of the car; he was wearing a white tank top that was inside out, with red spots that looked like blood. ruises here and there, you know, but mostly like his hands were swollen. valles could not remember where on defe defendant opened the 6valles testified under a grant of immunity. 10 w , but valles said no. d he was really infuriated so i tried to calm valles offered to allow defendant to park the merhouse, so they went there, driving separate cars. there was a lot of blood inside the mercedes. defendant asked for glass cleaner and paper towels and began cleaning the mercedes, including the steerihe center console. and then returned; the body was still in the mercedes. defendant and valles property; defendant was driving the mercedes with the body still inside, and valles was driving a separate car. valles followed defendant to a gated community. defendant drove the mercedes inside the gated portion, and valles waited outside so he could take defendant home. ten or 15 minutes later, a car approached and dropped defendant off near valles. valles drove defendant home, and dand threw [a] cell phone in my car, valles later threw the phone in the trash at a stan mcquay testified that he is a competitive bodybuilder who trained at the powerhouse gym in 2012. defendant trained there as well, and a couple of times they had trained together. defendant worked out regularly, three or four days a week. defendant and mcquay were also friends outside of the gym. mcquay testified that he received a call from defendant around 6:00 a.m. on may 2, 2012. and asked if he could come and park a car in mcgarage; 11 mcquay agreed. mcquay lived in a gated community, and he opened the gate for defendant when he arrived. defendant drove up in a black mercedes and cover the mercedes with a car cover. defendant asked mcquay to drop him off outside the gate. as they drove to the gated entrance mcquay asked defendant another guy and i . . defenda near the gated entrance, defendant got into another car. mcquay went back home, and said that he never looked inside the car, but he was aware there was a body in the car. when defendant did not come back to move the car, mcquay began calling defendant, but defendant was not answering his calls. after about three days, mcquay reached defendant and asked him to move the car; defendant said he was mcquay testified that he told defendant that if he did not come get the car that day, mcquay would call the police. on may 4, 2012, defendant asked lim to rent a u-haul van body. mcquay had given defendant the remote control to open the gate to his community and his garage door. mcquay was home when he heard the garage door opening, and he saw a white van outside. mcquay was upset that defendant had not brought a trailer to take the car away. defendant told mcquay 12 mcquay went inside the house, but looked into the garage as defendant was there, and saw that defendant had pulled the body out of the car. mcquay was upset, and went back into the house. defendant left in the van, but the mercedes remained in on may 4 or 5, 2012, the 18-year-old high school student hands had cuts and scrapes on them. defendant told pieper that he had fallen off a three-wheel vehicle. on cross-examination, pieper agreed that she told detectives she saw injuries on around the same time, pieper told defendant that the father of a friend from her high school was missing, and showed him a flyer regarding g defendant said that was the man chandrika had been dating. on june 21, 2012, defendant asked lim to rent a storage unit for him, telling lim that he would use it to store motorcycles. a a 5. the investigation gavin was supposed to pick up austin and take him to his high school on the morning of may 2, 2012. gavin never showed up, and austin called a friend to take him to school. when lisa picked up austin after school, austin told lisa that gavin had not showed up that morning, and gavin had not answered calls or texts. this concerned lisa, because it was unusual behavior for gavin. and they discovered that gavin had not gone to work that day. 13 lisa called jackson, who said the last time she saw gavin was when he left the house the night before, may 1. lisa filed a missing person report at a local sheriff station. as deputies began investigating, evan and austin told them about their 2010 conversation with defendant. lisa called chandrika. she texted the phone number the sponsor gave her, and someone then called lisa from that phone number. lisa testified that when she answered the phone, the caller on the other end remained silent. so the person on the other end ask if she knew anything about gavin. employer, fox studios, arranged to have missing person reports aired by various media outlets. los angeles county sheriff department detective ty labbe testified that he worked on the investigation. defendant statements. labbe analyzed and mapped the locations, calls, and cell phones in an effort to locate gavin. labbe testified that on the night of may 1 and the early morning of may 2, 2012, the three phones registered near the 8500 block of fallbrook avenue. then stayed in the area of her nearby residence, and occurred. the two phones stopped in the area of vallresidence. the phones then traveled into the kegel canyon and 14 home. the phone numbers defendant called that night were determined to belong to valles and mcquay. eventually stopped sending location information. detectives went to the creech residence to interview chandrika in mid-may 2012. as they approached the residence, -de-sac, stop short, make a rapid u-turn, and drive away. lim told detectives about the storage facility. the the car was preserved as evidence, and tested for fingerprints, blood, and dna. bloodstains inside the mercedes and on the rear bumper dna. a criminalist testified that he could not determine how the blood got onto the back bumper, but it appeared to be a spatter stain, rather than being transferred from material contacting the bumper. the front license plate was missing from the car, and one of the screws to attach the plate was still on the car. dna on that the jury viewed the mercedes during the trial. on october 26, 2014, the los angeles county department of the coroner was notified that body parts had been discovered in the angeles national forest, near a well-maintained dirt road. the investigator testified that a partial human skull was found , few yards south of what would later be found the . . was an ind blond hair was also found at the scene. investigators discovered human remains wrapped in a comforter and plastic sheeting, bound with duct tape, in a 15 shallow grave. the lower jaw was found nearby. the body was severely decomposed and partly skeletonized, meaning that much of the tissue was gone. it appeared that the skull and jawbone had been unearthed and moved by animals. parts of the skull, especially the front, were simply missing or there were very small fragmentscrews and plates were found in forearm bones, which were con. the remains we the cause of was deemed to be homicide. the broken facial structure of the skull was a result of blunt trauma before death. the skull also and . . . lines of fracture that rad there was an additional skull fracture at the base of the right eye socket, and another fracture on the left side behind the ear. the ttached there was also a fracture in the right forearm that occurred around the time of death, which indicated a defensive wound. the forensic pathologist testified that the damage could have been caused by fists, and because multiple fractures were present in different areas of the skull, the fractures were not caused by a fall. b. defense evidence defendant testified on his own behalf. he testified that he met chandrika in november 2003. he said that after chandrika suffered some drinking problems, she was referred to matrix by a therapist. in 2008, based on something chandrika told him, defendant went to matrix to file a complaint against gavin. he denied confronting gavin directly. 16 in 2010, defendant found some emails between chandrika and gavin. house defendant testified that he never threatened to kill gavin, but he said that 2011, he took his wedding ring off before going out for the night, by march on the evening of may 1, 2012, defendant found chandrika later, around 11:00 or 11:15 p.m., chandrika asked defendant to preheat the broiler so she could prepare her dinner. defendant said he turned on the broiler, then went to watch television and dozed off. he was awakened when the broiler alarm sounded; he went to find chandrika, but she was not in the house. chandrika was gone. defendant activated the family locator app on his phone the 8500 block of fallbrook. he knew the area was a 30-minute walk from his house. defendant the keys to her minivan to go get chandrika. audi, and saw her inside the other car that was parked nearby with a man that defendant said he had never seen before. he left the engine running and got out. defendant testified that he knocked on the car, and defendant grabbed a set of keys off the dashboard, 17 threw them behind him into the landscaping, and said to gavin cussed at defendant, and chandrika got out of the car to look for the keys. ell him to mind his own mind his own business, he leans forward with a left and he defendant n gavin bit . defendant said that after some struggling between the two of them in the tight quarters of the car, he was able to hit gavin in the left jaw. defendant hit him four or five times, then rolled out of the car. gavin got out of the car, and was spitting out blood. gavin walked around the carthe car, and shut the door. chandrika got into the minivan and defendant said he began looking in the bushes for the audi home. chandrika had turned the minivan around, and was driving back toward them. defendant checked the audi doors to see if they were the audi and mercedes. left hand was a - to 12- 18 punch gavin was , which defendant later stated was a hammer. on cross-examination, defendant said it after this scuffle, ; he got defendant took the hammer and put it in his pocket. chandrika took off in the minivan again, and defendant walked home. defendant set the hammer down outside the back door and walked into the house; the house was unlocked. defendant and chandrika drove back to the scene to pick up the audi. chandrika dropped defendant off down the street and left. as defendant walked toward the mercedes, he saw gavin inside [sic] defendant opened the ght to look for the keys, and i shined my light in his eyes to see if there was any response, no response. i put the flashlight underneath his nose to find out if there was any type of condensation. there defendant thought gavin needed to get to a hospital, because he did not know whether gavin was dead or alive. he used the spare key to drive the audi home to get chandrika. defendant said he did not call the police because he was out on bail at the time. when defendant returned t a third time, he knew gavin was dead. blanket, and drove the mercedes home. he and chandrika burned their clothing in the fireplace. 19 defendant testified that he called valles because he had a they went to with a driveway tha valles suggested they drive up a canyon to look for a place to park. everything rage. defendant left the mercedes home. defendant had their home video recording system replaced; among other things, he wanted to get rid of the recording of ouse. defendant spoke with his attorney and then asked lim to rent the u-haul van. he defendant parked the van at a warehouse for a couple of days, and meanwhile drove the he dug a grave and then went back for the van and lim rented a storage space, and chandrika gave the keys to the storage space defendant testified that he was in jail when the mercedes was moved into the storage space. defendant said he threw the hammer over a fence near his house. on cross-examination, defendant admitted writing the 2010 email stat he also testified that when he threw it over a fence; he said he 20 he said there was no blood on the hammer. defendant also said bloody, because defendant had wrapped his hand. defendant admitted that he had used growth hormones within 24 hours of the crime. he also testified that he removed the front license plate from the mercedes to make it less identifiable. defendant called lim as a witness again, and she testified that when defendant came home on may 2, 2012, he told lim that he had been in a fight, and the other man hit him first. on cross-examination, lim said she did not see any injuries to the defense also called valles to testify again, and he also stated that defendant told him gavin swung first. on cross-examination, valles said that defendant did not mention that gavin had a weapon. c. ebuttal defendant told cade that his hand had been hit by a garage door while helping a friend move. defendant did not have any visible injuries on his face. brett resnick testified on rebuttal that he worked with gavin. he was on a business trip in las vegas with gavin the back seat on the drive back to the los angeles area because his back was bothering him. 21 d. conviction and sentence the court instructed the jury, and included instructions relating to provocation and self-defense. the jury found defendant guilty of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (a)). defendant filed a motion for new trial, asserting that the court shouthe court denied the motion. the court sentenced defendant to the high term of 11 years. defendant timely appealed. discussion on appeal, defendant asserts two arguments. first, he contends that the trial court erred by barring defense counsel evidence would have bolstered his self-defense theory. second, of peace officer records under pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531. we find no error. a. defendant contends that the trial court erred in prohibiting regarding statements she made about gavin to sheriff deputies during the course of the investigation. 1. background facts that lisa had characterized gavin as defense counsel said gavin made fun of lisa weight, defense counsel also said that lisa said something to the effect 22 si according to the transcript of the interviewand sweet and loving. but in a second part of the interview transcript, lisa said , er hit me sister, who was also at the interview, to stop him. 7 pening statements, the prosecutor objected to the introduction of character. the prosecutor argued that there was no evidence, such as police reports or convictions, indicating that gavin was violent. the prosecutor also said that lisa was not expected to testify that gavin ever hit her or the children. defense counsel asserted that to claim of self-defense. in addition, defense counsel argued that lisa told deputies that gavin was violent, but told the grand jury gavin impeachment purposes. the court stated that he wanted to hear from the witness before deciding whether the evidence was 7interview transcript is attached to the motion for new trial. it is unclear whether this portion of the transcript was before the trial court at the time it made the evidentiary ruling at issue here. 23 admissible, and therefore ordered an evidence code section 402 hearing. at the hearing, the court asked lisa about her statement to police that gavin could be intimidating and cruel. lisa about seven months or so before that the lisa also testified , when defense counsel asked about gavin yelling, lisa said gavin was the prosecutor asked lisa if gavin ever hit her or the children, and she responde the court asked lisa if cruel statements basis for allowing this evidence in. now that the witness has clarified what the statements were about, they appear to refer to to whether or not the victim was violent and acted in conformity the court noted that the time frame in which gavin the court said that jury. therefore the court would not allow lisa to be questioned about the issue before the jury.8 the court later added that 8defense counsel requested a mistrial, asserting that she had been allowed to discuss evidence in her opening statement that was now barred from trial. the court denied the motion. 24 smith may have had, it seemed to be related to his drug use and the court also said that any evidence that relevant to the issue of defense. 2. discussion on appeal, defendant argues that the court barred d case was that gavin had started the fight and that [defendant] only reacted in reasonable self- evidence violated his sixth amendment right to confront and cross-examine witnesses, interfered with his right to present a defense, and infringed upon his fifth amendment right to a fair trial. generally, character evidence is inadmissible. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) n a criminal action, evidence of the character . . . of the victim of the crimewhere the evidence is ffered by the defendant to prove conduct of the victim in conformity with the character or trait of character. (evid. code,  1103, subd. (a)(1).) thus, a defendant who asserts self-character of the victim . . . to show that the victim was the (people v. shoemaker (1982) 135 cal.app.3d 442, 446.) can be shown by evidence of specific acts of the victim on third (people v. wright (1985) 39 cal.3d 576, 587.) 25 character evidence . . . is subject to the dictates of evidence code (ibid.) assessing whether in a given case a particular piece of evidence is (people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 558.) although defendant asserts that the trial court barred character, the record does not support this claim. at demonstrated that that gavin could be verbally abusive toward lisa. lisa never made any statements suggesting that gavin was physically violent in any way, and in the evidentiary hearing, she made clear that gavin had never been violent with her. as the -defense claim. even assuming gavin had been verbally abusive toward lisa, that would not sugavin had a violent character and therefore was the aggressor in the confrontation. moreover, statements related to a timeframe that was too remote to be relevant to the crime. lisa clarified at the evidentiary hearing that when she spoke to investigators about gavin being cruel or intimidating, she was referencing his actions when he was abusing drugs, before he received treatment for his addiction in 2008more than four years before the crime. (people v. shoemaker, supra, 135 cal.app.3d at p. 448.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding that the evidence here was too remote to be reasonably probative. moreover, lisa testified 26 that during this timeframe that his typical demeanor was not that of an abusive or cruel person. the trial cmore prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352 was not erroneous. -examination of lisa interfered with his constitutional rights to confront witnesses and to a fair trial. has a due process right to present evidence material to his defense so long as the evidence is of significant probative value. (people v. shoemaker, supra, 135 cal.app.3d at p. 450.) here, the evidence was not probative, and the exclusion of it was not erroneous. b. pitchess hearing before trial, defendant filed a motion pursuant to evidence code section 1043 and pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531, requesting records of investigations and disciplinary actions relating to glendale police department officer david kellogg and los angeles county sheriff department detectives ty labbe and tamar abraham. defendant argued that these officers falsified reports or coerced witnesses into fabricating statements. on appeal, defendant requests that we independently review the pitchess hearing. the attorney general does not oppose this request. pitchess rulings are reviewed for abuse of (people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 424.) nt shows good cause for the discovery of examine the records in camera to determine if any information (people v. winbush, supra, 2 cal.5th at p. 424.) at the in camake a record of what documents it examined before ruling on the 27 pitchess motion. . . . [t]he court can . . . state for the record what documents it examined. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1229.) an appellate court independently examines the record (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1285.) the trial court conducted two separate in camera hearings, one with the custodian of records for the glendale police department, and one with the custodian of records for the los angeles county sheriff department. the court reviewed the officers records following in camera review, the court determined the records contained no relevant discoverable information. the cos transcript of the in camera hearing. we have reviewed the sealed transcript of the in camera hearing. we conclude that the court complied with the procedural requirements of a pitchess hearing, including an adequate description of the documents provided to it, and that the court did not abuse its discretion in its rulings. 28 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. willhite, j. 