filed 6/25/19 p. v. garcilazo ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rafael garcilazo, defendant and appellant. b285170 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka111005) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, peter hernandez, judge. affirmed. gusdorff law and janet gusdorff for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 a jury convicted rafael garcilazo of molesting four children. on appeal, garcilazo argues (1) a jury instruction (2) his trial counsel were ineffective because they did not object to prosecutorial misconduct. we affirm. i we recount the facts in the light favorable to the prosecution. one victim here was a child we call only g. garcilazo began molesting g when she was six or seven years old and did not stop until g was around 16. at the time, garcilazo was living dating. g considered garcilazo her stepfather. garcilazo also molested three other childrenelizabeth, a. doe, and leslie at trial, the prosecution and defense each called an expert yme jones. testimony focused primarily on child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome. according to jones, this syndrome of the syndrome explains children often ose in a way that tells the complete story from beginning to jones testified about other sexual abuse issues too, including suggestibility: the idea that suggestive questions or discussions can lead someone to believe a falsehood. expert was bradley mcauliff. he testified about suggestibility only. 3 over the objection of defense counsel, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 1193: you have heard testimony from dr. jayme jones regarding child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome. accommodation syndrome is not evidence that the defendant committed any of the crimes charged against him. you may consider this evidence only in deciding inconsistent with the conduct of someone who had been molested and in evaluating the believability of their testimony. (see calcrim no. 1193.) the trial court did not give any instruction that on suggestibility, though it gave calcrim no. 332 on the use of expert testimony generally and calcrim no. 303 on evidence admitted for a limited purpose. neither did the trial court give any instruction on that portion of dr. ii the trial court did not err by instructing the jury with calcrim no. 1193. we independently review whether a trial court commits instructional error. (yale v. bowne (2017) 9 cal.app.5th 649, 657.) garcilazo does not claim calcrim no. 1193 misstates the law or is inapplicable to these facts. instead he argues the court violated his federal constitutional rights because it was not required to give the instruction. that argument is unconnected 4 to the relevant issue: whether the trial court was permitted to give the instruction. garcilazo also contends camcrim no. 1193 emphasized that children often delay reports of abuseand thus deemphasized the abuse when improperly questioned. on child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome the jury understood the instruction and limited its consideration people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1028 [courts assume jurors are intelligent and understand testimony extra credence, it would have been disobeying the instruction. a trial court may err by instructing the jury with a legally correct but irrelevant instruction. (people v. lee (1990) 219 cal.app.3d 829, 841.) but garcilazo does not, and cannot, argue calcrim no. 1193 is irrelevant. jones testified about child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome, and calcrim no. 1193 is an instruction on the proper use of just that sort of testimony. garcilazo cites no authority for the notion a legally correct and factually applicable instruction can prejudice a defendant. this notion is wrong. even if calcrim no. 1193 were irreerror in delivering a legally correct but factually inapplicable instruction is usually harmless and has little or no effect. (people 5 v. lee, supra, 219 cal.app.3d at p. 841.) such an error would be merely technical and not grounds for reversal. (people v. eulian (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 1324, 1335.) in reviewing a purportedly erroneous instruction, we ask whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury has applied the instruction in a way that violates the constitution. (people v. richardson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1028.) an instruction must be viewed in the context of the overall charge, which we presume jurors grasp. (ibid.) other instructions. the trial court instructed the jury with accept [expert opinions] as tr calcrim no. 332 ne the reasons given for each opinion and the facts or other matters on which each w and the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 226, which guides jurors on how to judge the credibility of witnesses and informs jurors that they alone are responsible for credibility determinations. calcrim nos. 332 and 226 sufficed to correct any misapprehension the jury may with calcrim no. 1193 was harmless. iii garcilazo fails to establish his trial counsel were ineffective. garcilazo claims the prosecutor vouched for prosecution witnesses and improperly implied garcilazo committed perjury. according to garcilazo, this misconduct occurred at three points: 6 statement and closing argument, the prosecutor made comments on some of the details, in my opinion, is . . . suggestive of them being trut garcilazo claims the prosecutor engaged in a: and then she said that and she said [a. doe] and leslie, they have gone through the same thing. he detective and i, when you interviewed with us a few months ago? interpreter: so sorry. you need to speak up a little bit. that you told the detective and i when you spoke with us a few months ago, correct? a: yes. garcilazo says the prosecutor improperly accused him of perjury when the prosecutor said in closing argument: [w]hen [defendants] choose to testify in a courtroom, their testimony can be examined and we know that he had the defendant had out of anybody in this case, he had nothing. . . . he has the most motive to lie out of anyone e charges. 7 verdict based on the claimed prosecutorial misconduct itself. any attack on that basis would fail because, absent special to object at trial forfeits a claim of prosecutorial misconduct. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820.) instead, garcilazo asserts a claim of ineffective assistance, faulting his counsel for failing to object to tactical decisions and presume counsel acted within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009 (mai).) typically, an ineffective assistance claim is best raised in a habeas corpus proceeding. (ibid.) on direct appeal, we reverse a conviction only if (1) the record shows counsel had no rational tactical purpose for the challenged behavior, (2) counsel was asked for a reason and failed to provide one, or (3) no satisfactory explanation could exist. (ibid.) none of the mai grounds for reversal are present here. the asked why they did not object. the first and third mai grounds are absent too. deciding whether to object is inherently tactical. the failure to object will rarely establish ineffective assistance. (people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, 502.) there are many possible reasons language 8 comments as opening a possible door; defense counsel may have wanted to end the discussion of witness credibility sooner rather than later; and so forth. objecting in any of these situations would have been counterproductive. ineffective assistance. disposition the judgment is affirmed. wiley, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. stratton, j. 