filed 8/27/18 p. v. de la fuente ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marcelo de la fuente, defendant and appellant. b285168 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga092980) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, robert p. applegate, judge. affirmed. alejandro garcia for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer, acting supervising deputy attorney general, eric j. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant marcelo de la fuente appeals from the denial of his motion to withdraw or vacate his pleas based on his claim that his counsel affirmatively misadvised him about the immigration consequences of entering no contest pleas to committing a lewd act upon a child and committing sexual penetration by foreign object. we affirm. background i. in april 2014, defendant was charged in a felony complaint with two counts of committing a lewd act upon a child, in violation of california penal code section 288, subdivision (a)1 (counts 1 and 2), and one count of committing sexual penetration by foreign object, in violation of section 289, subdivision (j) (count 3). on december 12, 2014, defendant appeared in court, represented by counsel. although the people had offered defendant three years in state prison to resolve the matter, the trial court indicated it would impose a lesser sentence as follows: in this matter, i had a discussion with both counsel indicated . . . to your attorney that if you plead no contest to all charges that i will place you on five years of formal probation, primary conditions to pursuant to penal code section counseling, and you would stay away from minors unless accompanied by another adult. [] is that your understanding of happen?defendant 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 during his change of plea colloquy with the court, defendant confirmed that he had initialed and signed the form and that he read and understood the form before he initialed and signed it. specifically, paragraph 12 of that form stated: i understand that if i am not a citizen of the united states, i must expect my plea of guilty or no contest will result in my deportation, exclusion from admission or reentry to the united states, and denial of naturalization and (italics added.) paragraph 14 of that form stated: plea, i have had a full opportunity to discuss with my attorney . . immediately above initialed each of the paragraphs . . . and discussed them with counsel signed the form as well to confirm, among other things, that he reviewed the form with defendant, explained his rights to him, answered his questions, and discussed the consequences of the pleas with him. defendant pleaded no contest to all three counts. when ressly, knowingly, intelligently, and understandingly waived his constitutional rights, that his plea has been entered freely and voluntarily with a full understanding of the nature and consequences of that plea. [] i find a factual basis for the plea and his plea is the trial court then placed defendant on five years of formal probation subject to various conditions and restrictions, including the condition that defendant serve 364 days in county 4 jail, minus any prior custody credits. the trial court permitted defendant to surrender for service of his jail term at a later date, even though the people objected ii. the section 1473.7 motion on withdraw/vacate plea pursuant to pc.  1473.7 or alternatively pursuant to padilla v. kentucky, in it, immigration consequences of research the immigration consequences of [his] plea, properly advise [him] accordingly, and properly defend [him] against the actual adverse consequences in support of the motion, defendant submitted a two-page declaration. in the declaration, defendant stated that he is not a united states citizen and that he entered the united states as a lawful permanent resident in 1976. with respect to his prior accepting the plea, [counsel] assured me that i was not going to have any problems with immigration because i was going to get a 364 day sentence instead of 365. defendant thus declared that excluded from admission, and denied naturalization as a result of because of the representations made to me by [counsel]. i thus 5 agreed to do everything [counsel] suggested. further, i did not consequences] would mean anything to me or apply to me because nobody, including [counsel], ever indicated it would be a [he] when he was detained by immigration officials in august 2015, upon completion of his jail term. defendant further contended: deportation, exclusion from admission, or denial of naturalization from the united states, i would have taken greater risks and would not have pleaded guilty. i would have attempted to obtain an acquittal, a dismissal, or, a conviction under another charge that would not have adverse immigration consequences or allow me to seek a waiver [from immigration authorities] for my on june 15, 2017, the trial court held a hearing on defendant. new counsel for defendant argued that the ror that we are alleging is that his defense counsel did that he would not have any problems with immigration based on the fact that he negotiated a 364-explained, it was the particular code section to which defendant pleaded no contest that carried adverse immigration consequences and not the length of custody time. thus, negotiate a plea t[o] these other codes [having less severe immigration consequences]. what he did erroneously, maybe in good faith is get a 364-do anything in favor of [defendant]. and he told [defendant] this 6 that based on that, he was not going to have any issues with no way he would have taken that deal . . . [h]e would have tried to do something else. maybe even taken the case to trial. but more importantly perhaps tried to negotiate a plea to another penal code that would not have the adverse immigration that, when entering his no contest pleas, defendant was advised of adverse immigration consequences pursuant to section 1016.5,2 after taking the matter under submission, the trial court issued a memorandum decision denying defe in its written decision, the trial court county jail term (as opposed to a longer term of imprisonment) assertions defendant made in his declaration to support his claims, namely: (1) that counsel assured defendant he was not going to have any problems with immigration because he was 2 section 1016.5 states that, prior to accepting a guilty or no contest plea, the court shall administer the following advisement to defendant on the record: hereby advised that conviction of the offense for which you have been charged may have the consequences of deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization pursuant to the laws of the united states. ( 1016.5, subd. (a).) 7 going to get a 364 day sentence instead of 365; and (2) that defendant first learned he would have immigration problems as a result of his pleas when he was detained by immigration officials after completing his custody time in jail. the trial court found declaration defendant had previously submitted in support of his motion to modify his sentence by being placed on house arrest instead of serving time in county jail. in that prior declaration, defendant stated, noting his 364-also noted that, when the people objected to granting defendant a the record reference to adverse immigration consequences for this e facts asserted motion fails for lack of persuasive evidence that his conviction was legally invalid, or that he had ineffective assistance of defendant filed a timely notice of appeal.3 3 an order granting or denying the motion [to withdraw or vacate a plea] is appealable under subdivision (b) of section 1237 as an order after judgment affecting the substantial rights of a party.1237.5 certificate of probable cause, but sections 1473.7, subdivision (f), and 1237, subdivision (b), impose no such requirement to appeal. 8 discussion i. standard of review because denial of a section 1473.7 motion implicates a fact and law subject to de novo review. (people v. ogunmowo (2018) 23 cal.app.5th 67, 76 (ogunmowosubstantial evidence in the record, but exercise our independent judgment in deciding whether the facts demonstrate trial sulting prejudice to ibid.factual determinations are based on written declarations or affidavits, as opposed to live testimony, we conduct an independent review and need not afford deference to those factual determinations. (id. court are in the same position in interpreting written in re resendiz (2001) 25 cal.4th 230, 249.) ii. analysis section 1473.7, subdivision (a)(1), provides that a defendant may bring a motion to vacate a conviction or sentence he conviction or sentence is legally invalid due to a meaningfully understand, defend against, or knowingly accept the actual or potential adverse immigration consequences of a such error under section 1473.7 includes constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel in the form of misadvising a client about the adverse immigration consequences of entering a guilty or no contest plea. (ogunmowo, supra, 9 client that he will not face immigration consequences as a result of a guilty plea . . .when the law states otherwiseis objectively deficient performance under prevailing professional padilla v. kentucky (2010) 559 u.s. 356, 368-assurance that his conviction would not result in his removal however, such error must have been prejudicial to defendant in order to prevail on a section 1473.7 motion. (ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at p. 78.) the defendant bears the burden to establish he is entitled to section 1473.7 relief by a preponderance of the evidence. ( 1473.7, subd. (e)(1).) a. ineffective assistance of counsel here, defendant did not meet his burden to demonstrate error. we agree with the trial court that defendant failed to establish that his counsel provided erroneous immigration advice and, relatedly, that defendant first learned his convictions would have immigration consequences after serving his jail term. the only evidence of either c-serving declaration submitted in support of his section 1473.7 motion. there is no corroborating evidence in the record. notably absent prior counsel to confirm defen when entering his no contest pleas, defendant acknowledged he read and understood the written advisements, including the must expect my plea of guilty or no contest will result 10 (italics added.) at the plea and sentencing hearing, the prosecutor also specifically objected to the trial court permitting a dant seeking additional leniency in the form of house arrest in lieu of come a day when i will no longer be allowed to stay in this cowould be deported from the united states.4 although defendant now claims in connection with his motion that he did not understand the immigration consequences of his pleas, greater weight should be given to his then-contemporaneous statements over his after-the-fact rationalizations. (see lee v. united states (2017) __ u.s. __, 137 s. ct. 1958, 1967 (lee) [courts should look post hoc .) in addition to his counsel misadvising him, defendant claims his consult with an attorney familiar with the immigration consequences of criminal convictions in order to give an informed and correct opplea to other charges . . . which would have allowed appellant to seek a waiver of his removal from the united states or avoid 4 defendant complains that this declaration was not cited to or produced at the motion hearing. the trial court, however, was entitled to take judicial notice of pleadin(evid. code  452, subd. (d).) on our own motion, we ordered the modify sentencing, filed january 23, 2015, which contains 11 as to these claims too, as there is no evidence whatsoever in the record to support them, not even in support of his section 1473.7 motion. based on this record, we conclude, as the trial court did, that defendant has failed to meet his burden to demonstrate any error that affected his ability to understand the immigration consequences of entering his no contest pleas for purposes of relief under section 1473.7. b. prejudice we also find defendant did not meet his burden to show the claimed purported errors were prejudicial. here, defendant asserts that, if he had been properly advised by counsel as to the defendant contendacquittal, a dismissal, or, a conviction under another charge that would allow the immigration judge the discretion to permit him performance deprived him of a trial by causing him to accept a plea, the defendant can show prejudice by demonstrating a [lee, supra, 137 s. ct. at p. 1965; see also ogunmowo, supra, 23 cal.app.5th at p. 78.should not upset a plea solely because of post hoc assertions from a defendant about how he would have pleaded but for his eficiencies. judges should instead look to 12 lee, supra, 137 s.ct. at p. 1967.) that contest if given competent advice must be independently corroborated by objective evidence. (in re resendiz, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 253; in re alvernaz (1992) 2 cal.4th 924, 938.) prejudice here is amply demonstrated by the record in lee, which lee, supra, 137 s. ct. at p. 1969.) in lee, the record showed that defendant asked his counsel repeatedly if he faced any risk of deportation from the proceedings. (id. at p. 1967.) in addition, both defendant and his counsel testified at an evidentiary hearing that defendant would have proceeded to trial had he known about the deportation consequences. (id. at pp. 1967-1968.) further still, during the hen the judge warned him that a conviction could result in your being deported,[d]oes that at all affect your decision about whether you want to plead guilty or your honor.id. at p. 1968.) proceed with his guilty plea. (ibid.) by contrast, other than post hoc assertions in the declaration in support of his section 1473.7 motion, there is no evidence in the record (contemporaneous to entering his pleas or have pled no contest and would have insthe evidence in the record shows that immigration consequences were not the 13 determinative issue (see lee, supra, 137 s. ct. at p. 1967.) to begin with, defendant confirmed indicated sentence of probation with 364 days in jail instead of the trial court advised defendant of the consequences of his plea, including adverse immigration consequences, defendant had no questions, raised no issues, and proceeded to plead no contest without incident. similarly, when the people indicated they y at a later date ,defendant raised no concerns and expressed no surprise. indeed, when defendant initially admitted in a declaration he knew there would come a day when he would no longer be able to stay remain in the united states, he did so in furtherance of a request for additional sentencing leniency (i.e., house arrest), not in an attempt to withdraw his plea to avoid immigration consequences. on this record, we find defendant did not establish he would have purported misadvisement.5 5 nor has defendant established any prejudice flowing from purported failure to seek an alternative charge, discussed anteprosecution may have been open to a plea to another charge,was the trial court that agreed to leniency in the form of probation and 364-custody . the record indicates no willingness by the prosecution to . (see people v. olvera (2018) 24 cal.app.5th 1112 [rejecting ineffective assistance claim where -neutral disposition 14 disposition for the foregoing reasons, we hold defendant failed to meet his burden to establish prejudicial error to merit relief under secti not to be published in the official reports. kin, j. we concur: baker, acting p. j. moor, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 