filed 3/29/18 p. v. mitchell ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bryan mitchell, defendant and appellant. b285079 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta138142) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, patrick connolly, judge. affirmed in part and reversed in part with directions. ______ kathy r. moreno, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and john r. prosser, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant bryan mitchell appeals from the judgment of his convictions of spousal rape, attempted murder, and assault with a deadly weapon. mitchell argues that he was denied a fair trial and due process when the court coerced the jury into reaching a guilty verdict on the rape charge and that the court erred in failing to grant a mistrial based on jury misconduct and the verbal exchange between the victim and a member of family. as we shall explain, we disagree. notwithstanding our conclusion, we remand this matter for resentencing because the court imposed an unauthorized sentence on the attempted murder conviction. factual and procedural background mitchell married s.s. in 2014 and they had a child together. their marital relationship involved multiple episodes of domestic violence. in august 2014, the couple separated, and mitchell moved out, but they still saw each other on occasion and continually argued about their child and other issues. on september 4, 2015, s.s. was alone at home when mitchell broke into the house and assaulted her. as s.s. attempted to flee the house, mitchell struck her multiple times on the head and body with a baseball bat. mitchell then raped s.s. mitchell was arrested and charged with spousal rape (pen. code,  262, subd. (a)(1))1; attempted murder ( 664, 187, subd. (a)); and assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). 2 mitchell pleaded not guilty. 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the information also alleged that mitchell committed the attempted murder willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation, and that he personally used a dangerous or deadly weapon ( 667.61, subds. (b) & (e), 12022, subd. (b)(1)). as to all counts, 3 the trial lasted six days. after less than two hours of deliberation, the jury reported that it had reached guilty verdicts on the attempted murder and assault counts, but was unable to reach a verdict on the rape count. after further argument by counsel and additional instructions, the jury continued to deliberate and ultimately returned a guilty verdict on the rape count.3 the trial court sentenced mitchell to a total term of 60 years to life. mitchell filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. mitchell has not demonstrated the court coerced the verdict on the rape count mitchell handling the rape count effectively coerced the jury to reach a guilty verdict on that count, and thus violated his state and federal constitutional rights to due process, and fair trial. we disagree. a. factual background the jury began deliberating at 3:21 p.m. on friday, june 16, 2017. about 40 minutes later, the jury requested a read-back of certain testimony. the court granted the request but decided to the information alleged that mitchell inflicted great bodily injury ( 667.61, subds. (a) & (d), 12022.7, subd. (e)); mitchell had suffered a prior three strikes( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12); and had served two separate prison commitments and suffered a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a), 667.5, subd. (b)). 3 the jury made true findings on the sentence enhancement allegations except for the allegation that mitchell committed the attempted murder willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found the alleged prior convictions and prison commitments true. 4 adjourn the proceedings for the week and to conduct the read-back the following week. when proceedings resumed on monday, june 19, the court allowed the read-back of testimony and then recessed the proceedings for lunch. approximately 35 minutes after deliberations resumed on the afternoon of june 19, the jury announced that it had reached verdicts on the attempted murder and assault charges but they were unable to reach a verdict on the rape count. the trial court accepted the guilty verdicts on the attempted murder and assault charges, and without objection, the trial court asked the jury to deliberate for another 10 minutes to consider whether additional instructions, review of the evidence, or argument from counsel might help them reach a verdict on the rape charge. the jury resumed deliberations, and about 10 minutes later returned to the courtroom. the foreperson told the court that nothing would assist them in reaching a verdict. the court responded: all right. you guys have been out for less than a day. okay. and it was not a very long time, especially on a charge like this. with the way that your verdicts were. and i do appreciate that. you to come back here tomorrow. come back at 9:30 [a.m.] back at 10:00 [a.m.] just sleep on it and see if . . . there is anything that you can come up with. if nto you probably in the very late morning, to see if been any changes. okay. if but maybe there is something that somebody comes up with over the evening, or the jury resumed deliberations at 10:05 a.m. on tuesday, june 20. about an hour later, the jury asked for additional 5 argument on exual intercourse happened before or about consent and/or [t]he the court excused the jury for the lunch break, informing them that counsel would present additional argument at 1:30 p.m. when the proceedings resumed in the afternoon, counsel presented , and the court read additional instructions related to the issue of consent. the jury then resumed deliberations, and about 15 minutes later, the jury reached a guilty verdict on the rape count. b. analysis section 1140 allows a trial court to discharge a jury and declare a mistrial if the court determines that the proper period of time for deliberations has expi the decision whether to declare a hung jury or to order further deliberations discretion. (people v. bell (2007) 40 cal.4th 582, 616, overruled on other grounds by people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 686 & fn. 13.) though the court must take care to exercise its power without coercing the jury into abdicating its independent judgment in favor of considerations of compromise and expediency [citation], the court may direct further deliberations upon its reasonable conclusion that such direction would be understanding of the case rather than as mere pressure to reach a verdict (people v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 539.) mitchell argues that after the jury initially reported that it was at an impasse on the rape count and indicated the belief that nothing would help it reach a verdict, the court should have discharged the jury and declared a mistrial. he maintains that the 6 couthatasking the jury to and return the next day for further deliberations, coupled with the subsequent argument from counsel and jury instructionscoerced the jury to reach a verdict. as a threshold matter, we note that mitchellcounsel did not s response to the situation and thus he has forfeited his state law claim that the court coerced a verdict. (see people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1038.) and he has also forfeited his related constitutional claims. (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 435.) in any event, no impropriety occurred. s main concern was that the jury had not deliberated for a sufficient amount of time in light of the evidence presented during the six days of trial. the court did not urge the jury to reach an agreement, nor did it pressure the jury to secure a verdict. in people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 615, the california supreme court held that the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it ordered a deadlocked jury, which had deliberated for a day and a half, to continue deliberating for the afternoon, telling the jurors to try your best if you c similarly, here, given that the jury had deliberated for less than two hours before declaring an impasse on the rape count, the trial judge could reasonably conclude that his direction and return in the morning for further deliberations would be perceived as a means of enabling the jurors to enhance their understanding of the case rather than as mere pressure to reach a verdict. and subsequent events bore out that conclusionthe request for the additional argument from counsel and its question (id. at p. 616.) consequently, there was nothing coercive about 7 the continue to deliberate. ii. the court adequately addressed the alleged juror misconduct and the and s.s. a. factual background on june 14, 2017, at the end of the lunchtime recess during the trial, the courtroom clerk informed the court that juror no. 10 reported that mitchell the hallway outside of the courtroom. the clerk stated that five to six jurors might have witnessed the argument. the trial court conducted an inquiry of the six jurors who may have been exposed to the argument. juror no. 10 told the court that she saw mitchell heard mitchellmother threaten s.s. juror no. 10 stated that she did not hear any discussion about the case and affirmed that she could remain fair to both sides. similarly, juror no. 11 reported that she observed mitchellof lying to get sympathy from the jury. juror no. 11 also stated that she could remain fair. the trial court also individually questioned the other jurors who were present during the argument: juror no. 1, juror no. 2, juror no. 3, and juror no. 4, who all reported that they overheard parts of the argument between s.s. and mitchellll four of the jurors told the court they could remain fair. juror no. 4 also reported to the court that before the argument between mitchell, he thought he saw mitchellher conversing with one of the jurors. the trial court observed that, based on the description given by juror no. 4, the only jurors who could have possibly spoken to mitchellwere juror no. 2 or juror no. 1. accordingly, the trial court 8 questioned juror no. 2 and juror no. 1 again, and they both denied speaking with mitchell. mitchelldid not request a further inquiry of the jury, but counsel moved for a mistrial based on the juroargument between mitchelland s.s. the court denied the motion. b. analysis mitchell complains that the court did not conduct an adequate and erred in failing to grant a mistrial based on the e to the argument between s.s. and mitchell mitchells mother and a member of the jury. we are not persuaded. when a trial court is aware of possible juror misconduct, the court must make whatever inquiry is reasonably necessary to resolve the matter and trial. (people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1284.) ot every s conduct requires or warrants further investigation. ion whether to investigate the possibility of juror bias, incompetence, or misconductlike the ultimate decision to retain or discharge a jurorrests within the sound discretion of the trial court. (people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466, 478.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion. the court interviewed all of the jurors identified as having been exposed to the argument between s.s. and mitchellall assured the court that the events they had observed outside the courtroom would not affect their ability to remain impartial. mitchell the manner in which the court conducted the investigation of the incident and offered no reason to doubt tgiven that no other jurors were present during the incident, it was reasonable for the court to limit the scope of the inquiry only to those identified 9 as potential witnesses rather than risk exposing the entire jury to the matter. likewise, the court examined the two jurors who fit the description of the juror whom juror no. 4 thought might have conversed with mitchell, and the court determined that neither juror had engaged in such a discussion. mitchell has pointed to nothing in the record to suggest that these jurors or any other members of the jury engaged in any misconduct during the trial. accordingly, we conclude there was no abuse of discretion in the conduct or in denying the motion for a mistrial. iii. the court imposed an unauthorized sentence. the trial court originally sentenced mitchell to a total term of 74 years to life. on the spousal rape conviction, the trial court imposed an indeterminate term of 55 years to life, comprised of 25 years to life ( 667.61, subds. (a) & (d)), doubled for the strike prior ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12), plus five years for the prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). on the attempted murder conviction, the court sentenced mitchell to 19 years, comprised of the upper term of nine years, doubled for the strike prior, plus one year for the use of a deadly weapon, to run consecutively to the sentence on the rape conviction. the trial court imposed and stayed the upper term of four years for the assault conviction ( 654) and stayed the enhancements for both prior prison commitments and the great bodily injury ( 667.5, subd. (b), 12022.7, subd. (e)). the court subsequently issued a nunc pro tunc order, modifying the sentence on the attempted murder convictionthe trial court selected a determinate term of five years, comprised of 2 years 4 months (one-third the midterm of seven years), doubled 10 for the strike prior ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12), plus five years for the use of a deadly weapon enhancement ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)), to run consecutively to the sentence for rape. the attorney general argues that although the courtsentence on the attempted murder conviction was appropriate, the subsequent modification resulted in a legally unauthorized sentence. we agree. as originally sentenced the court properly designated the attempted murder co under the section 1170.1 sentencing formula; however, in modifying the -treflects that the court designated the attempted murder conviction ection 1170.1. and in modifying the sentence for the attempted murder conviction, the court did not indicate which, if any, of the other sentences served as the principal term. as the attorney general suggests, the courtmodification might reflect an effort to treat the indeterminate term on the spousal rape count as a principal term. alternatively, the courtion may signify the decision to designate the determinate term sentence on the conviction for assault as the principal term under either scenario, the modification resulted in an unauthorized sentence. the spousal rape conviction is punishable by an indeterminate term sentence and, thus, cannot be selected as , such as attempted murder, punishable by determinate sentences. (see people v. neely (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 787, 797 [holding that an unauthorized sentence results where a crime punishable by an indeterminate sentence is principal termsection 1170.1].) and the assault conviction cannot serve as the principal term for the attempted murder conviction under section 1170.1 because the attempted murder conviction carries a longer sentence than an assault 11 conviction. (see  1170.1; people v. felix (2000) 22 cal.4th 651, 655 [explainingvicted of more than one offense carrying a determinate term, and the trial court imposes consecutive sentences, the term with the longest sentence is the ( 1170.1, subd. (a).)].) accordingly, the sentence on the attempted murder conviction cannot stand. disposition the sentence on the attempted murder conviction is reversed, and the case is remanded to the trial court for resentencing. after resentencing, the trial court clerk is directed to prepare a new abstract of judgment and forward certified copies of the abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur. chaney, j. bendix, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 