 filed 11/1/18 p. v. williams ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. travion marqurse williams, defendant and appellant. b285681 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na104632) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, gary j. ferrari, judge. affirmed. russell s. babcock, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and christopher g. sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 a jury found travion marqurse williams (williams) guilty of second degree robbery (pen. code,1  212.5, subd. (c); count 1) and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; count 2). in addition, the jury found gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c), 186.22, subd. (b)(4)) and firearm allegations ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (e)(1)) asserted against williams to be true. the trial court sentenced williams to 35 years to life in state prison. on appeal, williams does not challenge the robbery conviction; in fact, he concedes that the p instead, he argues that his conviction on the shooting count should be reversed because there was insufficient evidence to establish that he shot at in addition, williams contends that he received ineffective assistance of counsel because his trial lawyer failed to move to (a) sever his trial from that of his codefendant, michael allotey (allotey), and/or (b) bifurcate the gang enhancement charges from the robbery and shooting counts. the shooting conviction and hold that his ineffective assistance arguments are premature. accordingly, we affirm the judgment without prejudice to any rights williams may have to relief by way of a petition for writ of habeas corpus. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 background i. the robbery on june 17, 2016, at approximately 6:00 p.m., williams and another man approached the victim as he was refueling his car at a gas station/convenience store. williams and the other man asked the victim about his gang affiliation. when the victim told them he was not affiliated with any gang, williams and the other man pressed the victim on the issue, asking the victim if he or a member of the sex, money, murder (smm) street gang. after the victim denied being a member of the smm gang, williams and the other man lifted their shirts, displaying handguns in the waistbands of their pants, and then robbed the victim of his jewelry, bank card, and cash totaling approximately $2,500. video surveillance cameras at the gas station/convenience store recorded the robbery. ii. the shooting after williams and the other man robbed the victim, they got into a car that had been parked on the street next to the gas station and drove off. the victim followed the robbers in his car. the victim followed the robbers at high speed60 to 70 miles per hour. as he gave chase, the victim never lost sight of the car. after the chase had covered approximately a mile, the car in which williams was riding came to a stop at an intersection, angled as though it was about to make a right-hand turn. the victim slammed on his brakes and came to a stop 50 to 75 feet behind the other car. t two to three 4 seconds after he braked his car to a stop, the victim saw williams and another man exit the other car and fire several rounds in his when williams and the other man opened fire, they victim was once williams and the other man opened fire, the victim ducked down in his seat and reversed his car back into a cross street, and then drove away. neither the victim nor his car were struck by the gunfire. at no point during the shooting did the victim get out of his car. during their investigation at the scene of the shooting, the police found eight .45-caliber shell casings and four nine-millimeter shell casings. a criminalist later matched the nine-millimeter shell casings recovered at the scene to a gun confiscated from williams when he was arrested. although the parked automobile, a toyota truck, was struck in the front grill by a bullet; the truck was parked approximately 40 feet from the iii. the trial2 at trial, the people relied, in principal part, on the testimony of the victim to meet its burden on the shooting charge. estimony at trial, however, proved less detailed than and, in some respects, contrary to the statements he gave to 2 in light of our holding, our summary of the trial is confined to a discussion of the evidence as it relates to the shooting offense. 5 the police immediately following the robbery/shooting and the example, at trial, the victim testified that the robbers did not have guns in their waistbands, that he stopped his car 250 feet not 50 to 75 feet away, and that he did not see anyone shooting at him or his car, that he only heard gunshots. as a result, the people also relied on the testimony of the officer who interviewed the victim immediately after the crimes, as well as sworn testimony at the dngs. although the victim denied at trial being afraid of gang retaliation for his testimony against the defendants, that statement was belied by other statements made by the victim. for example, in august 2016, while he was in custody waiting to preliminary hearingthe trial court issued a bench warrant in order to get the victim to testifythe victim complained to police officers in a taped interview that his life was . . . g to be good when the victim left the courtroom after testifying at trial, he told in addition to the victim, the people called a witness who, at the time of the shooting, lived in an apartment at the testified that she went to her living room window after she heard seven to eight gun shots; when she looked out the window, she saw a man holding a gun at about shoulder height pointing it down the street in the direction of the . in order to put the robbery and the shooting in a larger context and to support the gang enhancement allegations, the 6 people presented a police gang expert, who testified, among other things, that williams had told him that he was a member of the naughty nasty crip (nnc) street gang, that the nnc and smm gangs were rivals, that the robbery occurred within an area disputed by the nnc and smm gangs, and that the shooting occurred within nnc gang territory. the gang expert opined that both the robbery and the shooting would benefit the nnc gang and its reputation for intimidation and inducing fear. williams elected not to testify in his own defense. during [williams] effectively told the jury that his client did, in fact, the jury to find his client included offense of on september 21, 2017, the jury returned a verdict finding williams guilty of robbery and shooting at an occupied vehicle. on october 11, 2017, the trial court sentenced williams to 35 years to life in state prison. williams timely appealed. discussion i. the shooting conviction is supported by sufficient evidence on appeal, williams argues that his conviction for shooting at an occupied vehicle should be reversed (and a conviction of the lesser included offense of grossly negligent discharge of a firearm 7 entered in its place3)the evidence at trial simply did not show any evidence that mr. williams had shot at the . a. standard of review we independently review the sufficiency of the evidence supporting a conviction. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1213.) in reviewing a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence under the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution and/or the due process clause of article i, section 15 of the california constitution, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.id. at p. 1212.) the federal constitutional standard for determining the sufficiency of (people v. staten (2000) 24 cal.4th 434, 460.) 3 see people v. ramirez (2009) 45 cal.4th 980, 985 [holding that the grossly negligent discharge of a firearm is a necessarily included offense of  246]. section 246.3, subdivision (a), describes the elements of discharging a firearm in a grossly firearm; (2) the defendant did so intentionally; (3) the defendant did so in a grossly negligent manner which could result in the (people v. alonzo (1993) 13 cal.app.4th 535, 538.) 8 in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] whatever is there sufficient substantial (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; accord, people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) we must accept logical inferences the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if we would have concluded otherwise. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 811-812; see people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 105.) nless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single (people v. brown, at p. 106.) b. substantial evidence supported the verdict section 246, in pertinent part, provides as follows: any person who shall maliciously and willfully discharge a firearm at an . . . occupied motor vehicle . . . is guilty of a felony . . . section 7, [subdivision] another person, or an intent to do a wrongful act, established 9 (people v. watie (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 866, 879.) courts have construed the term pecific intent. (people v. atkins (2001) 25 cal.4th 76, 85.) (people v. hernandez (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1494, 1500.) purpose or willingness to do the act. (ibid.) furthermore, inhabited or occupied target. proscribed target is also committed when the defendant shoots in such close proximity to the target that he shows a conscious indifference to the probable consequence that one or more bullets will strike the target or persons in or around it. the defendants conscious indifference to the probability that a shooting will achieve a particular result is inferred from the nature and (people v. overman (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1344, 1356-1357, fn. omitted.) in other words, not limited to shooting directly at a proscribed target. nor does the statute require a specific intent to strike the (id. at p. 1357.) here, there was substantial evidence that williams maliciously and willfully fired a handgun at the victim while the victim was in his car. , which was held just two months after the shooting, the victim testified that williams robbed him and that, after a high-speed chase, the car williams rode in stopped abruptly at an intersection and two men exited, one of whom the victim believed with a high degree of certainty was williams. the victim testified further that as soon as he saw the man he believed was williams and the other 10 next. the victim told police immediately after the shooting that williams and the other shooter fired multiple times directionhearing that when williams and the other man opened fire, they physical evidence at the scene corroborated thtestimony12 shell casings from two different handguns, one of , and a bullet strike on a nearby parked car; further corroboration came from the witness who heard seven to eight gun shots from the street below her apartment and then saw a man pointing a gun down . from those facts gang egang from such an act of violence committed in its territory, the jury, who had an opportunity to see and listen to the victim, could reasonably infer that when williams pulled the trigger he was not aiming randomly but aiming at or in close proximity to the victim in his carthat is, williams fired with a conscious indifference to the probable consequence that one or more bullets would strike the or persons around the victi. accordingly, we affirm the conviction on the section 246 count. 11 ii. ineffectiveness of counsel arguments are premature regarding his codefendant, allotey, was introduced at trial4 and enhancements from the primary charges, he received ineffective assistance from his counsel. as discussed below, we decline to resolve this dual-prong claim. a. standard of review to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, a defends representation fell below professional standards of reasonableness and must affirmatively establish prejudice. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674]; people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 623-624.) s showing is insufficient as to one component of this claim, we need not address the other. (strickland, at p. 697.) however, [a] claim on appeal of ineffective assistance of [if] the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged[,] . . . unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory [citations.] unless the record affirmatively discloses that counsel had no tactical purpose for his act or 4 this evidence included, among other things, a youtube music video by allotey, a self-described up-and-coming rapper, 12 he conviction will be affirmed and the defendant relegated to habeas corpus proceedings at which evidence dehors the record may be taken to determine the basis, if any, for [citation.] (people v. hinds (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 897, 901.) as our supreme court observed in people v. mendoza tello are often more appropriately litigated in a habeas corpus proceeding, the rules generally prohibiting raising an issue on habeas corpus that was, or could have been, raised on appeal [citations] would not bar an ineffective assistance claim on (id. at p. 267.) in mendoza tello, the supreme court unanimous s conviction on the grounds that counsel was ineffective for failing to make a suppression motion; the court did so due to gaps in the record: what [the deputy] would have said had he been asked at a suppression hearing why he did what he did. . . . [p]erhaps he did have a reason, of which defense counsel was aware, and perhaps there was some other (ibid.) deputy] the opportunity to point to any specific and articulable facts justifying his actions. nor did the prosecution have the opportunity to offer some other possible reason not to suppress (ibid.) the lesson from people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th 264, is that an be truly confident all (id. at p. 267, italics added.) or, as the court in people v. hinds, supra, 108 cal.app.4th 897 put it, 13 claims casting aspersions on counsel when counsel is not in a position to defend his conduct. a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel instead is more appropriately made in a habeas corpus (id. at p. 902.) b. the record is too undeveloped to support direct appellate review of the ineffective assistance claims here, we decline to resolve williams counsel claims because the record does not disclose[ ]that counsel had no tactical purpose for his allege omissions. (people v. hinds, supra, 108 cal.app.4th at p. 901.) [b]y failing to either move to sever or request empanelment constitutional rights to due process and a fair trial . . . were violated.the people, however, have advanced a number of decided bifurcate the gang enhancements from the primary charges. for example, the people note that defense counsel could have reasonably concluded that both motions would have been futile in light of the facts and prevailing case law. what is missing from the record before us is direct evidence about the strategic and tactical decisions made counsel. the record before us, as the people observe, is with respect to the decision- on of his codefendant and the decision not to move to bifurcate the gang enhancement allegations from the robbery and shooting charges. 14 typically motivated by considerations not reflected in the record. it is for this reason that writ review of claims of ineffective assistance of counsel is the preferred review procedure. evidence of legal practice in the community as to a specific tactic, can be presented by declarations or other evidence filed with the writ in re arturo a. (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 229, 243.) accordingly, we affirm the judgment any rights [williams] may have to relief by way of a petition for addressing his two ineffective assistance of counsel claims. (people v. garrido (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 359, 367.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published johnson, acting p. j. we concur: bendix, j. currey, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 