filed 9/12/18 p. v. pack ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steven thomas pack, defendant and appellant. b285950 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya094775) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, judge. affirmed. elana goldstein, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 defendant steven thomas pack (aka steven pack pack and steve a. pack) appeals from a judgment of conviction. people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, identifying no issues and requesting that this court review the record and determine whether any arguable issue exists on appeal. we have reviewed the record, conclude the record reveals no arguable issue on appeal, and thus affirm. factual background on or about september 6 and 7, 2016, defendant took property belonging to his neighbors, mostly from their cars. computer, iphone, and paperwork. police recovered her laptop computer. at the time defendant entered her car, the vehicle was c.h., saw defendant driving on the street near their home and noticed a lawnmower . a.h. kept an insurance card in the glove compartment of her car, which she parked in her garage. the garage was insurance card at her house and gave the card to deputy sheriff been ransacked. on september 6 or 7, without permission, defendant took her driveway. she had money, gift cards, jewelry, and checks in her purse. 3 on september 7, 2016, l.t. noticed his spare tire was in his a check. l.t. parent on september 7, 2016, m.l. noticed items missing from his on september 7, 2016, c.f. noticed that items were missing from her vehicle. on september 8, 2016, detective duckworth went to lived in the garage. once duckworth and deputy sheriffs obtained a search warrant for the garage, they knocked on the door. they asked defendant to exit numerous times. he refused for a substantial period of time, exiting 30 to 60 minutes after the requests. once defendant exited the garage, officers placed him in a patrol vehicle. defendant hit the rear window of the patrol vehicle with his head and broke that window. detective duckworth recovered property belonging to several of the victims inside the garage where defendant lived. hat she lived with her husband, daughter, and granddaughter. in september 2016, defendant lived in the garage. testified that she returned property to j.t. and l.t. also gave deputy sheriffs other property that belonged to the victims. 4 procedural background in november 2016, prior to trial, defense counsel declared a trial court suspended proceedings and ordered defendant evaluated. at the next court proceeding, defense counsel submitted on the reports of the experts and advised the trial court that defendant appeared competent. the trial court found defendant competent and reinstated proceedings. jurors found defendant guilty of two counts of first degree burglary; grand theft personal property; two counts of petty theft; vandalism of a patrol vehicle window, and delaying or obstructing a peace officer. jurors acquitted defendant of one count of petty theft. defendant waived jury trial on the prior prison allegations under penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) and admitted two offenses under that statute. before sentencing, the trial court conducted a marsden hearing outside the presence of the prosecutor. (people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). defendant indicated that he had asked his attorney for discovery to understand the case against him, but had not received any. defendant stated that he wanted his attorney to introduce a defense that his friend lived in his garage and was responsible for mother had said that defendant was the only person who lived in the garage. counsel indicated that she discussed possible defenses with defendant. the trial court found that defense counsel properly represented defendant and there was no breakdown in the relationship such that it would be impossible for defense counsel to continue representing defendant. the trial marsden motion. 5 prior to sentencing, defense counsel declared a doubt as to defe, and the trial court suspended proceedings in order to have him evaluated. after an evaluation, defendant was again found competent. the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate term of five years, consisting of four years in state prison and one year in county jail. discussion defendant appealed from the judgment. we appointed counsel to represent defendant. after examining the record, counsel filed a wende brief raising no issues on appeal and requesting that we independently review the record. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436.) this court advised defendant of the opportunity to file a supplemental brief, and he filed a one-page supplemental brief. my picture was not selected out of a six sent to competent; (4) evidence concerning an iphone pinging was false; (5) he does not identify; and (6) his counsel did not seek discovery of law enforcement personnel records pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. we conclude that defendant has not demonstrated reversible error. the fact that jurors had been victims of burglaries or were acquainted with police officers does not demonstrate, by itself, that the trial court should have excused those jurors for cause. to excuse a juror for cause, the jurors 6 inability he record as a people v. halsey (1993) 12 cal.app.4th or her duty. certain witnesses is based on matter outside the record and cannot be considered on appeal. (see in re carpenter (1995) 9 cal.4th 634, 646 [appellate jurisdiction is limited to the four corners of the record on appealdefendant to be evaluated and found defendant competent prior to trial and prior to sentencing. defendant demonstrates no error and sentencing. defendant fails to identify the evidence he challenges related to the iphone. even if the iphone did not reveal its exact location, there was no dispute as to the residence address of property was at that address. defendant has thus not demonstrated prejudice from the admission of purportedly false pinging evidence. defendant also does not identify the discovery he failed to receive. defendant demonstrates neither error nor prejudice finally, pitchess v. superior court, supra, 11 cal.3d 531 our supreme courts decision in pitchess established t of certain relevant information in the personnel files of police officers by making general allegations which establish some cause for discovery of that information and by showing how it would support a defense to the charge against him. 7 (serrano v. superior court (2017) 16 cal.app.5th 759, 767.) to initiate discovery, the defendant must file a motion and show good cause for the discovery. (id. at pp. 767-768.) defendant has not identified good cause for discovery under pitchess. a fortiori, move for such discovery. we have examined the entire record and are satisfied that appellate attorney has complied with her responsibilities and that no arguable issue exists. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at pp. 438-441; see also smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. currey, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 