filed 12/27/18 p. v. moreno ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. freddy moreno, defendant and appellant. b285783 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na091859) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. gary j. ferrari, judge. affirmed in part and remanded with directions. joy a. maulitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 nineteen-year-old gang member freddy moreno shot into a crowd at a party, wounding three people. a jury convicted him of three counts of attempted premeditated murder as charged (pen. code,  187, 664)1 and one count of attempted voluntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense of attempted murder ( 192, 664). it found firearm use and gang enhancements to be true. ( 186.22, subd. (b); 12022.5; 12022.53, subds. (b)(d).) after moreno admitted he had suffered a strike for a prior juvenile robbery adjudication when he was 16 years old, the trial court sentenced him to 165 years to life. had the trial court stricken the prior juvenile adjudication as moreno requested pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero), he theoretically would have been sentenced to 120 years to life. moreno contends that both his age at the time of his current crimes (19) and his age at the time of his prior strike adjudication (16) render his sentence cruel and unusual punishment pursuant to recent cases and statutory changes concerning lengthy sentences for juvenile offenders. he also contends his sentence violates due process and his right to a jury trial by enhancing his adult sentence with a juvenile adjudication. finally, he contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his romero motion to strike his juvenile prior. we reject his contentions. we correct aspects of his sentence and remand for resentencing pursuant to newly enacted sections 12022.5, subdivision (c) and 12022.53, subdivision (h), which grant the trial court discretion to strike firearm enhancements. in all other respects, we affirm. 1 all undesignated statutory citations refer to the penal code. 3 factual background moreno was a self-admitted rancho san pedro (rsp) gang member. on march 18, 2012, he attended a house party in los angeles county. he was asked to leave, and he exited the house with his friends. a verbal confrontation broke out between him and nestor reyes. moreno pulled a handgun. he shot twice in the air, and then at a group of people. bullets struck eddie olmos, bryant gomez, and michael sena. olmos was hit in the cheek, gomez was hit in the back of his thigh, and sena was hit in both thighs, one of which entered through the back of his thigh. the party was held in rsp territory, and before firing, appellant asked reyes what gang he was from. based on a expert testified that the shooting was gang-related. moreno testified in his defense. he admitted joining rsp in 2005 when he was 12 years old and admitted he had committed a robbery as a juvenile at some time before the current crimes. he brought a loaded gun to the party because he was although he before and did not like guns. he went to the party to see friends who were hosting it. he was only there about 10 minutes when and refused to allow him to speak to his friends. the man was holding something that looked like a black metal baton. moreno agreed to leave and exited the party, using profanity on the way out. 4 an intoxicated man reacted angrily and approached moreno as if he wanted to fight. the intoxicated man, the man in the security shirt, and a few others followed moreno out of the sidewalk, he saw a group of eight to 12 men coming up behind him. moreno displayed the gun and fired two warning shots into the air. the men continued to approach him, and the intoxicated man started swinging at him, so he fired around ten times. he hit olmos, gomez, and sena (twice), but missed the intoxicated man and the man in the security shirt. moreno claimed that he aimed at the ground, and he called .shoot the victims. he ran away and threw the gun in a sewer so it would not be found. crystal cardona testified that the party was for her 18th birthday. she grew up with moreno and considered him to be like a brother. she said he was at the party for maybe an hour. she remembered eduardo gomez (victim bryant brother) was wearing a security shirt and had a flashlight, and she remembered a man being drunk. cardona also attended the party. he had invited moreno and considered moreno to be like a brother. although victor was familiar with rsp, he did not know at the time that moreno was a gang member. victor also testified moreno was at the party for hours before the shooting. victor testified that eduardo was wearing a shirt with the word and was carrying a flashlight. testified that he was not 5 though crystal identified him as wearing it. he saw moreno at the party but denied telling him to leave, and eduardo did not get involved in the argument between moreno and reyes. eduardo acknowledged that at one point during the party he borrowed a small flashlight to help look for a lost wallet. he also testified that moreno was with a group of men who gan an officer testified that, to his knowledge, no one reported seeing a large flashlight or seeing anyone other than reyes arguing with moreno. discussion i. was constitutional a. procedural background moreno was sentenced to 165 years to life, consisting of three consecutive terms of 55 years to life on each of the three attempted murder counts: three base terms of 15 years to life, doubled to 30 years due to his prior juvenile strike, plus consecutive terms of 25 years to life on each count for his personal discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury pursuant to section 12022.53 subdivision (d). he was sentenced to 21 years on the attempted voluntary manslaughter count to run concurrently.2 moreno received his prior juvenile strike adjudication for robbery in 2009 ( 211), when he was 16 years old, after he robbed an individual on the street and issued a gang-related challenge. he had other juvenile adjudications, including a gang-related assault with a deadly weapon in 2008 ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), 2 as we will explain, the term of 21 years for count 4 was statutorily unauthorized and resentencing is necessary on that count. 6 minor in possession of an alcoholic beverage in 2009 (bus. & prof. code,  25662, subd. (a)), and gang-related exhibiting an imitation firearm and resisting an officer in 2010 ( 417.4; 148, subd. (a)(1)). at the sentencing hearing, defense counsel requested that the trial court strike the prior juvenile robbery adjudication pursuant to romero. the prior offense, the lengthy sentence moreno would face without the strike, and the fact that the jury found moreno guilty of the lesser offense of voluntary manslaughter on one count. traditional factor but because of changes in the law since prop 57, is that one of the things that youthful offenders can participate in state prison based on their ultimate sentence is what kind of programming and rehabilitative programs mr. moreno might sentence that mr. moreno might avail himself to certain rehabilitative programs that are available in the department of corrections. and i think that striking the strike makes him available for some of those programs, if not all of those the prosecutor opposed the criminal history and the nature of the instant crimes. with has referred to the youth of mr. moreno. but i think at this point california law has built in protections and considerations that allow for mr. moreno to have those considerations be taken into 7 the court denied the request to strike the prior pursuant to romero. it period of time. these are serious charges, there were serious -the facts and circumstances of this case that the defendant is b. does not violate the eighth amendment or the california constitution moreno argues his sentence of 165 years to life violates the state and federal constitutional bans on cruel and/or unusual punishments due to his age at the time of the prior adjudication and his current crimes.3 respondent contends moreno forfeited this challenge by failing to object on this ground in the trial court. it is true that people v. baker (2018) 20 cal.app.5th 711, 720 (baker).) moreno contends he preserved the issue by moving to strike his prior juvenile adjudication pursuant to romero and, alternatively, we should exercise our discretion to decide the issue. we need not address these contentions because he also argues that, if the contention is forfeited, his counsel was ineffective for failing to object in the trial court. we must therefore address the merits in any event not constitutionally ineffective by failing to make a futile or baker, supra, at p. 720.) 3 moreno does not separately argue his state constitutional claim, so we will resolve it in the same way we resolve his federal constitutional claim. 8 in recent years, the united states supreme court has circumscribed the range of possible sentences for juvenile offenders under the eighth amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual punishments. may be executed for an offense committed when he or she was a juvenile (roper[ v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, 578 (roper)]); (2) no juvenile who commits a nonhomicide offense may be sentenced to [life without parole] (graham[ v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, 74 (graham)]; and (3) no juvenile who commits a homicide offense may be automatically sentenced to [life without parole] (miller[ v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. 460, 476477 (miller)people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261, 273274 (franklin).) these cases were based on the observation that . . . for purposes of id. at p. 274.) the california supreme court has extended these cases to lengthy juvenile sentences, including sentences that are the functional equivalent of life without parole. (see people v. contreras (2018) 4 cal.5th 349, 367 (contreras) [50-years-to-life and 58-years-to-life sentences for juvenile non-homicide offenders unconstitutional under graham]; franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 276 [miller applies to functional equivalent of life without parole for juvenile homicide offender]; people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 268269 (caballero) [110-years-to-life sentence for juvenile non-homicide offender violated graham].) suggestion that this reasoning applies to his current offenses, which he committed when he was 19 years old. a line has been drawn at the age of 18 to separate juveniles from adults for eighth amendment purposes. (see graham, supra, 560 u.s. at pp. 7475 [drawing line at age of 9 18 for life without parole for nonhomicide crimes]; roper, supra, draws the line for many purposes between childhood and adulthood. it is, we conclude, the age at which the line for death see also contreras, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 371 [graham offenders]; people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1380 (gutierrez) [u.s. supreme court has drawn line at 18 years old in eighth amendment jurisprudence].) we decline to redraw that (see people v. windfield (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 739, 766 [refusing to extend miller to defendant who was 18 years old at time of crime], rev. granted s238073 (jan. 11, 2017); people v. argeta (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1478, 1482 [refusing to apply graham, miller, and caballero to defendant who was 18 years and five months old at time of crime].) moreno goes a step further to argue that his sentence was unconstitutional under this line of cases because it was enhanced by a prior juvenile offense committed when he was 16 years old. at first glance, his argument appears to have no practical impact on his sentence. with the prior juvenile strike, his 165-years-to-life sentence extended beyond his natural life expectancy and was unquestionably the functional equivalent of life without parole. (see caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 268269.) without the strike, he could have been sentenced to 120 years to life, which was still the functional equivalent of life without parole. (ibid.) however, without the strike, he would be eligible for parole consideration after serving 25 years pursuant to newly enacted statutory provisions providing parole eligibility for offenders who committed their crimes at the age of 25 or younger. ( 3051, 10 subd. (b)(3) [was convicted of a controlling offense that was committed when the person was 25 years of age or younger and for which the sentence is a life term of 25 years to life shall be eligible for release on parole by the board during his or her 25th year of incarceration at a youth offender parole hearing, unless previously released or entitled to an earlier parole consideration hearing pursuant to other statutory .) he would also be eligible for parole under the recently enacted elderly parole program when he is 60 years old and has served at least 25 years of continuous incarceration. ( 3055, subd. (a).) defendants like moreno with prior strikes, however, are statutorily excluded from these parole provisions. ( 3051, subd. (h);  3055, subd. (g).) moreno argues that the reasoning in graham should apply to his adult sentence enhanced by his juvenile strike. graham held that life without parole sentence improperly denies the juvenile offen(graham, supra, 560 u.s. at p. [73, 130 s.ct. at pp. 20292030].) the court observed that a life without parole sentence is serve more years and a greater percentage of his life in prison (id. at p. [70, 130 s.ct. at p. 2028].) graham likened a life without parole sentence for nonhomicide offenders to the death penalty itself, given their youth and the prospect that, as the years progress, juveniles can reform their deficiencies and become contributing members of society. (ibid.(caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 266.) 11 graham is not a constitutional prohibition on harsh sentences for juveniles who commit serious crimes. (graham, supra, 560 u.s. at p. 71, nonhomicide offender to express its condemnation of the crime and to seek restoration of the moral imbalance caused by the graham [a juvenile nonhomicide] offender during his natural life. those who commit truly horrifying crimes as juveniles may turn out to be irredeemable, and thus deserving of incarceration for the id. at p. 75.) but graham states from making the judgment at the outset that those ibid.state must do . . . is give defendants like graham some meaningful opportunity to obtain release based on demonstrated maturity and rehabilitibid.contreras, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 367.) the u.s. supreme court in miller reiterated these concerns in finding mandatory sentences of life without parole for juvenile homicide offenders constituted cruel and unusual punishment. the croper and graham establish that children are constitutionally different from adults for purposes of sentencing. because juveniles have diminished culpability and cases relied on three significant gaps between juveniles and uimpulsivity, and heedless risk-taking. [citation.] second, 12 hability to extricate themselves from horrific, crime-producing actions less our decisions rested not only on common senseon what but on science and social science as well. [citation.] in roper]nly a [citation.] and in grahampsychology and brain science continue to show fundamental difor example, in we reasoned that those findingsof transient rashness, proclivity for risk, and inability to assess consequencesboth lessened a chthat, as the years go by and neurological development occurs, his roper and graham emphasized that the distinctive attributes of youth diminished the penological justifications for imposing the harshest sentences on juvenile offenders, even when trong with a minor as with an their immaturity, recklessness, and impetuositymake them less likely to consider potential 13 punishment. [citation.] similarly, incapacitation could not support the life-without-parole sentence in graham: deciding but the same reason, rehabilitation could not justify that sentence. [citation.] it reflects capacity for change. [citation.]miller, supra, 567 u.s. at pp. 471473, fn. omitted.) moreno an adult recidivist does not implicate these concerns related to the characteristics of youth. unlike in graham and miller, moreno does not contend he was improperly punished for the crime he actually committed as a juvenile, that is, the robbery when he was 16 years old. indeed, his juvenile adjudication was consistent with graham and other cases, given the primary goal was rehabilitation. (cf. in re julian r. (2009) 47 cal.4th 487, 496 (julian r.) be primarily rehabilitative, disallowing punishment in the form ointo adulthood, he showed that rehabilitation failed and he did not change in order to reenter society as a law-abiding citizen. in id people v. nguyen (2009) 46 cal.4th 1007, 1024 (nguyen).) graham, miller, caballero, and contreras all rest on the assumption that the deficiencies of juvenile offenders are not fixed and their punishment must allow for a chance to show they 14 have changed their criminal ways. moreno had that chance, and he reoffended as an adult. he was therefore for [his] current offense but for [his] recidivism. recidivism in the commission of multiple felonies poses a danger to society justifying the imposition of longer sentences for subsequent people v. cooper (1996) 43 cal.app.4th 815, 823824.) his adult sentence therefore falls outside the concerns about juvenile offenders expressed in graham, miller, and other cases, so his enhanced sentence as an adult repeat offender was not cruel and unusual under the eighth amendment. c. or his right to a jury trial moreno contends strike to enhance his sentence violates due process and his right to a jury trial under the sixth amendment. the california supreme court has rejected this claim. (nguyen, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 1024.) we are bound by that decision and likewise reject his argument. ii. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in romero motion and defense counsel was not ineffective in deciding whether to strike a prior conviction, a trial circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed outside treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or people v. williams (1998) 15 17 cal.4th 148s decision for abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 162.) moreno has not shown the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to strike his juvenile prior. moreno committed a string of gang-related crimes, including his juvenile robbery adjudication, culminating in the shooting at issue here. he brought a loaded gun to a party and opened fire on a crowd, wounding three unarmed people. he shot one victim in the face and the other two victims in the backs of their legs, suggesting they were running away from him. it is frankly remarkable that no one was killed. decision not to strike his juvenile prior conviction. moreno contends his trial counsel performed deficiently in arguing the romero motion because he that striking the juvenile prior would have made moreno eligible for parole after 25 years pursuant to section 3051, subdivision (b)(3) or at age 60 pursuant to section 3055, subdivision (a). moreno also contendsparole statute, he cromero motion this point california law has built in protections and considerations that allow for mr. moreno to have those whether or not his counsel performed deficiently in these respects, moreno has not established that he suffered any prejudice. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 692, 697.) there is nothing in the record to show the trial court misunderstood the law or 16 prior if defense counsel has explicitly pointed out his eligibility for parole. absent evidence to the contrary, we presume that the gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1390; see julian r., supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 499.) we therefore presume the trial court was aware of without the strike but concluded his criminal history and the violent circumstances of his current crimes justified his enhanced sentence under the three strikes law. the presumption is not undermined by the moreno therefore suffered no prejudice from any alleged deficiencies in performance. iii. moreno must be resentenced on the attempted voluntary manslaughter count for count 4, moreno was convicted of attempted voluntary manslaughter in violation of section 192, subdivision (a), and section 664. the jury also found true a firearm enhancement pursuant to section 12022.5 and a gang enhancement pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the court orally sentenced him to a concurrent term of 21 years, comprised of a base term of six years, doubled to 12 years due to his strike, plus four years for the firearm enhancement and five years for the gang enhancement. the parties agree that the trial court incorrectly imposed the base term for voluntary manslaughter, not attempted voluntary manslaughter, which is one-half of the statutory term for the completed offense. ( 664, subd. (a).) the sentencing triad for voluntary manslaughter is three, six, and 11 years ( 193, subd. (a)), so the applicable triad for attempted voluntary 17 manslaughter is 18 months, three years, and five years six months. moreno suggests we simply correct the sentence to 15 years by imposing the middle term of three years as the base term. respondent suggests we remand for resentencing since we are already remanding for resentencing on the firearm enhancements, as discussed below. we wisuggestion and remand for resentencing so the court may statutory framework for attempted voluntary manslaughter. furthermore, the abstract of judgment incorrectly states that attempted willful deliberate and premed manslaughter. we will order the abstract of judgment corrected accordingly. iv. or resentencing on the firearm enhancements moreno seeks remand for resentencing in light of senate bill 620, effective january 1, 2018, which amended sections 12022.5, subdivision (c) and 12022.53, subdivision (h) to give the trial court discretion whether to strike previously mandatory the interest of justice pursuant to section 1385 and at the time of sentencing, strike or dismiss an enhancement otherwise required to be imposed by this section. the authority provided by this subdivision applies to any resentencing that may occur pursuant the discretion to strike a firearm enhancement may be exercised as to any defendant whose conviction is not final as of the effective date of the amendment. (see in re estrada (1965) 63 18 cal.2d 740, 742748; people v. brown (2012) 54 cal.4th 314, 323.) because not final when senate bill no. 620 went into effect, respondent agrees that remand is proper, as do we. (see people v. vieira defendant generally is entitled to benefit from amendments that people v. smith udgment becomes final when the availability of an appeal and the time for filing a see also bell v. maryland [criminal] proceeding which, at the time of the supervening legislation, has not yet reached final disposition in the highest on remand, the court may exercise its discretion under section 12022.53, subdivision (h), to strike all of the firearm enhancements under that provision or impose any one of the enhancements. if the court chooses to impose a firearm enhancement, it must strike any enhancement(s) providing a longer term of imprisonment, and impose and stay any enhancement(s) providing a lesser term. ( 12022.53, subds. (f) & (h).) for example, the court may choose to impose the 25-year-to-life enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). if so, it should impose and stay the enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (b). if the court imposes the 20-year enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (c), it must then strike the 25-year-to-life enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and impose and stay the 10-year enhancement under subdivision (b). moreover, any enhancement imposed under section 12022.53 must be imposed consecutively rather than concurrently. 19 in addition, the trial court has discretion to strike only the punishment for the enhancement. ( 1385, subdivision (a); in re pacheco (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1439, 1443determining whether to strike the entire enhancement or only the punishment for the enhancement, the court may consider the effect that striking the enhancement would have on the status of the crime as a strike, the accurate reflection of tcriminal conduct on his or her record, the effect it may have on the award of custody credits, and any other relevant disposition the matter is remanded for resentencing on the attempted voluntary manslaughter count and for the trial court to consider striking the firearm enhancements. ( 12022.5, subd. (c); 12022.53, subd. (h).) following resentencing, the court shall issue an amended abstract of judgment that corrects the offense in count 4 as attempted voluntary manslaughter. ( 192, 664.) the court shall forward the amended and corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. i concur: grimes, j. people v. moreno - b285783 rubin, j., concurring and dissenting. for resentencing in the entirety, specifically, to allow defendant to pursue a renewed motion pursuant to people v superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero) to strike his prior juvenile adjudication within the meaning of the three strikes law. at issue in this case is the potential applicability of penal code section 3051, which provides for youth offender parole hearings for offenders who were 25 years of age or younger at the time of their offenses. pursuant to the statute, the eligibility date for a parole hearing depends on the longest term of imprisonment imposed for an offense or enhancement. as the 25-years-to-life firearm enhancement (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (d)), which would enable defendant to be considered for parole during his 25th year of incarceration. (pen. code,  3051, subd. (b)(3)). however, as defendant was sentenced pursuant to the three strikes law for his prior juvenile adjudication, he is not eligible for any youthful parole eligibility hearing. (pen. code,  3051, subd. (h).) neither counsel truly focused argument on this issue during argument on the romero suggested that if the motion were granted, defendant might be eligible for certain rehabilitative programming in prison, which would be unavailable to him if the strike remained, but did not specifically call attention to the possibility of a youth offender parole hearing. the prosecutor, in response, did not specifically 2 address penal code section 3051 either, but did state, with t this point california law has built-in protections and considerations that allow for [defendant] to have those considerations be taken into account, tatement was meant to refer to youth offender parole hearings, it left the incorrect impression romero motion were denied which is, in fact, not the case. i agree with the majority that defenconstitute reversible ineffective assistance. i also agree that we presume the court was aware of the contours and applicability of the statute particularly when the trial court was as experienced and knowledgeable about criminal matters as the court was in this case. i simply believe that, as we are remanding for the court to consider whether to exercise its new discretion to strike the firearm enhancements, and to resentence on the attempted voluntary manslaughter count, the better practice would be to allow the court to also reconsider the romero motion, expressly in eligibility and the limited presentations of counsel. rubin, j.* * presiding justice of the court of appeal, second appellate district, division five, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 