filed 11/13/18 p. v. briones ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffrey samuel briones, defendant and appellant. b285379 los angeles county super. ct. no. la082672 appeal from orders of the superior court of los angeles county, michael d. abzug, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. gloria c. cohen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and roberta l. davis, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant jeffrey samuel briones appeals crimes. briones did construction, painting, electrical, and other find forfeiture and, in any event, no abuse of discretion. as to the second award, we reverse and remand for the court to reconsider the proper amount of restitution. the court and the parties believed they were bound by a previously governing appellate decision, but in fact that case had been reversed. we also strike the $10 crime prevention fine, as the parties agree it was unauthorized. facts and procedural background 1. briones falsely tells the victims he is a licensed contractor and the victims pay him to work on their homes1 in july 2015, stephanie tavelman and karen jimich2 met briones. kathleen andrews, a realtor, recommended briones to both of them.3 tavelman hired briones to paint, change some lighting, and put hardwood floors in her home. briones also 1 because this case settled before trial, we take the facts from the testimony at the preliminary hearing and at the restitution hearings. 2 spelling that appears and mean no disrespect if we are incorrect. 3 briones stipulated to the amount of restitution to andrews, and that part of the restitution award is not at issue in this appeal. 3 contract that briones presented. in the upper left-hand corner of agoura hills and a license no. c10858885. tavelman asked pointed to the license number on the contimportant to tavelman that briones be a licensed contractor; she tavelman and her husband paid briones a total of $19,300.4 briones never completed the work on the tavelmahome. briones had an unlicensed subcontractora man named greginstall the floors. there were a number of problems with work: the tavelmans had to hire a licensed electrician to reconnect floor outlets, to replace wiring in a chandelier briones installed that was not up to code, and to secure the chandelier was defective: the venting ducting from the heater dislodged from the exhaust duct and the tavelmans had to pay a deductible before having the problem repaired under a home warranty. karen jimich hired briones in about august 2015 to work on a home she was buying in chatsworth. briones was present when jimich was talking to a man about doing some painting and other tasks; briones told jimich she should hire him instead because he was a licensed contractor. briones gave jimich a 4 twelve thousand dollars of this total was paid by stephanie essentially bought the hardwood floors as a gift for his daughter and her husband. 4 contract or invoice with his name on it, a business address, and a license no. c10858885. jimich never would have hired briones had she known he was not a licensed contractor. ] agreed-upon price was $9,000. and he told jimich if she did not pay him more money he would no. c10858885 in fact belonged to a man named kenny marshall. 2. briones is charged, pleads no contest, and agrees to pay restitution to all of the victims; the court determines the restitution amounts a. the charges and plea the people charged briones with six felony counts, one count of first degree residential burglary in violation of penal and professions code section 7027.3, as to each of the three victims. on may 1, 2017, briones entered into a plea agreement with the people. briones pled no contest to one of the business and professions code counts (alleged as to victim tavelman). 5 harvey waivers5 regarding the balance of counta restitution hearing that will be set regarding that count, the victim being stephanie tavelman. however, there are additional counts you are charged with, and the people are inclined to dismiss those charges upon your plea, provided that you agree to pay any reasonable restitution. do you agree to pay reasonable if he paid felony conviction to a misdemeanor. briones confirmed that he briones then entered a plea of no contest and the court accepted the plea. in court suspended imposition of sentence, placed briones on formal felony probation for five years, gave him credit for time served in the county jail (30 actual days, doubled), and ordered him to perform 30 days of caltrans work and to pay restitution to the victims. briones accepted those terms. the prosecutor dismissed the remaining five counts. b. the court orders briones to pay restitution to the tavelmans the court set a restitution hearing for june 7, 2017. on consisting of the $19,300 the tavelmans had paid briones; $65 5 people v. harvey (1979) 25 cal.3d 754. 6 for the deductible on the water heater;6 $900 for the repairs by lost vacation time to attend court hearings on three different dates. on june 7, 2017, the court continued the restitution hearings for the tavelmans and jimich to july 19, 2017. on that date, frank tavelman was present and called to testify, but the hearing to august 23, 2017. on august 23, frank tavelman was sworn and testified. tavelman first confirmed that everything in his may 31 written request for restitution was true. tavelman answered questions on direct, cross,7 and redirect examination. at the discussed the restitution issue with the parties. the unlicensed attempt to fix the cost to repair/replace the sub-standard nk tavelman. the parties disagreed 6 tabut the tavelmans call . . . 7 a defendant who has pleaded guilty or no contest has no right to confront or cross-examine the victims or other witnesses at the restitution hearing, which is essentially a sentencing proceeding. (people v. cain (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 81, 85-87.) here, neither the prosecutor nor the victims objected to cross-examination. 7 construed. nevertheless, as i understand it, the only objection to by mr. tavelman is to the $5,900 payment [sic]8 that the defendant wants as an offset. . . . lawyer answered, that he iunderstand that. i diit appears the only matter in dispute from the figures requested by mr. tavelman is the $5,900. is that right or wrong? (italics added.) defense counsel answered, (italics added.) take the matter under next day, the court issued a written order awarding the tavelmans the full amount they had requested. the court wrote, fied only a single area of disagreement: a $5,300 payment made to the victim by a sub-contractor in a failed attempt to bring the flooring 8 greg had paid the tavelmans $5,300. on cross-examination at the received $5,900 back for the wood floors that you paid out to the the floor person. corrdirectly. they wrote checks to briones.) 8 evidence in the record that this payment came from the defendant. the defense was unable to cite any authority to -set -sets are ter discussing cases involving insurance and similar issues, the court ordered briones to pay the tavelmans restitution of $21,029. c. the court orders briones to pay restitution to jimich on september 20, 2017, the court conducted a hearing to determine the amount of restitution to be paid to karen jimich. jimich made a number of payments to brionesalways in cashfor a total of approximately $13,955. briones also testified at the hearing. briones said he told andrews, the realtor, what had not worked as a contractor on the job; instead, day.9 eceived only at the conclusion of the testimony, the prosecutor cited people v. walker (2016) 6 cal.app.5th supp. 38 (walker i), an involving an unlicensed contractor, the pthe legislature determined that full recoupment of payment is 9 to the extent briones purported to assert he did not commit the charged crimes against jimich, his plea and harvey waiver bar that claim. (people v. weatherton (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 676.) 9 required even if a person who employed such a contractor is the prosecutor asked the court to award jimich the full amount she had paid briones, $13,955. walker i) admit that the walker decision is a pretty harsh decision, but themselves from having to make restitution to the victim by simply having the victim hand the money to the subcontractors he rule is is no fine line. . . . the law is pretty clear, your honor. all the amount that she requested for, whether she paid for somebody briones arranged for these individuals to work essentially in the capacity as subcontractors. whether the money was handed to the subcontractors or handed to mr. briones in my estimation is not a matter of any particular moment here. . . . [w]hat is relevant is that mr. briones was the one who was contacted by the realtors. he was the one who was put in contact with ms. ji[m]ich. he was the one who arranged for the individuals to 10 come out and do the work. and he was the one or he actually received a cut for that. and under the policies that are set forth in the walker case i think that he is responsible for making sure that the victim is made whole in full. again, whether this is fair or whether this is a draconian rule i think is open to some supporamo discussion 1. constitutional right to restitution under article i, section 28, subdivision (b), of the california constitution, victims of crimes have a constitutional right to seeking to provide crime victims with direct restitution for all the people v. fulton (2003) 109 cal.app.4th court shall require that the defendant make restitution to the victim or victims in an amount established by court order, based on the amount of loss claimed by the victim or victims or any other showing to the court. . . . the court shall order full 1202.4, subdivision (f)(3) lists a number of losses and expenditures that qualify as recoverable economic losses. the list is not inclusive; the statute refers to losses including, but not statute pro 11 (pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (f)(3)(a).) tion right is to be broadly and liberally people v. baker (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 463, 467.) of restitution which is reasonably calculated to make the victim people v. goulart (1990) 224 cal.app.3d 71, 83.) people v. holmberg (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1310, 1319; baker, at p. 469.) the defendant bears the burden of pgoulart, at pp. 83-84; see also people v. foster (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 939, 946.) the standard of review of a restitution order is abuse of baker, at p. 467.) 2. the walker case as noted, the prosecutor and the court relied on the walker i, supra, 6 cal.app.5th supp. 38, in setting the amount of restitution briones was to pay his victims. in that case, the defendant walker was charged with seven misdemeanor counts, including a violation of business and professions code section 7027.3. (walker i, at p. 40.) he pled no contest to a violation of business and professions code section 7028, subdivision (a), contracting without a state contwalker i, at p. 40.) walker to work on her home. the appellate division relied on business and professions code section 7031, subdivision (a), in walker i, at pp. 43-44.) the court acknowledged that statute authorized a civil action by a person who has hired an 12 to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for performance of any act or contract. (id. at p. 43.) but, the court concluded, the same public policy applied in a criminal case brought against an unlicensed contractor. (id. at pp. 43-45.) when the tavelmans submitted their written request for restitution on may 31, 2017, walker i was the law. however, on august 22, 2017the day before the august 23 restitution hearingdivision 5 of this court reversed walker i. walker had filed a petition for a writ of mandate challenging the appellate ourt of appeal had summarily denied it, and the supreme couand transferred the matter back to the court of appeal. (walker v. appellate division of superior court (2017) 14 cal.app.5th 651, 655 (walker ii).) the court of a703walker ii, supra, order to actual economic losses suffered by the victim in the the actual cost of repairing the property when repair is possible.walker ii, at p. 656.) ntended to provide the victim with a windfall; instead, a victim is entitled to ibid.) accordingly, the court of aentitled to the portion of repair and repainting not caused by normal weathering, plus the cost of installing windows, less the amount remaining unpaid to walker for his work. (id. at p. 655.) 13 3. briones forfeited any challenge to the restitution order for the tavelmans and, in any event, briones has failed inaccurate although the tavelmans cited walker i in their submission, the trial court did not rely on that case in calculating the restitution award to the tavelmans. as noted, the court twice specifically askaddressed only that issue. the court correctly concluded briones was not entitled to an offset. (see, e.g., people v. vasquez (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1126, 1133-1134; in re brittany l. (2002) 99 cal.app.4th 1381, 1389.) by agreeing his only challenge to the amount the tavelmans requested concerned the offset, briones forfeited any objeeconomic loss. (people v. garcia (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 1203, 1218; (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 817, 820.) in any event, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in awarding the tavelmans $21,029 in restitution. stephanie the floors briones had installed were defective and had not been or could not be repaired, and thproblems including needed repairs to the water heater and the repeatedly to come to court also were compensable losses. (see pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (f)(3)(e); people v. moore (2009) 177 cal.app.4th 1229, 1231-1233; people v. nguyen (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 32, 42.) 14 4. the restitution award to jimich must be vacated for the trial court to exercise its discretion the restitution award to jimich is different. first, briones did not limit his challenge to a single issue, as he did for the tavelman restitution hearing. the attorney general contends briones forfeited his claims but everyonethe deputy district attorney, defense counsel, and the trial courtbelieved walker i required the court to order briones to reimburse jimich for the entire amount she had paid him, even though that decision had been reversed about a month determined that full recoupment of payment is required even if a person who employed such a contractor is benefitted or enriched notwithstanding whether or not the victim is satisfied with the work or this contractor can do awesome work above and beyond, the fact that this individual is an unlicensed contractor entitles the victim to recoup the full amount . . the court was bound by walker i. accordingly, she argued only that briones did not actually receive all of the money. the trial court shared this belief. the court referred to the walker i walker i ituation, in which there was no evidence the tavelmans received any usable work or benefit from 15 suggesting that half of the work was done. jimich said she was briones did on her property: remained unfinished. unlike the tavelmans, who submitted specific figures for repairs that had to be done, there was no testimony, documentation, or other evidence about whether jimich had to pay for repairs or what she spent to complete the work briones left unfinished. because the court mistakenly believed it had no discretion to award anything other than the full amount that jimich had paid briones, we must remand the matter for the trial court to exercise its discretion. 5. the parties agree the $10 crime prevention fine must be stricken the trial court imposed a $10 crime prevention fine. penal code section 1202.5 requires a $10 fine in any case in which a defendant is convicted of one of the offenses enumerated in that statute. burglary in violation of penal code section 459 is one of the enumerated offenses. but the burglary counts against briones were dismissed as part of the plea agreement. a violation of business and professions code section 7027.3 is not an offense listed in penal code section 1202.5. accordingly, the statute must be stricken. 16 disposition s restitution award to the tavelman victims in the amount of $21,029 plus statutory interest under penal code section 1202.4, subdivision (f)(3)(g). we vacate the restitution award to victim karen jimich and remand the matter for the court to conduct such further proceedings as may be appropriate. we strike the $10 crime prevention fine. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. dhanidina, j. 