filed 12/14/18 p. v. parks ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael parks, defendant and appellant. b285035 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa087400) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, hilleri g. merritt, judge. affirmed. david andreasen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb, 2 supervising deputy attorney general, david a. voet, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ the jury found defendant and appellant michael parks guilty of murder. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)1 it found true firearm use allegations under sections 12022.5, subdivision (a), and 12022.53, subdivisions (b)(d). it also found true the allegation that parks used a deadly weapon (sharp object) in commission of the murder. ( 12022, subd. (b)(1).) in a bifurcated bench trial, the trial court found true the allegations that parks had suffered two prior strike convictions ( 667, subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b)), a prior serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and seven prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). parks was sentenced to a total of 113 years to life in state prison, consisting of 25 years to life for the murder, tripled under the three strikes law, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subd. (d), plus 1 year for the section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement, plus 5 years for the prior serious felony conviction under ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and 7 years for the prior prison term enhancements pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 on appeal, parks contends the trial court erred by admitting the preliminary hearing testimony of a witness improperly deemed unavailable, admitting evidence of the culpability. parks claims that even if he was not prejudiced by these trial errors individually, their cumulative effect deprived him of a fair trial. parks also claims sentencing error. he specifically argues that there was insufficient evidence for the court to find that his prior juvenile adjudication qualified as a strike offense, and that the court erred when it failed to stay the one-year section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement as required under section 1170.1, subdivision (f). finally, parks contends that we must remand the matter to the trial court to allow it to exercise its discretion to strike the 25-year firearm enhancement imposed under section 12022.53, subdivision (d) pursuant to senate bill no. 620, and the 5-year prior serious felony conviction enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) pursuant to senate bill no. 1393. the people concede that the amendments effectuated by senate bill nos. 620 and 1393 apply retroactively, but contend remand is not appropriate in this case, because it would be futile. we affirm the judgment. 4 facts2 dated parks for about eight months. ,3 and his girlfriend, wendy gutierrez, lived in a house in pacoima. parks stayed with them frequently and slept on the living room couch. fisher also stayed at house for between one and three months, both when parks was there and when he traveled.4 the day before the murder on september 6, 2016, fisher met her cousin, mary allen, at a car wash, where they sat and talked for about two hours. fisher told allen that she had left parks and there was no going back. she had to get away from him because she was tired of being disrespected and did not like how he treated her son. fisher said she and parks had been arguing that day. parks called fisher three times during her conversation with allen. during one of the calls, fisher 2 the facts are as presented by the prosecution. 3 because paul parks and michael parks share the same last name, we refer to paul parks as paul for clarity. 4 gutierrez testified she never saw any violence between fisher and parks. she had once seen parks with a gun. the last time gutierrez saw fisher at the house was on september 1, 2016, when she and parks stopped by. 5 placated parks by saying she did not leave him and she was coming back, but as she did so she mouthed to allen that she was not actually going back. fisher was very calm when speaking to parks. after hanging up, fisher said something about parks leaving on a plane the next day, after which she immediately after the last phone call with parks, fisher wanted to leave the car wash. a car honked nearby, and fisher told allen she heard the same car horn on the phone. allen invited fisher to her house, but fisher knows fisher was afraid parks would find her and appeared to be afraid of him. she told allen she would be fine because she was going to stay at a friendhouse. she would not tell allen . at 9:43 p.m., fisher received a text message from parks two minutes later, she texted back parks then asked fisher to take him to the airport. five minutes later he textedto jail, 5 that night, fisher stayed with larry brown at his apartment in sylmar. she slept on the couch. the two of them did not have a relationship. fisher just went to his house occasionally. fisher mentioned to brown that she had 5 that day and that he had not been arrested. 6 broken up with parks. she had never discussed any violence between her and parks with brown and never said she feared parks. gutierrez saw parks at house that night. at around 10:00 p.m. or 11:00 p.m., parks asked her if fisher had stopped by, and gutierrez told him she had not. paul saw parks sleeping on the couch at around 11:00 p.m. fisher texted with someone later identified by a detective as an old friend of hers around the same time that night: friend (10:55 p.m.): [you] need to bring my money back. fisher (10:56 p.m.): c fisher (10:56 p.m.): friend (11:09 p.m.): i want my fisher (11:10 p.m.): the day of the murder at 7:30 a.m. or 8:00 a.m. on september 7, 2016, fisher left . she agreed to come back at 10:00 a.m., but never returned. gutierrez left house at 5:00 a.m. or 6:00 a.m. she did not see parks there. paul saw parks at the house at 7:00 a.m. parks wanted paul to take him to lax because he was going to fly to chicago. paul had to work, so he paid cynthia davis to 7 drive parks to the airport. paul went to work at lakeview terrace. when he finished, he went to burger king to play chess. paul left burger king between 1:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. to go to los angeles for another job. loud, rode her bicycle to house between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. to find gutierrez, take a shower, and get dressed. the door was unlocked and she let herself in.6 no one was there when she arrived. when loud got out of the shower parks was in the living room. davis arrived. she and parks discussed that he was running late and would miss his flight. davis drove him to lax. parks had a duffel bag with him. davis observed that parks did not move his phone away from his face during the entire ride. he looked crazy. davis dropped him off at the airport. cell phone records indicated that parkspinging cell towers in the vicinity of lax between 9:10 a.m. and 9:51 a.m. at 11:31 a.m., parks sent paul a text reading, could at 11:45 a.m., parks texted fisher that he told paul to give her some marijuana. parkspinging cell towers in pacoima between 11:57 a.m. and 12:55 p.m. 6 loud testified that she usually hung out and did drugs at the murder. 8 davis returned to house at around 1:30 p.m. loud was there. davis asked loud if parks had made his flight, and loud said he had not. davis then saw parks walk outside. she asked him what happened. parks smiled and walked away. parks was at the house the whole time loud and davis were there. he had a black duffel bag with him. parks took photos of loud on his cell phone at 1:45 p.m. and 1:46 p.m. loud did not remember posing for the photos. she needed a ride to the house where lived, so davis drove her there. before they left, loud borrowed parkspaul. at 3:50 p.m., fisher called her friend, lacheryl nash. she told nash that parks had left. she said he tried to get on a plane with $100 worth of marijuana, but could not, so she was going to s house to pick it up. at 3:53 p.m., paul received a call from fisher while he was driving. she asked him if she could come to his house to pick up her belongings. at 3:59 p.m., fisher called parks. paul missed calls from parks at 4:00 p.m. and 4:04 p.m., then answered a call from fisher at 4:05 p.m. at 4:10 p.m., paul answered a call from parks. fisher made four calls to other people between 4:16 p.m. and 4:21 p.m. at 4:24 p.m., paul answered a call from fisher. this was the last time he spoke with her. shortly before 4:30 p.m., loud and davis returned to house. the front door was wide open. loud walked in 9 and saw fisher on the living room floor, lying on her stomach. she was trying to breathe and there was a lot of blood on the floor. loud ran out of the house and told davis they needed to call somebody and to come inside. davis went in and saw fisher lying on the floor, blowing bubbles in her blood. at 4:30 p.m., loud borrowed a phone from a neighbor and called 911. at 4:36 p.m., parkslogged an internet search b store downtown in the fashion at 4:41 p.m., paul called parks. parks asked him if fisher had picked up her things. either during this call or the 4:10 p.m. call, parks said something happened with this was the last time paul spoke with parks. shortly after the call with parks, paul received calls from friends, informing him there had been a murder at his house and that he needed to come home. the los angeles police department was notified of the homicide at 4:41 p.m. between 4:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. she saw an african man had a cell phone in his hand. the man tried to jump into her backyard but was scared by her dogs. he asked -in-law, shousy diaz, if he could go through the backyard, but diaz refused. the man continued going toward the street. 10 between 1:00 p.m. and 4:45 p.m., parkspinged cell towers in the area of house.7 afterwards, the phone moved toward downtown los angeles. at 5:00 p.m. and 5:01 p.m., parks called fisher, but the calls were not answered. the investigation the crime scene was secured at around 5:00 p.m. there was a large pool of blood on the hallway floor, red stains on the couch, and a blood stain on an electrical cord. the hallway had blood smear.8 police discovered a .40 caliber casing on the living room floor and a balled-up plain t-shirt on the couch with red spatter on it. parksl bag was on the kitchen table, as it had been when loud found fisher. the bag had male clothing, a receipt for an airline ticket in parksand photos of three people, one of whom resembled parks. there were blue jeans with a belt on a chair. fisherphone was at the back of the couch. after 8:00 p.m. that evening, pineda identified parks in a six-pack photo lineup as the man she had seen. 7 grandmother lived. parks was close with his grandmother. 8 no blood or dna from the crime scene was tied to parks. 11 an autopsy revealed that fisher suffered five sharp force injuries, strangulation injuries, and a single close-range gunshot wound to the head. the gunshot wound would likely have been immediately fatal, but she would have had approximately 90 seconds of reserve air from which to continue breathing. flight and arrest in las vegas parks called his cousin, chiquita williams, at 5:47 p.m. on the evening of the murder. williams lived in las vegas. parks told williams he was coming to las vegas and needed a ride from the greyhound bus station. the visit was not planned, but it was not unusual for parks to visit unannounced. security camera footage from a greyhound bus station in downtown los angeles showed parks entering at 8:00 p.m. and standing at the ticket kiosk at 8:12 p.m. at 12:22 a.m. he was standing in the loading area for a bus to las vegas. williams received another call from parks at 5:00 a.m. he said he needed to be picked up from the bus station and asked if he could stay with her. williams and her boyfriend picked parks up at around 5:15 a.m. parks was wearing black pants, black nike shoes, a grey hoodie or long-sleeved shirt, and a white shirt underneath the hoodie. the hoodie or long-sleeved shirt was 12 too small for parks. they drove bas apartment and went to sleep. an fbi fugitive apprehension unit was dispatched to s apartment that day. parks did not answer when agents knocked on the door, but he answered their phone call and confirmed he was inside the apartment. he said he had a gun and wanted a bit more time before he came out. parks eventually surrendered and was taken into custody. he was wearing black pants, the same gray shirt, and shoes that s boyfriend. no gun was found. parks told an agent he only said he had a gun to buy time. williams gave the officers a greyhound bus ticket in the name of reggie smith, showing a departure from los angeles at 12:30 a.m. with arrival in las vegas.9 williams called officers the next day and gave them a it, which she had thrown away along with a pair of shoes. parks was the sole source of the blood on the shirt. parks a small amount of dried blood on it. he was the sole source of the blood on the phone. 9 reggie smith. 13 discussion unavailable witness pineda was unavailable to testify and the subsequent admission of her preliminary hearing testimony was based on incompetent evidence and violated his constitutional right to confront witnesses against him. we conclude that his insufficient to establish reasonable diligence is without meritimplicated. law a defendant has a constitutional right to confront witnesses, but this right is not absolute. if a witness is unavailable at trial and has testified at a previous judicial proceeding against the same defendant and was subject to cross-examination by that defendant, the previous testimony may be admitted at trial. (barber v. page (1968) 390 u.s. 719; people v. enriquez (1977) 19 cal.3d 221, 235, disapproved on other grounds in people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 901, fn. 3 [(cromer)]; [fed.] evid. code,  1291.) the constitutional right to confront witnesses mandates that, before a witness can be found unavailable, the prosecution must have made a good-faith effort to obtain his 14 (barber v. page, supra, at p. 725, quoted in people v. enriquez, supra, at p. 235; see also ohio v. roberts (1980) 448 u.s. 56, 74.) (people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 609 (smith).) in california, a is from the hearing and the proponent of his or her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure his or evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(5). the burden of establishing unavailability and due diligence is on the proponent of the evidence. (smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 609; people v. foy (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 328, 339.) determination. (cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 901.) proceedings at arraignment on january 3, 2017, parks refused to as until april 24, 2017, and then until june 1, 2017. on thursday, may 25, 2017, the parties estimated that four weeks would be needed for trial. the court ordered a jury panel for june 1, 2017, and ordered the parties to appear for a pretrial motions hearing on may 31, 2017. the court 15 requested that defense counsel inform it as soon as possible if the june 1, 2017 trial date did not afford her adequate time to prepare. the court reconvened on may 30, 2017, and began jury selection. on may 31, 2017, the prosecution informed the court that pineda and diaz had been served with subpoenas the night before and had informed the serving detective that they were leaving for el salvador on may 31, 2017, and would not return until june 30, 2017. the prosecutor stated, [e]ven though they are cooperative, they said they can go that far, even though we gave a four-court noted that even if trial went to june 30, pineda and diaz would be returning at the end of trial, not at the end of -in-chief. the prosecutor requested that navailable to testify and cannot 10 the prosecutor alternatively asked for a continuance. the court stated that it did not have authority to subpoena pineda in el salvador, and that under evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(4), a witness is unavailable if she is absent and the court is unable to compel her attendance by its process. defense counsel summarily objected to a finding of unavailability. the court stated that more research was required because parks had not waived 10 the prosecutor made no request with respect to diaz, who had not testified at the preliminary hearing. 16 time. the court noted that due to the uncertainty of the start date for the trial it was difficult for the parties to subpoena witnesses in advance. iwere in any way, shape or form being dilatory. the court uestion becomes is this enough under evidence code section 240 to make a witness unavailable? in a subsequent discussion of various evidentiary issues, the court reiterated that it would take up those testimony would come in, because if she is unavailable under nature of prior statements and preliminary hearing testimony, stating: did not with 100 percent certainty positively identify my client, ever. in a six pack, she put it at five out of ten. at prelim she was asked to look at my client twice, never identified him, and then stated she on june 2, 2017, the prosecutor filed a written motion requesting that pineda be deemed unavailable and that the court either allow her preliminary hearing testimony to be read into the record or grant a short continuance to ensure june 30, 2017. the motion stated that a detective had served pineda on may 30, 2017. because pineda is a spanish speaker the detective also contacted diaz, who speaks english, via telephone. diaz informed the detective 17 that the family had a planned vacation to el salvador and were leaving the next day. they were cooperative and would testify when they returned on june 30, 2017. the detective returned to the residence the next day with a spanish-speaking officer and witnessed many family members the prosecutor informed the court of the situation the same day. in the motion, the prosecution asserted that pineda was unavailable under evidence code section 240, subdivisions (a)(4) and (a)(5). the prosecutor claimed she had exercised due diligence by effecting service on pineda on the second court day after the defense announced readiness for trial. at that time, pineda informed the serving detective that she had a pre-planned paid vacation scheduled for el salvador the next day. the prosecution was not aware of any treaty between the united states and el salvador for the transfer of witnesses testifying at trial, but even if such a mechanism existed it would likely take longer to effectuate the transfer than it would take for pineda to return to the united states to testify of her own volition. pursuing transfer would therefore be futile. there were no reasonable parks had the opportunity to fully cross-examine pineda at the preliminary hearing, so the requirements for unavailability had been met. later on june 2, 2017, the trial court heard further argument on the issue of whether pineda was unavailable 18 under evidence code 240. the court asked if defense counsel wanted more time to research the issue. defense counsel declined, stating: informally, i think we need to have detective dinlocker come in and have a due diligence hearing to determine what, in usually a due diligence hearing is required when the witness has not been served. in this case it was served. she just essentially ignored it because she had a pre-planned vacation. so the question becomes what more diligence can the people show, other than serving the witness, that detective dinlocker could help us with?submitted without further comment. their burden. they did what they could. they subpoenaed the witness. the witness then promptly took off on vacation. -- unless there was evidence to the contrary that, in fact, they any evidence before me of that, i think under 240 the people have met their burden. therefore, ms. pineda is the embodiment of unavailability. [] so the people can use her preliminary hearing transcript to be read at the time they portions of the testimony to which objections had been sustained be redacted, and noted that it would instruct the jury on the preliminary hearing transcript evidence under calcrim no. 317. 19 the jury. she testified that on september 7, 2017, between 4:00 and 5:00 p.m., while in her backyard she saw a man when asked whether the person she previously saw crossing the fences was present in the courtroom during her testimony, pineda said she could not describe the person she saw, and did not see him in the courtroom. when she was asked a second time if the man she previously saw from her backyard was in the courtroom, she stared at parks for approximately five seconds, and said, when asked if parks was the man she had seen, pineda said she did not remember. pineda agreed that the person she had circled on the six-pack line-up (parks) when interviewed by the police was the person she told the police she had seen running near her backyard. during cross-examination at the preliminary hearing, pineda rated her certainty of the photo identification she had made as a 5 on a scale of 1 to 10. she was not 100 percent sure the photo she chose was the man she saw. she testified that she told the prosecutor during a break, that she may have made a mistake in her identification from the photographs. at trial, investigating detective robert dinlocker testified that he was present at counsel table when pineda testified at the preliminary hearing. in detective she told detective dinlocker she was afraid and did not want to get involved. he described pineda as nervous and reluctant to 20 answer questions. during the break in , detective dinlocker noticed pineda physically shaking. analysis defense counpreliminary hearing testimony at trial consisted of her summary affirmation that she objected to its admission under evidence code section 240, subdivisions (a)(4) and (a)(5) specifically, counsel asserted that the prosecution did not exercise unavailability, stating: informally, i think we need to have detective dinlocker come in and have a due diligence hearing to determine what, in the specific objection was that sworn testimony was necessary to establish what occurred on may 30, 2017, and may 31, 2017, when he was present at the residence. on appeal, parks also section 240, and the admission of her preliminary hearing testimony violated his sixth amendment right to confront witnesses at trial.11 11 the attorney general contends that parks forfeited his confrontation clause challenge by failing to specifically raise it in the trial court. we agree that the confrontation 21 unsworn statements were insufficient to establish unavailability. the arguments below concerned only the supreme court has held that although such representations may be legally incompetent to establish whether a witness is in the country, they are sufficient to show that the prosecution made reasonable efforts to procure the witness. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 677 (fuiava); smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 608611 [court accepts district testimony that witness had left the country to support the clause violation was not specifically raised below. a defendant may forfeit a confrontation clause argument by failing to specifically raise it with the trial court. (see people v. chaney (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 772, 777 [confrontation [b]ased on the context of the objection as well as its language, the objection was one of hearsay, not the sixth we assume without deciding, however, appropriately preserved by his objection that the prosecution had not met its burden under evidence code section 240. s a general matter, no useful purpose is served by declining to consider on appeal a claim that merely restates, under alternative legal principles, a claim otherwise identical to one that was properly preserved by a timely motion that called upon the trial court to consider the same facts and to apply a legal standard similar to that which would also (people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 117; see also people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 436.) 22 fact that the prosecution made a good faith effort to secure .) here, the prosecutor represented that she had taken steps to have pineda subpoenaed and subsequently confirmed that service had been effected. she had spoken to the detective who had relayed to her that it appeared pineda was ignoring the subpoena and preparing to leave for el salvador on vacation. these representations were properly considered by the trial court to establish that the prosecution had acted with reasonable diligence and in good faith, but that the witness was nonetheless absent and the court was unable to compel her attendance by process under evidence code section 240, subdivision (a). parks next argues that, even if it was proper to consider the prosecudiligence and good faith. diligence inquiry include the timeliness of the search, the importance of the proffered testimony, and whether leads of [citations.]people v. herrera (2010) 49 cal.4th 613, 622.) here, the prosecution quickly located pineda, effecting service on her within two court days of defense counsel announcing readiness for trial. given their success in serving the witness quickly after the trial date was set, the prosecution acted timely and was not in any way dilatory, as found by the trial court. 23 although parks correctly argues that pinedtestimony was important, as she was the only eyewitness purporting to see him leaving the area near the crime scene shortly after the time of the murder, securing her testimony nevertheless did not require more of the prosecution than service of process. significantly, the preliminary hearing transcript that the prosecution offered in lieu of trial testimony included admissions on direct examination and cross-parks. noted, she put it at five out of ten. at prelim she was asked to look at my client twice, never identified him, and then stated she near the scene on the afternoon of the murder, including photos parks took on his cell a few hours before the murder; cell phone records showing parksphone pinging cell towers , which was left at the scene. parks also told paul in a phone call around the time of the murder that something happened the reasonable given how her testimony fit into the overall evidence. (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 675676 [prosecution exercised reasonable diligence attempting to secure trial testimony from witness where her testimony at preliminary hearing that she saw defendant running from scene of a shooting after hearing gunshots fired was not of 24 critical importance because other witnesses and evidence provided stronger support identifying defendant as the shooter.]) although parks suggests numerous avenues that the prosecution could have pursued beyond serving pineda, he [a] here, with the benefit of hindsight) does not automatically [citations.] the law requires only reasonable efforts, not prescient been made or other lines of inquiry pursued does not affect [a] conclusion [that there was due diligence] . . . (people v. diaz (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 695, 706.) arguments on appeal that pineda could have changed her plans, or could have been detained under material witness provisions, or returned from el salvador pursuant to 28 u.s.c. section 1783none of which were raised before the trial courtare entirely speculative. the trial court did not err in finding pineda unavailable pursuant to evidence code section 240 and (see, e.g. people v. cogswell (2010) 48 cal.4th 467, 472, 477 479 [witness properly declared unavailable when subpoenaed at procedures to take witness into custody].) given the 25 confrontation clause. (smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 610611 [holding that prosecution met state requirement of reasonable or due diligence and demonstrated a good faith the federal constitution].) parks next contends that evidence of fisherfear of him was erroneously admitted because it was inadmissible to prove identity, which was the only issue in dispute at trial. he argues that, to the extent defense counsel failed to object at trial, she rendered constitutionally ineffective assistance. even if we were to assume parks preserved his claim, it fails. identity was not the only issue in contention. the jury was charged with deciding whether parks premeditated the murderissue. the evidence relevant to her state of mind provided an explanation for her reaction. knowledge of fisher fear caused parks to take steps to lure her to the residence while assuring her that he would not be there. that he knew she would avoid him and orchestrated a plan to ambush her demonstrates that he premeditated the murder. the trial court did not abuse its discretion. 26 law made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter sand is inadmissible except as provided by law. (evid. code,  1200, subds. (a) & (b).) emotion, or physical sensation (including a statement of intent, plan . . .) is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when: [] (1) the evidence is offered to prove the that time or at any other time when it is itself an issue in the action; or [] (2) the evidence is offered to prove or admitted under section 1250 is hearsay; it describes a mental or physical condition, intent, plan, or motive and is received for the truth of the matter stated. (see 1 witkin, cal. evidence (3d ed. 1986) the hearsay rule,  735, p. 716.) statement may be introduced without limitation, subject s state of mind must be at issue in the case. for instance, evidence of the [defendant] is not issue. (people v. noguera (1992) 4 cal.4th 599, 622 (noguera).) 27 declare a mental state, but is merely circumstantial evidence of that state of mind, is not hearsay. it is not received for the truth of the matter stated, but rather whether the statement is true or not, the fact such statement was made mind. [citation.] again, such evidence must be relevant to be admissible . . . people v. ortiz (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 377, 389.) reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of (evid. code,  210.)people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 821 (jablonskielevance determination under the abuse of discretion standard. (jablonski, suprapeople v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 815 (riccardi) abrogated by people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1216, on another ground.) analysis in this case, the prosecution sought to admit evidence the conversation she had with fisher at the car wash the day before the murder. in a written motion, the prosecution moved for admission of the testimony 28 -hearsay purpose of relevancy to prove l break-up, the next day of not boarding the plane and instead his plan citing to people v. hernandez (2003) 30 cal.4th 835 (hernandez) [overruled on another point in riccardi, supra, 54 cal.4th 758], noguera, supra, 4 cal.4th 599, and people v. ruiz (1988) 44 cal.3d 589 (ruiz)the murder [is inadmissible] when the purpose is to prove evidence, which the court admitted on the stated bases of (1) in a phone conversation the night before the murder, allen overheard fisher telling parks that she was not leaving him. immediately afterward, fisher mouthed to allen that she did not intend to return to parks. (2) during the same phone conversation with parks, fisher told allen she heard a car honking nearby which she thought she heard , too, and that she (3) fisher appeared to be afraid of parks. (4) fisher told allen she would not that night because parks knew where allen lived. (5) fisher was afraid parks would find her. 29 (6) fisher told allen she would spend the night with a friend but refused to tell her who the friend was. looking at the statements individually, we conclude that (1), (2), (4) and (6) are nonhearsay statements. these statements were not admitted for their truth, but as fear and desire to avoid parks were relevant to the issue of premeditation because they explained s actions. parks tried to persuade fisher to come to him the night before he killed her by falsely telling her the police were coming after him to gain her sympathy. when this failed he told her he left marijuana at house and could not retrieve it because he was traveling to chicago. parks checked with paul several times to ascertain whether fisher had taken the bait and gone to the house. he even texted fisher to see if she had picked up the marijuana. because fisher feared and avoided him, parks orchestrated a plan to trick fisher into being at house , which he devised in response to her fear, enabled him to ambush her. it provided strong evidence that he premeditated the murder. this circumstantial evidence of mental state was admissible to show premeditation. (see riccardi, supraactions reflected he used his knowledge of fear as a means to ambush and kill her; fear was relevant to issue of premeditation]; jablonski, supras] mental state in going 30 to visit the [victims]as the trial court expressed it, he was and how he planned to approach the victims (by stealth as opposed to open confrontation) both of which, in turn, were relevant to premeditation hernandez, noguera, and ruiz are distinguishable. in hernandez and noguera, fear was inadmissible to prove identity. the defendants did not raise the issue of whether were admissible to demonstrate premeditation. both murders were proved to be of the first degree through evidence that they were committed for financial gain. (hernandez, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 859; noguera, supra, 4 cal.4th at pp. 631632.) here, no financial gain was involved; premeditation was proven through evidence of her avoidance of parks, and the actions parks took in response to her fear to ensnare her. in ruiz (riccardi, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 818.) the court held that his circumstance is crucial in determining a relevant ibid.) the instant case is replete with the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding that this evidence of mental state and conduct were relevant and admissible. 31 with respect to the evidence described in (3) and (5), it is unclear from the record whether allen was describing meanor (3) and relaying a statement that fisher made (5), or presenting her own conclusions and opinions. neither of the parties attempted to clarify the testimony at trial. the trial court previously ruled that allen could testify regarding her personal of parks as evidence of her state of mind under evidence code 1250. if the evidence was consistent with the type of evidence contemplated in these rulings, it was relevant to state of mind and admissible to demonstrate premeditation for the reasons we have discussed above. if the evidence was not of the type contemplated in the rulings, mental stateallen was no more capable of drawing conclusions from the evidence than the jury. given the other however, it is not reasonably probable that parks would have obtained a more favorable verdict if the evidence had not been admitted. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) third party culpability parks contends that the trial court erred when it refused to admit evidence of third party culpability. he specifically objects to the exclusion of evidence with respect to lewis greenwood, who sent fisher the text message 32 that he was prejudiced by the exclusion of evidence that greenwood: (1) denied that he had sent the text message when questioned by police, (2) was a mile away from the scene on the day of the murder, (3) received a call from fisher shortly before she died, and (4) gave police a false alibi. he asserts that the evidence was sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt regarding his own guilt.12 we agree with the people that the evidence was inadmissible because it was not sufficient to raise a law other evidence; if relevant it is admissible. (people v. alcala (1992) 4 cal.4th 742, 792 (alcala).) it is admissible if it is at the same time, we do not require that any evidence, 12 parks also contends that relevant third party evidence should not be excludable on the basis that, standing alone, it does not raise a reasonable doubt regarding the people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, at page 833, our supreme court held that this is the correct standard. we are bound to follow hall. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455 [appellate court is bound to follow holdings of the supreme court].) 33 possible culpability . . . . [e]vidence of mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime in another person, without more, will not suffice to raise a reasonable doubt about a evidence linking the third person to the actual perpetration people v. page (2008) 44 cal.4th 1, 38.) to introduce third party culpability evidence, a defendant must show that the evidence is relevant and that its probative undue alcala, supra(people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1174 (samaniego).) relevance of evidence. (people v. warner (1969) 270 cal.app.2d 900, 908.) we review the admission and exclusion of evidence on relevance grounds for abuse of that discretion. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1198; people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 1123 [relevance samaniego, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1174.) proceedings prior to trial, defense counsel represented that she was hearsay that was provided to [detective dinlocker] during his interview of mr. 34 would demonstrate third party culpability. the prosecutor argued that the statements greenwood made to the detective were inadmissible. the court agreed that absent evidence that greenwood was unavailable and that defense counsel had exercised due diligence to compel his presence, the evidence could not be admitted. later, the court held an in camera hearing with respect to whether third party culpability evidence relating to greenwood was sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt as to hearing, defense counsel argued that greenwood stated he had been at burger king playing chess with paul when paul got the call informing him that fisher had been murdered, which was inconsistent with statement that he received the call while driving after he left the burger kingi.e. that greenwood gave a false alibi for his whereabouts at the time of the murder. counsel represented that the burger king in question was approximately one mile away from house. she also stated that fisher made a call to greenwood and left a 4-second message for him either 6 or 20 minutes before she was killed, which would have been enough time for fisher to tell greenwood where she was. the court was concerned that presenting the trial, which would involve an undue consumption of time, but ultimately stated that there might be enough evidence to warrant admission. 35 defense counsel relayed the substance of the in camera hearing to the prosecution in a later hearing. the court stated that the issue was close and that it would need to listen to the interview detective dinlocker conducted with greenwood in the burger king. the court expressed that be of key importance to its ruling. defense counsel represented that the evidence would involve only minimal questioning of detective dinlocker and would mostly be presented in the form of telephone records. she stated that greenwood had not been subpoenaed, but did not inform the court what measures she had taken to secure his presence. the prosecutor responded that the defense had an address for greenwood, and that the fact that the defense had been unable to locate him playing chess at the burger king at his regular time did not mean that he was evading process. detective dinlocker later testified outside the presence of the jury. he interviewed greenwood at the burger king on march 29, 2017. although greenwood looked very different than his photograph from the department of motor vehicles, the detective was able to find him because greenwood voluntarily identified himself. he was cooperative, open and straightforward. he moved away from the loud music in the restaurant so the detective could obtain a clearer recording of their interview. greenwood remembered sending fisher the text, and admitted that he had been angry with her because he had given her money to purchase marijuana and she had not 36 given him marijuana or returned his money. he did not recall having the phone number that the text originated from, but the detective did not find that unusual. greenwood was a transient and it was not unusual for transients to use numerous phones. paul had mentioned to the detective that greenwood had many phone numbers in an earlier conversation. there was no indication that greenwood had been at house. when questioned, greenwood denied going to house on the day of the murder. this was consistent with statement that greenwood had never been to his house and did not know where he lived. greenwood told detective dinlocker that he was playing chess with paul at burger king when fisher was killed. detective dinlocker was unable to locate any witnesses who could confirm this statement. the detective stated that all of the offenses in elated to narcotics. there was no documentation indicating that he was affiliated with a gang. the detective had been trying to locate him again but had not been successful. greenwood was not a suspect. after the detective finished testifying, the court pointed out that his recollection of what greenwood said on the recorded interview was not consistent with the recording. the court quoted greenwood in the recording: got a call. he got up and left. i go over to shawnny house. 37 the court reasoned that how paul and greenwood learned of the murder did not directly or circumstantially tie into the commission of the murder itself as admissible third party culpability evidence must. additionally, although defense counsel argued that greenwood was within a mile of the murder scene at the time of the murder, the last person who actually saw greenwood at the burger king was paul, who saw him approximately three hours before fisher was killed, which did not place greenwood near the scene of the murder right before it occurred. defense counsel then stated that pineda identified a around the time the crime was committed, and provided the court a photograph of greenwood. the court did not see a resemblance between the two mentheir faces were not similar, and pineda had described the person she saw in the backyard as having a shaved head, but greenwood had hair. there was also no information regarding when the photograph was taken. even if the court assumed that greenwood was true, there simply was not sufficient evidence, particularly in light of the holding in samaniego, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at page 1175, a case which presented analogous facts. the samaniego culpability evidence where a third party held a knife to the victi38 victim was shot to death because nothing tied the third party to the scene at the approximate time of the killing. here there was even less evidence tying greenwood to the scene near the time of fish the court excluded the proffered evidence relating to third party culpability without prejudice. it noted that the records, and that defense counsel was permitted to argue that someone texted fisher threats from a phone number not associated with parks. the defense could make any third party culpability argument it desired based on otherwise admissible evidence. analysis we cannot say the trial court erred by excluding the defenthis record. only one of the facts that parks sought to establishthat greenwood received a call from fisher shortly before she diedwas supported by the evidence that parks sought to admit, and even if all the facts that parks sought to admit had been supported, they were not sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt as to s guilt. there was no evidence that greenwood denied texting fisher a demand for money. at the hearing, detective dinlocker testified that greenwood freely admitted to sending the text. he explained to the detective that he had given fisher money for marijuana and was angry because 39 she had not procured it for him. greenwood did not remember the number for the phone he used to send the text because he used many phone numbers, but he never denied having sent the text. there was no evidence that greenwood was a mile away from house at the time fisher was killed. the last person who saw him was paul, and he saw greenwood tlocation within a mile of the crime scene several hours before the murder is not relevant evidence tying him to the crime. (see samaniego, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1175 [evidence that third party threatened victim with a knife at crime scene two hours before murder occurred did not amount to not tie third party to crime scene].) in the audio recording of his conversation with detective dinlocker, greenwood did not state he was with paul at the burger king when fisher was killed. he stated that paul left the burger king after receiving a phone call, house. the personal recorded statement is not relevant. the only remaining fact that parks sought to establish was that fisher called greenwood shortly before her death and left a 4-second voice message. that fisher called greenwood and left a very brief message is not relevant to 40 tie him to the crime in any way. the fact that greenwood sent the text demanding money the night before was relevant only to a possible motive to kill, and that without more is not sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt. (samaniego, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1174.) cumulative trial error parks argues the cumulative trial court errors require remand of the case for a new trial. we have found only a minimal trial court error, if any, and therefore reject the claim of cumulative error. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 345.) juvenile conviction parks contends his juvenile adjudication for robbery should not have been used as a prior strike conviction because the people failed to prove he was at least 16 years old at the time he committed the offense, as required by sections 667, subdivision (d)(3)(a), and 1170.12, subdivision (b)(3)(a). he also contends the juvenile adjudication cannot be used to enhance his sentence because a jury did not determine the facts underlying the adjudicated offense. 41 proceedings in a bifurcated bench trial, the trial court found true the allegations that parks had suffered two prior strike convictions ( 667, subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b)), a prior serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and seven prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). one of the strike priors was based j824368. the prosecution provided written records referencing were designated as court exhibits and moved into evidence. court exhibit no. 1 was a california law enforcement telecommunication systebirth as march 17, 1969, but also stating his date of birth as august 7, 1973. court exhibit no. 2 was california department of corrections and rehabilitation (cdcr) documentation. the documentation included abstracts of judgment from march 2005 and october 2015, and a fingerprint card, reflecting judgment from february 2005 and october 2014, and another fingerprint card august 7, 1973. court exhibit no. 3 was the juvenile court petition for birth as march 17, 1969, and indicated that he was 16 years of age on march 17, 1985. the petition alleged that parks 42 committed robberies on october 14, 1985 (count 1) and october 15, 1985 (count 2). court exhibit no. 4 included the disposition of arrest and court action for the juvenile robbery case indicating identification card also indicated the march 17, 1969 date of birth. court exhibit no. 5 consisted of a booking photograph, dated october 22, 1985, a completed los angeles police photography unit order ffrom the los angeles county district attornrequesting certified copies of the photograph, fingerprints or 5.1 thumb prints, and disposition of arrest and court action for parks. the letter included the case number (case no. pa087400), booking number, prior case number (case no. j824368march 17, 1969. court exhibit no. 6 contained four minute orders for 17, 1969, and the date of the juvenile petition as october 23, 1985. the minute order from october 24, 1985, stated that the count 1 robbery charge in the october 1985 petition was found true and that the petition was sustained. the minute the robbery was a felony. court exhibit no. 8 was a document which referenced 43 j824368 and indicated his date of birth as march 17, 1969. the document was certified by the supervisor of the ward master file unit of the division of juvenile justice of the cdcr. the court found the 1985 juvenile adjudication for robbery qualified as a strike conviction under the three strikes law. law section 667, subdivision (d)(3), provides, juvenile adjudication shall constitute a prior serious and/or violent felony conviction for purposes of sentence enhancement if: [] (a) the juvenile was 16 years of age or older at the time he or she committed the prior offense. [] (b) the prior offense is listed in subdivision (b) of section 707 of the welfare and institutions code . . . . [] (c) the juvenile was found to be a fit and proper subject to be dealt with under the juvenile court law. [] (d) the juvenile was adjudged a ward of the juvenile court within the meaning of section 602 of the welfare and institutions code because the person committed an offense listed in subdivision (b) of similarly, section 1170.12, subdivision (b)(3), provides: and/or violent felony conviction for the purposes of sentence enhancement if: [] (a) the juvenile was sixteen years of age or older at the time he or she committed the prior 44 offense, and [] (b) the prior offense is [] (i) listed in subdivision (b) of section 707 of the welfare and institutions code, or [] (ii) listed in this subdivision as a serious and/or violent felony, and [] (c) the juvenile was found to be a fit and proper subject to be dealt with under the juvenile court law, and [] (d) the juvenile was adjudged a ward of the juvenile court within the meaning of section 602 of the welfare and institutions code because the person committed an offense listed in subdivision (b) of section 707 of the robbery is an offense listed in welfare and institutions code section 707, subdivision (b)(3). the people must prove all elements of an alleged sentence enhancement beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. miles (2008) 43 cal.4th 1074, 1082 (miles); people v. tenner (1993) 6 cal.4th 559, 566.) when reviewing whether examine the record in the light most favorable to the judgment to ascertain whether it is supported by substantial evidence. in other words, we determine whether a rational trier of fact could have found the prosecution sustained its burden of proving the elements of the sentence enhancement miles, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1083.) 45 analysis people v. gallardo (2017) 4 cal.5th 120 (gallardosentencing court is permitted to identify those facts that were already necessarily found by a prior jury in rendering a guilty verdict or admitted by the defendant in entering a guilty plea, the court may not rely on its own independent review of record evidence to determine what conduct id. at p. 124.) parks contends that the court was limited to people had proved he had suffered a qualifying prior strike adjudication. he argues that the record of conviction contained only the juvenile petition stating his date of birth and the date of the robbery, neither of which were elements of the offense. thus, neither his birth date nor the date of the offense had been found true by the juvenile court beyond a reasonable doubt.13 gallardo ourt considering whether to impose an increased sentence based on a prior qualifying conviction conviction based on its independent conclusions about what 13 it is undisputed that parks was found fit to be dealt with under juvenile court law and, thereafter, was adjudged a ward of the juvenile court pursuant to welfare and institutions code section 602 for committing robbery. 46 (gallardo, supra, 4 cal.5th at p. 136.) however, neither people v. martinez (2000) 22 cal.4th 116, 117), or that led to the prior conviction (gallardo, supra, at p. 136). involve relitigating the circumstances of a crime committed many years ago or implicate double jeopardy or speedy trial concerns, as is the case where the basis of the conviction is concerned. accordingly, the trial court here properly looked to the exhibits taken into evidence to determine parks was at least 16 years old at the time of the robbery. (see also people v. dunlap (1993) 18 cal.app.4th 1468, 1476 [record-of-the substance of the prior conviction (i.e., the nature of the age was presented, the exhibits contain multiple documents indicating a birth date of march 17, 1969. the juvenile petition reflected the date of the robbery as october 14, 1985, at which time parks would have been 16 years old. no contrary evidence was presented, and the defense did not contest the accuracy of the documents. substantial evidence 47 section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement in his opening brief, parks argued that section 1170.1, subdivision (f), which prohibits imposition of multiple weapons enhancements in connection with a single crime when a defendant is subject to a determinate term, applies to defendants subject to indeterminate terms of imprisonment as well. in a letter filed october 1, 2018, parks informed us of new authority, people v. wong (2018) 27 cal.app.5th 972 (wong), which rejected this argument. (id. at pp. 981982.) we agree with our sister court that section 1170.1, which is part of the determinate sentencing law, does not apply to enhancements to indeterminate sentences, and reject the contention.14 14 in his letter informing us of new authority, parks wong that imposition of more than one weapon enhancement for the same crimes violates penal code section 654. [citation.] the decision is claims the penal code section 12022(b)(1) enhancement must be stayed. [citation.] his opening brief, this court has the authority to correct the unautho we note that the california rules of court, rule 8.254(b) argument or other discussion of the authority . . . in the supplemental briefing on the question of whether section 654 applies to the weapons enhancements imposed, and we do not decide the issue here. 48 firearm and prior serious felony conviction enhancements parks contends that under recently enacted senate bill nos. 620 and 1393, the trial court has discretion to strike the 25-year firearm enhancement imposed under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and the 5-year prior serious felony conviction enhancement imposed under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), respectively. parks claims that both amendments apply to him retroactively. he asserts that the case should be remanded to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion to strike the enhancements because the court lacked the power to do so at the time of sentencing. the people concede the amendments effectuated by senate bill nos. 620 and 1393 apply retroactively, but contend remand is not appropriate in this case, because remand would be futile. we agree with the parties that senate bill no. 620, which became effective on january 1, 2018, applies to parks retroactively because the trial court lacked the discretion to strike the 12022.53, subdivision (d) enhancement at the time the legislation became effective. (people v. woods (2018) 19 cal.app.5th 1080, 10891091 (woods).) like senate bill no. lesser sentence, and . . . there is nothing in the amendment to suggest the legislature intended it to apply prospectively woods, supra, at p. 1090 [discussing senate bill no. 620].) by analogy, we hold that senate bill no. 1393 49 applies retroactively to cases pending on appeal in which the court lacked the discretion to strike a 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement at the time of sentencing. the judgment will 1393 takes effect on january 1, 2019. (see people v. vieira purpose of determining retroactive application of an amendment to a criminal statute, a judgment is not final until the time for petitioning for a writ of certiorari in the united states supreme court ill apply to his case retroactively when it goes into effect. we agree with the attorney general that remand is not appropriate in this case, however, because there is no reasonable possibility the trial court would exercise its discretion to dismiss either enhancement upon remand. resentesentencing court clearly indicated that it would not, in any ([people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4(people v. billingsley (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 1076, 1081.) that was the case here. following several victim impact statements by the the crime and cited verdict as evidence of his parks stood at that door, turned to the family . . . [] . . . [a]thing, and ne here 50 kept asking me today to send mr. parks away, to make sure he never sees the light of day. i understand where that although it would reserve final judgment until the date of sentencing, it was thcrime. [the victim] was strangled, stabbed, and shot. and the utter lack of remorse, as evidenced by [this] statement . . . leaves this court with the opinion there is no other the court had broad discretion in imposing sentence in convictions under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, and requested that the court stay the seven one-year sentence enhancements alleged under 667.5, subdivision (b). the court could have granted the romero motion and imposed a significantly shorter sentence of 56 running some or all of the seven one-year sentence 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements concurrently. instead, it chose to impose the maximum sentence of 113 years to life.15 we conclude that remand for the court to exercise its discretion under either senate bill no. 620 or no. 1393 would be futile. 15 the court discussed the numerous circumstances in aggravation and emphasized that no mitigating circumstances had been presented. 51 disposition the judgment is affirmed. moor, j. i concur: seigle, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. the people v. michael parks b285035 baker, acting p. j., concurring i join tcontentions of error presented by defendant and appellant michael parks (defendant)including the contention that the trial court erred in finding witness reina pineda (pineda) unavailable. i write separately to register concern about an issue defendant has not directly raised. at trial, detective dinlocker was permitted to offer his opinion of witness -testifying statement that she was afraid and did not want to get involved). in my view, when a testimony must take the bitter with the sweet and present the testimony solely by recitation of the pertinent hearing transcript. that is the appropriate limit of the exception admitted by confrontation and hearsay rules, and here, that that defendant was the person she saw running. counsel for defendant may have reasons, strategic or 2 demeanor-related testimony should have been excluded. it is also unclear whether such an argument, if successful, would warrant reversal of the judgment below. but, in my view, this is an issue that should not have arisen in the first place. absent some extraordinary circumstance i cannot now imagine, a party who succeeds in getting a witness declared unavailable should not be permitted to ask another of its witnesses to favorably opine on the testifying demeanor of the absent witness. baker, acting p. j. 