filed 11/15/18 p. v. cornejo ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alberto cornejo, defendant and appellant. b285901 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba449726) appeal from an order and judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig richman and leslie a. swain, judges. conditionally reversed and remanded with directions. randy s. kravis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer, acting supervising deputy attorney, and eric j. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 alberto cornejo was convicted on two counts of lewd conduct (counts 1 and 2) upon a young girl, rd. the jury was unable to reach a verdict on four other counts of sexual molestation: a third count of lewd conduct involving rd (count 6), two counts of committing lewd conduct upon another young girl, ac (counts 3 and 4), and one count of oral copulation of rd (count 5). these four counts were later dismissed. on appeal from the judgment of conviction on counts 1 and 2, cornejo contends the trial court committed marsden error (people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden)) by not conducting a hearing on his second marsden request. cornejo also contends the trial court committed instructional error in giving the wrong unanimity instruction in light of the multiple charged acts involving two different young girls, and failing to instruct the jury not to base its decision on merely counting the number of witnesses on both sides. finally, cornejo contends reversal is required because of prosecutorial misconduct during cross-examination of cornejo and closing rebuttal argument. we agree that the trial court erred in not conducting a marsden hearing, well-founded. accordingly, we conditionally reverse and remand for further proceedings.1 1 the parties agree that the trial court miscalculated of judgment be amended on remand to reflect the correct number of presentence custody credits. 3 factual and procedural background 1. charges in a six-count information, cornejo was charged with three counts of lewd conduct upon rd, a child under 14 years of age (pen. code,  288, subd. (a), counts 1, 2 & 6)2 and one count of oral copulation of rd, a child 10 years of age or younger (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (b), count 5). cornejo was also charged with two counts of committing lewd conduct upon ac, a child under 14 years of age (counts 3 & 4). a multiple victim enhancement was also alleged (pen. code,  667.61, subds. (b) & (e)(4)). 2. trial evidence nd, testified that he sexually molested her on the following four separate occasions in 2014 when she was 10 years old: (1) rd was sleeping in the car, and cornejo reached under her clothing and touched her vagina, awakening her; (2) rd was riding in the car, and cornejo parked, pulled down her pajama pants and licked her vagina; (3) rd entered the kitchen, and cornejo had his pants down. he grabbed rd and rubbed his penis against her vagina and buttocks; and (4) rd was asleep in bed, and cornejo entered her room naked and touched her breasts and vagina, awakening her. approximately six years old, he touched her chest and vagina on 2 count 6 originally charged sodomy, but it was dismissed under penal code section 1118.1 and replaced prior to jury deliberations with the lesser included offense of lewd conduct upon a child. 4 three to five occasions. ac specifically recalled that cornejo touched the inner part of her thigh on october 17, 2012. cornejo testified in his defense and denied he sexually molested either girl at any time. 3. verdict and sentencing the jury found cornejo guilty of committing lewd conduct upon rd as charged in counts 1 and 2. the jury informed the trial court it was hopelessly deadlocked on counts 3 through 6. the court declared a mistrial as to those counts, which were later dismissed. cornejo was sentenced to serve eight years in prison.3 cornejo filed a timely appeal. discussion a. marsden hearing was reversible error 1. relevant proceedings at a pretrial hearing on june 30, 2017, cornejo expressed dissatisfaction with his appointed counsel, deputy public defender aaron jansen (jansen), and the trial court held a marsden hearing. at that hearing, cornejo complained jansen had not met with him or returned his telephone calls. cornejo said he had spoken to jacornejo did not feel jansen supported or communicated with him. cornejo told the trial court that he was withholding potentially exculpatory information from jansen because he did not trust jansen. the court denied the marsden motion. 3 the true finding of the multiple victim enhancement apparently was dismissed. 5 the case was assigned to a different court for trial. on july 14, 2017, during a recess from jury selection, cornejo asked trial him for many years. i know he is an outstanding attorney and i you want to make a formal marsden going to be able to do it marsden motion; to get my disadvmy very best to give you a fair trial. [] 2. governing law the law governing a marsden settled. his appointed counsel and substitute another attorney, and asserts inadequate representation, the trial court must permit the defendant to explain the basis of his contention and to relate specific instances (people v. jackson (2009) 45 cal.4th 662, 682.) marsden, [the supreme court] held it was error to deny the defendant the opportunity to explain for substitution of attorneys solely on the basis of [its] courtroom instances of misconduct, abuses the exercise of [its] discretion to people v. sanchez marsden 6 motion is not requiredthe defendant need only clearly indicate the discharge and replacement of the appointed counsel. (people v. armijo (2017) 10 cal.app.5th 1171, 1178 (armijo).) for the discharge and replacement of appointed counsel, the court must hold a hearing to allow the defendant to explain the basis id. at p. 1179.) simply put, a trial court cannot exercise its discretion whether to grant a marsden motion without knowing the (marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 123.) as our supreme court recognized in marsdenor her counsel is providing adequate assistance may not be ibid.) failure to conduct such a conviction unless the record shows beyond a reasonable doubt (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1179, citing marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 126.) 3. cornejo did not abandon his second marsden request to his right to a marsden hearing. instead, the people maintain cornejo abandoned his marsden request when the trial court put off the hearing and cornejo did not renew his request at a later date. the record. 7 to be sure, a defendant can be found to have abandoned his marsden request by affirmatively withdrawing it (people v. padilla (1995) 11 cal.4th 891, 927, overruled on another ground by people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1), failing to renew his pre-sentencing marsden request in spite of the trial to provide additional reasons at a later hearing for substituting counsel (people v. vera (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 970, 976-977, 981-982), or proceeding to trial without reminding the trial court of a previously scheduled marsden hearing that the trial court inadvertently failed to conduct (people v. jones (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 355, 362). marsden request, the trial court stated current appointed counsel, jansen. the trial court then agreed to conduct a marsden hearing at some future time on the condition marsden trial court noted that cornejo had already made a marsden request. taken together, the comments reasonably conveyed to cornejo either that (1) his marsden request was summarily denied, (2) it (3) it would probably be denied in any event because jansen was unsuccessful marsden request. as set forth above, marsden hearing is not triggered by a formal motion, but rather by the itute attorney, as occurred here. (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1178.) as previously noted, the people do not contest that cornejo adequately informed the trial court of his marsden request. 8 a judge cannot base his [or her] disposition of a request for substitution of counsel on his or her own confidence in the current atpeople v. hill (1983) 148 cal.app.3d 744, 753; see also marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 124.) although dly and unsuccessfully seeking substitute counsel can be a factor in determining the merits of a marsden request, it should not be the basis for denying a hearing in the first place. (see people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, 1111; people v. williams (1990) 220 cal.app.3d 1165, 1170.) regarding his marsden request. cornejo said et my believed that by renewing his marsden request he would place was prompted to assure cornejo that he would receive a fair trial. under the circumstances, we do not to find cornejo abandoned his marsden request. the trial court erred in failing to conduct a second marsden hearing. 4. given the absence of a hearing, we cannot determine whether the not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt as previously set forth, denial of the opportunity to explain the grounds for a marsden request compels reversal unless the record shows beyond a reasonable doubt that the error was harmless. the people argue that it prejudicial error. this argument misses the point. 9 in the absence of any marsden hearing, reversal is required precisely because there is no record from which to make this determination. as the marsden court recognized, the incompetence of his (marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 126.) absent such an opportunity, the marsden beyond a reasonable doubt that this denial of the effective (ibid.) similarly here, on the silent record before us, we cannot conclude the marsden request was not prejudicial. it is entirely possible cornejo would not have been able to demonstrate inadequate representation or the existence of an irreconcilable conflict particularly given marsden motion only two weeks eacannot speculate upon the basis of a reasons, would decide the appointment of new counsel was unnecessary. (armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at p. 1183.) given the absence of a record from which to determine prejudice, the remedy is conditionally to reverse the judgment of conviction and remand to the trial court for further proceedings. marsden request, then it shall reinstate the judgment. if it grants the marsden request, then it shall appoint new counsel to assist cornejo and entertain any such applications as newly appointed counsel may make. (see people v. ivans (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1654, 1666-1668 [conditional reversal of judgment posttrial for failure to hold marsden hearing]; people v. olivencia (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 10 1391, 1400-1402, citing people v. minor (1980) 104 cal.app.3d 194, 200; armijo, supra, 10 cal.app.5th at pp. 1183-1184.) b. the trial court properly instructed the jury on unanimity with calcrim no. 3501 cornejo contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury with calcrim no. 3501 on the obligation to arrive at a unanimous verdict with respect to the counts involving rd. we disagree. cornejo makes three arguments. first, the trial court underlying counts 1, 2, underlying counts 3 and 4. cornejo asserts that in addition to giving calcrim no. 3501, the trial court should have given calcrim no. 3500 because the latter instruction required the jury to agree unanimously on which of the specific acts rd described were committed by defendant. closing arguments did not detail which acts involving rd were charged as to counts 1 and 2, cornejo contends the jury could have convicted cornejo on both counts without unanimous agreement on which acts served as the basis for those counts. instead, the jury could have simply agreed that he had committed at least two of the acts involving rd. finally, in a related third argument, cornejo asserts that for the same reasons, the jury may have based its verdicts on counts 1 and 2 on the same act described by rd, rather than on two separate acts. none of these arguments demonstrates reversible error. as to the first argument, calcrim no. 3501 properly instructed the jury on the unanimity requirement as to specific and generic 11 testimony. with respect to second and third argumentsthe jury was neither confused nor misled by the instruction, and also contrary to case law. 1. cornejo has not forfeited his claim of instructional error despite his failure to object to the unanimity instruction in the trial court it is undisputed that defense counsel did not object to the as to the counts involving rd. the people argue that cornejo therefore forfeited challenging calcrim no. 3500 regarding those counts. even in the absence of objection below, an appellate court may address instructional error that affects a substantial rights. (pen. code,  1259.) the instruction at issue here impacted right to a unanimous jury under the california constitution. accordingly, we exercise our discretion to review contention that the trial court gave the wrong unanimity instruction regarding the counts involving rd. (people v. ngo (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 126, 149 [unanimity instruction reviewable under pen. code,  1259 even absent objection below]; people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 555 [raising instructional error only posttrial and on appeal did not constitute forfeiture].) 2. governing law and standard of review a criminal defendants right to a jury trial includes the right to a unanimous verdict, including unanimous agreement on the act constituting the offense charged. (cal. const., art. i,  16; 12 people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132 (russo).) ases have long held that when the evidence suggests more than one discrete crime, either the prosecution must elect among the crimes or the court must require the jury to agree on the same criminal (russo, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 1132.) this requirement of unanimity as to the criminal act intended to eliminate the danger that the defendant will be convicted even though there is no single offense which all the jurors agree the defendant [citation.] . . . [unanimity] instruction is designed in part to prevent the jury from amalgamating evidence of multiple offenses, no one of which has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, in order to conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that a defendant must have done something sufficient to convict on one (ibid.) the two unanimity instructions at issue in this case are calcrim no. 3500, the standard unanimity instruction, and modified calcrim no. 3501. calcrim no. 3500, which was not given in this case, _________ <insert description of alleged offense> [in count __] [sometime during the period of _____ to _____]. [] the people have presented evidence of more than one act to prove that the defendant committed this offense. you must not find the defendant guilty unless you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed at least one of these acts and you all agree on which act (he/she) commi historically, child molestation cases have presented difficult issues regarding how properly to instruct a jury on the constitutional requirement of a unanimous verdict. this is especially true where a child testifies to a number of similar but 13 undifferentiated acts of molestation during a particular time period, e.g., act of intercourse a month for three (people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314 (jones).) to safeguard the constitutional requirement of unanimity, our supreme court directed, a case in which the evidence indicates the jurors might disagree as to the particular act defendant committed, the standard unanimity instruction should be given. [citation.] but when there is no reasonable likelihood of juror disagreement as to particular acts, and the only question is whether or not the defendant in fact committed all of them, the jury should be given a modified unanimity instruction which, in addition to allowing a conviction if the jurors unanimously agree on specific acts, also allows a conviction if the jury unanimously agrees the defendant committed all the acts described by the victim. [] . . . [b]ecause credibility is usually the in these cases, jury either will believe the testimony that the consistent, repetitive pattern of acts occurred or disbelieve it. in either event, a defendant will have his unanimous jury verdict [citation] and the prosecution will have proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant committed a specific act, for if the jury believes the defendant committed all the acts it necessarily believes he committed each specific act (id. at pp. 321-322.) in light of the jones decision, the judicial council adopted calcrim no. 3501,4 which was given in this case as follows: counts 3 and 4 sometime during the period of january 1, 2010 to 4 judicial council of california criminal jury instructions (september 2018 supp.) bench note to calcrim no. 3501, p. 2408. 14 january 1, 2012. the defendant is also charged with lewd acts and oral copulation [involving rd] in counts 1, 2, 5 and 6 sometime during the period of january 1, 2013 through may 7, 2015. [] the people have presented evidence of more than one act to prove that the defendant committed these offenses. you must not find the defendant guilty unless: [] 1. you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed at least one of these acts and you all agree on which act he committed for each offense; [] or [] 2. you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed all the acts alleged to have occurred during this time period and have proved that the defendant committed at least the number of calcrim no. 3500. calcrim no. 3501 affords two different approaches for the jury to reach the required unanimity. the first is the same as that set forth in calcrim no. 3500: agreement as to the acts constituting each offense. but unanimity may also be found under calcrim no. 3501 if the people have proved that the defendant committed all the acts alleged to have occurred during this time period [and have proved that the defendant committed at least the number of offenses charged]. people v. fernandez, supra, 216 cal.app.4th at p. 556.) we review the failure to give the proper unanimity instruction de novo. (people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 568.) considering a claim of instructional error, we view the challenged instruction in the context of the instructions as a whole and the trial record to determine whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury applied the instruction in an 15 impermissible (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1229.) theoretical possibility of confusion [may be] diminished by the closing (people v. hajek and vo (2014) 58 cal.4th 1144, 1220, overruled in part on another ground in people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1216.) although the parties acknowledge there is a split of authority on the standard of prejudice for giving an erroneous unanimity instruction,5 we will assume the more exacting harmless beyond a reasonable doubt standard applies. (chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24.) 3. the trial court did not prejudicially err by instructing solely with calcrim no. 3501 a. the trial court properly instructed on unanimity with calcrim no. 3501 because the two alternatives gave proper instruction of specific evidence as to rd and generic evidence as to ac. in his first argument, cornejo appears to be contending trial court should have given calcrim no. 3500 as a separate instruction 5 appellate courts are divided as to the standard of prejudice to apply to the failure to give a unanimity instruction. (compare people v. vargas (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 506, 561-562 [applying state law standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836]; people v. smith (2005) 132 cal.app.4th 1537, 1545 [applying federal constitutional standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24]; see also people v. hernandez, supra, 217 cal.app.4th 559, 576-577 [discussing the split of authority and citing cases].) 16 to avoid confusing the jurors about their unanimity obligation. we conclude to have given calcrim no. 3500 and calcrim no. 3501 would certainly have confused the jury because calcrim no. 3500 is included in the first numbered paragraph in calcrim no. 3501. indeed, because calcrim no. 3500 was part of calcrim no. 3501, had cornejo requested that it be given separately, the trial court would most likely have properly declined it as duplicative. (people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 564 [the general rule is that a trial court may reject a proffered instruction if it is duplicative].) on the other hand, if cornejo is arguing that to avoid jury confusion, a limiting or pinpoint instruction should have been given to ensure the jury applied the first part of calcrim no. 3501 to the counts involving rd and the second part of calcrim no. 3500 to the counts involving ac, there is no authority to support this claim, as cornejo himself acknowledges. of law that are closely and openly connected with the facts understanding of the case. (people v. ervin (2000) 22 cal.4th 48, 90.) here, separate and specific incidents of sexual molestation and, with the exception of one incident of eneric. by giving the jury calcrim no. 3501 which addresses both specific and generic sexual molestation testimony, the trial court satisfied its duty to instruct on unanimity based upon the evidence. (see people v. fernandez, supra, 216 cal.app.4th at p. 556 [jury properly instructed with calcrim no. 3501 where testimony 17 recounted both specific and generic instances of sexual molestation].) b. any error in instructing the jury with calcrim no. 3501 was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt based on the proargument, , and inability to reach a verdict on two of the counts involving rd. cornejo contends the jury reach a verdict as to two of the counts involving rd demonstrates that it could have convicted cornejo on counts 1 and 2 without unanimously agreeing on which acts against rd cornejo committed. accordingly, he argues calcrim no. 3500 in addition to calcrim no. 3501 was prejudicial error. the record reveals otherwise. the record shows the jury unanimously agreed upon the two different acts underlying counts 1 and 2. in closing argument, the prosecutor separately discussed each of the four acts of sexual molestation against rd that the people were contending cornejo had committed. the prosecutor informed the jury down her pajama pants in the car was proof of oral copulation, as charged in count 5.6 additionally, the prosecutor argued, the latter act and the other three acts of sexual molestation each constituted lewd conduct as charged in counts 1, 2, and 6. the first part of calcrim no. 3501, which incorporates the standard unanimity instruction of calcrim no. 3500, 6 the prosecutor did not address the unanimity instruction during closing argument. 18 expressly required jurors unanimously to agree that cornejo committed at least one of these acts and unanimously to agree which act cornejo committed for each offense. the inclusion of calcrim no. 3515 which instructs jurors to consider each count separately and return separate verdicts for each count reinforced the unanimity requirement for each count. because the jury deadlocked on count 5oral copulationit is reasonable to infer the jurors did not all agree beyond a reasonable doubt that cornejo ina which was the basis for count 5 and one of the counts of lewd conduct. it is also reasonable to infer that the jurors disagreed on whether cornejo committed one other charged act of lewd conduct, which resulted in the jurors being unable to reach a verdict on count 6. the verdicts on counts 1 and 2 reasonably demonstrate the jury unanimously agreed that cornejo committed the remaining two acts of lewd conduct upon rd, as opposed to convicting him without unanimously agreeing on which two of four acts cornejo committed. (see people v. milosavljevic (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 640, 650 (milosavljevic) [jurors presumably understood from calcrim no. 3501 that they were required to all agree on an act the defendant committed for each offense to find him guilty on each offense].) the verdict also shows the jury was not misled by calcrim no. alternative unanimity instruction in numbered paragraph 2 regarding generic testimony. the alternative instruction informed jurors that they must unanimously agree that the people proved cornejo committed all the acts alleged to have occurred during the alleged time period, and that he committed at least the number of offenses (here, four) charged. the jurors did not unanimously agree that the 19 prosecutor had proved beyond a reasonable doubt that cornejo had committed all four of the acts described by rd and at least the number of offenses charged. this runs counter to claim that it is reasonably likely that jurors disagreed on which of the alleged acts supported convictions on counts 1 and 2, but they all agreed there were two such acts. nor are we persuaded by argument that calcrim no. 3501 enabled the jury to convict cornejo on counts 1 and 2 based on agreeing solely on one act. the fourth district rejected this argument in milosavljevic. there, the jury convicted the defendant on 38 counts of rape and related offenses involving multiple victims. among the contentions on appeal was that the jurors could have understood calcrim no. 3501 alternative unanimity instruction to authorize them to convict him on all counts if they unanimously agreed on one act alleged in only one count. (milosavljevic, supra, 183 cal.app.4th at p. 648.) in rejecting this claim, the appellate court explained, [c]onstruing the parts of that instruction as a whole, the jurors presumably understood the unanimity instruction required them to all agree on an act he committed for each offense for a guilty finding on that offense. it is not reasonably likely the jurors interpreted that instruction to allow them to find [defendant] guilty of all the listed counts based solely on one unanimous finding that he committed an act regarding one count or (id. at p. 650, italics omitted.) the milosavljevic reasoning applies with equal force here. in sum, we conclude that the trial failure to give calcrim no. 3500 in addition to calcrim no. 3501 was not only proper, but also, could not have been prejudicial. 20 c. the trial failure to instruct with calcrim no. 302 was not prejudicial error the people concede the trial court should have instructed with calcrim no. 302 because there was conflicting testimony at trial. (people v. cleveland (2004) 32 cal.4th 704, 751 [instruction should be given in every criminal case with conflicting evidence].) we agree but we conclude that the instructional error was harmless. 1. governing law and standard of review calcrim no. 302 states: conflict in the evidence, you must decide what evidence, if any, to believe. do not simply count the number of witnesses who agree or disagree on a point and accept the testimony of the greater number of witnesses. on the other hand, do not disregard the testimony of any witness without a reason or because of prejudice or a desire to favor one side or the other. what is important is whether the testimony or any other evidence convinces you, not just the number of witnesses who testify about a certain failure to instruct on calcrim no. 302 requires reversal if it is reasonably probable the jury would have reached a result more favorable to defendant had the instruction been given. (see people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 679.) in applying this standard, we consider the entire record and the totality of the instructions given by the trial court. (people v. snead (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1088, 1097 (snead), overruled on other grounds in people v. letner and tobin (2010) 50 cal. 4th 99, 181.) 21 2. other standard instructions provided the jury with sufficient guidance cornejo argues the failure to instruct with calcrim no. 302 was prejudicial error. in snead, the court found a similar failure to instruct with caljic no. 2.22, calcrim no. predecessor, was not prejudicial. the snead court determined the trial court had instructed the jury with other standard instructions providing guidance to the jury in its consideration and evaluation of the evidence. (snead, supra, 20 cal.app.4th at p. 1097.) here, as in snead, the trial court provided instructions on reasonable doubt (calcrim no. 220), evidence (calcrim no. 222), direct and circumstantial evidence: defined (calcrim no. 223), circumstantial evidence: sufficiency of the evidence (calcrim no. 224), single witness testimony (calcrim no. 301), limited purpose evidence (calcrim no. 303), and lay witness opinion (calcrim no. 333). in addition, the trial court instructed with calcrim no. 226, which provides in part: do not automatically reject testimony just because of inconsistencies or conflicts. consider whether the differences are important or not. people sometimes honestly forget things or make mistakes about what they remember. also, two people may witness the same event yet see the court further instructed with calcrim no. 301, which provides, the testimony of only one witness can prove any fact. before you conclude that the testimony of one witness proves a fact, you should carefully review all the evidence. 22 nonetheless, cornejo contends these instructions did not cure the error because none of them advised the jury not to count the number of witnesses who agree or disagree on a point and accept the testimony of the greater number of witnesses. cornejo asserts p]eople tend to be swayed into believing a point of fact by the more people there while none of the instructions told the jury that the number of witnesses itself is not a determining factor, the prosecutor did not argue that the jury could base its decision on counting the number of witnesses on each side. nor did the prosecutor argue that more witnesses supported rather than opposed conviction. further, the harmless nature of the error is counts involving ac, in which there were three prosecution to reach a verdict on two counts and finding of guilty on two counts involving rd in which there was a single prosecution se circumstances, it is not reasonably probable that a more favorable verdict to cornejo would have been reached had calcrim no. 302 been given. d. there was no prosecutorial misconduct cornejo contends the prosecutor twice committed misconductonce while cross-examining cornejo and once during closing argument. we agree with the people that cornejo has forfeited the first contention on appeal by failing to object at trial. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1201.) nonetheless, 23 because cornejo has also raised an ineffective assistance of counsel claim, we address both contentions. 1. governing law and standard of review prosecutorial misconduct can violate federal or state guarantees of due process. federal due process is denied if the conduct comprises a pattern . . . egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due (people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841 (samayoa).) due process under state law is denied only if [the conduct] involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the trial court or the jury. (samayoa, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 841; see also people v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 568.) these standards must be considered against the backdrop that a] prosecutor is given wide latitude to vigorously argue his or her case and to make fair comment upon the (people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 768.) prosecutorial misconduct will not result in reversal of a conviction unless it is reasonably probable that an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have been obtained in the absence of the misconduct. (people v. milner (1988) 45 cal.3d 227, 245, overruled on another ground in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 686, fn. 13.) 24 2. alleged misconduct during cross-examination a. relevant proceedings cornejo testified on cross-examination that mother testified falsely that cornejo had molested their daughter in order to benefit herself and he could not believe his daughter would accuse him of something he did not do. cornejtestimony underscored his theory throughout trial, that acmother influenced ac to testify falsely. -examination of cornejo while he was in custody.7 cornejo testified that when he asked for forgiveness in one conversation, he was apologizing for his infidelity and failure to pay attention to his family. cornejo insisted he was not referring to having molested ac and thus did not confess to having done sofocused on challenging that claim. toward the end of her cross-examination, the following exchange occurred: prosecutor:] sir, so in sum, what we can take away from your testimony today is that [rd] is lying defense counsel:] objection prosecutor:] is that right? defense counsel:] improper question court: sustained. defense counsel:] misconduct. 7 audio recordings of these telephone conversations were played for the jury. we reviewed the transcripts of these telephone conversations, which are part of the record on appeal. 25 prosecutor:] sir, your contention is that [rd] lied to us on the stand; is that right? defense counsel:] objection. court: sustained. :] sir, is [rd] lying? defense counsel:] b. is rd lquestions were not prosecutorial misconduct cornejo argues the prosecutor committed misconduct by not only posing a question that was argumentative, but also by and asking the question two more times. [w]ere they questions are not categorically proper or improper. (people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 381-382 (chatman). these questions may be proper when who is a percipient witness to the events at issue has personal knowledge whether other witnesses who describe those events are testifying truthfully and accurately. as a result, he might also be able to provide insight on whether witnesses whose testimony differs from his own are intentionally lying or are merely mistaken.(id. at p. 382.) but when argumentative or designed to elicit irrelevant lay opinion or speculative testimony, they questions are improper. (id. at pp. 381-382, 384.) an argumentative question is a speech to the jury masquerading as a question. the questioner is not seeking to elicit relevant testimony. often it is apparent that the questioner does not even expect an answer. the question may, indeed, be (id. at p. 384.) thus, there a difference between asking a witness whether, in his opinion, another is 26 lying and asking that witness whether he knows of a reason why another would be motivated to lie. (id. at p. 381.) the inquiry into whether rd was lying was not simply rhetorical. in addition to denying each alleged act involving rd, cornejo testified about his own observations about the events involving him and rd. for example, he testified that rd, her sister, and another young girl would often ride in the car with him. rd was always - and had never fallen asleep in the car. cornejo explained that testimony that he molested her when she was asleep in her bed made him bad because he habitually checked on rd and her sister see if they were before joining their mother in bed. testimony thus gave the jury a noncriminal explanation for why he was in the bedroom at night. answers on direct examination also showed that he knew rd well. accordingly, a question about veracity may have elicited from cornejo insight into why the jury should accept his testimony as more reliable than description of her interactions with cornejo. we observe that during trial, cornejo made a similar effort to discredit ac when he testified mother had caused ac to testify falsely against him. (chatman, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 382.) we observe the tenor of the cross-examination and her repeated failure to heed the trial rulings may suggest the questions were closer to the line separating argumentative from proper. nonetheless, while the continued questions about veracity may have shown disrespect to the trial s rulings, they did not amount to prosecutorial misconduct. the three questions were asked in quick succession following a lengthy cross-examination about 27 recorded telephone conversations concerning his daughter ac, not rd. cornejo never answered these limited questions. on this record, we cannot conclude the questions comprised pattern of conduct so or reprehensible of jury persuasion that denied cornejo due process. 3. alleged misconduct during closing argument a. relevant proceedings during closing argument, defense counsel explained to the jury the meaning of the reasonable doubt standard of means that you have to have an abiding conviction, and abiding comes from the latin abode, which means you have to live with it. you have to be confident. you have to live with your decision a year from now, five years from now, ten years from now, 20 years from now. you have to be able to look back and say you other factors casting doubt on the alleged sexual molestation of ac, was the vagueness of her testimony, her extreme youth when the alleged acts occurred, admit that the molestation had occurred when ac expressed uncertainty. the prosecutor began her rebuttal argument by stating: counsel is right. you do have to abide by a decision, and a want to say well, you know, i acquitted the guy. i walked a child molester out the door because a six-year-exact dates that her father had touched her. you will have to live 28 cornejo contends these statements constituted prosecutorial misconduct. b. stating you will have to live with thamisconduct when a claim of prosecutorial misconduct focuses upon is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an samayoa, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 841.) cornejo contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by argued the jurors would have live with their decision to acquit in support of his claim, cornejo primarily relies on people v. sanchez (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 1517 (sanchez), in which the prosecutor argued [s] that one of yo(id. at pp. 1522-1523, italics omitted.) the appellate court concluded the prosecutor committed misconduct because his comments were designed to offend and intimidate the potential holdout juror who doubted the id. at pp. 1530-1531.) additionally, cornejo contimproperly shifted the burden of proof. (citing people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106, 112, [a] prosecutor may not suggest 29 duty or burden to prove his or her innocence we conclude misconduct and were not likely to be misapplied by the jury. arguments of counsel, like jury instructions, be judged in the context in which they are (people v. gonzalez (1990) 51 cal.3d 1179, 1224, fn. 21.) made at the outset of her rebuttal argument, the prosecutor clear intent was to counter immediately defense statements to the effect that jurors would have to live with a guilty verdict. unlike in sanchez, the statements were not designed to intimidate potential juror holdouts, but were instead a response to defense very own argument. brief, followed by a much longer rebuttal argument in which she reviewed the evidence and urged the jury to consider the evidence. lastly, the statements were limited to the counts involving ac on which the jury failed to reach a decision. we do not agree that the burden of proof. having reviewed the entire record, including the arguments and the trial instructions, we conclude there was no reasonable likelihood that the jurors construed the prosecutors statements during rebuttal argument to shift the burden of proof to defendant. the instructions are particularly significant because [t]he crucial assumption underlying our constitutional system of trial by jury is that jurors generally understand and faithfully follow instructions. (people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 331.) here, the jurors were preinstructed on reasonable doubt and, as already noted, also instructed with calcrim no. 220 on reasonable doubt after closing argument. the trial court 30 instructed the jurors they must follow the law as instructed, rather than consider any comments by the attorneys that conflicted with the instructions (calcrim no. 200). the trial court further instructed that nothing the attorneys said, including their questions and opening and closing arguments, was evidence (calcrim no. 222). these admonishments were sufficient to thwart any potential confusion raised by the people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1157.) osecutorial contumacious behavior in this case. to be sure, emotions can run high among counsel in the trial arena, and trial courts typically give counsel wide latitude in trying cases. (see people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819 (hill).) in order to enforce its rulings and maintain the integrity of the proceedings, a trial court is behavior. that being said, we are compelled to observe that member of the bar to maintain the respect due to the courts and to abstain from all offensive personality. [citation.] a prosecutor is held to a standard higher than that imposed on other attorneys because of the unique function he or she performs in representing the interests, and in exercising the sovereign hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at pp. 819-820.) prosecutors who engage in such rude and unprofessional behavior demean the office they hold and the people in whose name they serve. (see id. at p. 820.) 31 disposition the judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded with the following directions: (1) the trial court shall hold a hearing marsden request; (2) if cornejo prevails, the court shall appoint new counsel to assist him and shall entertain such applications as newly appointed counsel may make; and (3) if the marsden request is denied, the trial court shall reinstate the judgment and amend the abstract of judgment to award cornejo 385 days of presentence custody credits. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 