filed 11/22/19 p. v. jones ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin jones, jr., defendant and appellant. b286506 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba254741) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne h. egerton, judge. reversed. eric r. larson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 appellant kevin jones, jr. was convicted of one count of first degree murder, two counts of attempted murder, two counts of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, and one count of assault with a semiautomatic firearm. of the case, jones was the driver in a gang-related drive-by shooting that occurred on august 12, 2003. another division of this court s convictions in an unpublished opinion. that appellate court made in a police interview violated his right to remain silent and that statements he made in that interview, as well as a subsequent interview, were involuntary. jones sought federal habeas relief, which the ninth circuit court of appeals granted in a published opinion. the ninth circuit held that detectives the first interview and that the admde in violation of miranda1 was prejudicial; it did not address whether his statements in the interviews were obtained voluntarily. after the ninth circuit issued its decision, the jury in s first retrial was unable to reach a unanimous verdict. jones was convicted of the above-described offenses at the conclusion of a second retrial, and received an aggregate prison sentence of 10 years plus 50-years-to-life.2 jones now appeals from this second judgment of conviction. 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 2 hearing and the abstracts of judgment indicate that jones was sentenced to an aggregate prison term of 9 years plus 50 years to aggregate sentence of 10 years plus 50 years to life. this 3 although jones asserts multiple errors in the proceedings below, we need address only one of them: whether an admission jones made during a police interview that he was present at, and the driver in, a shooting is the tainted product of an involuntary admission he made during a prior police interview. because we conclude the detectives obtained these admissions through coercion, including false promises of leniency, and that admitting the admission from the second interview was prejudicial, we reverse the judgment and remand the matter to the trial court. procedural background on march 9, 2007, appellant kevin jones, jr. was convicted of one count of first degree murder, two counts of attempted murder, one count of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, and two counts of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. (see people v. jones (sept. 3, 2008, b197793) [nonpub. opn.] [2008 wl 4060941, at p. *1] (jones i).)3 the trial court sentenced jones to an aggregate prison term of 5 years plus 75 years to life. (ibid.) this prison term included certain criminal street gang and firearm enhancements. (ibid.) s appeal of the judgment, he argued: (1) the use of peremptory challenges to exclude three prospective african-american jurors violated his constitutional right to a jury of his peers, (2) statements he made during two discrepancy is immaterial because we reverse the entirety of the judgment. 3 on october 15, 2018, we took judicial notice of the prior appellate opinion, the records on file relating thereto, and the records on file in the ninth circuit court of appeals that concern s habeas petition. 4 police interviews were involuntary and obtained in violation of his rights under miranda, and (3) the criminal street gang enhancements should have been stricken instead of stayed. (jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at p. *1].) on september 3, 2008, in an unpublished opinion, division eight of this court rejected all but the last claim of error, struck the criminal street gang enhancements, and affirmed the judgment in all other respects. (id. at pp. *1, *9.) our supreme court s petition for review. (people v. jones (nov. 19, 2008, s167550.) the united states district court for the central district of california thereafter s request for federal habeas relief. (jones v. harrington (9th cir. 2016) 829 f.3d 1128, 1132, 1135 (harrington) [discussing the procedural history of this case].) on july 22, 2016, the ninth circuit court of appeals reversed the judgment of the federal district court, and remanded the case to the district court with instructions to grant the petition for a writ of habeas corpus. (id. at pp. 1132, 1142.) the ninth circuit concluded s first interview with the detectives, they violated his miranda rights by continuing to question him after he unambiguously invoked his right to remain silent. (see harrington, supra, 829 f.3d at pp. 11331134, 11361141.) the panel also found that the admission of statements jones made after he invoked his right to remain silent was not harmless because this evidence (see id. at pp. 11411142.) because this error alone entitled jones to habeas relief, the ninth circuit declined to s remaining claims, including the assertion that 5 s statements to the detectives were involuntary.4 (see id. at pp. 1136, fn. 1, 1142.) upon conclusion of the first retrial, the trial court declared a mistrial because the jury was deadlocked 6-to-6 on all counts. as second retrial, the jury found him guilty of all six aforementioned counts, and found true the factual predicates of certain criminal street gang and firearm enhancements. on november 17, 2017, the trial court sentenced jones to an aggregate prison term of 10 years plus 50 years to life. later that day, jones appealed the new judgment of conviction to this court. factual background 1. the theory of the case at s second retrial shortly before 7:40 p.m. on august 12, 2003, henrico h., douglas watson, and james f. were fueling their chevy nova at an arco gas station, which was located at 76th street and western avenue. the station was within territory claimed by the eight trey gangster crips, a gang that had a violent rivalry with the rollin s neighborhood crips. jones was an active member of the rollin neighborhood crips and, although henrico h., watson, and james f. were not gang members, james f. was wearing an allen iverson jersey commonly associated with the eight trey gangster crips. 4 barred the people from introducing certain incriminating statements that jones made during the second interview. we need not reach this question because we find that these statements were otherwise inadmissible. 6 jones drove his black 1995, two-door ford escort over to the gas station. as his vehicle approached the station, the passenger therein shouted the following gang soon thereafter, henrico h., watson, and james f. entered their chevy nova, and henrico h. drove the vehicle north on western avenue. they reached the intersection of western avenue and florence avenue, and prepared to make a left turn onto florence. s vehicle then appeared alongside the chevy nova. as jones flashed certain rollin gang signs, the passenger aimed a small caliber weapon at the chevy and fired 13 shots. to escape the gunfire, henrico h. drove the chevy into oncoming traffic, collided with another vehicle, and ultimately executed a successful left turn onto florence. watson sustained a fatal gunshot wound to his head, and kenneth p., another driver in a different car who also was attempting to make a left turn onto florence, was shot in his shoulder. henrico h., james f., and kenneth p. survived the shooting and appeared as witnesses s second retrial.5 2. the defense theory of the cs second retrial the defense insisted that no eyewitnesses had identified jones as the driver of the vehicle in question or saw the license plate belonging to it. the defense further claimed henrico h. 5 s first trial, michael lee hall was jointly tried with jones as the passenger/shooter. (see jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at p. *1].) hall was acquitted. (ibid.) 7 believed that the vehicle was a four-door car, and that in prior testimony, james f. also claimed it was a four-door vehicle. defense counsel also asserted the body of s vehicle had dents on it that neither henrico h. nor james f. told police they had seen. additionally, the defense attorney claimed [t]here was no scientific evidence connecting . . . jones to this crime. the defense contended that particular incriminating statements jones made during his interviews with police were unreliable because the detectives employed coercive interrogation tactics to procure them. 3. s first interview with detectives on august 16, 2003 around 12:30 a.m. on august 16, 2003, detectives jolivette and fallon6 interviewed jones at a police station. the interview lasted about two hours. (jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at pp. *2, *6].) near the beginning of the interview, the detectives asked jones whether he knew why he was at the station; jones responded that the police had approached him near his home and had to 7 (italics added.) 6 although a transcription of the interview included in the present, the redacted audio recording introduced at trial establishes instead that detective fallon participated in the interview. 7 we attribute statements made by the police during this certain statements that are attributed to detective jolivette in 8 a short time later, the detectives only give you this one chance to talk to us. [] if you refuse to talk to us, [] just throw yourself right the detectives reiterated that about this, and then after that shortly thereafter, the detectives read jones his miranda rights, and jones confirmed he understood them. the detectives later stated that if jones . further, the detectives falsely claimed video surveillance showed s vehicle was near the gas station at around the time the shooting occurred. the detectives also suggested that s vehicle near the scene of the crime. when jones insisted he did not drive the vehicle used in the shooting, the detectives asked him get [himself] hooked up jones answered in the negative, to which the detectives the detectives also stated that if going to look at it and well fine, well the detectives also evoked certain imagery to convey the s refusal to admit that he was the driver. in the middle of the interview, the detectives gotten to a point where this is like the end of the world, like the transcription included in the augmented cler ts appeal. 9 what you should be thinking is, well, your the detectives later stated that jones could either the detectives rt ride. the train leaves this station and then after that. . . . additionally, the detectives strongly intimated that jones would be charged with only minor offenses if he simply confirmed his involvement in the shooting. the detectives claimed they th[ought] that s] part in this thing is really a minor part, okay. [jones is] the driver, maybe [he] what was going to happen. the detectives repeatedly reiterated according to the detectives, the although the no in other parts of the interview, the detectives made the connection between an admission to being the driver and some form of leniency more overt. the detectives assured jones they were aware of his hook you up. . . . 10 we could write something good about you. . . . we shoot nobody. we know this. but the only person that can help [jones] here today is [jones], okay. the detectives explained that if jones told them s the detectives later stated that claimed toward the end of the interview, the detectives gave jones h guy that did it,8 shortly after the detectives explicitly gave him these two options, jones conceded for the first time that he drove the vehicle involved in the shooting. jones claimed that while he was driving his vehicle on western avenue, a man with a gun s vehicle and entered it. jones asserted that he agreed to drive the armed man because jones he further contended that pok[ed] as station at 76th and western, and shouted a gang epithet (i.e., a nearby automobile. jones then purportedly drove away from the scene of the shooting. 8 earlier in the interview, jones claimed someone had stolen the vehicle from his driveway on the day of the shooting but returned it several hours later. jones reasoned he did not report this crime to the police because the thief returned his vehicle. the detectives told jones they did not believe him. 11 jones next provided a description of the gunmani.e., an african american male who had a white t- police released jones from custody at the conclusion of the interview. s second retrial, the people introduced into evidence an audio recording and a transcript of the august 16, 2003 interview. the audio recording and the transcript were both redacted so as not to include jones admission that he drove the vehicle used to carry out the shooting, because he made those statements after invoking his right to remain silent under miranda. (see harrington, supra, 829 f.3d at pp. 1134, 11361137 [holding that the detectives violated miranda by continuing to interrogate jones after he invoked his right to remain silent].) 4. jones second interview with detectives on october 19, 2003 around 8:30 p.m. on october 19, 2003, detectives jolivette and hollyfield interviewed jones.9 near the beginning of the interview, detective hollyfield read jones his miranda rights, and noted that jones had been arrested and that the detectives were interviewing him at a police station. jones indicated he understood those rights. in response to certain questions subsequently posed by detective hollyfield, jones admitted he owned a 1995 black two-door ford escort. 9 the interview transcript refers to these two detectives as jolivette testified detective hollyfield actually participated in the transcript was a typographical error. 12 detective jolivette later informed jones that he had been arrested pursuant to a warrant for a murder charge, and that jones would not be released at the end of this interview. story jolivette admonished free . jones initially denied admitting during the first interview that he was present at the time of the shooting. jolivette then when jones again insisted that he did not make such an admission, jolivette i jolivette sought [y]ou are telling me now that you at this point, jones conceded he was present at the scene of the shooting. jones claimed that an angry and sweating armed man, whom jones had never seen before, jumped into his vehicle and ordered him to drive. jones stated that as they arrived at the ga jones said that when they later reached the intersection of florence and western, the man jones explained that he did not report his encounter with the armed 13 man to police because the armed man had not harmed jones. the detectives indicated they did not believe his story.10 a partially redacted audio recording and transcript of the october 19, 2003 interview were admitted into evidence at transcript that was admitted into evidence: particular page numbers of the transcript; certain immaterial details concerning s personal life (e.g., whether jones pierced his earlobes); references to former codefendant hall, s arrest warrant, and the august interview, including his reminder that jones had previously admitted to being present at, and the driver in, the shooting; and portions of the interview in which the detectives indicated they trial is not in the record. the recording was played for the jury and that the people represented the recording included the same redactions as the transcript. discussion jones argues that the trial court should have excluded his october 19, 2003 admission to being the driver because it was the product of leniency, threats, and other coercive police tactics. jones objected to the admission of this evidence at his second retrial. respondent counters that collateral estoppel bars jones from relitigating this issue because another panel of this court 10 during the interview, jones denied being a member of rips, but suggested that he was a 14 had previously held that voluntary. we thus first decide whether collateral estoppel prevents us from considering .11 a. the prior court of appeal opinion does not collaterally estop this court from determining the voluntariness of joness admissions in the first appeal, our colleagues in division eight held, inter alia, that interviews demonstrated that his admissions during his interviews were voluntary because the detectives made no improper threats or promises, both of the interviews were relatively brief, there were breaks during the longer first interview, and [jones] was asked if he needed water or the bathroom. (jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at p.* 9].) the jones i court further held s statements t to hear what [he was] did not amount to an unambiguous invocation of his right to remain silent. (ibid.) as previously noted, the ninth circuit regarding the miranda rights, but did not address whether his statements were voluntary. accordingly, it ordered the 11 to preserve it for any potential future we are not bound by this concession because the preclusive effect of the prior court of appeal decision is an issue of law. (west coast air conditioning co., inc. v. department of corrections & rehabilitation (2018) 21 cal.app.5th 453, 467, fn. 8.) 15 district court to issue a writ directing the state to harrington, supra, 829 f.3d at p. 1142.) (lucido v. superior court (1990) 51 cal.3d 335, 341.) the following elements must be first, the issue sought to be precluded from relitigation must be identical to that decided in a former proceeding. second, this issue must have been actually litigated in the former proceeding. third, it must have been necessarily decided in the former proceeding. fourth, the decision in the former proceeding must be final and on the merits. finally, the party against whom preclusion is sought must be the same as, or in privity with, the party to the former proceeding. (ibid.) on collateral estoppel fails as to the element of a final judgment on the merits. a judgment that has been reversed or vacated is typically not final for purposes of collateral estoppel. (see regents of university of california v. public employment relations bd. (1990) 220 cal.app.3d 346, 356357 res judicata and collateral estoppel] concern the binding effect of a final judgment [citation.] . . . vacate the judgmas if it had never been tried, and as if no judgment had ever been [citation]].) decision s first trial. (see grain dealers mutual ins. co. v. marino (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 1083, 10851086, 10881089 [holding that there was no final 16 decision for the purposes of collateral estoppel because the ninth circuit affirmed an order granting habeas corpus relief, thereby , nonetheless, is somehow yet, respondent has failed to provide us with any support for that assumption, even though the respondent bears the burden of establishing each element of collateral estoppel. (ayala v. dawson (2017) 13 cal.app.5th 1319, 1326.) accordingly, we take statements during his interviews were voluntary. b. during the august 16, 2003 interview, detectives coerced jones to admit that he was the driver itutions bar the prosecution from (people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1176.) general, a confession is considered -i.e., if he freely and voluntarily chooses to (people v. perez (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 863, 871 (perez), quoting people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 985 (tully).) is involuntary [citation] when, among other circumstances, it . . . , [or] obtained by any direct or implied promises, however slight . . . (people v. neal (2003) 31 cal.4th 63, 79 (neal), quoting hutto v. ross (1976) 429 u.s. 28, 30, italics added.) a promise of leniency is coercive where a person in authority makes an express or clearly implied promise of leniency or advantage for the accused which is 17 a motivating cause of the decision to confess. (see perez, at p. 871, quoting tully, at p. 985.) independent standard of review determine the voluntariness of a statement, which requires us to consider the totality of the circumstances, including the characteristics of the accused and the conditions of the interrogation. (see people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1078, quoting neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 80.) in jones i, division eight acknowledged that detectives s] car had been identified and the nonetheless found detectives made no improper threats or promises that could render statements involuntary. (see jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at p. *9].) we respectfully disagree that the statements were voluntary. the instant matter is analogous to neal. there, a detective off closer to timbuktu than to home if he did not cooperate. [the detective] also promised defendant, if he did cooperate, to make it see neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at pp. 8485, fn. omitted.) additionally, the detective said that if try and cooperate the system [was] going to stick it as hard as they can. id. at p. 73.) our supreme coursee id. at p. 84.) indeed, neal traditionally have been recognized (ibid.) 18 similarly here, the detectives described the purported s refusal to cooperate using several metaphorsright up taking a long train ride. they further implied that jones could avoid a lengthy prison sentencewhich they euphemistically if jones part-by shooting by simply driving the vehicle involved in the shooting. unsurprisingly, soon after detectives gave him the choice jones admitted to driving the vehicle, but claimed that an armed man had forced him to do so. this sequence of events confirms that the constituted s inculpatory admission. (cf. perez, supra, 243 cal.app.4th at p. 876 [finding that a promise of a confession because the ].) in addressing s prior appeal, the court of appeal reasoned that neal was distinguishable because of the following circumstances: -year-old who had finished high school,jones was employed at the time of his interview, he had taken breaks during this first interview, and (jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at pp. *89].) the court further contrasted circumstances with those in neal: the defendanbeing held in custody (id. at p. *9.) 19 although we acknowledge these distinctions and that a interview are relevant factors, they are not dispositive. threats and promises of leniency will render a confession involuntary even when the defendant is well educated, rested, and (see perez, supra, 243 cal.app.4th at p. 878.) although the physical s interrogation were not as harsh as those endured by the defendant in neal, they nonetheless compromised the voluntariness of his statements. the detectives interviewed jones during the early morning hours after he had been apprehended by police. (see also miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at p. -custody interrogation of persons suspected or accused of crime contains inherently compelling pressures which work to undermine the speak where he ) adding to the coercive environment, at certain junctures of the interview, the detectives suggested that it could last for . for instance, t further, in jones i, the court cited people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96 (holloway), to support its conclusion that the truth . . . were not accompanied by threats or see jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at p. *9], citing holloway, at p. 115.) holloway is distinguishable from the instant case. there, a detective mentioned in passing to the defendant that he was 20 , the detective obliquely alluded to avoiding the death penalty if defendant had accidentally committed the killings at issue or from an uncontrollable fit of rage during a drunken blackout. (see holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 112117.) in contrast, here, throughout august 16, 2003 interview, the detectives insinuated that jones could avert a substantial prison term only if he told them he drove the vehicle but was unaware of in sum, the totality of the circumstances establishes that s will was overborne interview that he was the driver in the shootings was not voluntary.12 (people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 740.) c. the admission made at the october 19, 2003 interview was the tainted product of the august 16, 2003 interview although s august 16, 2003 admission that he drove the vehicle was not admitted into evidence at his second retrial, the jury did hear a substantially similar version of that admission when a partially redacted audio recording and the 12 the jones i the detectives to utilize the ruse that the car had been identified see jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at p. *9], citing people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 505 (smith).) although the detectives in smith utilized a ruse to procure a confession, they did not claim that the defendant would avoid a lengthy prison term if he cooperated with them. (see smith, at pp. 505506 [noting that the detectives falsely claimed that a gunshot residue test showed that the defendant had recently fired a gun].) 21 transcript of the october 19, 2003 interview were admitted at the second retrial. jones argues that his admission during the october 19, 2003 interview was the direct product of the coerced statements in his august 16, 2003 interview. accordingly, he contends that during his october 19, 2003 interview. acknowledged that whereas a result of improper police conductan accused confesses, and subsequently makes another confession, it may be presumed the subsequent confession is the product of the first because of the psychological or practical disadvantages of having let the cat out of the bag by confessing. people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 359 (mcwhorter).) the prosecution may rebut this presumption by (ibid.) es at least an intervening independent act by the defendant or a third confession is not in fact obtained by exploitation of the illegality. id. at p. 360.) respondent contends admission from the october 19, 2003 interview was admissible because: (1) two month break in custody was amply sufficient to dissipate any and afforded jones an opportunity to consult with counsel; (2) the detectives mirandized jones before he admitted to being the driver; (3) the october interview field; and (4) he believed that a videotape existed showing his . . . ford escort concededly, the fact that the 22 detectives read jones his miranda rights does weigh against a finding that the second admission was involuntary, as does the two-month gap between the two interviews. (see mcwhorter, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 360 [noting that such factors are relevant to the analysis].) respondent, however, has not established a break in the causative chain between the first and second interviews. at the october interview, detective jolivette s claim that he was not present at the scene of the shooting. instead of employing the ruse from the first interview, detective jolivette reminded jones that he had already admitted to being the driver and claimed that jolivette had this admission jones confirmed that he drove the shooter only after detective jolivette reminded him of his prior inculpatory statements. thus, the record reveals that jones incriminated himself because of the psychological [or] practical disadvantages having confessed during the prior interview, and not because of an intervening independent act by the defendant or a third party. (see mcwhorter, 47 cal.4th at pp. 359360.) for all these reasons, the trial court erred in admitting portions of the october 2003 interview in which jones conceded that he was present at, and the driver in, the shooting. d. the erroneous admission of the october 19, 2003 interview was not harmless the harmless error test announced in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 (chapman)to error under the united states constitution, including, specifically, the erroneous admission of involunt (neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 86.) -a-reasonable- 23 doubt standard of chapman [federal] constitutional error to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the error complained of did not contribute to the verdict (ibid., quoting chapman, at p. 24.) to say that an error did not contribute to the ensuing verdict is . . . to find that error unimportant in relation to everything else the jury considered on the issue in (neal, at p. 86, quoting yates v. evatt (1991) 500 u.s. 391, 403 (yates).) [t]he improper admission of a confession is much more likely to affect the outcome of a trial than are other categories of evidence ecause it often persuasive shatter[ ] the defense. (see neal, at p. 86, quoting people v. cahill (1993) 5 cal.4th 478, 503 (cahill), italics added.) the erroneous admission of a neal, at p. 86, quoting cahill, at p. 503.) the erroneous admission of a confession may be deemed harmless in certain limited (1) when the defendant was apprehended by the police in the course of committing the crime, (2) when there are numerous, disinterested reliable eyewitnesses to the crime whose testimony is confirmed by a wealth of uncontroverted physical evidence, or (3) in a case in which the prosecution introduced, in addition to the confession, a videotape of the commission of the crime . . . (see neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 86, quoting cahill, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 503.) s admission to being the driver of the shooter evidence against him. at bottom, respondent argues that the following establishes s involvement in the shooting: (1) the 24 circumstances of the offenses indicated that they were committed by members of the rollin s neighborhood crips (e.g., the driver flashed gang symbols to the victims, the shooter shouted a gang epithet); (2) the people offered evidence showing that jones was an active rollin th members committed crimes for the gang; (3) witnesses james f. and henrico h. described the driver as a light-skinned african-american man, and an officer investigating this matter testified that jones matched that description; (4) jones told detectives he owned a black two-door ford escort that only he drove; and (5) james f. testified a black two-door ford escort was involved in the shooting and henrico h. similarly testified a black vehicle was involved. we fail to discern how this evidence is overwhelming, or how it would dispel prejudice under the chapman standard. as the jones i court itself recognized, to the crimes largely through the admissions he made to (jones i, supra, b197793 [2008 wl 4060941, at p. *6].) respondent also contends james f. and henrico h. s apparently, james f. and henrico h. were identifying a car exhibit 12. this exhibit is not in the record. further, twhich respondent relies do not support the proposition that . in the first excerpt, james f. testified he positively identified one or more of e in the second excerpt, detective jolivette testified that henrico h. and james f. 25 identified one or more exhibit 12 as the vehicle, and that the photographs therein were taken shortly after august 15. exhibit s vehicle, that would constitute only circumstantial evidence that he was the driver. further, the jury could have afforded little weight to henrico h.identification of the vehicle, because henrico h. was unsure whether the vehicle was a four-door or a two-door vehicle and whether it had any dents on it. s and henrico h.s vehicle would not dispel under chapman the prejudice created by the erroneous admission of see neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 86, whether the error might in addition, the fact that the jury from s first retrial deadlocked 6-to-6 on all charges also suggests that the admission of s inculpatory statements was not harmless. (see people v. diaz (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 362, 385 [finding that the was prejudicial in part because the first trial resulted in a hung jury].) this conclusion is further reinforced by argument at trial defendant jones and his car at the intersection of florence [and] western when doug watson was murdered is the defendant the people repeatedly relied upon s admission in their closing and rebuttal arguments. (see also neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 87, quoting cahill, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 505 [finding 26 harmless . . . for all these reasons, we cannot conclude that the erroneous admission of s inculpatory coerced statements unimportant in relation to everything else the jury considered on the issue in question . . . . neal, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 86, quoting yates, supra, 500 u.s. at p. 403, italics added.) disposition the judgment is reversed. the people may retry jones within the time limit set forth in penal code section 1382. not to be published. bendix, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 