 filed 3/5/19 p. v. palmer ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. okang palmer, defendant and appellant. b286794 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na101746) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jesus i. rodriguez, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and colleen m. tiedemann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction appellant okang palmer was charged with multiple counts arising from his alleged enticement of alyssia c.1 to move to los angeles to work for him as a prostitute; she did so, living with him for a year and giving him all of the money she made. then, over the course of several days in february 2015, he beat her severely, resulting in hospitalization and lasting injuries. appellant was convicted by jury of assault with a deadly weapon, criminal threats, human trafficking, and pandering. appellant raises several challenges on appeal. first, he contends the trial court erred in denying his motion to discharge his retained counsel mid-trial. second, he challenges the esponse to a hypothetical mirroring the facts of the case. third, he argues committed great bodily injury against alyssia during the commission of the acts underlying the human trafficking and pandering counts. we find no error and affirm. factual and procedural history a. procedural background an information charged appellant with the following counts: assault with a deadly weapon, a belt buckle (pen. code  245, subd. (a)(1); count one);2 assault with a deadly weapon, an e-cigarette device ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count two); criminal threats 1pursuant to california rules of court, rule 8.90 (b)(4), we refer to alyssia by first name to protect her privacy. no disrespect is intended. 2all further statutory references herein are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 ( 422, subd.(a); count three); kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a); count four); human trafficking to commit another crime ( 236.1, subd. (b); count five); and pandering by encouraging ( 266i, subd. (a)(2); count six). the information alleged that appellant committed counts one through four on or between february 18 and 19, 2015, and counts five and six on or between december 1, 2014 and february 19, 2015. the information further alleged as to all counts that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim, alyssia, under circumstances involving domestic violence ( 12022.7, subd. (e)). trial commenced in october 2017. at the conclusion of trial, the jury found defendant guilty of counts one, three, five, and six, and found the great bodily injury allegation true as to each of these counts. the jury deadlocked on counts two and four, and the court declared a mistrial as to those counts. the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of 25 years in state prison, as follows: the upper term of 20 years on count five, plus five years for the great bodily injury enhancement; concurrent sentences on counts one and three; and a stayed sentence on count six pursuant to section 654. appellant timely appealed. b. prosecution case 1. alyssia alyssia testified that she was nineteen years old when she met appellant in february 2014. she met appellant online through redbook, an on-line prostitution service. she was working as a prostitute in oakland at the time. she told appellant she was a prostitute, and communicated with him by text and phone for about three weeks. appellant told her that if are of . . . a safe 4 family that i never had. basically telling me everything that i alyssia decided to go to los angeles because would be working for appellant and also expected to have a personal relationship with him. around the end of february 2014, she took a train from oakland to los angeles. appellant met her when she arrived. after picking her up, appellant took her to buy clothes, he paid for the clothing. city. prices were determined by appellant. appellant also took photos of alyssia in the lingerie, to post online as ads for sexual services. while he was taking the photos, appellant directed her to show the iately posted on-went over the rules for alyssia to follow while working. alyssia she did not leave because she was intimidated, did not know anyone else in los angeles, and had no resources. that same night, appellant showed alyssia a location near customers. she began to work the track that night or the following day. she gave all of the money she made to appellant. she was also living with appellant. she worked several tracks off and on the entire time she was with appellant, about a year. at times, when business at the track was slow, she would also work in strip clubs in los angeles and sacramento. sometimes she 5 also worked in a hotel, where customers would come to her room. during this period, she was using her middle name, nikki. if alyssia expressed a desire not to work or told appellant rk more or i would appellant paid for her food, personal items, and other needs. alyssia also had a she testified that appellant told her to get the tattoo after alyssia moved to los angeles, one of her prior customers bought her a car. appellant drove her to san jose to get it and she drove it back to los angeles. at some point, alyssia went to hawaii for about a month to work. appellant paid for everything. after she returned to harbor city, around february 2015, she was not making as much money as she had before and her relationship with appellant appellant began hitting alyssia regularly because she was not making enough money. one night in february 2015, alyssia worked at a strip club until about 1:00 a.m., smoked marijuana, and then fell asleep in when he told alyssia to go into the house, into the bedroom they shared. -year-old daughter, e., was sitting in the living room at the time. alyssia went to the bedroom, where appellant accused her of betraying him and began to attack and beat her. he beat her with his fists and a belt until she lost consciousness. he also hit her in the forehead multiple times with the metal buckle of the belt, breaking the buckle and splitting open her forehead. he 6 appellant also beat and burned her with a vapor pen. she had two black eyes and a broken nose, from appellant punching her after she lost consciousness, alyssia recalled being dragged to a car. she woke up in the car, in the front passenger seat, with appellant driving and e. in the back seat. appellant continued beating her with his fist and the vapor pen. at some point, they arrived at an unfamiliar house in stockton, in northern california; appellant and his cousin moved her from the car to a back house. there, appellant broke a vase over her head and stomped on her repeatedly. she blacked out again, but this to me. he also told alyssia he was taking her to the hospital and then carried her to the car. he said there would be people waiting for her when she was released from the hospital. appellant drove her to a nearby hospital in stanislaus county and then left. alyssia told the doctors that she had been she repeated the same story when questioned by police officers at the hospital. she testified that she did not tell the truth at the hospital because she did not feel safe and knew wh s in the hospital. 7 when she was released from the hospital a day or so later, appellant and a female family member picked her up. they drove to a hotel. alyssia testified that she was on medication and lted her and beat her again. alyssia was not sure how long she was there, but said that appellant became angry and dragged her into the kitchen, where he pulled out a kitchen knife and threatened to kill her and then himself if she did not give him the car keys (which she did not have). she opportunity to run out of the house. she ran down the street screaming for help. a car stopped for her and the couple took her to the police station. the station was closed and she did not have a phone, but the couple let her use their phone to call 911. in the 911 call, which the prosecutor played at trial, alyssia referred to appellant as her ex-boyfriend. she told the 911 one of the witnesses also ning the prosecution showed the jury numerous photos of and body, stitches on her nose, and bruises over much of her body. her right hand was also broken; she testified that occurred when she tried to defend herself from appellant in the car. 2. investigating officers deputy andrew glover with the stanislaus county call on february 21, 2015, around 8:15 p.m. he met alyssia 8 outside the closed police substation and immediately noticed she alyssia told him about the incidents with appellant, starting in harbor city (in southern california) a few days prior. she referred to appellant as her ex-boyfriend and pimp. alyssia admitted to glover that she lied to police officers at the hospital about being assaulted by other girls. glover photographed her injuries, contacted the los angeles police department (lapd), and transported her to a medical center. lapd officer andrew gonzalez testified as the investigating officer. he spoke with alyssia by phone on february 23 and 24, 2015, while she was staying at a shelter in northern california. gonzalez and his partner, officer kimberly felix, met with alyssia at the shelter on february 25, 2015. gonzalez testified that alyssia was limping and appeared to be in pain. he also described the extensive injuries to her face and body, including black eyes, burn marks, bruising, and stitches on her nose, and her right arm in a cast. they drove alyssia back to los angeles. gonzalez and felix executed search warrants and retrieved numerous photos from appellantphotos of appellant and alyssia), as well as ads from prostitution websites. gonzalez testified that, in his opinion, those photos as a prostitute. lapd officers located and arrested appellant on may 7, 2015. 3. e. the prosecutor also played a recorded interview of e., conducted in may 2015. during the interview, e. discussed her 9 3 e. stated sice. also discussed an incident in the apartment where she heard a sound, then mickey e. e. also described riding in the car, wmickey. mickey is telling lies because mickey was having sex with the wrong mans. so she just keep get punched, get punched get punched, get punched, and hurt, and hurt . . . every single e. also testified at trial; she was seven years old at the time. she confirmed that there had been a woman named nikki living with her and her father, but denied ever seeing nikki with any cuts or injuries. she testified that she did not remember any of the things she had discussed in her 2015 interview. 4. prosecution expert officer felix, who worked in the lapd human trafficking detailed the typical grooming and recruitment process pimps use with prostitutes, followed by the introduction of prostitution and violence once a pimp has isolated the target. she discussed the pimp requirement that the prostitute person belongs to the prosecutor 3at trial, e. 10 also posed a lengthy hypothetical, based on the facts of the case, encompassing initial contact by the man on a prostitution website, the promises made to the woman, her relocation, their relationship and her work as a prostitute, escalating violence, a trip to the hospital, and ending with the woman fleeing. she painted picture she also discussed particular details from the hypothetical that supported her opinion. felix also identified a hand gesture made by used by pimps to identify other pimps. c. defense case defense. his cousin, demarco ham, testified that he knew family outings. on february 17 or 18, 2015, ham received a call from the stockton police, who were with alyssia in the hospital. the police gave the phone to alyssia to speak with him. ham testified that alyssia told him she was in the hospital and had been jumped at a strip club. she was trying to reach appellant and needed someone to pick her up. ham also testified that he spoke to alyssia one other time, about two or three weeks later. he did not testify about the content of this second conversation. during cross-examination, ham claimed that he told defense counsel about his 2015 conversation with alyssia from the hospital sometime in either 2015 or 2016.4 4as discussed further postconcluded, the parties stipulated that ham first told defense 11 another cousin, eva magnum, testified that in february 2015, appellant called and asked her to pick alyssia up from the hospital, until he could get a ride from los angeles. she knew magnum picked alyssia up and planned . however, once she saw alyssia around her young chil magnum testified she took alyssia to fill her prescriptions, then rented her a room at a nearby motel, and left alyssia there. magnum testified that she first reported this information to -wilson, also testified that she knew alyssia phillips-alyssia came to the house and looked like she had been beaten alyssia stayed in phillips-house for a day or two. phillips-wilson claimed she did not know exactly when or how alyssia left her home. she testified that she first told defense counsel about her interaction with alyssia in october 2017; that was the first time she wa discussion a. appellant contends the trial court erred in denying his request to discharge his counsel during trial. we conclude the counsel about this 2015 conversation with alyssia in october 2017. 12 not an abuse of discretion, given the timing of the request and the circumstances of the case. 1. background a. pre-trial disclosure of defense witnesses just before jury selection, the prosecutor moved to exclude three defense witnessesham, magnum, and phillips-wilson. she objected that because defense counsel had only disclosed the witnesses the afternoon before, the disclosure was untimely. he yesterday over the lunch hour and realized that they had some the court responded that it was hard to believe that defense counsel, who had been working on the case for over two years, just discovered the names of these witnesses, all of whom given him the witness contact information earlier, but nisson had not written any notes regarding their relevance, nor did he contact them until appellant mentioned it again. nisson untimely or too late--i mean, obviously, i am falling on ineffective assi the court indicated it felt this tactic, noting that ultimately, the court ruled that all three witnesses would be allowed to testify. 13 b. ham was the first of the three defense witnesses to testify. during his cross-examination, the prosecutor asked him why he did not tell anyone in 2015 that he had spoken with alyssia while she was in the hospital. upon further questioning by the court, ham stated that he told nisson around the time nisson was hired in 2015 of the statements. . . . the prosecutor requested a sidebar, which the court granted. she explained the issue to the courteither the witness was lying about telling nisson in 2015 that he had spoken with alyssia, or nisson had misrepresented the fact that he did not speak to ham until right before trial. further, the prosecutor said she could not prove ham was lying without calling nisson as a witness. nisson continued to insist that he learned the in october 2017. nisson clarified that he had spoken with ham court that i never spoke to [him]that he had this call from the hospital [with alyssia] until the court stated nisson reiterated that he did not recall having any discussion about the hospital call before, and said, nisson also noted that ham might have mentioned this 14 remembered it because he did not take notes. testimony. the court reasoned that the testimony was witnesses had said, and that because nisson could not be called should be stricken. the court also nisson responded that he did not think ham was lying, but insisted that he did not recall a prior conversation on this topic. the court excused ham and the jury and held an evidence code section 402 hearing, questioning the other two defense witnesses regarding when they made statements to nisson. both magnum and phillips-wilson stated that they first spoke with nisson in 2017, just before trial began. the court then asked counsel, [h]ow do we remedy [this issue] short of striking the entire testimony oprosecutor stated her preference for a stipulation to the fact that ham first mentioned the hospital call in october 2017; nisson agreed. the court notedbut ultimately accepted the stipulation. after both parties indicated they would not question ham further, he was excused as a witness. the next court day, the court read the following stipulation to the jury: [mr.] demarco ham informed defense that he had a conversation with alyssia c. while she was in the hospital was on october the 2nd, 2017. and the first time demarco ham ever mentioned that he had a conversation with alyssia c., two[-]three weeks after he spoke to her on the phone 15 in the hospital was when [he] took the stand and testified on c. immediately after the court read the stipulation, appellant asked to tell the jury something. the court sent the jurors out of the courtroom and admonished appellant that he could not speak to the jury without testifying. appellant then requested a marsden 5 and confirmed he wanted to fire nisson. the court excused the prosecutor and asked appellant whether he wanted to relieve his attorney. appellant responded during the evidence code section 402 hearing, and that he had esearch or any investigation . . . every time i call the court further inquyour client to the best of your ability? . . . forcefully within the the court d. resumption of trial felix, and then magnum and phillips-wilson for the defense. in his closing argument, nisson discussed the stipulation, noting the discrepancy between the dates and that the prosecutor might argue that the jury should not believe ham. he argued that the 5people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 16 told ham, rather than the date of disclosure. 2. legal standards counsel of his choice. (people v. stevens (1984) 156 cal.app.3d 1119, 1127 (stevens).) his or her interest in discharging a retained attorney is included within the right to (ibid.) generally, where a defendant has retained counsel of his or her choice, the attorney may be discharged at any time with or without cause. (people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983 (ortiz).) orney is himself in whatever manner he deems best, using any legitimate means within his resourcesand . . . that desire can constitutionally be forced to yield only when it will result in significant prejudice to the defendant himself or in a disruption of the orderly processes of justice unreasonable under the (stevens, supra, 156 cal.app.3d at p. 1127, quoting people v. gzikowski (1982) 32 cal.3d 580, 586587.) thus, a court faced with a request to substitute retained counsel must balance the obtaining new counsel against the disruption, if any, flowing from the substitution. (people v. turner (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 913, 918919.) a request to substitute retained counsel does not require the court to conduct a hearing under marsden. as our supreme indigent criminal 17 defendant who is seeking to substitute one appointed attorney for another to demonstrate either that the first appointed attorney is providing inadequate representation [citations], or that he and the attorney are embroiled in irreconcilable conflict [citation], we have never required a nonindigent criminal defendant to make such a showing in order to discharge his retained (ortiz, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 984.) retained counsel for an abuse of discretion. (ortiz, supra, 51 automatic when a defendant has been deprived of his right to (id. at p. 988.) 3. analysis appellant first argues that the trial court erred in treating his motion to discharge his retained counsel as a marsden motion, applicable to appointed counsel. we find nothing in the record suggesting that the court applied the incorrect standard. although appellant referenced marsden in seeking to discharge his counsel, his attorney noted that he was retained. the trial court did not indicate it was proceeding under marsden, instead asking appellant whether he wanted to fire his lawyer. similarly, the court did not make any findings under marsden representation, or whether appellant was embroiled in an irreconcilable conflict with defense counsel. (marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at pp. 124under marsden. (see people v. stewart (1985) 171 cal.app.3d 388, 398, disapproved on other grounds by people v. smith (1993) 18 6 cal.4th 684, 694.) as such, we decline to find that the trial court improperly held appellant to the marsden standard in ruling on his motion to discharge his counsel. (compare people v. lara (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 139, 148 [finding error where court marsdenortiz, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 980 [error where court denied appellant further contends that, even under the correct standard, the court failed to appropriately weigh the relevant factors, particularly the conflict that had developed as a result of he suggests that by entering into the er that of his without such a conflict should have outweighed any disruption. was not at fault, as he moved to discharge his counsel as soon as the stipulation was read. we are not persuaded that the court abused its discretion in weighing the appropriate considerations and denying untimely, as it was made in the middle of trialthe parties had already examined multiple witnesses, with only three remaining, could not be granted without causing a significant disruption, i.e., a continuance with the attendant further inconvenience to witnesses and other participants. the question then became whether such a disruption was reasonable under the (people v. turner, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at p. 919; see also people v. lau (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 473, 478479 [no 19 error in denial where defendant made request at start of jury the court did not err in implicitly holding that such a disruption was unwarranted. of the conflict created by the stipulation. although the the date he told defense counsel about the conversation he had with alyssiastatements regarding his interaction with alyssia. moreover, alyssia told multiple people at the time of her hospitalization that she had been jumped by girls at a club, as indicated in the testimony of the other two defense witnesses, the testifying officers, and alyssia herself. appellant suggests that although magnum and phillips-wilson were not included in the stipulation, they were ed why they had not disclosed information to defense counsel earlier. but both witnesses testified that they had not been contacted prior to 2017. thus, the court did not abuse its and fect on his credibility, if any, did not outweigh the disruption inherent in discharging counsel mid-trial. further, although nisson insisted repeatedly that he was not lying and had made his representations to the court and to the prosecutor in good faith, he also acknowledged that ham might have told him about the conversation earlier than 2017 and he simply did not recall it. faced with the choice of entering 20 stricken, his decision to proceed with the former under the circumstances did not create a conflict outweighing all other considerations. discharge his counsel was therefore not an abuse of discretion. b. etical question appellant argues that the court erred by allowing the prosecutor to use an improper hypothetical question to elicit expert testimony from felix. specifically, he contends that the t of we find no error. admitting or excluding evidence is reviewable for abuse [citation] and will not be disturbed except on a showing the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 534.) hypothetical question at trial forfeits his claim. (see people v. stevens admission of expert testimony or hearsay at trial forfeits an appellant counters that an objection would have been futile because such hypothetical questions based on the facts of the case however, to the extent he contends this particular hypothetical was improper, he has made no showing of futility. moreover, even if we considered the substance of 21 trial court. as appellant recognizes, [g]enerally, an expert may render opinion testimony on the basis of facts given in a hypothetical question that asks the expert to assume their (people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 946.) likewise, an expert may express opinions based on hypothetical questions that track the evidence in the case. (people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048 (vang).) by contrast, an expert may not opine directly on a (vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1048.) because guilt is the ultimate issue of fact for the jury, as opinion testimony often goes to the ultimate issue. [citations.] innocence are inadmissible because they are of no assistance to the trier of fact. to put it another way, the trier of fact is as competent as the witness to weigh the evidence and draw a conc (ibid.) thus, for example, courts have concluded that expert testimony is inadmissible to what type of pimp mr. x (people v. leonard (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 465, 492behavior in pimping in manipulation and control of women in the id. at p. 492), and as to whether (people v. spence (2012) 212 cal.app.4th 478, 488, 508509). here, appellant has not demonstrator as to whether appellant committed any of the conduct alleged. instead, she was asked to assume the truth of a series of facts 22 and then to offer an opinion whether that fact pattern was consistent with human trafficking. that was permissible expert testimony. inapposite. those cases deal with the specific exclusion of expert testimony using evidence of child sexual abuse accommodation predictor where a child meets certain criteria, we can predict with a (people v. bowker (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 385, 393; see also people v. gilbert (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 1372, 1383; people v. roscoe opinion as to credibility on his diagnosis of this nothing of the type occurred in this case. c. great bodily injury enhancement appellant challenges the great bodily injury enhancements on counts five (human trafficking) and six (pandering), arguing there was insufficient evidence to allow the jury to find that the 6 we disagree. we review claims challenging the sufficiency of the evidence to uphold a judgment under the substantial evidence the entire record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational trier of fact could find [the elements 6the jury found the great bodily injury allegation true as to all four counts on which it convicted appellant; however, appellant challenges this finding only as to the counts for human trafficking (count five) and pandering (count six). 23 people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 553, quoting people v. kipp (2001) 26 the circumstances might also be reasonably reconciled with a contrary finding does not (people v. bean (1988) 46 cal.3d 919, 933, quoting people v. hillery (1965) 62 cal.2d 692, 702.) section 12022.7, subdivision (e) imposes a sentencing injury under circumstances involving domestic violence in the commission of human trafficking under section 236.1, subdivision (b) of another with the intent enumerated criminal statutes, including those for pimping and through force, fear, fraud, deceit, coercion, violence, duress, menace, or threat of unlawful injury to the victim . . . , under circumstances where the person receiving or apprehending the threat reasonably believes that it is likely that the person makin ( 236.1, subd. (h)(3).) pandering under section 266i occurs when a scheme, causes, induces, persuades, or encourages another pandering is a continuous, ongoing offense. (see people v. leonard (2014) 228 cal.app.4th encouraged to become a prostitute (citation), and it continues as 24 long as the intended prostitutiopeople v. diedrich (1982) 31 cal.3d 263, 282.) appellant contends there was insufficient evidence that the injuries he inflicted on alyssia between february 18 and 19, 2015 pandering, as required for an enhancement under section 12022.7. in general, courts have broadly construed the phrase under section 12022.7 and similar statutes. for example, in people v. jones (2001) 25 cal.4th 98, 108 (jones), our supreme of the rape to support a weapon enhancement under sections 12022.3, subdivision (a), and 667.61, subdivision (e)(4). the court concluded that the enhancement could apply even if the weapon was used after the sex act was technically completed. (id. at p. 109.) as the court explained, whether the defendant used the knife in the commission of relationship between the [sex offenses] and the [use of the (ibidwhether the relationship between the [sex offenses] and [the use of the weapon] was sufficiently close to justify an enhanced the technical completion of the felonious . . . (id. at pp. 109-110.) similarly, in people v. elder (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 411, 423, the court applied the reasoning from jones to uphold a great bodily injury enhancement under section 12022.7, where the 25 victim broke his finger during a struggle to escape from defendant following an assault. here, the jury convicted appellant of human trafficking and pandering between december 1, 2014 and february 19, 2015. during that time period, alyssia testified that appellant would beat her if she complained about her working conditions. she also stated that the situation worsened in february 2015, culminating in the extensive injuries she sustained between february 18 and 19, 2015, after appellant accused her of cheating on him and talofficer felix, testified that pimps often use violence to punish a prostitute for breaking the rules or talking to another pimp and to establish control over a prostitute. thus, there was sufficient evidence alyssia, resulting in her severe injuries, facilitated his ability to control her, isolate her, and keep her working as a prostitute for him. as such, the jury could reasonably find that appellant committed great bodily injury in the commission of the human trafficking and pandering offenses. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. dunning, j. * *retired judge of the orange county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 