filed 6/19/19 p. v. robinson ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edward g. robinson, defendant and appellant. b286810 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba452022) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed in part and remanded in part with directions. jeralyn b. keller, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and pamela c. hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendant edward robinson guilty of forcible oral copulation and false imprisonment of his former girlfriend, ursula r., and further found that he used a knife in the commission of those acts. defendant raises multiple issues on preliminary hearing testimony based on a finding that ursula was unavailable as a witness pursuant to evidence code section 1291 after she refused to testify at trial. second, he argues that the court improperly admitted testimonial hearsay statements made by ursula during a 911 call and a sexual assault examination. third, defendant contends that the court should have stayed his sentence for false imprisonment pursuant to penal code section 654.1 fourth, he seeks a limited remand to allow the trial court to make two determinations: whether to exercise its discretion to strike the five-year prior serious felony conviction enhancement, and his ability to pay the fines and fees imposed at his sentencing. that remand is appropriate to allow the trial court to exercise its independent discretion whether to strike the prior serious felony conviction enhancement. conversely, defendant has forfeited any challenge to the imposition of fines and fees at his sentencing, and therefore we decline to remand on that additional basis. procedural history the los angeles county district attorney filed a six-count information against defendant, alleging three counts of forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)(a), counts one through three), one count of sexual penetration by a foreign object ( 289, subd. 1all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 (a)(1)(a), count four), one count of false imprisonment by violence ( 236, count five), and one count of dissuading a witness ( 136.1, subd. (b)(2), count six).2 the information also alleged as to counts one through four that defendant engaged in tying or binding the victim in the commission of the offenses ( 667.61, subds. (a), (e)(5)) and as to counts one through five that he personally used a knife ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). the information further alleged that defendant suffered a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a) (667(a)), a prior strike conviction ( 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(i)), and served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the jury found defendant guilty of one count of forcible oral copulation (count three) and false imprisonment (count five). on count three, the jury found not true the tying or binding allegation; on both counts, the jury found true the special allegation that defendant personally used a knife. the jury found defendant not guilty of the remaining counts (counts one, two, and four). defendant waived his right to a jury for the bifurcated trial of the strike prior allegations; following a bench trial, the court found those allegations true. the court sentenced defendant to 15 years to life on count three, doubled to 30 plus an additional five years for the serious prior felony conviction pursuant to section 667(a), for a total of 35 years to life. on count five, the court imposed the upper term of three years, doubled to siadditional one year for the personal use of a knife pursuant to 2 4 section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), for a total of seven years on that count. the court ordered the sentence on count five to run concurrently to the sentence on count three. defendant timely appealed. factual background i. prosecution evidence a. ursula as discussed further below, ursula did not testify at trial. preliminary hearing was read to the jury. ursula testified at the preliminary hearing that she had known defendant for about three years. they had a dating relationship that she described as they stopped dating in approximately november 2015; afterward, they would occasionally exchange texts or see each other. on the afternoon of november 15, 2016, she drove to meet that day, defendant offered her $200 and she went to meet him to get the money. she believed he was trying to win her back by offering to give her money. garage. when ursula arrived, she parked in his driveway. defendant met her outside and led her toward the garage. the garage had a roll-up door that appeared to be broken and was not fully closed. ursula told defendant she could only stay for a minute, because she had to pick up her daughter from school. they went into the garage, and defendant put a table and large dumbbell weights in front of the garage door; these items held the door closed and blocked the exit. 5 once they were inside the garage, ursula asked defendant if he was going to give her the money. they started tinued to struggle and ursula noted there it folded closed as she tried to use it. she testified that defendant already knows my weaknesses. once he gets me down, there is ursula continued to try to get up, but defendant put his somebody to come get them because you are not going to get your defendant then flipped her from her side onto her stomach and began to tie her hands behind her back with string. as ursula continued to try to move, defendant used duct tape to further restrain her wrists and then her ankles. around and defendant had a big knife, which he used to cut her shirt off after she was tied up. she was still moving around and kicking, but stopped when she saw the knife. defendant held the after taping her wrists and ankles, defendant flipped ursula onto her back and lifted her shirt. he touched her breasts under her clothing. he also pulled down her pants and underwear to her ankles. he unzipped his pants and told her, 6 he was having a difficult time achieving an erection, so he continued to touch her breasts, vagina, and butt. he also put his mouth on her vagina. defendant then began roughly forcing his penis into her mouth. at this point she could not see the knife and thought he had put it down. ursula continued to plead with defendant to let her go to pick up her children, but defendant refused. remained quiet. he responded affirmatively to his mother and ursula thought this interaction would make defendant stop. when she told defendant that now his mother he then began forcing his penis in and out of her mouth faster and faster until he ejaculated into her mouth. defendant then told ursula that he wanted to have vaginal she defendant did not care that someone else knew she was in the garage. defendant untied her arms and she continued to ask him to let her go to get her children, promising she would return. ursula got dressed and started to leave. weight away from the door and managed to exit the garage. she ran up to his mother, 7 garage, so she ran to her car and drove away. she estimated that she was in the garage for about two hours. defendant texted her after ursula left the garage, she called 911. because she was driving when she made the call, the operator told her to call back.3 house. b. 911 call ursulher from her car after the incident, hysterical and crying. she told her mother what had happened and said she was going to call the police. foster was present when ursula called 911 after arriving hysterical and crying during the 911 call. the prosecution played a recording of the 911 call for the jury. in the call, ursula reported that she went to her ex-garage. he tied me up. he duct taped me. he sexually the operator asked if she needed a paramedic, and ursula my neck i got a busted lip. he did sexually assault me, so i do want them to take swabs out 3there is no recording or transcript of this first 911 call in the record. 8 ursula also told the throu c. investigation officer juan chavez of the los angeles police department (lapd) testified that he responded to the 911 call around 3:00 p.m. on november 15, 2016. he and his partner met with ursula, who was standing in the driveway of the residence; she appeared to have been crying and seemed nervous. she told them that she in her statement to the officers, ursula said she was dragged into the garage by defendant and that defendant punched her in the face. she also reported that defendant pressed a knife against her neck and that there were several knives on the ground, but when she tried to grab one, defendant kicked it away and punched her. ursula also told the officers that defendant played a pornographic movie during the assault. when his mother came to the door, defendant held a knife to scream. he stated he did not care that his mother was there, and that he would kill her too. a rape treatment center. ursula arrived at the center around 6:30 p.m. sexual assault response team (sart) nurse practitioner amarra mchale testified that she conducted a forensic examination of ursula. mchale recalled that when she . . . . she truly thought she was 9 ursula had visible injuries, including redness, swelling, and tenderness to the right side of her face and mouth. ursula reported that she was having pain in her mouth and her left shoulder, where defendant had put his knee on her. ursula also told mchale that defendant had forced his penis into her mouth and in between her breasts, cut off her shirt, attempted to penetrate her anus with his fingers, and forced his mouth on her genitals. she also said defendant had slapped her face, bound her wrists and ankles with tape and string, showed her two knives, and held one knife to her throat. mchale testified that her physical examination found injuries consistent of which appeared to be recent. wrists or ankles. well as her underwear and pants, as part of the evidence she sent to the lapd crime lab. the lapd conducted forensic analysis of dna swabs taken from ursula during her sexual assault examination. dna found profile. the swabs were all negative for semen and sperm. lapd detective dara brown testified to her search of november 23, 2016. she recovered two knife blades and an empty roll of tape from inside the garage. she also spoke with aw ursula on november 15, ursula looked like she was about to cry. d. 10 with her at the time of the incident, but he would come over and craig went out to the the driveway. she saw ursula leave the garage by crawling underneath the partially open garage door. craig testified that d her that she had been assaulted and held hostage by defendant. ii. defense evidence defendant did not present any evidence. discussion i. defendant contends that the trial court improperly found ursula unavailable for trial and thereafter admitted her preliminary hearing testimony. he argues that the prosecution presence at trial. he also argues that her preliminary hearing testimony was not reliable, because he did not have the opportunity to cross-examine her at that proceeding with the same interest and motive that he had at trial, and that its introduction violated his right to confrontation and prejudiced him. we conclude the court properly admitted the testimony. a. background ursula testified at the preliminary hearing on march 28, 2017. on the date set for trial, october 24, 2017, the prosecutor the following day, as jury selection was about to begin, defense counsel informed the court that he had been told that ursula had been subpoenaed but was refusing to come to court. the court set a due diligence hearing for the following morning. the prosecutor confirmed that if he lost the due 11 . . . meet the due diligence standard and unavailability, they have to actually arrest the witness and bring them to court and the not permit us to issue a body attachment, given the fact that he continued that if the witness the court held the due diligence hearing the following morning, october 26, 2017. the prosecution presented two witnesses. detective brown she sent ursula a text message telling her about the trial set to start in october. she received no response. on october 5, 2017, she left ursula a voicemail about the trial. she called ursula again on another day and left a message. she received no response to either message. next, brown went to was home so she left the subpoena and a business card on the gate. finally, brooctober 23, at 7:00 a.m. ursula came out around 7:30 a.m. to handed her a copy of the subpoena. brown testified that ursula spoken with the prosecutor and she was not coming to court. she ursula also told brown that she had gone to the police department in november 2016 to follow up on the case and 12 provide additional text messages and photos. the officers with whom she spoke told ursula that brown was on vacation. ursula ursula also said that after the defendant was in custody, she received some phone calls from the jail. she kept hanging up and she also said peocoming up to her and asking why she was proceeding with the ursula also told brown that she thought robinson needed counseling and not prison, and noted that she told the prosecutor the same thing on friday, october 18. lapd detective danette menifee testified that she and her 2017 (the day after the attempt by brown) to attempt to serve a subpoena. urs however, ursula agreed to sit in the police car to talk to the detectives. once in the car, ursula menifee told ursula that they needed to serve her the subpoena for jury trial. she replied that she was not going to court and that she would not sign the subpoena. ursula also said that she did not want to were gang members. detective menifee explained that this 13 could tell her anything else she immediately said, going to do it. ursula refused to take the subpoena when they tried to serve her. menifee testified that she did not mind. the court then heard argument on the due diligence issue. the prosecutor, citing people v. cogswell (2010) 48 cal.4th 467 and code of civil procedure section 1219,4 argued have been done that could be done to try to compel this the defense argued that section 1219 applied to contempt proceedings, rather than ebody who basically is refusing to come to court who's been he argued that ursula was not unavailable simply because she refused to come to court. relying on cogswell, the court found that the people had exercised due diligence in attempting to secure ursula for trial, and talked to her several times, they have attempted to get her to cooperate and come in and testify, and she has made it absolutely clear through her statements to the police that she does not want . . . . she has made it clear that she has no intentions of testifying in this case or cooperati procedure does not allow the police to arrest a sexual assault 4code of civil procedure section 1219, subdivision (b) (section 1219(b)) provides: court shall not imprison or otherwise confine or place in custody the victim of a sexual assault or domestic violence crime for contempt if the contempt consists of refusing to testify concerning 14 as such, the the court found that the witness was unavailable and allowed the prosecution to read the transcript of her testimony from the preliminary hearing. b. analysis the state and federal constitutions afford a criminal const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. 1,  15.) that right is not absolute, however; under certain circumstances, the prosecution -of-court statements at trial. (people v. herrera (2010) 49 cal.4th 613, 621 (herrera).) evidence code section 1291 sets forth the requisite circumstances. (see people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 67; testimony is not rendered inadmissible by the hearsay rule if (1) against whom the former testimony is offered was a party to the action or proceeding in which the testimony was given and had the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an (evid. code,  1291, subd. (a)(2).) 1. unavailability and due diligence the hearing and the proponent of his or her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure his subd. (a)(5); see also people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 291-292 [in determining due diligence 15 prosecution must show that its efforts to locate and produce a witness for trial were reasonable under the circumstances herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 623.) there is no persevering application, untiring efforts in good earnest, efforts of a people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 904 (cromer at the trial. [citation.] the united states supreme court has described the good faith requirement this way: require the doing of a futile act. thus, if no possibility of procuring the witness exists (as, for example, the witness'[s] prosecution. but if there is a possibility, albeit remote, that affirmative measures might produce the declarant, the obligation of good faith may demand their effectuation. which the prosecution must go to produce a witness . . . is a [citation.] the ultimate question is whether the witness is unavailable despite good-faith efforts [citationherrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 622.) facts of reasonable diligence sufficient to sustain a finding of people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 503.) 16 applying this mixed standard of review, we conclude that the trial court did not err in finding that the prosecution exercised reasonable diligence to produce ursula. we find cogswell, supra, 48 cal.4th 467 on point. in cogswell, the victim, lorene, was visiting california from colorado when she was sexually attacked by cogswell. she testified against cogswell at the preliminary hearing, but refused to return to california for trial. (id. at p. 471.) the prosecution sought to compel her attendance through a process set forth in the uniform act to secure the attendance of witnesses from without the state in criminal cases (uniform act,  1334 et seq.), under which a colorado court issued a subpoena to the victim. (id. at p. 472.) the victim refused to appear at trial and the prosecutor explained to the court that the victim as much of this matter as she can possibly handle. . . . and she id. at p. 473.) the trial court declared her unavailable and permitted the prosecution to introduce her preliminary hearing testimony. (ibid.) the court of appeal reversed, finding that to establish reasonable diligence, the prosecution was required to use the provision of the uniform act allowing the court to detain and transport the victim to california. (cogswell, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 474.) the supreme court disagreed, holding that the prosecution had used reasonable diligence in attempting to (id. at p. 473.) the court held that section 1219(b) did not prohibit the prosecution from -and-delivery provision, but conversely, the prosecution was not required to do so before it could establish due diligence. (id. at pp. 476-477.) the court 17 crime taken into custody, for the sole purpose of ensuring the should be used sparingly. (see, e.g., state v. reid (1976) 114 ariz. days, not charged with a crime, is a harsh and oppressive measure which we believe is justified only in the most extreme confinement would be particularly problematic when, as in this case, the witness is a sexual assault (cogswell, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 477478.) the court victims are particularly likely to be traumatized because of the be reported if sexual assault victims could be jailed for refusing to (id. at p. 478.) turning to section 1219(b), the court found that the enactment of the statute generally should not be jailed for refusing to testify against the (ibid.) the cogswell acted reasonably when it chose not to requesteven though -and-delivery provisionto have sexual assault victim lorene taken into custody and transported from colorado to california to testify at (cogswell, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 478.) given ely that had lorene been taken into custody, she would have become a cooperative witness. . . . having spoken directly to lorene, the prosecutor was in the best position to assess the strength of her 18 determination not to testify at defendant's trial. based on that assessment, the prosecutor could reasonably conclude that -and-delivery provision would sexual assault, and thus it would have been a waste of time and (id. at p. 479.) we reach the same conclusion here, finding that . . . not be a reasonable means of cogswell, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 479.) the prosecution and police detectives visited ursula several times, attempting to convince her to testify one final time had received what she believed to be threats, and was fearful for ursula also told the detectives that she no longer believed defendant should be prosecuted, but rather that he should seek treatment for his mental health issues. detective menifee told the court that she believed there was nothing more circumstances, we agree with the trial prosecution exercised due diligence in its efforts to secure ursula as a trial witness. moreover, it was not error for the trial court to find under cogswell that the drastic step of taking ursula into custody and transporting her to court was not necessary to demonstrate due diligence.5 5 because the prosecutor was not required to request that ursula be taken into custody and transported to court for the purpose of either testifying at trial or being subject to contempt interpreting section 1219(b) as barring taking a witness into 19 defendant also ursula for trial were insufficiently diligent because they did not begin until shortly before trial. we disagree. the prosecution began its efforts to secure ursula as a trial witness in early october 2017, several weeks before trial was scheduled to begin. after several attempts to reach her went unanswered, police detectives visited ursula at her home on three different dates (october 18, 23, and 24) to serve her with a trial subpoena. each time, detectives talked with ursula at some length in an attempt to convince her to appear. the detectives testified that ursula was visibly upset and frightened during these meetings; ursula other concerns regarding the trial. ursula repeatedly refused to testify, and the detectives concluded they could do nothing more to convince her. these efforts were reasonable. defendant identifies a number of additional steps he methods to secure urursula was aware of and provided with available victim support services and ensuring that the detectives were more responsive to her. even assuming that the prosecution could have taken those steps but failed to do so, it was not required to do sounavailability] simply because the defendant can conceive of some further step or avenue left unexplored by the prosecution. where the record reveals, . . . that sustained and substantial good additional steps (usually, as here, with the benefit of hindsight) custody would be unconstitutional. 20 tions.] the law requires only reasonable people v. diaz (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 695, 706.) we find no abuse of discretion in ion took reasonable steps in this case to attempt to secure ursula as a witness. 2. motive to cross-examine in addition to demonstrating that ursula was unavailable, the prosecution was also required to establish that defendant had a previous opportunity to cross-examine her, with an interest and motive similar to his interests and motives at trial, before it could introduce her preliminary hearing testimony. (evid. code,  1291, subd. (a)(2); herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 621.) the trial court concluded the prosecution met its burden. defendant argued to the trial court that he had no motive to confront ursula with her inconsistent statements at the preliminary hearing and further noted that he had not received the transcript of the 911 call at the time. we agree with the trial court. an opportunity to cross-examine a witness at the time of his or her prior testimony, that testimony is deemed sufficiently reliable to satisfy the confrontation requirement [citation], regardless whether subsequent circumstances bring into question the wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 343.) here, dss-examined ursula at length at the preliminary hearing. his motives and interests, both then and at trial, were to impugn could not prove its case. even if the motives may have shifted somewhat, they need not be identical, only similar. (people v. 21 harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 333.) we are unconvinced by dnot afforded an adequate opportunity to cross-examine ursula at the preliminary hearing because he was not yet aware of inconsistencies in her statements to the 911 operator and the proceeding is not dissimilar to his interest at a first proceeding within the meaning of evidence code section 1291, subdivision (a)(2), simply because events occurring after the first proceeding might have led counsel to alter the nature and scope of cross- (people v. harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 333, citing people v. alcala (1992) 4 cal.4th 742, 784.) we are not persuaded that the differences -examination. we also note that defendant was nevertheless able to through the testifying police officers at trial, and focused on these inconsistencies in his closing argument. -examine ursula satisfied the confrontation clause, and the trial court did not err in admitting her preliminary hearing testimony. ii. admission of 911 call 911 call was nontestimonial hearsay and that the majority of s statements on the call were admissible as spontaneous statements under evidence code section 1240. defendant contends these findings were error. he argues that the admission of the entire call violated his confrontation rights under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawford). in 22 addition, he contends that portions of the call were not admissible as spontaneous statements. we find no error. a. challenge to the call under crawford as he did below, defendant argues that under crawford, he was denied his sixth amendment right to confront and cross-examine ursula as a result of the admission of her out-of-court, testimonial statements made during the 911 call. the trial court testimonial, citing davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813, 817 (davis) and people v. cage (2007) 40 cal.4th 965 (cage), and 6 we agree with the trial court that the evidence was not testimonial and therefore its admissicrawford. 1. legal principles in crawford, the united states supreme court held that the admission of testimonial hearsay violates the confrontation clause unless the declarant is unavailable for trial and the defendant had a prior opportunity to cross-examine the declarant. (crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at pp. 53-54.) in davis v. washington, supra, 547 u.s. at p. 817, the court clarified what it meant by testimonial statements: nontestimonial when made in the course of police interrogation under circumstances objectively indicating that the primary purpose of the interrogation is to enable police assistance to meet an ongoing emergency. they are testimonial when the 6ue on appeal was wholly inadequate, consisting of a single, crawford 23 circumstances objectively indicate that there is no such ongoing emergency, and that the primary purpose of the interrogation is to establish or prove past events potentially relevant to later (id. at p. 822, fn. omitted.) our own supreme court, analyzing davis, supra, 547 u.s. davis. first, ... the confrontation clause is concerned solely with hearsay statements that are testimonial, in that they are out-of-court analogs, in purpose and form, of the testimony given by witnesses at trial. second, though a statement need not be sworn under oath to be testimonial, it must have occurred under circumstances that imparted, to some degree, the formality and solemnity characteristic of testimony. third, the statement must have been given and taken primarily for the purpose ascribed to testimonyto establish or prove some past fact for possible use in a criminal trial. fourth, the primary purpose for which a statement was given and taken is to be determinconsidering all the circumstances that might reasonably bear on the intent of the participants in the conversation. fifth, sufficient formality and solemnity are present when, in a nonemergency situation, one responds to questioning by law enforcement officials, where deliberate falsehoods might be criminal offenses. sixth, statements elicited by law enforcement officials are not testimonial if the primary purpose in giving and receiving them is to deal with a contemporaneous emergency, rather than to produce evidence about past events for possible (cage, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 984, fns. omitted.) numerous courts analyzing this issue in the context of 911 calls have found some or all of those calls to be nontestimonial. 24 in davisher with his fists. (davis, supra, 547 u.s. at p. 817.) the 911 operator told the victim that help was on the way, and then asked the victim a series of id. at p. 818.) then the victim reported that her boyfriend had left the house and fled in a car. (ibid.) the trial court admitted this portion of the 911 bjection. (ibid.) the 911 call, including her identification of the defendant in response to questions, vely indicate its primary purpose was to enable police assistance to meet an ongoing emergency. she simply was not acting as a witness; she (davis, supra, 547 u.s. at p. 828.) in reaching this conclusion, the court identified four factors that first, a connection with a 911 call, is ordinarily not designed primarily to describe current reasonable listener would recognize that [the victim] . . . was facing an ongoing emergency. although one might call 911 to provide a narrative report of a crime absent any imminent third, the nature of the conversation, necessary to be able to resolve the present emergency, rather than simply to learn . . . 25 the court noted the lack of formality of the ided over the phone, in an environment that was not tranquil, or even (as (id. at p. 827; see also cage, supra, 40 cal.4th at pp. 982983.) as relevant here, courts have applied the same analysis to 911 calls made shortly after the incident at issue. for example, in people v. banos (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 483, 492, the court upheld the admission of a 911 call in which the victim stated she y you know, going to attack me. . . . from the 911 dispatcher, the victim also stated that the defendant . . . he's not supposed to be near me. i have athe restraining order says a hundred (ibid.) similarly, in people v. saracoglu (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 1584, 1597 (saracoglu), the court admitted statements made by the victim to a police officer about 30 minutes after a domestic violence incident. where the victim drove herself to the police station and reported the the station was, in effect, the functional equivalent of making a (ibid.; see also people v. corella (2004) 122 cal.app.4th hit her, made shortly after the incident, were not testimonial]; people v. johnson (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 1216, 1225 a reading of davis that would require that challenged statements be made while the actual assault is ongoing in order to be 26 2. analysis applying these principles to this case, we conclude that 911 call were made in the context of an ongoing emergency, and were thus nontestimonial. ursula testified that after being held by defendant in the garage, bound, threatened with a knife, and sexually assaulted for approximately two hours, she escaped the garage despite she saw defendant emerge from the garage; she first attempted to n the driveway and called 911 again. the prosecutor estimated that ursula made the second 911 call within 15 minutes of leaving the garage. 911 call and that ursula was crying and hysterical. she told the up. he duct taped me. he sexually assaulted me. he busted my know if he was going to come out and do anythinalso had fresh wounds on her face and mouth. when the operator think so my neck i got a busted lip. he did sexually assault me, so i do want them to take swabs out of my mouth or regarding what weapons defendant had in the garage, and police to you right now. if [defendant] shows up there before we 27 ursula responded that defendant operator were made in the context of seeking assistance in an ongoing emergency, rather than for the purpose of establishing determining the appropriate response, and statements by both ursula and the 911 operator indicate that neither party believed ursula was necessarily safe from a continuing threat by defendant. the few statements she made during the call referring to a prior incident with defendant and requesting oral swabs do not, in the context of the entire call, suggest that her purpose was to build a case for prosecution. b. challenge to certain statements as spontaneous statements defendant also argues that the trial court erred in denying his motion to redact two statements ursula made during the 911 call, which he contends do not qualify as spontaneous statements under evidence code section 1240. we disagree. further, any such error was harmless. 1. background prior to trial, defendant moved to redact several portions of the 911 call as outside the scope of evidence code section 1240 and irrelevant and unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352: (1) references to his prior convictions and his gang affiliationfiled a report against [defendant] a long time ago at 77th street police station. the 28 ategory. the court also indicated it was inclined to regarding filing a prior report. the prosecutor argued that the eport during the court found the statement was not prejudicial; the court later indicated that this statement was admissible under e flow of the conversation . . . unless, quote, 352, or there are other reasons 2. legal principles evidence code section 1240 provides an exception to the purports to narrate, describe, or explain an act, condition, or event perceived by the declarant; and [] (b) was made spontaneously while the declarant was under the stress of -of-court statements are well established. occurrence startling enough to produce this nervous excitement and render the utterance spontaneous and unreflecting; (2) the utterance must have been before there has been time to contrive and misrepresent, i.e., while the nervous excitement may be supposed still to dominate and the reflective powers to be yet in abeyance; and (3) the utterance must relate to the circumstance (people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 64 (merriman29 despite its hearexcitement, the reflective faculties may be stilled and the utterance may become the instinctive and uninhibited expression (ibid.) whether an out-of-court statement meets the statutory requirements for admission as a spontaneous statement is generally a question of fact for the trial court, the determination (merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 64.) substantial evidence and review for abuse of discretion its decision to admit evidence under the spontaneous statement (id. at pp. 64-65, citing people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 752.) 3. analysis defendant challenges the two statements ursula made he contends those statements did not relate to the immediately preceding events and therefore were not admissible as part of the spontaneous statements ursula made to the 911 operator. (merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 66, citing people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 811.) as we have discussed, substantial evidence, , supports the conclusion that ursula made the 911 call while under the ts. (see, e.g., saracoglu, supra, 152 30 cal.app.4th at pp. 1589- when making statements about 30 minutes after incident]; people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 541 [two-and-one-half hours].) incidents with defendant were sufficiently related to the current offense to come within the scope of the hearsay exceptionthe statements explained her relationship with defendant and her state of mind at the time. (see people v. poggi, 45 cal.3d at p. 318.) as such, the court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the statements under evidence code section 1240. further, even if admission of the statements was error, it was harmless. defendant has not established a federal constitutional violation; accordingly, we analyze the asserted error under the test articulated in people v. watson (1956) 46 reasonably probable that a result more favorable to [defendant] would have been (people v. gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 813, quoting people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) defendant contends that the this mischaracterizes the statements that ursula made. she did not could strongly suggest, as defendant argues, that he had previously committed the same acts against her. rather, she and, lin context, it was not as damaging as defendant suggests, but 31 rather a minor part of her statements to the 911 operator. further, the jury heard several references to her filing of a previous report against bolstered by her consistent statements to law enforcement, the evidence found in the garage, dna evidence, and her ripped clothing. as such, it was not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a more favorable result for defendant in the absence of the challenged statements in the 911 call.7 iii. admission of statements to sart nurse mchale, the sart nurse, were testimonial hearsay and should have been excluded by the trial court. the attorney general argues that defendant has forfeited this challenge by failing to object at trial. we agree that the issue was forfeited and defendant acknowledges that he did not object to the introduction of this evidence at trial. such evidentiary challenges are forfeited without a timely objection. (evid. code 353; see also people v. partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. trial objection must fairly state the specific reason or reasons the defendant believes the evidence should be excluded. . . . a 7defendant also asserts that the admission of this evidence infringed his federal constitutional right to due process. have recognized that the admission of evidence in violation of state law may also violate due process, but only if the error (merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th 1, 70, citing people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) defendant fails to make such a showing here. 32 defendant may not argue on appeal that the court should have people v. chaney (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 772, 777.) the requirement of opportunity to address the admissibility of the evidence so the trial court can make an informed ruling, and creates a record for (people v. davis (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 617, take advantage of an error on appeal when it could easily have (ibid., quoting 9 witkin, cal. procedure (4th ed. 1997) appeal,  394, pp. 444-445.) however, defendant relies on an exception to forfeiture that place an unreasonable burden on defendants to anticipate unforeseen changes in the law and encourage fruitless objections in other situations where defendants might hope that an established rule of evidence wo (people v. blessett (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 903, 928.) he argues were no reported california cases considering the application of crawford to statements made to a sart nurse by a sexual defendant is incorrect. in people v. vargas (2009) 178 statements to the nurse during a sart examination were testimonial under crawford. moreover, even if crawford had not yet been applied to the specific factual circumstance present in this case, nothing about the application of crawford statements to the sart nurse would be inconsistent with prior jurisprudence or unforeseeable. 33 altto preserve this claim constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. this contention also fails. counsel, defendant bears the burden of demonstrating, first, that objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing strickland v. washington [1984] 466 u.s. 668, 688 [ ].) unless a defendant establishes the contrary, we (people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211 [ ].) if the record explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 745-746.) unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 333; see also strickland v. washington, supra[a] falls within the wide range of reasonable professional people v. fosselman (1983) 33 cal.3d 572, 581 [on appeal, a conviction will be reversed on the ground of ineffective discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose for his act 34 apart from requesting that this court find defense counsel strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. 668, defendant makes objective standard of reasonableness, nor of any resulting prejudice. accordingly, he has failed to meet his burden to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. williams iv. cumulative error defendant argues that the cumulative effect of the errors he alleged rendered his trial unfair. we disagree. we have found cumulative error accordingly fails. v. section 654 defendant argues that the counts for forcible oral copulation (count three) and false imprisonment (count five) alleged a single course of conduct with a single objective, and therefore that the court should have stayed the sentence on count five under section 654. we disagree. section 654, subdivision (a), provides: that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the this provision shments for a single act people v. hester (2000) 22 temporal proximity of his or her offenses, determine whether 35 multiple offenses constitute an indivisible course of conduct. (people v. hicks (1993) 6 cal.4th 784, 789.) a defendant who acts pursuant to a single objective may be found to have harbored a single intent and therefore may be punished only once. (ibid.) iscloses that a defendant entertained multiple criminal objectives which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, the trial court may impose punishment for independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of (people v. liu (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1119, 1134, citing in re adams (1975) 14 cal.3d 629, 634.) the question whether section 654 is factually applicable to a given series of offenses is for the trial court, and the law gives (people v. hutchins (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1308, 1312; see also people v. saffle makes no express findings on the issue, as happened here, a finding that the crimes were divisible is implicit in the judgment and must be upheld if supported by substantial evidence. [citation.] most favorable to the respondent and presume in support of the order the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce (people v. lopez (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 698, 717; see also people v. blake (1998) 68 cal.app.4th 509, 512 separate intent and objective for each offense will be upheld on defendant contends that he harbored a single objectiveo sexual abuse in an environment he could 36 as such, he argues that the false imprisonment was committed merely as a means to facilitate the sexual assault and was not therefore subject to separate punishment. we conclude that substantial implied finding that defendant harbored separate criminal objectives in committing the false imprisonment and forcible oral copulation offenses. defendant was charged with three counts of forcible oral copulation and was convicted on the third count; the prosecution argued at trial that count three was based on time and then ejaculating into her mouth. on the other hand, there was evidence at trial that defendant pushed ursula to the ground after she asked him for money, then held ursula in the garage for several hours, bound her wrists and ankles, pinned her to the ground with his knee, threatened her, and attempted to engage in multiple sexual acts, including demanding vaginal intercourse after the oral copulation was complete. as such, the record supports a finding that the false imprisonment was not done solely to facilitate the forcible oral copulation in count three. (see, e.g., people v. saffle, supra, 4 cal.app.4th at p. 438 [finding separate objectives for false imprisonment and sex offenses]; people v. ratcliffe (1981) 124 cal.app.3d 808, 818-819.) vi. remand for resentencing defendant requests that we remand the matter for resentencing pursuant to section 667(a).8 he was sentenced to a consecutive five-year term on count three under section 667(a) for his prior serious felony conviction. at the time of his sentencing, 8defendant did not raise this issue in his opening brief on appeal. however, we granted his request for supplemental briefing. 37 the trial court was required to impose this term under section 667(a). on september 30, 2018, while this appeal was pending, the governor signed senate bill no. 1393 (2017-2018 reg. sess.) (s.b. 1393), amending sections 667(a) and 1385 to provide the trial court with discretion to strike enhancements for serious felony convictions. the legislative changes became effective january 1, 2019. s.b. 1393 applies to all cases not yet final as of people v. garcia (2018) 28 cal.app.5th 961, 972.) the amendment therefore applies to this case. defendant contends remand is required to allow the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the section 667(a) enhancement. the attorney general agrees that remand is appropriate, as do we. absent a clear indication by the trial court as to how it would have exercised its discretion, an appellate court generally must remand for the trial court to hold a hearing to exercise its newly granted discretion. (people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896; people v. mcdaniels (2018) 22 cal.app.5th 420, 427-428; people v. rocha (2019) 32 cal.app.5th 352, 360-361.) we accordingly remand the matter for the trial court to exercise its discretion whether to strike the enhancement. we express no opinion as to how the trial court should exercise its discretion on remand. vii. remand to determine ability to pay in his reply brief, defendant made a passing reference to a a limited remand to allow the court to determine his ability to pay the fines we have found no other reference in the record to such a request by defendant. defendant did not raise any objection during sentencing to the 38 imposition of fines and fees. at sentencing, the trial court imposed a $ 1,400 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a $1,400 parole restitution fine ( 1202.45), an $80 court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $60 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373), and a $ 300 sex offender registration fee ( 290.3). dreference to this issue in his reply appears to challenge the imposition of the fines and fees pursuant to (people v. dueas (2019) 30 cal.app.5th 1157, 242.) because defendant failed to object to any fines or fees at sentencing, he has forfeited this challenge. (see people v. frandsen (2019) 33 cal.app.5th 1126, 1153; people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 729.) defendant has not addressed the forfeiture issue on appeal. moreover, we agree with our sister court in frandsen that the holding in dueas was foreseeable and therefore defendant was required to raise an objection to the imposition of fines and fees, and demonstrate an inability to pay, at the time of his sentencing. (frandsen, supra, 33 cal.app.5th at pp. 1154-1155.) disposition the matter is remanded for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to consider, at a hearing at which the defendant has a right to be present with counsel, whether to exercise its discretion to strike the prior prison term pursuant to section 667(a). if the court elects to exercise this discretion, defendant 39 shall be resentenced. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: manella, p. j. currey, j 