filed 10/2/18 p. v. boothe ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. deon timothy boothe, defendant and appellant. b286328 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na106154) the court: deon timothy booth (defendant) appeals from a judgment entered following a jury trial that resulted in his conviction of second degree robbery and misdemeanor assault. we appointed counsel to represent defendant on appeal. defendants appointed counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), requesting independent review of the record on appeal for any arguable issues. on july 3, 2018, we advised defendant that he had 30 days within which to personally submit any contentions or issues for us to consider. on july 18 and 19, 2018, defendant filed letter briefs raising multiple issues. we affirm. 2 background on november 27, 2016, marquinton dorsey (dorsey) and ezequiel cabrera (cabrera), loss prevention officers at vons grocery store in long beach, observed defendant take two bottles of alcohol off the shelf and place them in his backpack. defendant did not attempt to pay for the bottles and walked outside of the store. once outside, dorsey and cabrera identified themselves as loss prevention officers to defendant. dorsey requested defendant return the bottles. when defendant refused, dorsey grabbed the strap of defendants backpack. at that point, defendant tried to remove dorseys hand from his backpack by brush[ing] it off. defendant also shoved dorsey at least three times. defendant then advised the loss prevention officers that he would return the bottles and began to remove his backpack when he instead took off running. the incident outside the grocery store was captured on surveillance video. dorsey and cabrera immediately ran after defendant. during the chase, one of the bottles fell out of defendants backpack and shattered. defendant then threw the second bottle towards cabrera, who had to move his body to avoid being hit. long beach police officers eventually arrested defendant in the area of the grocery store. on september 29, 2017, a jury convicted defendant of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211)1 and misdemeanor assault ( 240). on october 30, 2017, at the sentencing hearing, defendant made a marsden2 motion, requesting that the trial court appoint 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 him a different attorney because his current counsel was too busy. following a confidential hearing, the trial court denied defendants request. defendant then made a faretta3 motion, requesting that the trial court allow him to represent himself at his sentencing hearing, which it granted. the trial court relieved defendants current counsel of any further duties, continued the sentencing hearing, and ordered defendant to appear the next day to obtain the paperwork he needed to prepare for sentencing. the following day, defendant advised the trial court that he wished to relinquish his pro. per. status. the trial court reappointed defendants previous counsel. on november 13, 2017, at the sentencing hearing, defendants counsel requested that defendant be sentenced to probation, which the trial court denied, noting defendant has unfortunately proven that he doesnt do well on probation because this case itself was committed while [defendant] was on probation. the trial court sentenced defendant to the low term 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). under marsden, a defendant may move to have his appointed counsel discharged and substituted with another attorney. however, the has no absolute right to more than one appointed attorney. (people v. smith (1993) 6 cal.4th 684, 690.) 3 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, 807 (faretta). under faretta, a defendant who makes a timely faretta motion has an unconditional right to represent himself in the trial court if he voluntarily and intelligently elects to do so and is mentally competent to waive his right to counsel. (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) 4 of two years in state prison for the robbery, and 180 days (or time served) in county jail for the assault. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion from what we can discern, defendant contends his convictions must be reversed because (1) his robbery conviction was based on insufficient evidence; (2) the prosecution violated section 1387 by improperly refiling this case after it had been dismissed; (3) the photographs of the bottles admitted into evidence show they had been tampered with at the scene; (4) his faretta rights were violated; and (5) he received ineffective assistance of counsel at his sentencing hearing. we discuss each of his arguments in turn. i. sufficiency of the evidence defendant argues his robbery conviction should be reversed because there was insufficient evidence to support the jurys finding that he used force to take the bottles from the loss prevention officers. specifically, he writes, [b]oth loss prevention [officers] got on the stand and testified under oath that i the defendant never pushed mr. dorsey at all. we disagree. to determine whether sufficient evidence supports a jury verdict, a reviewing court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable jury could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] (people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 617.) robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, 5 and against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear. ( 211.) the trial court here defined force to the jury as more than the incidental touching necessary to take the property. there was evidence of the element of force in this case. cabrera and dorsey testified that while defendant was still in possession of the bottles, he shoved dorsey at least three times. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 [testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction].) the surveillance video also captured a physical interaction between dorsey and defendant. this evidence, taken as a whole and viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment, was more than sufficient to conclude defendant committed second degree robbery. ii. section 1387 defendant contends the prosecution improperly brought the same charges against him twice on two different occasions in violation of section 1387. however, there is nothing in the record indicating this case was refiled. without any documentation, we do not know whether or in what manner the trial court ruled on this issue. (hernandez v. california hospital medical center (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 498, 502 [failure to provide an adequate record on an issue requires that the issue be resolved against plaintiff].) given the sparse record, we must presume the trial courts ruling, if any, was correct. iii. admission of the photographs defendant writes, the photographs depict them bottles were placed there. evidence tampered with. although not entirely clear, it appears defendant is contending his convictions must be reversed because the photographs of the bottles should not have been admitted at trial due to evidence tampering. the 6 problem with this argument is that defendant failed to make a motion to exclude such evidence at trial and therefore has forfeited any challenge to the admission of the photographs on appeal. (evid. code,  353, subd. (a) [codifies the well-settled california rule that a failure to make a timely objection to, or motion to exclude or to strike, inadmissible evidence waives the right to complain of the erroneous admission of evidence]; see also people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 655.) iv. faretta despite the fact that the trial court granted defendants faretta motion, defendant now challenges the trial courts ruling, contending [t]hey didnt allow me to go [pro. per.] right away. they waited a month later then finally allowed me to go [pro. per.] they violated my faretta rights. it appears defendant is arguing the trial court violated his faretta rights by delaying its decision on his motion. the record on appeal shows no delay. we find no error concerning defendants faretta motion. v. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant contends his counsel fail[ed] to protect [his] rights to be sentenced appropriately. we disagree. to establish entitlement to relief for ineffective assistance of counsel the burden is on the defendant to show (1) trial counsel failed to act in the manner to be expected of reasonably competent attorneys acting as diligent advocates and (2) it is reasonably probable that a more favorable determination would have resulted in the absence of counsels failings. (people v. lewis (1990) 50 cal.3d 262, 288; strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687696.) counsels duty at sentencing is to be familiar with the sentencing alternatives available to the court, to make sure that 7 the court is aware of such alternatives, to explain to his or her client the consequences of the various dispositions available and to be certain that the sentence imposed is based on complete and accurate information. [citations.] (people v. cotton (1991) 230 cal.app.3d 1072, 10851086.) here, it is unclear what more defendants counsel could have done for defendant at the sentencing hearing. as noted above, defendants counsel argued for a lesser sentence, mainly probation, which the trial court denied due to defendants criminal history. defendant was then sentenced to the low term for the robbery and time served for the assault. because defendant has failed to show that but for his counsels error, the trial court would have sentenced him differently in this case, his ineffective assistance of counsel claim fails. conclusion in addition to the arguments set forth by defendant in his letter briefs, we have examined the entire record and we are satisfied that defendants appellate counsel has fully complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) we conclude defendant received adequate and effective appellate review of the judgment entered against him by virtue of counsels compliance with the wende procedure as well as our review of the record. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278; people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 123124.) the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________________________________________ ashmann-gerst, acting p. j. chavez, j. hoffstadt, j. 