filed 2/19/19 p. v. blanco ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. norman blanco, defendant and appellant. b286116 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma067528) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, frank m. tavelman, judge. affirmed in part and remanded. lori e. kantor, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. 2 xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, david a. wildman, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ the jury found defendant and appellant norman blanco guilty of possession of contraband in prison. (pen. code,  4573.6, subd. (a).)1 in a bifurcated bench trial, the trial court found true the allegation that blanco had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law. ( 667, subds. (b)(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)(d).) the court denied bprior strike conviction under romero,2 and sentenced him to six years in state prison, consisting of the middle term of three years, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law. the court ordered this six-year sentence to run consecutive to the term of imprisonment blanco was serving at the time of the instant offense. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 3 blanco requests that this court review the in camera hearing held pursuant to pitchess v. superior court3 to determine whether the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to disclose personnel files relating to dishonesty and fabrication of evidence. blanco also contends that the trial court did not recognize it had discretion to run his six-year sentence concurrently with the prison sentence that he was already serving. he requests that we remand the cause for the trial court to determine whether to exercise its discretion to impose a concurrent sentence. the attorney general agrees that this court may review the in camera pitchess hearing to determine whether the trial court abused its discretion when it determined not to disclose documents relating to sergeant villalobos. with contention, the attorney general asserts blanco forfeited the claim by failing to raise it below, but that it lacks merit regardless, because he has failed to affirmatively demonstrate error. we have reviewed the in camera hearing and conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in declining to disclose personnel file. we further conclude that whether the trial court recognized that it had discretion to impose either a concurrent or consecutive sentence is ambiguous, and we remand for the limited purpose of allowing the trial court to 3 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 4 exercise its discretion in that regard. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. discussion4 pitchess motion pitchess motion, which sought discovery of the personnel files of correctional officer hicks, correctional officer hodges, and sergeant villalobos relating to dishonesty and fabrication of evidencenot to disclose certain records with respect to sergeant villalobos and requests that we independently review the sealed transcript of the in camera hearing. a criminal defendant is entitled to the discovery of confidential police officer personnel records if the information contained therein is relevant to his ability to defend against the charge. (pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d at pp. 537538.) to obtain such records, the defendant must submit an affidavit showing good cause for the discovery. (evid. code,  1043, subd. (b)(3).) a showing of good cause requires a defendant seeking pitchess . . . a logical link between [a proposed defense] and the 4 we do not include a statement of facts because resolution of the claims blanco raises does not require consideration of the facts underlying his conviction. 5 sought would support such a defense or how it would impeach the officer (warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1021.) discoverable (ibid.; see california highway patrol v. superior court (2000) 84 cal.apast officer misconduct which is similar to the misconduct alleged by defendant in the pending litigation is relevant under people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, at pages 1229 through 1232, upon a request from a defendant, an appellate court may review the sealed transcript of a trial pitchess hearing to determine whether the ruling on such a motion is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 827.) camera hearing on his pitchess motion. we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion. consecutive sentence at the sentencing hearing, the trial court imposed a consecutive term of six years (the middle term of three years, possession of contraband in prison. blanco contends that the 6 trial court did not recognize that it had discretion regarding whether to impose a concurrent or consecutive sentence, and requests that we remand the matter for resentencing. the parties agree that the court was not required to impose a consecutive sentence under section 1170.1, subdivision (c), but disagree with respect to whether the trial court understood it had that discretion. we conclude that the record is ambiguous on this point, and remand for the trial court to exercise its discretion. law section 1170.1, subdivision (c) provides that when a either requires the terms to be served consecutively or the court imposes consecutive terms,to commence when the person would have been released from prison. in the past, this language was interpreted to require imposition of consecutive sentences when a defendant committed a felony while in prison (people v. lamont (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 577, 584), but the court of appeal, fifth district has since disapproved its prior ruling and held that trial courts have discretion to impose either a concurrent or consecutive sentence unless a consecutive sentence is statutorily mandated (people v. arant (1988) 199 cal.app.3d 294, 298). section 4573.6, subdivision (a) does not mandate that a sentence be served consecutively; 7 therefore, a sentencing court may elect to impose either a concurrent or consecutive sentence. nts are entitled to sentencing decisions made court. (see united states v. tucker (1972) 404 u.s. 443, 447; townsend v. burke (1948) 334 u.s. 736, 741.) a court that is unaware of the scope of its discretionary powers can no more is or may have been based on misinformation regarding a people v. ruiz people v. belmontes (1983) 34 cal.3d 335, 348, fn. 8.) proceedings5 in its sentencing memorandum, the people stressed urged the court to impose the maximum sentence of eight years. the memorandum did not address whether the 5 , made prior to trial, that his maximum exposure would be an 8-year consecutive term; however, the trial court did not indicate in making that statement that imposing a consecutive sentence was mandatory. the statement accurately describes shed any light as to whether the court believed a consecutive sentence was mandatory. 8 sentence should be imposed concurrently with the term that blanco was then serving, or consecutive to that term. when arguing the factors in mitigation, defense upset, knowing that the law requires a mandatory consecutive sentenceromero motion, co serve the low term because the sentence is mandatory consecutive (italics added.) neither the parties nor the trial court corrected the misconception that imposition of a consecutive term was required, and there was no discussion of the possibility of running the term concurrently. finally, in imposing sentence, the trial court stated, is matter is fully consecutive pursuant to penal code section 1170[, subdivision] (c)[6] as the defendant was current analysis the people argue that blanco forfeited his claim by failing to raise it below. although failure to timely raise a 6 section 1170, subdivision (c) requires the trial court to state the reasons for its sentencing choice, including the imposition of consecutive sentences, on the record. (see cal. rules of court, rules 4.406(b)(5), 4.406(b)(6); people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 850.) 9 sentencing issue in the trial court forfeits the issue for appellate review (people v. garcia (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 1203, 1218), we may exercise our discretion to consider the issue nonetheless (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161, fn. 6). we will do so here. neither the discussion at the sentencing hearing nor the trial confidence that the trial court exercised its discretion with respect to whether to impose either a concurrent or all discussion of the matter rested on the incorrect assumption that imposition of a consecutive term was required. because we cannot determine whether the trial court understood that it had discretion in sentencing blanco to impose either a consecutive or concurrent term, we remand for the limited purpose of allowing the court to exercise its discretion to either impose a concurrent or consecutive term. 10 disposition we remand for the limited purpose of allowing the court to exercise its discretion to either impose a concurrent or consecutive term. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. moor, j. we concur: jaskol, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. the people v. norman blanco b286116 baker, acting p. j., concurring in part and dissenting in part i would affirm the judgment in full. i agree with the pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 contention. i would hold, however, that defendant forfeited the argument that reversal is required because the trial court was unaware of its discretion to impose a concurrent sentencean argument that, in any event, runs contrary to law. (see, e.g., evid. code,  664; people v. valenti (2016) 243 cal.app.4th 1140, 1178-1179.) baker, acting p. j. 