filed 2/13/19 p. v. davis ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. sharon l. davis, defendant and appellant. b286377 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba451029) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. terry a. bork, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded. john derrick, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stephanie m. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 in this insurance fraud case, sharon davis was injured by a door at her place of employment, the u.s. department of veterans affairs, va medical center in long beach. she submitted three claim forms under a private accident insurance policy she had obtained from colonial life and accident insurance company and was paid about $2,700. she was eventually charged with four counts of insurance fraud, one count of forgery, and one count of grand theft for: (1) falsely claiming that she sustained the injury while - as defined in the insurance policy; (2) falsely claiming she had not applied for workers compensation benefits; and (3) forging a signature in the employer verification portion of two claim forms. following trial, a jury convicted her on all but the forgery count, on which it deadlocked and the court declared a mistrial. on appeal, davis contends insufficient evidence supported her convictions. for the insurance fraud count based on her false representation that she had not applied for workers compensation, we agree. she applied for a federal benefit called ontinuation of pis a legally distinct benefit from workers compensation under federal law. the people offered no evidence that davis or colons under federal law, so insufficient evidence supported her conviction on this count. as to the rest of the counts, we find sufficient evidence instructional error and ineffective assistance of counsel. we therefore reverse one count of insurance fraud and remand for resentencing. in all other respects, we affirm. 3 background 1. factual background at the va medical center were 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on august 31, 2015, at 8:30 a.m., she was injured when a door she was entering hit her in the shin. the door separated a public hallway from her work area and was located on the second floor, about 50 yards from the front door to the building, 100 feet from the stairs and elevator, and about 25 feet from her work area. on the day of the injury, davis was paid for a full day of work but was on a paid authorized absence from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. program manager teri wheeler on september 3, 2015. wheeler handled compensation cases and helped davis complete a form called a of traumatic injury and claim for continuation of directly to the right of the title is written: davis provided her personal information and the cause of her penalty of law, that the injury described above was sustained in performance of duty as an employee of the united states government, and that it was not caused by my willful misconduct, intent to injure myself or another person, nor by my intoxication. i hereby claim medical treatment, if needed, and the following, as checked below, while disabled for work: [] [box checked] a. continuation of regular pay (cop) not to exceed 45 days and compensation for wage loss if disability for work continues beyond 45 days. if my claim is denied, i understand 4 that the continuation of my regular pay shall be charged to sick or annual leave, or be deemed an overpayment within the wheeler testified the form is for a one-time workplace injury to obtain ontinuation of pof 45 days from the date of the injury. the benefit is payable through the va medical center as part of the federal employees compensation act, or feca. the program only covers workplace injuries. when wheeler met with davis, davis claimed she was working at 8:30 a.m. when the injury occurred. by filling out this form, davis was stating she was injured while working. when asked about the difference between workerscompensation and continuation of pthe same continuation of pay is part odays ends, they transfer to a compensation from department of on cross-examination, wheeler elaborated as follows: [i]nitially, if a person fills out the form that [davis] filled out on september 3rd, they are entitled to 45 days of continuation of pay? yes, sir. and is that theis that the correct terminology, continuation of pay? yes, sir. after the 45 days is up, do they then apply, if they want continuanceif they continue to be, i guess, off work, can yes, sir. 5 compensation, you have to first do the 45 days of continuation of pay? benefits. on september 3rd when she filed the ca-1, that is the same as continuation of pay? r medicals or whatever from the day of injury. continuation of pay disability continues past 45 days, they are provided the opportunity to claim compensation for lost wages after 45 days according to wheeler, once the continuation of pay benefit expired after wheeler testified that davis applied for and received those additional benefits for eight months, specifying that her injury was work-related and occurred during her shift. davis had an accident insurance policy with colonial. it contained a base accident policy and two riders: a hospital confinement rider and a disability income rider, which is at issue here. the base accident policy covered accidents occurring on or disability rider only covered accidents occurring off the job. the base policy and the disability rider defined -as - 6 ay or davis submitted three claim forms at issue here and introduced at trial as exhibits 3, 4, and 5. exhibit 3 was a claim form under the base accident policy submitted on september 16, 2015. in the form, davis was asked if the accident occu--- exhibit 4 was a claim form under the disability rider submitted on september 30, 2015. davis was asked on the form, mark on return to work status. this section also contained a checked and a signature purportedly from phillips. exhibit 5 was a claim form for continuing disability davis submitted on november 5, 2015. in the claimant section of the employee at work a lead investigative consultant for colonial testified that pensation question would not colonial to seek more information because an insured cannot 7 to reach out to the employer. torah phillips testified that she was a facility revenue manager at the va medical center, and she never supervised davis. while the two had a social relationship, phillips did not sign the claim forms and never authorized anyone to sign on her behalf. phillips contacted davis when she learned about the disability claim form, and davis told her s name. colonial paid davis $2,700 in benefits on october 14, 2015 (effectively $2,678 after deducting $22 for overnight mail of the check). about six months later in may 2016, davis was interviewed by a detective for the california department of insurance, fraud division. davis wrote a statement at her workstation, explaining that had thought when i got the insurance i was covered on and off job. and she pleaded to keep her job. davis testified at trial, explaining that she was not scheduled to work on the day of the accident because she had planned to leave on vacation. but she changed her mind and went into the office. she entered the building and was injured 8 just before 8:30 a.m. as she was attempting to put her key into the door, her supervisor opened it at the same time, injuring her. she believed she only began to work when she arrived at her desk, although she also believed she was still at work if she left her office for a break or to go to the copy machine. her pay had been docked for being even a minute late to her desk in the morning, and she produced a may 2016 email from her supervisor stating she needed to be ready to work at 7:30 a.m., not coming in at that time. she checked the boxes in her insurance claim forms indicating she was off work because she had not made it to her desk at the time she was injured. she denied receiving any workers compensation benefits and checked the box that she had not filed for workers compensation benefits because she thought continuation of pay was different. on the ca-1 form, she may not have read the portion indicating she was injured in the still in so regarding testified they were friends and co-workers, but she did not work for phillips or in the same building. at the time of trial, they had not spoken for over a year. davis had someone fill in the sections verify she was not at work, even though phillips was not her direct supervisor. she had spoken to phillips, who had given her permission to fill out the documents. on the disability claim form, davis had a friend complete ould not match her own. davis did not list her current supervisor because they he was the one who had hit her with the 9 door. at the time she was submitting her claim, davis sent a text message to phillips asking if she had been contacted by anyone, meaning colonial. regarding the statement given to the fraud investigator, davis explained that she had apologized because she had been told she did something wrong. she did not believe she did anything wrong. 2. procedural background davis was charged with six counts: count 1 for insurance fraud in violation of penal code section 550, subd. (b)(3);1 counts 2, 3, and 4 for insurance fraud in violation of section 550, subd. (a)(1)); count 5 for forgery ( 470, subd. (a);  473, subd. (a)); and count 7 for grand theft ( 487, subd. (a)). (there was no count 6 charged.) at trial, the prosecutor clarified the alleged factual basis for each count: count 1 (fraud): davis failure to disclose on the disability claim form in exhibit 4 that she had filed for workers compensation benefits. count 2 (fraud): davis false statement on the accident claim form in exhibit 3 that she sustained her injury off-job. count 3 (fraud): on the disability claim form in exhibit 4 sustaining her injury while not at work, and forging of count 4 (fraud): dafalse statement on the continuing disability claim form in exhibit 5 regarding sustaining her 1 all undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code. 10 injury while not at work and her forging of signature.2 count 5 (forgery): on the disability and continuing disability claim forms in exhibits 4 and 5. count 7 (grand theft): colonial to davis of $2,700 in reliance on the false information she submitted. the jury deadlocked on count 5 for forgery and the court eventually dismissed it. the jury found davis guilty on the remaining five counts. the court sentenced her to three years of probation, including 180 days in county jail for count 1, stayed. it declined to impose any additional term for the other counts. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence davis challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting all of the counts. her arguments can be grouped into evidentiary challenges to the three factual representations the prosecution alleged were false: (1) her false statements that she had not filed benefits; (2) her false statements that she sustained an off-job injury 2 there is some confusion in the record as to the act or acts supporting count 4. when initially explaining the factual basis for this count to the court, the prosecutor pointed only to the act in closing argument, however, the prosecutor statements in the claimant and employer sections of the form that she was not at work when she was injured. the parties on appeal treat this count as based on those two separate false statements, so we will as well. 11 signature. we will approach our analysis in this structure, and we will relate our analysis to the counts as necessary.3 a. standard of review in addressentire record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational trier of fact trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 345.) b. insufficient evidthe workers compensation question was false count 1 was based solely on a violation of section 550, claim form that she had not filed n benefits. section 550, subdivision (b)(3) makes it unlawful to 3 davis 1118.1 motion during trial on the same grounds. we review the denial of a section 1118.1 motion using the same standard as reviewing for sufficiency of the evidence to sustain a conviction, so we do not separately address this argument. (people v. houston (2013) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1215.) 12 to any insurance benefit or payment, or the amount of any benefit davis contends insufficient evidence showed that she falsely stated she had not filed benefits because, as a matter of federal law, the continuation of pay benefit she acompensation and there was no evidence that the parties in the insurance policy. we agree.4 the feca generally compensation benefits to civilian officers and employees of all branches of the gover0 c.f.r.  10.0compensation as specified by this subchapter for the disability or death of an employee resulting from personal injury sustained at issue here]benefits, including compensation for wage loss, schedule awards, medical and related benefits, and vocational rehabilitation services for conditions resulting from injuries sustained in (20 c.f.r.  10.0(b).) continuation of pay is a benefit contained in the feca: employee, as defined in section 8101(1) of this title (other than 4 count 3 for violating section 550, subdivision (a)(1) and count 7 for grand theft were also based in part on the false however, counts 3 and 7 were supported by sufficient evidence of other false statements, so reversal of those counts is not required. 13 those referred to in clause (b) or (e)), who has filed a claim for a period of wage loss due to a traumatic injury with his immediate superior on a form approved by the secretary of labor within the  8118(a).) it is generally paid without a break in time and is limited to 45 days. (5 u.s.c.  8118(b)(1)(2).) if a claim is employee, be charged to sick or annual leave or shall be deemed overpayments of pay within the meaning of section 5584 of title 5, 5 u.s.c.  8118 (d).) crucially here, the continuation of pay statute provides that this benefit not be considered as compensation as  8118(e), italics added.) the referenced section defines the term employee or his dependents and any other benefits paid for from reduce the amount of the monthly compensation payable for disability or de5 u.s.c.  8101(12).) federal regulations lost wages, loss of wage-earning capacity, and permanent does not include on of pay further, programs], pays [continuation of pay]. unlike wage loss benefits, [continuation of pay] is subject to taxes and all other payroll c.f.r.  10.200(a).) 14 to receive continuation of pay, the injured employee must file form ca-1 within 30 days of the injury, which davis did here. (20 c.f.r.  10.210(a).) by contrast, an employee must use form ca-by [continuation of pcompensation for (20 c.f.r.  10.102(a) & (b).) although wheeler testified davis ca-7 form was introduced at trial. one federal district court has examined these provisions and concluded that continuation of pcompensation benefits under the feca. (hoopes v. united states (e.d.n.c. 1994) 867 f.supp. 349, 350351 (hoopes).) in hoopes, the court rejected an argument that a of continuation of pay benefits was tantamount to a finding that she was acting within the course and scope of her employment when she was injured, which would mean that compensation under the feca was her exclusive remedy. (ibid.) the court reasoned that the continuation of pimmediate remedy in the event of a traumatic injury which may lead to compensation through feca. it is not a determination of id. statute contemplates the possibility of the employee being turned down for compensation by the secretary of labor. therefore, the receipt of benefits under this section cannot involve the same compensation. in fact, the statute specifically excludes continuation of pay from the definition of compensation. 5 u.s.c. ibid.; see also kopunek v. commissioner (1987) 54 t.c.m. (cch) 239 [u.s. tax court opinion finding continuation of 15 pay benefits were made under a ) these authorities demonstrate that the continuation of pay benefit is legally benefits under the feca, so davis could not have falsely stated that she . to argue otherwise, respondent cites continuation of pbut as s testimony was not entirely clear on this point. in any case, her subjective lay opinion that compensation was not admissible to show the proper legal characterization of continuation of pay. (see pond v. insurance co. of north america (1984) 151 cal.app.3d 280, 289 [legal opinion from lay witness inadmissible].) respondent also notes that the continuation of pay 20 c.f.r.  10.200), and the ca-neither the chapter title nor the heading on the ca-1 form overrides the actual statutory and regulatory characterization of continuation of pay within the feca. finally, respondent cites a series of federal cases, claiming they treat continuation of phave reviewed those cases, and, unlike hoopes, none of them directly addressed the issue of whether continuation of pay is 16 . we find the discussion in hoopes persuasive.5 respondent offered no evidence at trial that davis or anything other than this legal definition. the only evidence as to compensation benefits because she thought continuation of pay was different. thus, insufficient evidenfraud conviction in count 1 for falsely claiming on the disability claim form that she had not filed for benefits. c. sufficient evidence showed davis falsely claimed she sustained an off-job injury counts 2, 3, and 4 for fraud and count 7 for grand theft were based either solely or partially the three claim forms that she sustained her injury while off-job. spresent or cause to be presented any false or fraudulent claim for the payment of a loss or injury, including payment of a loss or 5 respondent contends davis fell within the reasoning in hoopes because wheeler davis after the end of the 45-day period for continuation of pay. davis filed the ca-1 form for continuation of pay on september 3, 2015 and completed the disability claim form on september 30, 2015, within the 45-day period for continuation of pay. there was no evidence that she had filed for any other type of benefit when she completed the disability claim form. 17 section by (1) knowingly presenting a false claim (2) with the intent to defraud. (people ex rel. government employees ins. co. v. cruz (2016) 244 cal.app.4th 1184, 1193 (cruz).)6 -job injury-job injurywere defined in policy and disability rider: -- we find sufficient evidence supported the juryfalse under the policy and made with the intent to defraud. was injured at 8:30 a.m. while entering the interior door to her work area. while she was on a paid authorized absence from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m., she applied for continuation of pay with wheeler, which only covered workplace injuries. she represented to wheeler that she was working when she was injured at 8:30 a.m., and she signed the ca-1 form under the penalty of perjury, that by filling out this form, davis was stating she was injured while working. although davis testified that she may not have read this portion of the ca-1 form, the jury was free to disbelieve her. wheeler also testified that davis applied for and received injury was work-related and occur 6 davis treats the grand theft count as derivative of the fraud counts, so we do not separately address it. 18 written statement six months later apologizing for what she had done also demonstrated a consciousness of guilt. davis argues that the truth of surance policy. she claims that the definition of off-job injury cannot be and if the definition is ambiguous, it must be construed in her favor as the policy holder. (see gray v. zurich ins. co. (1966) 65 cal.2d 263, 269, fn. 3.) yet, whether she was merely factual issue the jury resolved against her. based on the time and place of her injury, her representation in the ca-1 form that she was injured in performance of her duties, and her letter showing consciousness of guilt, the jury could have reasonably inferred that (1) davis understood the plain --; (2) she was in fact working at the time was injured under the meaning of the insurance policy; and (3) she intended to misrepresent that she - in order to obtain benefits. resolution of those issues did not require a legal interpretation of the meaning of the policy language. with regard to the accident claim form specifically, davis further argues that the jury could not find that she made a false claim because the accident policy covered both on-job and off-job injuries. she contends her statement was thus because she could have obtained benefits regardless of her response. a false claim for payment of loss is presented to an insurance company or a false writing is prepared or presented with intent to use it in connection with such a claim whether or not anything 19 cruz, supra, 244 cal.app.4th at not necessary that anyone actually be defrauded or actually (calcrim no. 2000; see cruz, supra, at pp. 11931194.) form was material because it assisted in her claim for disability benefits under the disability rider, which covered only off-job injuries. she surely would have raised red flags if she had --sability claim form. it could very well have resulted in colonial denying both benefits. thus, sufficient evidence demonstrated she falsely claimed an -in both forms with the intent to defraud colonial. d. we need not address the sufficiency of evidence showing counts 3 and 4 for fraud and count 7 for grand theft were also based in part forging of on the disability claim form in exhibit 4 and the continuing disability claim form in exhibit 5. however, the jury deadlocked on count 5 signature on these forms. the court polled the jury to reveal it was deadlocked 11 to one for guilt on the forgery count, with the holdout juror dissenting on the elements that davis did not have authority to sign, she knew she did not have authority, and she intended to defraud. from this, we infer that the jury did not convict davis on the fraud or theft counts based on the fsignature. instead, the jury must have convicted her on those counts based on the false off-job statements, given the jury 20 convicted her on count 2, which was based solely statement in the accident claim form that she sustained an off-job injury. false responses to the off-job injury questions were not materially different in the three claim forms, so sufficient evidence sustained counts 3, 4, and 7, without regard to the evidence related to the forging of phi ii. is forfeited and her counsel was not deficient davis contends the trial court erred in failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on the legal relationcompensation and continuation of pay consideration of count 1. because we have reversed count 1, this contention is moot. davis also contends the court erred in not instructing on the principles of contract interpretation to guide the jury in evaluating her false statement that she sustained an off-job injury. defense counsel did not request this type of instruction in the trial court, and we find the contention forfeited. instruct on general principles of law that are commonly or closely and openly connected to the facts before the court and that are only on gunderstanding of the case. it need not instruct on specific points or special theories which might be applicable to a particular case, absent a request for such an instruction. ns.] [] generally, the burden of requesting supplemental or clarifying instructions falls on the defendant, and failure to 21 (people v. ramsey (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 621, 630.) the court properly instructed on the elements of insurance fraud in violation of section 550, subdivision (a)(1) and theft by false pretense. the court also gave a detailed mistake of fact you find that the defendant believed the following facts, and if you find that belief was reasonable, she did not have the specific intent or mental state required for the alleged crime. it listed facts relevant to each injury on aug-7 as noted above, t--job , and the issue before the jury was factual, that is, whether or not she the jury was given a mistake of fact instruction consistent with the defense theory of the case that davis believed she was not working at the time of her injury. any further instructions on the principles of contract interpretation would have only supplemented or clarified the instructions given, and the court had no duty to give them in the absence of a request. 7 for count 4, the court did not list this fact, which may have as to the grounds for this count (see supra, footnote 2). if this was error, it was harmless because the instruction clearly presented argue otherwise. 22 to avoid forfeiture, davis contends that her counsel was ineffective for failing to request instructions on contract interpretation. standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional counsedo not appear on the record, we will not find ineffective assistance of counsel on appeal unless there could be no people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1051.) the record contains no explanation for failure to request instructions on contract interpretation, and davis has failed to show that there was no explanation. again, the issue was factual, and counsel could have reasonably opted to focus his argumentand did, in fact, argue in closingthat davis was not working at the time of her injury, or if she was, she believed she was not. counsel could have reasonably believed giving instructions on contract interpretation might create we . 23 disposition the conviction on count 1 is reversed and the matter remanded for resentencing. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: grimes, j. stratton, j. 