filed 3/22/19 p. v. lattimore ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. louis o. lattimore, defendant and appellant. b286760 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba445168) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bernie c. laforteza, judge. affirmed. james renteria, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and charles j. sarosy, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction in an amended information filed by the los angeles county defendant and appellant louis lattimore was charged with assault with a semiautomatic firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (b))1, criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)), and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1)). as to the assault and threat offenses, the information alleged that defendant personally used a semiautomatic firearm. ( 12022.5, subd. (a).) as to all counts, the amended information alleged that defendant had four prior felony convictions for which he served time in prison. ( 667.5, subd. (b).) the jury found defendant not guilty of the assault and threat charges and guilty of the firearm possession charge. on the trial court struck one of the four section 667.5, subdivision (b) prior conviction allegations. defendant admitted the remaining three section 667.5, subdivision (b) prior conviction allegations. pursuant to section 1385, the trial court struck the one-667.5, subdivision (b) prior convictions and sentenced defendant to five years in state prison. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court violated his due process rights by barring him from cross-examining a police alleged miranda2 violation. we affirm. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 3 ii. background a. byron arroyo testified that at around 8:00 a.m. on march 21, 2016, he took his wife angelita roldon to work. arroyo was then living. while arroyo was parked, defendant approached and knocked on the window. arroyo rolled down the window. defendant asked arroyo if he knew roldon. arroyo said he was roldon husband. defendant responded, n. re not, according to arroyo, defendant then pulled out a gun and put it on arroyo. defendant roldon the car. arroyo grabbed the gun and he and defendant struggled for it. father approached and asked arroyo if everything was okay. arroyo responded that it was and his father went back to the house. defendant then threatened to kill arroyo or one of he saw arroyo with roldon again. defendant left. later that day, arroyo reported the incident to the police. on march 29, 2016, based on information they had received, los angeles police department detective stephen watson and his partner officer chela landau went to a construction site looking for defendant. the officers were supported by deputies. 4 detective watson and officer landau dressed as construction workers in order to enter the construction site and identify defendant without alerting him to their presence. once defendant into custody. detective watson spotted defendant and noticed he was detective watson and officer landau approached defendant. as a ruse, officer landau said that defendant car had earlier struck her and detective car. defendant did not buy the ruse, fdetective watson ran after defendant. during the pursuit, defendant and the detective fell and rolled down a hill. defendant righted himself and continued to flee. detective deputies of the location he had last seen defendant and the direction in which defendant ran. the deputies located and arrested defendant. he recognized defendant as the person he had pursued and noticed that defendant was missing a shoe. the detective then realized that he had dropped his sunglasses during the pursuit. he went back to the beginning of the pursuit and retraced his steps to try to find his sunglasses. detective watson found his sunglasses. he also found between the sunglasses and the shoe, detective watson found a black .40 caliber handgun. he believed that the handgun had and officer landau 5 on april 1, 2016, los angeles police department detective vincent rojas met with arroyo. detective rojas showed arroyo the handgun detective watson recovered. arroyo identified the handgun as the one defendant pointed at him. at trial, arroyo testified that the handgun looked like the handgun defendant had used, but he was not 100 percent certain. stipulated that defendant had previously been convicted of a felony. b. the defense case defendant testified that in february 2015, he began dating roldon. he beaten and choked roldon in front of their children. in march 2016, defendant and roldon began living together. defendant put his minicould be insured less expensively. defendant paid for the insurance. at some point, defendant learned that arroyo also was covered by car insurancee? i know there is no way i can keep them from communicating with each other because they have two kids, but about me and her exclusive, our business, it should be on march 21, 2016, defendant because he did not believe his relationship with roldon was going well. he wanted the truth and . he was not armed with 6 a semiautomatic gun. when he approached the car in which arroyo was sitting, it looked cloudy, as if arroyo was smoking. defendant knocked on the window of asked if he was asked if arroyo and roldon were dating. arroyo responded, arroyo and roldon were dating. s face from a glass pipe. when it appeared that arroyo was going to blow smoke in and arroyo exchanged additional words before arroyo told defendant did not threaten arroyo. on march 23, 2016, defendant purchased the .40 caliber gun recovered in this case . he was want person jumping behind [him] and shooting [him] in the back or running up at the work site and shooting other people [or] trying when the police arrived at his place of work, defendant ran because he was facing a federal probation violation for failing to report. he thought the police, who did not identify themselves as police officers, were federal marshals. detective watson asked defendant asked why the police wanted him. detective watson 7 responded that defendant was wanted for questioning concerning detective watson testified that he did not ask defendant why he ran. instead, he asked how defendant responded, detective watson understood defendant to mean that defendant had run because he believed that detective watson and officer landau were federal marshals. detective watson did not include his conversation with defendant in his report or advise detective rojas of the conversation. iii. discussion defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion and violated his due process right to confrontation when it failed to determine whether detective watson violated his miranda rights and barred him from impeaching the detective with the alleged miranda violation.3 we do not hold that the trial court erred, but even assuming error, it was harmless . 3 defendant also argues that if we hold that he failed to preserve his confrontation clause issue for appellate review by objecting on that ground in the trial court, then he received ineffective assistance of counsel. because we hold any confrontation clause violation was harmless, we do not reach the claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. 8 a. background detective watson testified on cross-examination that he had not read defendant his miranda rights. defense counsel pressed the detective in the following exchange: [y]ou know about miranda right? that means any time a defendant is in custody, not free to go, and is interrogated, you must read them their rights; correct? a detective like you, with all that experience, threw no, i did not. the trial court then asked the parties to go to sidebar. it asked defense counsel why the miranda issue had not been addressed in an evidence code section 402 hearing. defense counsel responded that defendant was going to take the stand and testify that he ran because he believed detective watson and officer landau were federal marshals and not police officers. he had not done anything wrong to arroyo. defense counsel argued miranda the prosecutor informed the trial court that defense counsel had claimed during an earlier evidence code section 402 hearing that defendantaken in violation of miranda and she had agreed not to ask about it. defense counsel explained that he wanted to raise the miranda 9 it showed that detective watson omitted the statement from his second, the statement was consistent with innocence and not with a consciousness of guilt. the trial court said that defense counsel should have raised the issue in an evidence code section 402 hearing.4 it said that the prosecution had not elicited any statements by defendant. defense counsel said he would put defendant on the stand and miranda counsel said he would not. the trial court noted that defense counsel had just implied to the jury that the statement taken fromiranda- the prosecutor stated that she did not object to the argument that the people were doing something improper. she noted that the statement was turned over to defense counsel when discovered and defense counsel was still claiming a miranda should do this so i can fully air my grievances, rather than to 4 during a pretrial hearing on evidence code section 402 motions, defense counsel related he had learned from the prosecutor that the detaining officers asked defendant why he counsel said there was an issue if defendant testified because his -mirandizedreports. the trial court stated and that there would be more time to address it after the 10 defense. if you need to recall detective watson, have to show an offer of proof to the court as to the relevancy, but issue later on about whatever you believethere was some later, after defense counsel asked detective rojas if why defendant ran, the trial court and the parties revisited the miranda violation. defense counsel asked for an evidence code section 402 hearing. the trial court stated that the prosecution had not elicited testimony about any statement from defendant and that defense counsel miranda violation through [his] own after defense counsel again stated his intended use of the evidence of the alleged miranda violation, the trial court when the trial resumed, the trial court instructed the jury: posed by the attorneys are not evidence. do not assume something is true just because an attorney asks a question. if there is no answer, do not speculate what the answer might have been. 11 miranda is a question of law for the court to decide, and the court did not b. analysis the federal and state constitutions guarantee a criminal const., 6th amend.; cal. const. art. i,  15.) a violation of a chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 (chapman). (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 395.) under the chapman standard, error is harmless when it appears chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24.) here, any error was harmless. the trial court instructed the jury on the elements of possession of a firearm by a felon as follows: people must prove that: the defendant owned a firearm; the defendant knew that he owned the firearm; the defendant had previously been convicted of a d that he had previously been convicted of a felony.5 in the defense case, 5 on this point, the trial court instructed the jury that defendant and the people had stipulated that defendant 12 defendant testified that on march 23, 2016, he purchased a .40 caliber handgun, and that he possessed that firearm at the construction site on march 29, 2016. thus, defendant admitted every element of the offense of possession of a firearm by a felon. because defendant admitted all of the elements of the offense, it is beyond a reasonable doubt that any error by the trial court miranda violation did firearm by a felon offense. (chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24.) defendant contends the error was prejudicial because it police officer who both violated policy in his conduct and failed to disclose potentially exculpatory evidence until just before trial. this was the same officer who found a gun he attributed to as explained above, defendant admitted he purchased the firearm that detective watson found. whether defendant was able to impeach detective watson with further testimony concerning his failure to give defendant a miranda warning or to disclose that failure in his report would not have alter testimony. defendant also speculates that the trial coupreventing him from cross-examining detective watson about the alleged miranda his testimony was the only vehicle to introduce evidence of the , as well as the potentially-exculpatory statement officer watson elicited in violation of miranda but defense counsel told the jury in opening argumentthat is, prior to previously had been convicted of a felony and that it must accept that fact as proved. 13 nt to has a restraining order on his wife, is going to come and smoke me. so he went and he got a gun. this is his gun. he got that gunelon. he has two prior convictions for drug d to have a gun. but he got a gun because he said better safe than sorry. [] . . . this was his gun. he had that gun because he felt that he was going to be killed. defendant also appears to argue that the failure to allow him to impeach detective watson find he possessed the handgun in self-defense. he reasons that with him honestly would have strongly supported the proposition that he reasonably believed he needed to temporarily possess the firearm that was found for argument fails because miranda violation occurred after defendant purchased and possessed the firearm and thus could not have been the impetus for purchase and possession. 14 iv. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. kim, j. we concur: baker, acting p. j. moor, j. 