 filed 4/5/19 p. v. serrato ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people plaintiff and respondent, v. jorge serrato, defendant and appellant. b286911 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va132086-01) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. roger ito, judge. affirmed. tracy j. dressner, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. xavier becerra, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, william h. shin and nikhil cooper, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction a jury found appellant jorge serrato guilty of the first degree murder of a 19-year-old college student who was selling marijuana illegally. the jury found true the gang enhancementthat serrato committed the crime for the benefit of or at the direction of a criminal street gangand the firearm enhancementthat serrato personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury and death. he ce, alleging the following: (1) the trial court committed reversible error when it omitted a critical factor while instructing the jury on how to evaluate witness credibility; (2) his trial attorney provided ineffective assistance of counsel because she failed to object to hearsay testimony; and (3) the cumulative effect of the two alleged errors in (1) and (2) require a reversal of conviction. serrato also requests that this court review transcripts in the sealed court exhibit to determine whether the trial court erred in its ruling that the defense was not entitled to review the proffer statement made by a co-defendant; we have reviewed the sealed court exhibit and find no error. in all respects, we affirm. factual and procedural background in an amended information filed january 24, 2017, jorge serrato (hereinafter appellant) was charged, along with daisy jimenez, edward almanza, jr., and jessica reyes, with the crime of murder in violation of penal code,1 section 187(a). it was further alleged the crime was committed for the benefit of or 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 at the direction of a criminal street gang in violation of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). it was further alleged that appellant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm which proximately caused the death of the victim in violation of section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). the information also alleged that appellant had a prior serious felony strike conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivisions (a)(1) and (d)(1) and that he had served a prison term for a prior conviction per section 667.5, subdivision (b). appellant pled not guilty and denied all allegations. appellant and almanza were tried together before separate ultimately declared a mistrial. the jury convicted appellant of first degree murder and found true the firearm and gang enhancements. the trial court sentenced him to a total term of 55 years to life, which included: 1) five years for his prior strike; 2) 25 years to life on the murder conviction; and 3) a consecutive 25-year-to-life term for the firearm allegation. appellant timely appealed. the murder victim was cyrus alva. cyrus, a 19-year-old long beach city college student, lived with his parents and older brother suraj alva2 at their family home in lakewood, california. cyrus was a drug dealer who bought marijuana from clinics and re-sold it. on may 29, 2013, appellant and his girlfriend daisy jimenez met defendants edward almanza, jr. and his girlfriend 2 brothers cyrus and suraj share the same last name. we refer to them by their first names to avoid confusion. 4 jessica reyes at r-ing3 cyrus and/or robbing him of his marijuana. almanza previously told reyes he wanted to rob cyrus because cyrus made a lot of money selling marijuana. almanza instructed reyes to contact cyrus and act as though she wished to purchase marijuana. reyes and cyrus exchanged text messages, and cyrus told reyes where she could meet him to purchase marijuana.4 the following day, jimenez drove herself, reyes, almanza, and appellant in her white, four-and parked nearby. appellant and almanza exited the vehicle; according to reyes, appellant immediately went to the trunk of they approached cyrus, who was seated on the porch. suraj was inside the house at the time, and heard someone from outside thendoor to check on cyrus, and saw almanza and appellantstanding in front of cyrus. suraj he] would have to get into a fight pretty soon because it just 3 [i]almost funnels up to the higher train [sic] 4 5 moments later, suraj heard a and rushed out to find almanza and cyrus in a physical altercation. did not listen to him. according to suraj, appellantwho was standing a few feet awayshot cyrus in the head and killed him,5 away. after hearing the gunshot, several neighbors saw almanza and appellant flee, running a told them suraj never saw a gun. according to reyes, while running back to the vehicle, appellant was holding the front oonce appellant vehicle, appellant told jimreyes, almanza asked appellant why did [you] appellant had responded, because [cyrus] made him almanza and reyes later went to the beach together. he told her that he and appellant had ordered cyrus to pay them every week. although cyrus agreed to do so, he had allegedly refused to allow almanza or appellant to enter his house; cyrus allegedly told almanza and appellantyou kill me 5 wound to the right side of his chin, which struck a major blood vessel to his brain. 6 reyes identified almanza to be a member of the east side wilmas gang, wh reyes identified appellant jimenez identified appellant as an east side longo gang member who went appellant confessed to her that he was the one who shot and killed cyrus; apparently, appellant habecause he was not complying with his on august 29, 2013, appellant was placed in a wired jail cell with two undercover officers who were dressed as gang members. appellant told the undercover deputies that he used went to tax people.6 he described the appellant go and taxfight ensued and, according to appellantshot the victim. appellant -ass on june 24, 2014, suraj was brought to view a live line-up, and identified appellant as the shooter; he identified appellant as the shooter two more timesonce at the preliminary hearing and also during trial. 6 the undercover deputies asked appellant about the street name, kilz: is that what he goes by in the street? appellant explained that he [sic] name for the street and one when [the police] pull [him] 7 however, suraj was unable to identify appellant or almanza when presented with six-packs of photos which contained photos of both. when interviewed by law enforcement, aface and neck tattoos. suraj told the jury he suffered from progressive degenerative myopia, meaning he cannot see things - of the shooting, suraj had 20/80 vision. suraj explained that his degenerative eye disease caused him difficulty when attempting to identify individuals by photograph rather than in person. at trial, long beach police officer chris zamora, the ang expert, testified that moniker. a nickname. something that represents you for the explained it is common for gang members to have more than one monikerone that they use in the streets and one that they use when encountering law enforcement. officer zamora also explained that if a gang member were to tax a drug dealer, he would typically take another gang member with him as support and that second gang member would bring a gun. in august 2013, defendant reyes initially denied knowing december 2013 and january 2016. reyes had not received an offer after the first two times she was questioned. after her january 2016 proffer, the people offered reyes a 13-year sentence in exchange for her guilty plea to voluntary manslaughter with a gang enhancement and her voluntary testimony at trial. this was a significant reduction as reyes was initially charged with first degree murder, facing the possibility of life in prison. at trial, reyes admitted she told a cellmate that 8 she would snitch on people she did not care for or would make things up to get out of custody.7 discussion a. appellant claims the trial court erred when it gave what appellant argues was an incomplete version of calcrim no. 226. appellant contends the judgment should be reversed because the trial court failed to instruct the jury about a factor affecting witness credibilitywhether a witness was promised leniency in exchange for her testimony. (see calcrim no. 226.) we disagree. the trial court gave calcrim no. 226, which informs the jury of its duty to decide whether a witness is credible, and instructs them to use their common sense, experience, and prove or disprove the truth or optional language telling the jury that in judging the credibility of the witnesses, it may consider: immunity or leniency in ex 7 reyes was recorded on january 10, 2014 as having said, i will do anything to get out of here. i will do anything. like i will snitch on whoever. 9 (ibid.) appellant did not object to the instruction as given and did not propose the addition of this optional language.8 appellant assets the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct on factors relevant to a witnescalcrim no. 226. (people v. rincon-pineda (1975) 14 cal.3d 864, 883884.) appellant notes reyesa key witness facing a life sentence for murderwas allowed to plead guilty to voluntary manslaughter with a sentence of 13 years in exchange for testifying for the prosecution against appellant and almanza. she provided critical evidence about appellant and almanza, including: h appellant [me] the shooting, almanza told reyes at the beach that appellant shot cyrus after cyrus and suraj attacked almanza. we review de novo a claim that the trial court failed to properly (people v. canizalez (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 832, 850.) settled that in criminal cases, even in the absence of a request, the trial court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and 8 the attorney general claims appellant forfeited his contention because he did not request the instruction at trial. but defendants may assert instructional error for the first time on appeal if the error affected their substantial rights. (people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 375, fn. 13; see  1259, 1469.) thus, to the extent any instructional error contributed to conviction and sentence, we may review it. (gamache, at p. 375, fn. 13.) 10 (people v. st. martin (1970) 1 cal.3d 524, 531.) here, the portion of the instruction appellant argues the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give is an optional or maynot mustbe included based on its relevance and the evidence presented. (calcrim no. 226; people v. horning (2004) 34 cal.4th 871, 910.) nothing in people v. rincon-penda, nor any other case cited by appellant, requires the inclusion of the bracketed factor on ess credibility instruction. nor are we aware of any such authority requiring inclusion of this factor under similar circumstances. nonetheless, were we to deem the omission of the bracketed credibility factor from calcrim no. 226 to constitute error, we would find such error harmless. the jury was well-aware that reyes received leniency in exchange for testifying for the prosecution. reyes was cross-examined about her at the time she made that statement to the for statement and if the d.a. thought it was helpful[,] that [she] reyes. we also note that other instructions sufficiently informed the jury was instructed to use its common sense and experience in assessing credibility; the jury was instructed to consider 11 such as bias or prejudice, a personal relationship with someone involved in the case, or a personal interest in how the case is the jurors were thus free to draw whatever conclusion they wished to draw from the fact that reyes received leniency in exchange for testifying for the prosecution. there is no prejudice concerning an omission in one instruction if another instruction remedies the omission. (see 5 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) trial, 747, pp. 11641165.) as our colleagues in the first district of this court wrote: refusing to instruct on one matter, unless the remaining instructions, considered as a whole, fail to cover the material issues raised at trial. as long as the trial court has correctly instructed the jury on all matters pertinent to the case, there is no error. the failure to give an instruction on an essential issue, or the giving of erroneous instructions, may be cured if the essential material is covered by other correct instructions people v. dieguez (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 266, 277; see also people v. jeffries (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 15, 22.) there was no error. b. of counsel based on failure to object to hearsay. appellant contends his trial counsel was ineffective because she failed to object to hearsay testimony by reyes about statements almanza previously made to her. during trial, reyes testified that while at the beach on the day of the shooting, they askedi guess they told him that he needs to give them money ori guess they wanted to go in the house to get morea bigger 12 and then they started arguing, and cyrus attacked [almanza], and then the brother came out and i guess he attacked [almanza] too and thenand then he said that [appellant] shot him. shot hearsay testimony constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a petitioner in falling below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, and (2) representation subjected the petitioner to prejudice, i.e., there is would have been more favorable to the petitioner. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687688 (strickland); in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561; in re wilson (1992) 3 cal.4th 945, 950.) falls within the wide range of reasonable professi(strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689; in re jones, supra, 13 tactical decisions. (in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1069e engaged in the perilous process of second-guessing. people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 426.) a defendant claiming ineffective assistance of counsel speculation as to the effect of the errors or omissions of counsel. [citation.] . . .prejudice is established if there is a reasonable probability that a more favorable outcome would have resulted 13 had the evidence been presented, i.e., a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. [citations.] the incompetence must have resulted in a fundamentally unfair in re clark (1993) 5 cal.4th 750, 766.) performance was deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies. performance. if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that course should be followed. courts should strive to ensure that ineffectiveness claims not become so burdensome to defense counsel that the entire criminal justice system suffers strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697.) accorded substantial deference [citations], failure to object seldom people v. hayes (1990) 52 cal.3d 577, 621.) accordingly, defendants ineffective assistance of counsel claim is not well taken. (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 440.) almanza told her, the testimony of jimenez and suraj established that appellant, not almanza, shot cyrus. we are convinced there is no reasonable probability that the outcome of his trial would have been more favorable had trial counsel successfully objected to the admission of out-of-court statements 14 incriminating appellant. we find no prejudice from trial c. appellant claims he was prejudiced from the cumulative effect of errors. appellant next argues harmless when viewed in isolation, the cumulative effect of such errors warrants reversal of his conviction. we are not persuaded. error doctrine, the reviewing court any errors to see if it is reasonably probable the jury would have [citation.] when the cumulative effect of errors deprives the (people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 646.) here, we have rejected claims of failure to properly instruct the jury on witness credibility and ineffective in the people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 562.) d. the sealed proffer the trial court sealed the transcript of a proffer and requests that this court conduct an independent review of the proffer in the sealed court exhibit to determine whether there is any information in the people did not object to request. 15 we have examined the proffer in the sealed court exhibit and conclude it includes no exculpatory or other evidence disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports stratton, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 