filed 9/19/18 p. v. vigil ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. diane christine vigil, defendant and appellant. b286695 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la084325) appeal from an order of the superior court of the county of los angeles, thomas rubinson, judge. affirmed. roberta simon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant diane christine vigil (defendant) was convicted of first degree residential burglary, a felony. (pen. code,  4591opening brief in accordance with people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende) requesting that this court conduct an independent review of the record to determine if there are any arguable appellate issues. on june 11, 2018, we gave notice to defendant that her counsel had failed to find any arguable issues and that she had 30 days within which to submit by brief any arguments she wished this court to consider. defendant filed two supplemental briefs in which she raises several contentions. we have reviewed the record and the briefs and we affirm. background on december 9, 2016, defendant pleaded no contest to first degree residential burglary in violation of section 459. the trial court convicted defendant and sentenced her to state prison for a term of four years, awarded her custody credit, and ordered her to pay various fees, fines and restitution. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 in july 2017, defendant filed petitions for a writ of habeas corpus. on september 11, 2017, the trial court denied the habeas petitions. on november 3, 2017, defendant filed an application for resentencing under proposition 47 (section 1170.18).2 the trial court denied the application, stating that first degree residential burglary under section 459 on december 5, 2017, defendant appealed the order denying her application for resentencing under proposition 47.3 2 when defendant filed her application, section 1170.18, subdivision (a) providedfor a conviction, whether by trial or plea, of a felony or felonies who would have been guilty of a misdemeanor under the act that time of the offense may petition for a recall of sentence before the trial court that entered the judgment of conviction in his or her case to request resentencing . . . 3 challenges the validity of first degree residential burglary conviction. the appeal from the conviction is untimely. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.308(a).) in addition, the record does not disclose that defendant obtained a certificate of probable cause. ( 1237.5.) 4 discussion defendant is appealing the denial of her application for supplemental briefs attempt to establish not that she was entitled to resentencing but that she did not commit the crime for ument is attorney misconduct, health condition which should have been the main focus showing the court i could have never ran into a garage [and] grab[bed] 2 boxes [and] run out in my condefendant also argues her trial counsel was ineffective because crime but [defendant should] just take [the] time [4 years under the plea agreement] or [the trial court] will give [defendant] 5 years 8 months on [a prior case for which defendant received a suspended sentence and probation] and whatever time i got in in the alternative, defendant asks the court to reclassify her first degree residential burglary conviction as one for receiving stolen property to make her eligible for resentencing under proposition 47. because we have no jurisdiction to review we hold that defendant is not eligible for resentencing under proposition 47 because first degree residential burglary is 5 not among the offenses enumerated in section 1170.18, subdivision (a). accordingly, the trial court properly denied . in addition to reviewing the supplemental briefs, we have made an independent examination of the entire record to determine if there are any other arguable issues on appeal. based on that review, we have determined that there are no other arguable issues on appeal. we are therefore her responsibilities under wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436. 6 disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. jaskol, j.* we concur: baker, acting p. j. moor, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6, of the california constitution. 